
    
      Background:

      Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) have an increased risk for atherothrombotic events.

      Platelets play an important role in cardiovascular disease both in the pathogenesis of
      atherosclerosis and in the development of acute thrombotic events. Their importance in
      coronary heart disease is indirectly confirmed by the benefit of antiplatelet agents in these
      disorders. Platelet adhesion, aggregation and activation are abnormal in patients with DM.
      Several factors were found to be associated with the abnormalities in platelet signaling in
      patients with DM, including increased levels of reactive oxygen species, altered calcium
      mobilization and increased protein tyrosine phosphorylation.

      Arterial stiffness, assessed noninvasively by measuring the aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV),
      is considered a powerful and independent risk factor for early mortality. Increased arterial
      stiffness may lead to early pulse wave reflection causing an increase in systolic blood
      pressure and a decrease in diastolic blood pressure. This in turn, increases the myocardial
      oxygen demand, reduces ejection fraction and increases the left ventricular working load. PWV
      probably represents an integrated index of vascular structure and function, being influenced
      by many factors including age, blood pressure, lipid profile and glucose levels. For any
      level of systolic blood pressure, aortic PWV is found to be increased in diabetic patients
      compared to nondiabetic patients.

      Aliskiren is the first direct renin inhibitor that was introduced for the treatment of
      hypertension. Aliskiren binds to the active site of renin, inhibiting the activation of the
      renin- angiotensin- aldosteron (RAAS) system at the rate limiting step. Aliskiren inhibits
      the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I (AI). This direct inhibition may be more
      efficient than the indirect blockade of ACE inhibitors or ARBs.

      Except for its BP lowering effect aliskiren was found to increase renal blood flow to a
      higher degree than that was found for angiotensin converting enzime (ACE) inhibitors or
      angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). Moreover- it blocks the active site of the
      prorenin/renin ((pro)renin) receptors reducing the local angiotensin II (AII) generation.
      Renin inhibitors, like the ACE inhibitors or ARBs, increase the concentration of renin which
      activates the (pro)renin receptors. Renin receptors were found in the kidney, blood vessels
      and the heart. Binding of renin to these receptors increases its catalytic effect and
      probably activates a potentially pathogenic, mitogen activated protein kinase pathway. It has
      a tissue damaging effect by increasing frofibrotic pathways and the expression of molecules
      such as TGF- beta.

      In a recent study aliskiren was found to bind both to renin and prorenin receptors and
      increase their stability, this rise is probably not causing AII generation although it allows
      the detection of prorenin as renin. Aliskiren increases the amount of circulating
      immunoreactive renin but decreases the PRA.

      Uresin Y et al compared the efficacy and safety of aliskiren with that of ramipril in
      patients with diabetes and hypertension. Aliskiren was found to be more effective at lowering
      systolic blood pressure (SBP) than ramipril, and showed no inferiority in reducing diastolic
      blood pressure (DBP). When used in combination with ramipril, aliskiren showed a significant
      additional reduction in both SBP and DBP. In the same study, plasma renin concentration (PRC)
      was significantly increased with each monotherapy and when combined, PRC increased to a
      greater level than the sum of the effects of each alone. The reactive rise in PRC was
      associated with a concomitant rise in plasma renin activity (PRA) in the ramipril group, an
      effect that was suppressed when combined with aliskiren.

      Other recent studies found similar results when comparing efficacy and safety of aliskiren
      and ramipril or adding it to treatment with valsartan. Safety of aliskiren was also evaluated
      in elderly patients (above 65) and was found to effectively reduce blood pressure and to be
      well tolerated in this subgroup of patients.

      Inhibition of the RAAS in diabetic patients is known to result in several beneficial effects,
      independent of their BP lowering effect; Reduction of albumin excretion, prevention of the
      progression of renal disease and possibly a cardio-protective effect. Valsartan was also
      found to reduce PWV, and hence arterial stiffness, in diabetic patients independently of its
      BP lowering effect. Several of these effects had already been evaluated using aliskiren, for
      example: Nussberger J at al evaluated the effect of aliskiren on atherosclerosis and plaque
      stabilization in mice, comparing it with atenolol, amlodipine and irbesartan. They found that
      although they all had a similar blood pressure lowering effect, aliskiren and irbesartan had
      a beneficial effect on plaque phenotype (including smooth muscle cell content, fibrous cap,
      lipid core, medial degeneration and macrophage content) whereas amlodipine and atenolol did
      not. Lu H et al. evaluated the effect of aliskiren on atherosclerosis in LDL receptor
      deficient mice. They found a significant reduction in atherosclerotic plaque size in the
      aortic root and arch in the aliskiren treated mice. Aliskiren was found to reduce BP, prevent
      albuminuria and suppress the renal gene expression of (pro)renin receptors in a model of
      hypertensive diabetic renal damage in rats. It also exhibited a potential to inhibit
      prorenin. When using the combination of aliskiren and losartan in patients with DM, aliskiren
      revealed a reno-protective effect that was independent of its BP lowering effect. The effect
      of aliskiren on arterial stiffness is yet to be evaluated.

      Several studies have evaluated the effect of RAAS system inhibitors on platelet function and
      hemostasis, for example perindopril was found to have anti-platelet and profibrinolytic
      effects and telmisartan was found to have anticoagulant effect. Perindopril was also found to
      reduce platelet aggregation and adrenaline induced platelet aggregation.

      The effect of aliskiren on platelet activity is not clear. In an in vitro study biomarkers of
      platelet activity were not altered by aliskiren (except for a moderate increase of
      antithrombin-III activity). At higher doses (exceeding its therapeutic range) it had a
      diverging effect - both platelet activating and antiplatelet effects

      Purpose:

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of aliskiren, which inhibits the rate
      limiting step of the RAAS system, on arterial stiffness, inflammation and platelet function
      in patients with DM.

      Methods:

      Study design:

      The study will be a prospective, cross over, randomized trial. All patients fulfilling the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, after a short screening period, will be treated with
      aliskiren or losartan. After a washout period of 2 weeks a cross over will be made between
      the two groups. Aliskiren will be given in a preliminary dosage of 150 mg per day, after a
      follow up of two weeks dosage will be increased to 300 mg per day. Losartan will be given in
      a preliminary dosage of 50 mg per day and after a two weeks follow up dosage will be
      increased to 100 mg per day. Two weeks after initiation of each treatment potassium and
      creatinin levels will be assessed. The follow up will be conducted in the Research and
      Development unit in Assaf Harofeh Medical Center at 0, 3 and 6 months and after the wash out
      period. On each visit patients BP will be assessed by 24 ambulatory BP monitoring. Blood will
      be drawn (10 cc) for Hemoglobin levels, electrolytes, renal and liver functions, total
      cholesterol, high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL- cholesterol), triglycerides (TG),
      oxidized low density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) and hs- CRP. LDL-cholesterol will be calculated.
      PRA will be measured by radioimmunoassay of generated AI, PRC and plasma aldosterone will be
      measured by immunochemiluminescence. In addition NO and isoprostane will be measured as an
      index to oxidative stress. Platelet function and arterial stiffness will be assessed. The
      patients' medication regimen will not be changed throughout the study period.

      Platelet Function Tests Cone-and-Platelet Analyzer 200 µL of citrated blood will be placed in
      a polystyrene well and subjected to a shear rate of 1300 sec-1 using a rotating conical disk
      for 2 minutes. The well will be washed and stained by May-Gruenwald stain. Platelet adhesion
      will be evaluated as the percentage of total area covered with platelets designated as
      surface coverage (%) and aggregation as the mean size of the surface-bound aggregates
      designated as average size (µ'm2) by use of an image analysis system (Galai).

      Aspirin Response Assay 3.6µl Arachidonic Acid and 0.2 ml blood will be added to a micro tube
      (2ml), (final Arachidonic Acid concentration 0.275 mM). The tube will be rotated on the tube
      mixer at 10 rpm for 1 minute. 130 µl will be placed in a well and tested with the cone and
      platelet analyzer.

      Clopidogrel Response Assay 5 µl ADP and 0.2 ml blood will be added into a micro tube (2 ml)
      (final ADP concentration 1.25 µM). The tube will be rotated on the tube mixer at 10 rpm for 1
      minute. 130 µl will be placed in a well and tested with the cone and platelet analyzer.
      (Varon D et al 1997) Arterial stiffness Assessment of arterial stiffness will be performed by
      a noninvasive technique using the commercially available SphygmoCor System (AtCor Medical
      LTD, Australia). All measurements will be performed while the patient is in a recumbent
      position at a room temperature of 25۫ C, between 06:30 and 08:30 A.M. after an overnight
      fasti (8-10 hours) and after a short period of rest. Peripheral pressure waveforms will be
      recorded from the radial artery at the wrist, using applanation tonometry with a high
      fidelity micromanometer. When sequential waveforms will be recorded, a validated 16-18
      generalized transfer function will be applied to generate the corresponding central pressure
      waveform. The integral system software will be used to calculate an average radial artery
      waveform and to derive a corresponding central aortic pressure waveform using a previously
      validated generalized transfer function. From these data the indexes of arterial stiffness
      will be obtained. The augmentation of central arterial pressure is the difference between the
      first and second systolic peaks of the central pressure waveforms, and the central
      augmentation index (AIx) is the augmentation expressed as a percentage of the pulse pressure.

      This technology is easy to use, non-invasive, simple, rapid (15 minutes per test) and
      repeatable.
    
  