
    
      Patients from the General Surgery ward at the Institute of Medical Assistance to Employed of
      São Paulo, Brazil, will be identified. Potential participants will be provided with a
      participant information sheet and, for those willing to participate in the study, a written
      informed consent will be obtained. The reasons for ineligibility and the reasons for
      declining participation will be recorded. Both before and following the intervention period,
      participants will complete assessments over a single day. Measures will be collected of:
      anthropometric and clinical data, preoperative exercise capacity and peripheral muscle
      strength. Following the completion of the intervention period, adherence rates (consent
      rates, recruitment rates, completion rates and adherence), adverse events and the subjective
      perception of satisfaction and discomfort of the participants to the preoperative treatment
      will also be recorded. The preoperative exercise training program will be supervised by a
      physiotherapist and will comprise aerobic exercise on a treadmill as well as strengthening
      exercises for the upper and lower limbs. The protocol will include 7 daily sessions of 60
      minutes in duration. The first session will occur the day following the initial assessments.
      The treadmill exercise will start with a 5-minute warm-up and will progress to 30 minutes of
      exercise with a speed corresponding to 70% of the maximum speed reached in the incremental
      shuttle walk test. It will finish with a 5-minute cool down period. The intensity goal for
      the treadmill exercise will be to generate a rate of perceived exertion (on the dyspnea scale
      that ranges between 6 and 20) between 12 and 16. Exercise intensity (i.e. walking speed) will
      be progressively increased if the participant is able to walk for 30 minutes continuously
      reporting tolerable symptoms (dyspnea<12 points). Participants will also perform three
      strengthening exercises for the lower limbs (hip flexion, knee flexion and extension) and
      three for the upper limbs (shoulder flexion, elbow flexion and extension). The initial
      strengthening exercises intensity will be set at 60% of 1 Maximum Repetition and will be
      progressively increased. Patients will perform 3 sets of 8 to 12 repetitions for each
      exercise. The increment in exercise intensity will occur when the participant is able to
      perform at least 2 sets of 15 repetitions reporting tolerable symptoms (i.e. dyspnea<12
      points).

      Heart rate, peripheral oxygen saturation, dyspnea and blood pressure will be measured before,
      during (if needed; i.e. if symptoms are reported) and after each exercise training session.
      The session may be interrupted at any time if the patient presents major symptoms of
      dizziness, nausea or intolerable dyspnea/fatigue. Following surgery, all participants will
      receive routine physiotherapy care by the Physiotherapy team of the Institute of Medical
      Assistance to Employed of São Paulo
    
  