
    
      2. BACKGROUND Neurosteroid Responses to Alcohol Administration: Alcohol likely interacts with
      the brain GABA-A receptor complex via two distinct manners: a direct effect (Grobin et al
      1998), and an indirect effect, which is secondary to alterations in levels of endogenous
      GABA-A receptor-active neurosteroids or in levels of GABA itself (Morrow et al 1999). Indeed,
      alcohol's effects on neurosteroid and GABA levels may represent a novel and important
      mechanism of alcohol's actions (Morrow et al 1999). Acute alcohol administration
      significantly increases cerebral cortex (700%) and circulating (600%) levels of
      allopregnanolone, a potent GABA-A receptor agonist neurosteroid, in male rats (Morrow et al
      1999). The magnitude of the observed alcohol-induced increase in allopregnanolone levels is
      sufficient to enhance GABA'ergic neurotransmission and to exert anxiolytic, sedative and
      anticonvulsant effects. Indeed, alcohol-induced increases in cerebral cortex allopregnanolone
      levels are significantly correlated with alcohol's hypnotic effects in rats (VanDoren et al
      2000), and the time course of alcohol-induced increases in cerebral cortex allopregnanolone
      levels correlates well with many of alcohol's behavioral effects (VanDoren et al 2000);
      (Morrow et al 1999). Alcohol's effects on other neurosteroids have been poorly studied,
      although preliminary data suggest that alcohol dramatically lowers brain levels of PS (a
      GABA-A receptor antagonist neurosteroid) (Corpechot et al 1983) and increases brain levels of
      THDOC (a GABA-A receptor agonist neurosteroid) (Barbaccia et al 1999) in rats. In the latter
      study, THDOC and allopregnanolone levels were increased to a significantly greater extent in
      alcohol-preferring, compared to non-preferring rats, supporting a role of these neurosteroids
      in modulating alcohol's reinforcing effects (Barbaccia et al 1999) and in determining
      individual susceptibility to alcoholism. Regarding levels of GABA itself, acute alcohol
      administration raises total brain GABA levels in rats (Kulonen 1983) and raises plasma GABA
      levels in normal humans (Bannister et al 1988) (however, see: (Moss et al 1990)), although
      the acute behavioral correlates of these changes have not been well-characterized. Also,
      interactions between GABA changes and changes in neurosteroid levels have been poorly
      characterized. These data suggest that alcohol-induced changes in allopregnanolone (and
      perhaps PS, THDOC, other neurosteroids and GABA) levels are important contributors to
      alcohol's behavioral actions in rodents. Surprisingly, to our knowledge, no studies have yet
      assessed the effects of acute alcohol administration on neurosteroids in humans and the
      relationship of these biochemical effects to alcohol's behavioural effects, and few have
      assessed alcohol's effects on GABA levels.

      Pharmacological Manipulation of Neurosteroid Levels Alters the Behavioral and Biological
      Effects of Alcohol and Other Sedative-Hypnotics: Pregnenolone and PS block the "anxiolytic"
      effect of alcohol in mice (Melchior and Ritzmann 1994), and these steroids, as well as DHEA
      and DHEA-S (which are GABA-A receptor antagonist/ inverse agonist neurosteroids), block the
      memory-impairing effect of alcohol in mice (Melchior and Ritzmann 1996). PS pre-treatment
      also significantly attenuates alcohol-induced sedation, hypnosis and incoordination in rats,
      whereas these alcohol effects are potentiated by pre-treatment with allopregnanolone
      (Czlonkowska et al 2000). In rats, PS also blocks sedation/hypnosis induced by barbiturates
      (Majewska et al 1989) and benzodiazepine-induced long-term electrophysiological depression
      (Akhondzadeh and Stone 1998). Pre-treatment of male rats with allopregnanolone also increases
      the reinforcing effects of alcohol (Janak et al 1998). This is understandable, since GABA-A
      receptor agonists typically facilitate voluntary ethanol consumption in animals, and since
      GABA-A receptor inverse agonists typically curtail ethanol consumption (reviewed in: (Grobin
      et al 1998)). These findings are consistent with a GABA-A receptor agonist effect of
      allopregnanolone and with an antagonist effect of pregnenolone, PS, DHEA and DHEA-S. In
      addition to direct antagonist effects, PS influences GABA-A receptor affinity and number in a
      manner opposite to that seen with alcohol (Majewska 1988). No studies in humans, to our
      knowledge, have followed up on these findings in animals by examining the effects of
      pharmacological neurosteroid manipulation on behavioral responses to acute alcohol ingestion.
      However, we have previously found that pregnenolone pre-treatment significantly antagonizes
      certain acute effects of benzodiazepines (which also act directly at the GABA-A receptor
      complex) in healthy humans (Meieran et al in review, 2002). In that study, we found that
      pregnenolone significantly attenuated diazepam's sedative effects (Meieran et al in review,
      2002), consistent with pregnenolone's role as a GABA-A receptor antagonist/ inverse agonist.
    
  