
    
      -  Hypothesis: the beta-blocker nebivolol is associated with less fatigue than metoprolol,
           the most widely-prescribed beta-blocker

        -  Methods: a double-blinded crossover trial comparing nebivolol with metoprolol.
           Experimental procedures: Subjects will undergo electrocardiogram and routine blood
           testing, unless such tests have been performed within 6 months and are available for
           review. Subjects entered into the study will receive each of the two study drugs for 8
           weeks. Metoprolol succinate will be given at a dose of 50 mg daily for 4 weeks, then 100
           mg daily for 4 weeks. For nebivolol, dosage will be 5 mg daily for 4 weeks and 10mg
           daily for 4 weeks. Identical-appearing pills will be given, and the drugs will be given
           in randomized order without a placebo run-in period.

      At the end of each 4-week treatment period on each drug, subjects will undergo a treadmill
      stress test (using the standard Cornell protocol), complete Quality of Life and fatigue
      questionnaires, and have blood drawn and frozen for later analysis for drug levels.

      At the end of 8 weeks of treatment on each drug, subjects will undergo echocardiography and
      applanation tonometry (non-invasive measurement of aortic blood pressure) to assess heart
      function.

      At the end of the study, the blinded subjects will be asked which of the two study drugs they
      preferred, and the extent to which their energy differed between the two drugs.

      -Rationale: Millions of hypertensive patients are on life-long beta-blocker therapy. In many,
      it reduces cardiac output and increases peripheral resistance to blood flow (1). It is
      well-established that beta-blockers cause fatigue in many patients and reduce exertion
      tolerance. Every physician knows this, and tacitly accepts that many patients are living with
      this unwelcome side effect.

      A new beta-blocker, nebivolol, has the standard beta-blocking effects, but also produces
      blood vessel relaxation (vasodilation), probably through increased secretion of the
      vasodilator nitric oxide. Studies indicate that nebivolol, unlike most beta-blockers, does
      not cause constriction of peripheral blood vessels, and is associated with improved heart
      function (2). Studies suggest that it is also less likely to cause fatigue (3).

      Personal experience is consistent with this, as I have observed marked improvement in energy
      in patients in whom I have prescribed nebivolol in place of a different beta-blocker. The
      possibility of placebo effect of course cannot be excluded. Nevertheless, the known
      hemodynamic differences between nebivolol and other beta-blockers, and the positive clinical
      experience, warrant formal study to determine whether nebivolol is kinder than other
      beta-blockers in terms of the important side effect of fatigue.
    
  