
    
      Meticulous and consistent use of hand hygiene before and after patient care remains the
      cornerstone of infection prevention in all health care settings. However, clean hands are not
      sufficient to prevent all healthcare-associated infections (HAIs), as 1) hands of healthcare
      workers easily become contaminated from contact with contaminated environmental surfaces in
      patient rooms after appropriate hand hygiene has been performed and before direct patient
      care and 2) direct contact by patients with preexisting contaminated environmental surfaces
      in their hospital rooms can lead to colonization or infection. Thus, novel strategies are
      needed to prevent HAIs, particularly those caused by multidrug-resistant (MDR) pathogens that
      persist in the environment such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
      vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE), Clostridium difficile, and Acinetobacter.

      Enhanced environmental disinfection methods may lead to reduced risk of exposure to or
      acquisition of HAIs and MDR-pathogens and overcome a critical issue facing healthcare today -
      hospitals rooms are often poorly cleaned and disinfected. Enhanced terminal room disinfection
      strategies using bleach and/or UV-C emitting devices have been investigated only in
      experimental conditions; the efficacy, effectiveness, and feasibility of enhanced terminal
      room disinfection to prevent HAIs are unknown. Thus, the scientific evidence for such
      interventions currently is insufficient for their inclusion in evidence-based guidelines.

      This study will investigate the hypothesis that enhanced terminal room disinfection protocols
      (using chlorine-based cleaning agents with or without UV-C light-emitting devices) will
      decrease the overall risk of HAIs in the hospital and, more specifically, in subsequent
      patients who are cared for in the same room. This prospective investigation will employ a
      crossover design utilizing four room cleaning/disinfection protocols in 9 hospitals,
      including 2 tertiary care, 1 VA, and 6 community hospitals. Phase T2 data from this study
      will be useful in assessing the clinical efficacy and feasibility of individual disinfection
      strategies. Thus, the goals of the investigators proposed research are to 1) determine the
      efficacy and feasibility of enhanced terminal room disinfection strategies to prevent HAIs
      and 2) determine the impact of environmental contamination on acquisition of MDR-pathogens
      among hospitalized patients.
    
  