
    
      The cohort study on disease prevention and health promotion in the northeastern region of
      Taiwan is a trial dedicated to large-scale generational research in northeastern Taiwan
      beginning in the August of 2013. The program aims to develop a comprehensive and integrated
      approach to disease prevention and community health. The researcher's cohort organizes
      healthcare outreaches for participants over the age in Keelung city and new Taipei city. The
      researcher's sessions include a comprehensive health examination, health-related
      questionnaires and disease awareness seminars.

      Biological samples, questionnaire information, and medical data obtained from the
      researcher's participants are stored in the researcher's core laboratory. Depersonalized data
      and samples are shared with partnering trials approved by the Chang Gung Memorial Hospital
      Institutional review board. The investigators are currently partnered with 18 clinical trials
      spanning across multiple disciplines such as urology, hepatology, metabolism, physical
      therapy, and psychology.

      The investigators are also a member of the national "Establish Multi-omics Database of Smart
      Healthcare for Obesity Therapeutics involving " joint project and the national "Remote
      Medical Monitoring System-Linking Healthcare Industrial Ecosystem-Taiwanese Novel Disease
      Monitoring Solution" initiative.

      Introduction: This research is conducted in the form of community health care activities.
      Through regular community health household activities, community residents' awareness of
      health is improved, and various pathogenic factors are analyzed to strengthen health
      education, improve living habits, reduce risk factors, and promote the health of community
      residents.

      Project purpose: In order to promote community fitness, The investigators will conduct
      long-term community medicine generation research. This research consists of a series of
      collaborative projects such as chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, metabolic
      syndrome, depression, dementia, obesity, exercise rehabilitation, etc.

      In community health care activities, collect biological samples such as blood, urine, feces,
      etc., as well as questionnaire data. This project will link participants relevant health data
      to establish a database for the generation of Keelung Chang Gung community medicine research.
      These data will be provided for analysis of co-operative plans related to generations of
      research and long-term tracking of participants health.
    
  