
    
      Breakfast skipping, which is a common, yet unhealthy dietary habit among young women, has
      been strongly associated with over-eating (especially in the evening), weight gain, and
      obesity. Breakfast skipping has also been shown to reduce cognitive function in this
      population. However, it is unclear as to whether the addition of breakfast, with specific
      emphasis on increased dietary protein, leads to improvements in these outcomes. This study
      will provide mechanistic evidence supporting the addition of a protein-rich breakfast to
      improve and/or re-establish appetite control, energy intake regulation, and cognitive
      function in overweight/obese 'breakfast skipping' young women. 22 overweight and obese
      'breakfast skipping' adolescent girls will participate in the following randomized
      within-subject crossover-design breakfast study. The participants will randomly complete the
      follow breakfast patterns at home for 6 days: 1) Breakfast Skipping; 2) Consumption of Normal
      Protein breakfast meals(i.e., 350 kcal; 15% of the meal as protein, 65% CHO, & 20% fat); and
      3) Consumption of Protein-Rich breakfast meals (i.e., 350 kcal; 40% of the meal as protein,
      40% CHO, & 20% fat). On the 7th day of each pattern, the participants will report to the
      MU-Brain Imaging Center in the morning to complete the respective 10-h testing day. The
      participants will begin the testing day by either skipping breakfast or consuming their
      respective breakfast meal. Blood samples and assessments of perceived appetite,
      pleasure/reward, and cognitive function will be collected/completed at specific times
      throughout the day. A standardized lunch will also be provided. Prior to dinner, a brain scan
      will be completed using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify brain
      activation patterns in response to food pictures. Following the fMRI, the participants will
      be provided with an ad libitum dinner buffet to consume of the facility. They will also be
      given evening snacks to consume ad libitum, at home throughout the remainder of the day.
      There is a 7-day washout period between each breakfast pattern. Primary outcomes include
      morning, mid-day, afternoon, and evening appetite, satiety, pleasure/reward, hormonal
      responses (plasma glucose, insulin, ghrelin, and PYY concentrations), brain activation
      patterns, evening energy intake, and daily energy intake.
    
  