
    
      Despite abortion being a common medical procedure, many women do not have access to good
      quality, reliable information about it. This may stem from the stigma and shame surrounding
      the procedure leading to less community knowledge and experience sharing compared to other
      medical conditions, for example diabetes or heart disease.

      Lack of knowledge and understanding about a medical procedure can cause anxiety, distress and
      confusion when seeing a healthcare professional, which in turn can prolong consultations.

      By introducing the short video animation, we are hoping that this will give the women
      attending the service a basic level of knowledge about Early Medical Abortion, reduce the
      anxiety and worry they are experiencing by informing them, and make them feel more confident
      and clear during their consultations.

      It has been shown in other studies that short videos in contraception and abortion
      consultations can have this impact, but a randomised control trial methodology has never been
      applied to this intervention.

      In a standard initial Early Medical Abortion visit a patient will experience the following
      Patient Journey:

        1. Arrival and registration

        2. Waiting for appointment in waiting room

        3. Ultrasound scan to determine gestation

        4. Self taken vulvovaginal swab for Chlamydia and Gonorrhoea screening

        5. Blood tests for : HIV, Syphilis, Full Blood Count, Blood Group

        6. Return to the waiting room

        7. Assessment consultation with healthcare professional (i.e. Specialist Nurse or Doctor)

        8. Return to the waiting room

        9. Treatment Consultation: to receive 'first part' of treatment i.e. Mifepristone and dates
           for 'second part' 24-48 hours later.

       10. Leave department

      In the study, the above will happen, however patients will be given a participant information
      sheet (at step 1 above )when they arrive in department to register. At Step 6, when the
      patient has returned to the waiting room, eligible patients will be approached and asked if
      they would like to participate and if so will be randomised to 'standard of care' or
      'intervention' (i.e. the video). They will resume the Patient Journey above and will again be
      approached at Step 8 or Step 10 to complete the short questionnaire.

      For the questionnaire: a single researcher will record, on a standard proforma, what
      information the subject had taken from the consultation and its accuracy, and the overall
      acceptability of the consultation using a Likert scale to quantify descriptors such as
      'helpful', 'informative', 'understandable', 'impersonal', 'sympathetic' 'unsympathetic' etc.

      The number of women declining to participate in the study would be recorded .
    
  