
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the potential efficacy of targeting cyclophosphamide to a metabolic endpoint
           when given together with total-body irradiation, in terms of day 200 nonrelapse
           mortality, in patients with hematologic cancer and other diseases who are undergoing
           allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the rate of relapse in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the occurrence of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the occurrence of acute renal failure in these patients.

        -  Determine the occurrence of respiratory failure in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients undergo total-body irradiation twice daily on days -6 to
           -4. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -3 and then IV at a
           metabolism-based dose* on day -2.

      NOTE: *Patients undergo frequent blood sampling after completion of the first
      cyclophosphamide infusion for pharmacokinetic studies in order to determine the dose for the
      second cyclophosphamide infusion.

        -  Allogeneic stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow or
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive GVHD prophylaxis as per
           the attending physician, including one of the following regimens: cyclosporine and
           methotrexate; tacrolimus and methotrexate; tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil; or
           sirolimus, tacrolimus, and methotrexate (as per the GVHD prophylaxis regimen chosen for
           each patient).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 200
      days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  