
    
      Familial clustering of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) is well-documented, and a family
      history of TGCT is associated with an increased risk of this disease. The International
      Testicular Cancer Linkage Consortium (ITCLC) has assembled 350 multiple case TGCT families in
      support of a linkage effort that provisionally mapped a susceptibility gene to chromosome
      Xq27 in a subset of these kindreds. However, familial TGCT is genetically heterogeneous, thus
      increasing the need for meticulous case definition and classification in ongoing genetic and
      etiologic studies. The histopathologic classification of TGCT is very complicated; few
      pathologists have extensive experience reviewing this uncommon tumor. Basing epidemiologic
      studies upon local pathology reports may result in failure to recognize etiologically
      critical TGCT subsets of the kind which have been central to suspecting and defining various
      hereditary cancer syndromes, such as the multiple inherited renal cancer disorders.

      Few studies have addressed the risk of cancer among relatives of sporadic TGCT patients.
      Recent reports suggest a 20% increase in overall cancer risk among first-degree relatives of
      TGCT patients and site-specific excess cancer risks in male relatives and in the mothers of
      TGCT patients. These cancer sites constitute diseases for which there is some prior evidence
      to suggest a genetic relationship to TGCT. Identification of other cancers as part of the
      familial TGCT disease spectrum would both provide clinically relevant insight into this
      syndrome, and enhance the statistical power of gene-seeking linkage analysis.

      We propose two studies, each targeting the ITCLC set of high-risk TGCT families, none of
      which come from the US: (a) Centralized Pathology Review of Familial TGCT; and (b) The
      Occurrence of Cancer Other than Germ Cell Tumors in TGCT Families. Data will be provided by
      three of the largest ITCLC contributors; each will contact TGCT probands and their relatives
      and collect the primary data under their familial and non-familial TGCT, and perform the data
      analysis for both studies. NCI will neither seek nor receive individual identifying
      information from any participant. Currently, our UK collaborator has completed acquisition of
      a Federal Wide Assurance (FWA) and local ethical review. Since this group is contributing 70%
      of the families in these two projects, we now bring that component before the NCI Special
      Studies IRB. We shall return to the IRB for review of the other two contributors upon
      completion of their local ethical review process.
    
  