
    
      Study type- It will be an open label 3 arm multicenter randomized controlled single blinded
      study, with review of endoscopic activity by blinded reviewers. Patients will be randomized
      to one of three groups; Group 1 will undergo standard fecal transplantation by colonoscopy on
      day 1 and 60 ml rectal enemas on days 2 and 14 from the same donor without dietary
      conditioning, while Group 2 will undergo the same transplantation (colonoscopy and enemas at
      night day 2 and day 14), with dietary pre-conditioning of the donor for 14 days and dietary
      treatment of the recipient immediately after transplantation and for the following 12
      weeks.We will attempt to use the same donors for group 1 and 2 by using the preconditioning
      stool for group 1 and the post conditioning stool for group 2 in order to control for the
      "donor effect". Group 3 will receive dietary therapy only.Physicians will be blinded to
      treatment arm and donors used within the transplantation arms. A data safety monitoring board
      will review safety after the first 34 patients to make sure that there is no ethical problem
      with continuing the study. The investigators will continue the fecal transplantation trial to
      reach our target enrolment number ( 76 patients) for transplantation + 20 dietary controls.

      Subjects may continue their stable medications but should not start new medications during
      the 8 week period unless they fail to respond. Steroid weaning can commenced from day 14.

      Patients will be seen on weeks0, 2, 6, 8, 12 and during week 20. Week 6 will be only a
      dietitian visit. The last visit is a visit off diet to evaluate sustainability of the initial
      intervention, safety and changes in BMI due to FT or diet. A telephone conversation to assess
      SCCAI will be made at week 1 and week 7. At each visit (weeks 0, 2, 6, 8, 12, 20) patients
      will have Weight, a disease activity score, PGA, CBC, CRP, albumin and complete chemistry
      panel performed. Adverse events and medications used will be recorded at each visit.Stool
      samples for microbiome (16S rDNA, Short chain fatty acid analysis) and Calprotectin will be
      measured locally at baseline, weeks 2, 8 and 12. All patients (patients in group 1,2 and 3)
      will have a repeat sigmoidoscopy performed at week 8. A food frequency questionnaire will be
      performed on week 0 and a food diary will be collected at week 2 and 12. A compliance
      questionnaire will be completed on weeks 2, 8and 12. A 24 hours recall will be collected at
      weeks 0, 2 and 6.

      Patients in group 1 or 2 in remission from FT, may receive up to 2 rescue enemas during the 8
      weeks of the study from their original donor.
    
  