
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Over the past 10 years, extensive studies have been conducted in Turkey to determine the risk
      factors for heart disease. Studies involving approximately 10,000 Turkish men and women from
      six different regions of Turkey have established that this population is unique in several
      ways. The Turks have the lowest plasma levels of high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C)
      of almost any population in the world (75 percent of the men and 50 percent of the women have
      HDL-C levels <40 mg/dl). The mean HDL-C levels are 10-15 mg/dl lower than those in Western
      European or American populations. In addition, Turks, especially Turkish women, have a
      tendency toward obesity [38.8 percent of the women have body mass index (BMI) >30 kg/M2], and
      both men and women have a tendency toward hypertriglyceridemia. The low HDL-C, however, is
      independent of obesity or hypertriglyceridemia. Samples from this well-characterized
      population provide a unique opportunity to explore the genetic determinants associated with
      the high prevalence of low HDL-C, hypertriglyceridemia, and obesity (characteristics of the
      metabolic syndrome).

      The study was in response to a Request for Applications entitled "NHLBI Innovative Research
      Grant Program" released in July, 2001. The purpose of the initiative was to support new
      approaches to heart, lung, and blood diseases and sleep disorders that used existing data
      sets or existing biological specimen collections whether obtained through National Heart,
      Lung, and Blood Institute support or not.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study analyzed DNA from frozen blood samples to investigate new candidate gene targets
      that provided insights into the abnormalities characterizing this population of Turks. The
      samples and extensive biodata were available on all 10,000 participants. In Specific Aim 1,
      the investigators identified polymorphisms in acyl CoA:diacylglycerol acyltranferase (DGAT)-
      I and -2 and in ATP-binding cassette A I (ABCA I) genes that were associated with differences
      in BMI, HDL-C, and triglyceride concentration, and other parameters such as blood pressure.
      These studies focussed significantly on promoter and coding sequence polymorphisms in DGAT-I
      and -2 and ABCAL In Specific Aim 2, the investigators determined whether the polymorphisms
      had functional significance by using a luciferase reporter system to determine expression of
      polymorphic forms of DGAT and ABCAI, a cholesterol efflux measurement to determine the
      functional significance of ABCAI coding sequence polymorphic sites, and a triglyceride
      synthesis assay to determine the functional significance of DGAT-I and -2 polymorphic sites.
      The polymorphic site association studies were performed on DNA samples from three subgroups
      of Turks: (a) individuals likely to have the metabolic syndrome, (b) individuals with
      isolated low HDL-C (normal triglycerides), and (c) normolipidemic unaffected controls.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  