
    
      Muscle wasting is prevalent among cancer patients and cancer treatment can lead to further
      muscle depletion which is associated with poor outcomes. Dairy products contain complete
      proteins of high quality and our previous study has shown a preference for dairy products in
      cancer patients during cancer treatment. This study aims to demonstrate a proof of principle
      that consumption of a diet high in protein and rich in dairy products will support the
      maintenance of muscle mass and strength, therefore improving outcomes in cancer patients
      undergoing treatment.

      Methods: The primary outcome is change in muscle mass during cisplatin and/or immunotherapy
      treatment. Skeletal muscle index was measured by computed tomography (CT). To assess the
      physical function and muscle strength of patients, short physical performance battery and
      hand-held dynamometry tests were performed. Patients whose habitual protein intakes were low,
      received individual dietary instruction from a registered dietician on how to achieve at
      least one meal per day consisting of a minimum of 30 g of protein derived from at least 50%
      dairy products as well as 50% of total protein intake from dairy. Patients in a conventional
      control group continued their habitual dietary intake along with the standard of care.
      Subjects in the intervention group began consuming their diets immediately after all baseline
      measurements were collected and continued through treatment, lasting until their follow-up CT
      scan.

      Results: This trial is in progress. It is expected that high protein diet rich in dairy
      products can maintain patient muscle mass and strength during chemotherapy compared to a low
      protein diet.

      Conclusions: This study will represent a food based nutrition intervention that addresses
      limiting nutrients to improve outcomes for cancer patients.
    
  