
    
      This project will take place in 7 sites across two settings: Inpatient (CAMH in Toronto,
      Douglas Hospital Research Centre in Montreal, Parkwood Institute in London, and the
      University of Calgary in Calgary); and LTCFs affiliated with CAMH in Toronto and Parkwood
      Institute in London.

      After a project initiation phase of 6 months, the investigators will enroll and randomize 220
      participants with AD-AA (110 inpatient and 110 in LTCFs) to ICP vs.TAU. In this randomized
      control trial (RCT) phase of the project, participants will be treated for 12 weeks. There
      will be two primary outcome measures: (i) the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI)
      Total Frequency Score (CMAI-frequency) and (ii) the proportion of participants on
      polypharmacy. These measures will be conducted at baseline, end of non-pharmacological
      intervention phase, the mid-point of pharmacological interventions and end of RCT.
      Neuropsychiatric Inventory-Questionnaire (NPI-C) will be used to assess global burden of
      neuropsychiatric symptoms at baseline, end of non-pharmacological intervention phase and
      exit. The modified Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGIC) will also be measured at
      predetermined time points throughout the 12 weeks to determine response as defined by CGIC <
      3. CGIC is a 7-point Likert scale to rate each patient along a continuum from marked
      improvement to marked worsening, based on global clinical impression. Rating of < 3 indicates
      moderate or marked improvement in agitation as compared to baseline. At the end of the RCT,
      each participant will be naturalistically followed up for an additional 6 months during which
      the investigators will collect both clinical and health economics data from the Institute for
      Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES) database. The RCT phase will be completed after 18
      months, and during the last part of this project, the investigators will analyze the data
      from the RCT and complete all naturalistic follow-ups.
    
  