
    
      Children represent a vulnerable population with specific medical needs compared to adults.
      Fast, accurate, and safe preparation and administration of IV drugs is both complex and time
      consuming in pediatric critical situations, such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Most
      drugs given IV to children are provided in vials originally prepared for the adult
      population, which leads to the need for a specific individual, weight-based drug dose
      calculation and preparation for each child that varies widely across age groups. This
      error-prone process and the lower dosing error tolerance of children place them at a high
      risk for life-threatening medication errors. Despite well equipped and staffed environments
      with numerous available safeguards, direct IV medication errors have been reported in up to
      41% of cases during simulated in-hospital pediatric resuscitations, 65% of which were
      incorrect medication dosage, making it the most common error. The rate of errors is also
      important in the prehospital setting, occurring in more than 30% of all pediatric drugs
      administered. As paramedics have little exposure to critically ill children, they have
      limited opportunities to administer resuscitation drugs at pediatric doses and to train this
      skill.

      Moreover, in resuscitation, time is inversely correlated to survival. During the first 15 min
      of in-hospital pediatric CPR, survival and favorable neurological outcome decrease linearly
      by 2,1% and 1,2% per min, respectively, and rely in part on drug preparation time either in-
      or out-of-hospital. Among non-shockable pediatric out-of-hospital cardiac arrests, each
      minute delay to epinephrine delivery is associated with 9% decrease in the odds of survival.
      Regrettably, in the prehospital setting, the majority of patients receive epinephrine more
      than 10 minutes after EMS arrival. The chain of survival therefore critically relies on early
      out-of-hospital CPR by EMS, and onsite administration of IV emergency drugs without delay
      before a rapid transfer to pediatric emergency departments and advanced care.

      In a previous multicenter, randomized crossover trial, medication errors, time to drug
      preparation, and time to drug delivery for continuous infusions during simulation-based
      pediatric in-hospital postcardiac arrest scenarios were significantly reduced by using a
      mobile device app - the pediatric accurate medication in emergency situations (PedAMINES™)
      app - designed to help pediatric drug preparation.

      The present multicenter trial aims to compare the impact of this app with conventional
      calculation methods for the preparation of direct IV drugs during standardized,
      simulation-based, pediatric out-of-hospital cardiac arrest scenarios. The investigators
      hypothesized that use of the app might extend and scale up the previous multicenter
      in-hospital observations by similarly reducing occurrence of medication errors and time to
      drug preparation and delivery when used by paramedics in out-of-hospital settings.

      In this trial, the investigators will recruit paramedics in many EMS in Switzerland to
      prepare direct IV emergency drugs during a standardized simulation-based pediatric
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest scenario with a high-fidelity WiFi manikin (Laerdal SimBaby).
      The scenario will take place out-of-hospital in a simulated children's room to increase
      realism.

      On the day of participation after random allocation (1:1 allocation ratio), each
      participating paramedic will (1) complete a survey collecting data regarding their
      demographics, care training, and simulation and computer experience, (2) receive a
      standardized 5-min training session on how to use the app, and (3) be presented the
      simulation manikin characteristics. The paramedics will then be asked to perform a 20-min
      highly realistic pediatric CPR scenario on the high-fidelity manikin. Each paramedic will be
      asked to prepare sequentially 4 intravenous emergency drugs (epinephrine, midazolam, dextrose
      10%, sodium bicarbonate 4.2%) following either their current conventional methods or by the
      aim of the mobile app. The procedure is standardized across all sites to follow the same
      chronological progression and range of difficulty to ensure each participant is exposed to
      exactly the same case, with similar challenges in decision making and treatment preparation
      provided on the same manikin.

      All the actions (i.e. primary and secondary outcomes) performed by the paramedics during the
      scenario will be automatically recorded and stored by the responsive simulator detectors, the
      app, and by several GoPro Hero 5 Black edition action video cameras worn by the paramedics
      and placed within the room.

      The study will be carried out in accordance with the Consolidated Standards of Reporting
      Trials of Electronic and Mobile Health Applications and Online TeleHealth (CONSORT-EHEALTH)
      guidelines and the Reporting Guidelines for Health Care Simulation Research.

      This study aims to compare the impact of this app with conventional calculation methods for
      the preparation of direct IV drugs during standardized, simulation-based, pediatric
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest scenarios, were paramedics are little exposed to pediatric
      CPRs. The investigators hypothesize that use of the app might extend and scale up their
      previous multicenter in-hospital observations by similarly reducing occurrence of medication
      errors and time to drug preparation and delivery when used by paramedics in out-of-hospital
      settings.
    
  