
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate clinic and patient level interventions with respect to increasing the reach of
      evidence-based treatment for tobacco use (delivered via the Utah Quitline).

      II. To evaluate clinic and patient level interventions with respect to increasing the impact
      of Quitline treatment. Impact is defined as Reach X Efficacy. In calculating impact, efficacy
      is defined as the proportion of smokers who enroll in Quitline delivered treatment that
      successfully quit.

      III. To evaluate characteristics of both clinics and patients that may influence tobacco use
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE I: Clinics are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Clinics participate in Ask, Advise, Connect-Opt Out (AAC-Out) intervention
      consisting of an electronic health record (EHR)-based point of care alert that requires
      clinic staff to Advise and Connect tobacco users to the Utah Quitline, or to "opt out" (i.e.
      the default requires an action- Advise and Connect, or Opt Out).

      GROUP II: Clinics participant in Ask, Advise, Connect-Opt in (AAC-In) intervention consisting
      of an EHR based point of care reminder that allows medical staff to choose when to perform
      Advise and Connect (i.e. the default does not require a connection).

      PHASE II: Tobacco users who do not enroll in Quitline treatment in response to AAC-Out or
      AAC-In, will be individually randomized to one of two groups in a 4:1 ratio (4 to Group 1 for
      every 1 to Group II):

      GROUP I: Patients receive a monthly text message (TM) for 6 months following each tobacco
      user's clinic visit that includes a simple one-touch response to directly connect to the
      Quitline. Patients receive continued clinic level electronic health record (EHR) intervention
      following each tobacco user's clinic visit.

      GROUP II: Patients receive continued clinic level electronic health record (EHR) intervention
      following each tobacco user's clinic visit.

      PHASE III: Nonresponders (i.e., did not engage in Quitline treatment at 6 months) in Group 1
      of Phase II (i.e., text messaging condition) will be randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients continue to receive a monthly text message with a simple one-touch response
      to directly connect to the Quitline during months 6-12 following each tobacco user's clinic
      visit

      GROUP II: Patients receive a monthly text message plus 2 brief telephone calls from patient
      navigators/health educators for 6-12 months following each tobacco user's clinic visit.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 12 months.
    
  