
    
      Obesity is a worldwide health problem. Recent studies suggest that the timing of meals may be
      critically important for weight control and cardiovascular health. Consuming calories later
      in the day is associated with greater risks of obesity, metabolic syndrome, and
      cardiovascular disease. Interventional diet studies also show more effective weight loss with
      early, rather than later eating. The investigators conducted a randomized crossover study
      comparing the metabolic effect of a "routine" dinner (RD,18:00) with that of an isocaloric
      "late" dinner (LD, 22:00) in 20 healthy volunteers. The investigators recently published
      results of this study, which the investigators now refer to as "Dinner Time 1". Relative to
      RD, LD increased post-dinner glucose peak by ~18% and lowered palmitate oxidation by ~10%.
      However, it is still unclear whether LD-induced impaired metabolic dysfunction is caused by
      eating at the "wrong" time relative to the body's central circadian clock, or it is caused by
      eating too close to bedtime, when sleep reduces metabolic demands.

      To address this question, the investigators are now enlarging the scope of the present study,
      which the investigators now refer to as "Dinner Time 2". In Dinner Time 2, the investigators
      will examine the impacts of early dinner, late dinner, and the impact of delaying sleep after
      late dinner. The investigators will compare (1) the impact of early dinner time with later
      dinner time relative to DLMO with a routine sleep time; and (2) the impact of routine bedtime
      with late bedtime with a fixed late dinner time.

      The investigators will examine the nocturnal and next-morning metabolic profile in a 3-arm
      randomized crossover study of healthy volunteers:

      Arm 1: Early Dinner (dinner at DLMO-3, sleep at DLMO+2) Arm 2: Late Dinner (dinner at DLMO+1,
      sleep at DLMO+2) Arm 3: Late Dinner/Late Sleep (dinner at DLMO+1, sleep at DLMO+6)

      The investigators will use serial blood sampling to assess the metabolic response to meals,
      and use an ingested stable isotope [(2H31)palmitate] tracer to calculate the oxidation of
      dietary lipid eaten at the different times.
    
  