
    
      The IDEAS Study is an observational, open-label, longitudinal cohort study designed to assess
      the impact of amyloid PET on patient-oriented outcomes in Medicare beneficiaries with mild
      cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia of uncertain etiology. The study falls under the
      Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Coverage with Evidence Development (CED)
      policy. A total of 18,488 Medicare beneficiaries meeting Appropriate Use Criteria (AUC) for
      amyloid PET will be enrolled over 24 months at sites throughout the United States. Dementia
      specialists will team with PET facilities able to perform amyloid PET and with trained
      radiologists/nuclear medicine physicians, all of whom will consent to completing the data
      requirements and timelines for the study. Amyloid PET will be performed and interpreted at
      each facility with results provided to the ordering physician for support in further clinical
      decision making, which will be captured for the study.

      Our over-arching hypothesis is that, in diagnostically uncertain cases, knowledge of amyloid
      status as determined by amyloid PET will lead to significant changes in patient management,
      and that this will translate into improved long-term outcomes. We will pursue two specific
      aims:

      Aim 1 investigates the impact of amyloid PET on short-term patient management, by comparing
      pre-PET intended management (ascertained in a case report form [CRF] prior to PET) to
      post-PET actual management 90-days post-PET). The primary objective will be to test whether
      amyloid PET leads to a ≥ 30% change between intended and actual patient management within 90
      days in a cumulative endpoint consisting of: Alzheimer's disease (AD) drug therapy, other
      drug therapy, and counseling about safety and future planning. Secondary objectives will
      assess the impact of amyloid PET results on clinical diagnosis and prevention of unnecessary
      diagnostic procedures and treatments.

      Aim 2 utilizes Medicare claims data to compare medical outcomes at 12 months for patients
      enrolled in the longitudinal cohort (amyloid PET-known) with those for a matched control
      cohort of patients who have never undergone amyloid PET imaging (amyloid PET-naïve). The
      primary objective will be to determine if amyloid PET in the amyloid PET-known cohort of
      patients is associated with a ≥ 10% reduction in hospitalizations and emergency room visits
      in comparison to the matched amyloid PET-naïve patients. Secondary objectives will examine
      whether knowledge of amyloid PET status reduces hospitalizations related to
      ambulatory-sensitive conditions, whether the association between amyloid PET knowledge and
      health outcomes varies by baseline cognitive status (MCI versus dementia) and amyloid status
      (amyloid positive versus negative). The amyloid PET-naïve cohort will be identified via a
      matching algorithm where each individual in the amyloid PET-known cohort will be matched to
      one individual with similar dementia diagnosis, pre-scan dementia-related resource
      utilization, age, race, gender, ethnicity, geographic location, and comorbid chronic
      conditions likely to impact cognition or the outcomes of interest seen at the same time as
      the amyloid PET-known patient (concurrent control).

      In pursuing these Aims, we will generate valuable observational data on clinical utility that
      will inform future use of this technology in diagnostic algorithms, and develop a cohort of
      patients who undergo amyloid PET and can serve as a foundation to address future research
      questions.
    
  