
    
      Note: Recruitment has been suspended because of COVID related restrictions and limitations
      imposed on data collection

      Objectives: The overall goal of this project is to maximize the health, social functioning,
      and quality of life of women Veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) who have
      experienced military sexual trauma (MST). The specific aims of this randomized controlled
      trial (RCT) are to evaluate the effectiveness of a trauma-sensitive yoga intervention
      designed specifically for women who experienced sexual trauma as compared to a gold-standard
      PTSD treatment, Cognitive Processing Therapy-Cognitive, to 1) treat PTSD and its co-morbid
      symptoms of chronic pain and insomnia, 2) improve social functioning and quality of life, and
      3) reduce the biological and psychophysiologic responses associated with PTSD in women
      Veterans who experienced MST.

      Research Plan: This four year RCT is the next step following the NRI Pilot Study (NRI 12-417)
      in which the investigators demonstrated the feasibility of recruitment, retention,
      randomization, intervention implementation, and data collection, including biological and
      psychophysiological data. Women Veterans seeking treatment for PTSD who report chronic pain
      and insomnia are being recruited from the Atlanta VAMC Trauma Recovery Program Women's Trauma
      Program. Participants (n=210) will be randomly assigned to trauma-sensitive yoga (10 weekly
      sessions) or Cognitive Processing Therapy-Cognitive (12 weekly sessions); both intervention
      protocols are data-driven. The target enrollment sample size is 210, with a target final
      sample of 100 or more. The investigators are conservatively allowing for 50%-60% retention,
      based on pilot study results.

      Methods: Data Collection: Data are collected at four points, baseline through 3-months
      post-intervention. Outcome measures include self-report, clinical assessments and biologic
      and psychophysiologic markers. Specific outcomes include PTSD symptom severity, chronic pain,
      insomnia, social functioning, quality of life, cytokines (IL-6, IL-10), C-reactive protein,
      dark-enhanced startle, and heart rate variability. Data Analysis: Comparisons between the
      groups at baseline will be run using t-tests, Mann Whitney non-parametric tests, and
      chi-square tests as appropriate. Multilevel mixed models (MLM) will be used to analyze the
      differences between the groups over time. MLM adjusts for attrition (missing data) over time
      and applies appropriate correlation structure between the time points.

      Clinical Relevance: Women Veterans experience MST and PTSD at alarming rates; consistently
      reported prevalence rates for both among VHA patient samples are 20% or more. MST and PTSD
      put this population at risk for significant physical and mental health symptoms, including
      chronic pain, suicide, and negative health behaviors. This RCT may provide sufficient
      evidence to support an innovative, complementary and alternative PTSD treatment for women
      Veterans who experienced MST. The positive effects of reducing distressing symptoms and
      PTSD-related psychophysiological stress would likely improve social functioning and quality
      of life and minimize the significant medical consequences of PTSD in this population. This
      new, evidence-based PTSD treatment could supplement existing evidence-based PTSD treatment
      modalities. Clinical guidelines for this innovative intervention based on evidence from this
      clinical trial could be disseminated to and implemented in VA Medical Centers nationwide.
    
  