
    
      This study will be a randomized controlled clinical trial with blind evaluators and patients.
      The study will be conducted at the University of São Paulo (USP), approved by the Research
      Ethics Committee of the Medical School of USP (authorization No. 2.903.991) and financed with
      its own resources.

      Participants will be recruited through radio ads, social networks and local newspapers.
      Individuals will be informed about the research proposal and treatment protocol, and those
      that are interested in participating will be selected according to the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Patients will be eligible for inclusion if they are over 60 years of age, of either gender,
      with diagnosis of nonspecific LBP of more than 3 months duration, with or without radiating
      leg pain, with a minimum pain intensity score of 4 on the 11-point pain numerical rating
      scale (NRS - Brazilian Portuguese version), that can walk independently (with or without
      walking devices) and that agree to voluntarily participate in this study and sign the consent
      form.

      Patients will be excluded if they have had previous surgery on the spinal column, have a
      known or suspected serious spinal pathology (e.g., cancer, vertebral fracture, spinal
      infection or cauda equina syndrome), a fear of needles, have participated in acupuncture
      treatment in the previous 30 days, if they are wheelchair users, or if they are unable to
      sign the consent form.

      The protocol of this study is based on standards established under the Standards for
      Reporting Interventions in Clinical Trials of Acupuncture (STRICTA) and the Initiative on
      Methods, Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT).

      Prior to the first treatment session, the random allocation sequence will be implemented by a
      researcher not involved in the patient recruitment or evaluation, and will be generated
      through the randomization.com program, where each number will match one of five study groups.

      After the numbers are generated, they will be placed in sealed, brown envelopes and numbered
      in series, then given to the acupuncturist. This person will open them according to the
      numerical sequence, prior to the first session.

      Patients will remain blind regarding the category of their allocation throughout the data
      collection period of the study. Additionally, the evaluators responsible for the data
      collection will be blinded to the patient allocation. The acupuncturist, being responsible
      for the interventions, will be the only person not blind to the type of treatment to be
      performed.

      The interventions will be performed by acupuncture specialists with at least 3 years of
      clinical experience, who will receive prior training to ensure that they rigorously follow
      the study protocol and are familiar with the types of treatments, including details such as
      acupuncture points and manipulation of electroacupuncture parameters.

      Outcome measures Four stages of evaluations will be performed: prior to the start of
      treatment, immediately after the end of treatment (5 weeks), and at 6 and 12 months after the
      final treatment. The evaluators will be trained in advance.

      The primary clinical outcome will be pain intensity. The secondary outcomes will include
      quality of pain, physical functioning, perception of overall effect, emotional functionality,
      patient satisfaction and psychosocial factors. All the scales and questionnaires have been
      translated into Brazilian Portuguese, with the exception of the visual analog scale for the
      assessment of anxiety, and their properties clinimetrically tested.

      Primary outcomes Pain intensity Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) The NRS is an 11-point scale
      ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). Participants will be asked to rate
      their average pain levels in the 24 hours prior to the assessment.

      Pressure pain threshold (PPT) The pressure pain threshold (PPT) will be measured using a
      pressure algometer (EMG system, Brazil). The assessed region will be marked with a tape
      measure and a dermatographic pencil. Two points will be marked bilaterally: 5 cm to the right
      and left of the spinous process of L3 and L5. A control point will be marked on the anterior
      tibial muscle of the right leg, 5 cm lateral to the tuberosity of the tibia. The circular tip
      of the algometer will be positioned perpendicular to the participant's skin and gradually
      pressed until the participant reports that the pressure has become painful and unbearable.
      Three measurements will be taken at each point with an interval of 1 minute. At the end, the
      arithmetic mean will be used to define the pressure pain threshold. To ensure data
      reliability, a preliminary intra-observer study will be conducted to measure the pressure
      pain threshold at the assessment points that will be used in the study. In this, 10
      participants will be evaluated and reassessed by the same examiner, with a 48-hour interval.
      The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) will be calculated by the measurements of the
      PPT of the anterior tibial and the lumbar points.

      Secondary outcomes Quality of pain This will be analyzed using the McGill Pain Questionnaire,
      a valid and reliable instrument containing 78 pain descriptors divided into 4 categories
      (sensory, affective, evaluative and miscellaneous) and 20 subcategories, to which scores of 1
      to 5 are attributed. The result is obtained by first scoring the words according to their
      position within the set of descriptors of each subcategory. The maximum score in the sensory
      category is 42, in the affective 14, in the evaluative 5 and in the miscellaneous 17. Then,
      the analysis is performed by adding these values associated with their categories. Higher
      scores equate to more intense pain. Physical functioning This measure will be assessed
      through the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire and the Five Times Sit to Stand Test
      (FTSST).

      The first is a self-administered questionnaire, adapted to the Portuguese language, which
      aims to evaluate physical incapacity due to low back pain. This contains 24 items pertaining
      to activities that can be impaired due to LBP. Individuals need to select the items that
      apply to their pain on that day. The selected items are summed for a total score ranging from
      0 to 24, with higher scores indicating more severe functional incapacity. The activity of
      sitting and standing is a common and important movement in daily life, and in the clinical
      practice it helps to determine a person's functional level. The patient initiates the FTSST
      sitting in a chair without arm support, with the upper limbs crossed over the chest, feet
      positioned at hip width and knees in 90° flexion. They will be asked to stand and sit five
      times as fast as possible. A timer will be used to measure the task execution time. The test
      will be performed twice and the mean time will be calculated.

      Perceived overall effect The patient's self-perception regarding the treatment will be
      evaluated using the Global Effect Perception Scale, a 11-point numerical scale ranging from
      -5 (much worse) to +5 (much better), where higher scores represent better recovery.(18)
      Emotional functionality Depression and anxiety will be assessed using the Beck Depression
      Inventory (BDI) and the Global Anxiety - Visual Analog Scale (GA-VAS), respectively.

      The BDI is a self-administered questionnaire that contains 21 items, with a score ranging
      from 0 to 3, where a higher score indicates more depressive symptoms. The GA-VAS is composed
      of a 100mm line, where the left extremity is related to the absence of anxiety, and the right
      extremity is related to the worst possible anxiety. The individual is asked to assess the
      intensity of their anxiety in the previous 24 hours and to mark this on the line. The
      distance from the left edge of the line to the mark placed by the patient is measured in
      millimeters. Greater measurements indicate greater anxiety.

      Patient satisfaction The evaluation of the patient's satisfaction with the treatment will be
      carried out using the MedRisk questionnaire of patient satisfaction with physiotherapeutic
      care. This questionnaire contains 20 items, covering global aspects of the treatment (2
      items), aspects related to the service provided (8 items), and aspects about the
      therapist-patient relationship (10 items). Following a Likert-type scale, the patient's
      response will range from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree), where higher scores
      represent greater satisfaction with the treatment.

      Psychosocial factors The risk of a poor prognosis due to psychosocial factors will be
      assessed using the STarT Back Screening Tool (SBST), a self-administered questionnaire with 9
      items (4 related to referred pain and 5 related to psychosocial factors) where the patient
      has the response options "I agree" (1 point) and "I Disagree" (zero points) in the first
      eight items, and "Nothing", "A little" or "Moderate" (zero points each), "A lot" or
      "Extremely" (one point each) in the ninth item. If the total score is between 0-3 points, the
      patient is classified as low risk for poor prognosis. When the total score is greater than 3
      points the score of the psychosocial subscale, questions 5 to 9, is then considered. If the
      score of this subscale is less than or equal to 3 points, the patient is classified as medium
      risk and scores greater than 3 points are considered to indicate a high risk for poor
      prognosis. Procedures After the randomization, the acupuncturist will sequentially open the
      envelopes, and the individuals will be randomly assigned to one of five treatment groups: Low
      frequency EA (LF), high frequency EA (HF), alternating frequency EA (AF), control group (C)
      and placebo group (P), each containing 25 participants. The acupuncture points will be
      located and described according to the WHO Standard Acupuncture Locations. Based on the
      beneficial effects of previous clinical trials, the acupoints selected for this study will
      be: BL23, BL25, BL40, SP6 and KI3.

      Interventions Participants of the LF, HF and AF groups will be submitted to the treatment
      protocol, which will consist of the bilateral application of electroacupuncture using a
      previously calibrated electrostimulator (Sikuro DS100C), consisted of alternating symmetrical
      biphasic waves with continuous pulse train for the low (2Hz) or high (100Hz) frequency
      groups, and a mixed pulse train for the alternating frequency group (100Hz and 2Hz for 3
      seconds each); 100ms pulse duration and 0.5ms pulse width; and the maximum current
      (amplitude) intensity tolerated by the patient and intensified so that sensory habituation is
      avoided. Trichotomy will be carried out when necessary and the skin will be disinfected with
      70% alcohol. With the participant lying down in a ventral position, the needles will be
      inserted at a 90º inclination with the skin, to a depth at which that the patient reports the
      "deQi" sensation (≅ 1.5cm).

      The individuals that are randomly assigned to the C and P groups will follow exactly the same
      protocol as the electroacupuncture groups, however the C group will not undergo electrical
      stimulation, as the acupuncturist will activate channels that are not connected to the
      patient. In the P group an adhesive moxa (Dong Yang®) will be placed on each acupoint and the
      needle will be inserted over it, so that the participant only feels the needle prick, but
      without perforation of the skin and the "deQi" sensation. In addition, as in group C, the
      electrodes will be connected to the needles, however, no electrical current will be applied.
      Sterile and disposable 0.25mm x 30mm stainless steel needles (Dong Bang Acupuncture Inc.,
      Seoul, Korea) will be used. The sessions will last 30 minutes, twice a week, for 5 weeks,
      totaling 10 sessions.

      Sample size calculation The sample calculation was defined assuming a two-point difference in
      pain intensity through the Numerical Pain Scale, with an estimated standard deviation of 1.47
      points. Considering a test power of 80%, a significance level of 5% and a sample loss of 20%,
      25 participants will be recruited for each group (125 in total). (G * Power 3 3.1. 9.2).

      Statistical analysis The statistical analysis will be performed according to the
      intention-to-treat principle. An analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to examine the
      effect of the treatment, time (pre- and post-treatment, 6 and 12 months follow up), and the
      interaction between groups versus time. If differences between the groups are identified,
      Tukey's multiple comparison test will be conducted. Two-sided paired t-tests will use for
      within-group comparisons (comparing baseline to follow up). The non-parametric statistical
      test (Kruskal Wallis) will be used if the data is not normally distributed. All statistical
      analyses will be conducted using SPSS (IBM Co, Armonk, New York, USA) for Windows, V.19.0.
      The confidence interval will be established at 95%, and the significance level will be set at
      5%.

      Safety At each treatment session the participants will be asked about any unpleasant and
      unintended signs or symptoms associated with the use of electroacupuncture. A questionnaire
      will also be used with a record of the duration and intensity of the adverse symptom reported
      by the patient, which will be scored according to a Likert-type scale from 1 to 5, with 1
      representing the absence of adverse symptoms and 5 severe adverse symptoms.

      Ethics and data security All the patients will participate voluntarily and will sign a
      consent form prior to the randomization. The access and storage of the data will be in
      accordance with the guidelines of the National Research Ethics Commission (CONEP). This study
      has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the University of São Paulo Medical School
      (authorization No. 2.903.991) and is registered in Plataforma Brasil (CAAE:
      89846118.7.0000.0065).
    
  