
    
      Specific objectives:

        1. To determine the incidence of subclinical ATRCD among cancer patient who receives
           Anthracycline therapy.

        2. To compare the changes of GLS value between hypertension and non hypertension cancer
           patient at the competition of the anthracycline therapy.

        3. To determine the correlation of conventional echocardiograghy(ECHO) parameters (MAPSE,
           S') with GLS, and their ability to diagnose or rule out subclinical ATRCD.

        4. To determine the correlation of oxidative stress with cardiac function(GLS value) in
           patients who receives Anthracycline therapy

        5. To describe the cardioprotective effect of carvedilol in patients with subclinical
           ATRCD.

      METHODS This is going to be two prospective cohort study (cohort 1 and 2) followed by a
      randomized controlled trial (cohort 3).

      To achieve objective 1 ,3 and 4, Cohort 1 will consecutively recruit 300 adult non
      hypertension cancer patients who are going to receive anthracycline therapy.

      To achieve objective 2, Cohort 2 will consecutively recruit 53 adult hypertension cancer
      patients (group H) and 106 non hypertension controls (group N) who are going to receive
      anthracycline therapy. Controls will be recruited from cohort 1 by systemic sampling(
      Choosing the 2nd patients as they are enrolled in cohort 1).

      Patient's demographic data, cancer diagnosis, dosage of anthracyclin, past medical history,
      symptoms, physical examinations, ECG, ECHO and laboratory data will be collected at the
      baseline. Patient follow up will be performed at the completion of the chemo therapy, and
      6month thereafter. Data of symptoms, physical examinations, ECG, ECHO and blood test will be
      collected at each visit. The end point will be the development of subclinical ATRCD.

      To achieve objective 5, patients in Cohort 1, who are diagnosed with Subclinical ATRCD will
      be recruited into cohort 3 and being randomized into group T(carvedilol treatment group) and
      group C( control, none treatment group).Systemic randomization will be used in Cohort 3: ever
      second eligible patient will be recruited in group C. Patients in cohort 3 will be followed
      up for 6month.
    
  