
    
      Background

      Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection represents a significant source of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide. High-risk oncogenic HPVs cause 99.7% of cervical cancers. 80% of
      sexually active women will be infected with HPV at some point in their life. Most of these
      infections are transitory and only if they are persistent and caused by a high-risk oncogenic
      HPV are they an important risk factor for the development of cervical intraepithelial lesions
      and invasive cervical cancer. Immunity plays a key factor in eliminating HPV infection. The
      innate immune response constitutes the first line of defense against infection during the
      early stages of infection, promoting a cytokine-mediated inflammatory response which links
      innate immunity with the adaptive immune response. HPV evasion of these immune defense
      mechanisms is critical for the persistence of the infection and leads to the development of
      preneoplastic lesions and ultimately to cervical cancer. The stimulation of the innate immune
      response through the use of adjuvant medical treatments represents a therapeutic strategy to
      avoid the evasion mechanisms of HPV. One of these most promising treatments is beta-glucans
      that seem capable of affecting the course of HPV infection, and consequently, the progression
      of its associated intraepithelial lesions.

      Justification

      β-glucans are a very diverse heterogeneous group of polysaccharides made up of D-glucose
      monomers linked by β-type glycosidic bonds. These polysaccharides belong to a group of
      physiologically active compounds called modifiers of the biological response, due to their
      ability to interact with the immune system of vertebrates and even invertebrates).

      β-glucans have been previously described in bacteria, fungi, yeasts (including brewer's
      yeast), plants and algae, where they play an important structural role in the cell wall or
      reservoir.

      There are more than 6000 studies that have described the immunomodulatory effects of glucans,
      mainly those of β-1,3 bonds, such as anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties. This
      ability to interact with the immune system of various organisms would be related to the
      recognition and interaction with membrane receptors of monocytes, neutrophils, macrophages,
      natural killer cells, eosinophils, alveolar epithelial cells, endothelial cells and
      fibroblasts, among other cell types. At least 4 receptors have been identified in mammals for
      the recognition of these molecules: lactosylceramide, scavengers, complement receptor 3 and
      dectin-1.

      Commercial production of 1,3-β-glucans has been carried out by cultivating bacteria, yeasts,
      fungi, and plants.

      β-glucans bind with high affinity to CR3 expressed in cells of innate immunity such as
      macrophages, dendritic cells, natural killer cells, and neutrophils. Activation of these has
      been demonstrated in dendritic cells and macrophages by different pathways related to the
      Dectin-1 receptor.

      On the other hand, they also stimulate B lymphocytes that participate in the adaptive immune
      system. The activation of these has been reported by inducing the production of cytokines
      TNFa, IL-6 and IL-8 through the activation of dectin-1 through the activation of
      transcription factors NF-kB and AP-1. Dectin-1 triggers the secretion of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines and stimulates chemotaxis of neutrophils.

      Recent studies focusing on their influence on cytotoxic and helper T cells, APCs,
      inflammatory pathways, and oxidative burst (using reactive oxygen species to kill cells) have
      revealed that they may also have some anti-cancer properties. Some efforts have been made in
      the field of cervical cancer prevention and it has been shown that β-glucans can also affect
      HPV infection. Carboxymethyl β-glucan gel treatment was studied in a group of affected
      individuals by CIN1. This case-control study demonstrated that it has an anti-cervical cancer
      role in CIN1 regression. In 2010, two studies were conducted on the topic of "the influence
      of β-glucans" on HPV-related lesions in the genital area. "The first study found that
      β-glucans can treat infection-related lesions and the second study revealed the efficacy of
      beta-glucan treatment for HPVCIN1 lesions. These studies suggested that, in addition to the
      anticancer effects of beta-glucans, they also have some effects on infection by HPV, the main
      cause of cervical cancer.

      On the other hand, the local treatment of vaginal problems has been known since ancient
      times, and more recently it has been favored over oral treatments due to the achievement of
      higher local concentrations of drugs and fewer interactions of the active principles and
      interference with the gastrointestinal tract. Vaginal products are marketed in the form of
      tablets, capsules, pessaries or ovules and semisolid forms (creams, ointments and gels),
      being available as products for the treatment and prevention of vaginal infections.
      Conventional dosage forms are associated with poor distribution and retention, primarily due
      to the self-cleaning action of the vagina. Among the commercialized dosage forms, semisolids,
      in particular gels, have been considered the preferred ones as they spread easily over the
      vaginal surface area. Additionally, due to their high water content, they confer moisture and
      lubrication effects that help alleviate the symptoms of conditions associated with vaginal
      dryness.

      Bioadhesion refers to the binding of natural or synthetic macromolecules to a biological
      tissue. Mucoadhesion is considered a particular case of bioadhesion whenever the binding
      occurs with mucous glycoproteins (mucin) or mucous membranes. The translation of these
      concepts into pharmaceutical technology has been widely studied through the use of
      bioadhesive polymers. Among the most used in vaginal formulations are polyacrylates (such as
      carbomers and polycarbophils), cellulose derivatives (hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC),
      hydroxypropylcellulose (HPC), hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC), etc.), chitosan,
      hyaluronic acid and its derivatives, starch, pectin, natural gums and sodium alginate. In
      addition to increasing the retention time of vaginal formulations, thus promoting therapeutic
      duration and efficacy and improving patient comfort and adherence, these excipients also
      allow controlled drug release, thus improving local pharmacokinetics.

      Polycarbophil and carbomer (polyacrylate) vaginal applications have been specially studied in
      vitro and in vivo, and have been included in various proprietary formulations as well as
      actual marketed products. These polymers have the additional advantage of being acidic,
      allowing the correction and maintenance of vaginal pH, and their acid-buffering capacity has
      been explored as a strategy for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis and the prevention of
      vaginosis recurrence for prevent the proliferation of pathogens, while promoting the
      restoration of the protective flora of Lactobacillus.

      Polycarbophil, in particular, has been widely used for its bioadhesive properties, especially
      after a 1-3% polycarbophil gel was shown to maintain vaginal acidity for 3-4 days after a
      single application in postmenopausal women and A polycarbophil-carbomer vaginal gel was
      proven in women with suspected and confirmed bacterial vaginosis to show a reduction in
      vaginal pH in both trials, and a high clinical cure rate in confirmed vaginosis cases
      compared to placebo.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a gel with Carboxymethyl - β
      -Glucan and polycarbophil when applied intravaginally on the regression of low-grade Cervical
      intraepithelial lesions (CIN) associated to HR-HPV infection.
    
  