
    
      Background:

      VA diabetes patients often have difficulty managing their self-care and accessing
      clinic-based services; many also lack social support to help them meet the demands of their
      illness. Enhanced support is especially important when undertaking and sustaining new
      challenging self-care tasks, such as initiating or intensifying insulin treatment regimens.
      Although some VAs have implemented telephone nurse care management programs supported by
      automated calling services, many are reluctant to adopt these models due to nursing
      shortages.

      Objectives:

      This randomized trial will evaluate an intervention using a low-cost interactive voice
      response (IVR) exchange system to promote peer-to-peer communication among diabetes patients
      initiating or increasing insulin therapy under medical guidance. The intervention is based on
      research demonstrating the positive impact of peer support on chronic disease outcomes and
      self-care behaviors, our own prior studies demonstrating the effectiveness of IVR-based
      self-management supports for VA diabetes patients, and a successful pilot study demonstrating
      VA diabetes patients' willingness to participate in IVR-facilitated peer support. The
      Specific Aims are: (1) To evaluate the effect of IVR-facilitated peer support on diabetes
      patients' glycemic control (including their A1c levels, insulin doses, hypo- and
      hyperglycemic symptoms) and use of VA care; (2) To assess the impact of IVR-facilitated peer
      support on patient-centered outcomes, including patients' satisfaction with care, perceived
      social support, diabetes-specific quality of life, and self-care behaviors; and (3) To
      identify patient characteristics associated with participation and use of IVR peer support,
      and mediators of the intervention's impact on patient outcomes.

      Methods:

      324 diabetes patients with inadequate glycemic control who are candidates for insulin
      initiation or intensification will be recruited from 2 VA facilities (Ann Arbor, and Toledo).
      We will pair eligible patients based on age, gender, and whether they are initiating or
      increasing insulin. Pairs will be randomized to either: 1) usual care; or 2) usual care in
      conjunction with the IVR-based peer support program. After their orientation, intervention
      participants will be asked to communicate weekly with their partner using the IVR exchange.
      The IVR service is designed to allow patients to communicate without divulging their home
      phone number, experiencing toll charges, or being responsible for insuring that contacts
      occur without the assistance of reminder prompts. Intervention patients who have achieved
      adequate glycemic control at their 6-month follow up will be encouraged to select a new
      treatment goal. Patients will continue to participate in weekly IVR calls for 6 months.
      Research staff will monitor the process via the Internet, and outcomes will be measured at
      six months. The primary endpoint will be HbA1c levels at 6 and 12-months. Secondary endpoints
      include other physiological measures and patient-centered outcomes. The intervention is
      designed to interact with standard outpatient VA staffing models. We will develop detailed
      training materials that facilitate implementation in other facilities and work with clinical
      managers to facilitate roll-out if the intervention is found to be effective.

      Status:

      Recruitment of participants is complete as well as most preliminary data analyses. 12 month
      data is now being analyzed.
    
  