
    
      Postictal phenomena, such as sensory, motor or memory deficits, headache, delirium, and
      psychosis, are common manifestations after electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) induced seizures.
      Also, postictal phenomena add to the burden of seizures in patients with epilepsy. The
      pathophysiology of these phenomena is poorly understood and effective treatments are not
      available (Fisher RS, 2000; Krauss & Theodore, 2010). Recently, seizure-induced postictal
      vasoconstriction with cerebral hypoperfusion was observed in experimentally induced seizures
      in rats. Treatment with acetaminophen or calcium antagonists decreased hypoperfusion and
      postictal phenomena (Farrell, 2016, 2017).

      The objective of this research is to study the effect of acetaminophen and nimodipine to
      reduce postictal phenomena after ECT induced seizures.

      A prospective, three conditions crossover trial will be conducted, with randomized condition
      allocation, open-label treatment, and blinded end-point evaluation (PROBE design; Hansson,
      Hedner, & Dahlof, 1992).

      Thirty-three adult (age >17 years) patients referred to treatment with ECT for a depressive
      episode will be included to achieve a statistical power of .80. This will be feasible in one
      year.

      A single dose of nimodipine (60 mg) or acetaminophen (1000 mg) or no additional treatment
      will be given prior to a maximum of 12 ECT-sessions per patient. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to predefined treatment sequences. EEG and MRI measures will serve as main outcome
      measures, as well as psychometric tests.

      Data will be stored on two separate hard disks, one including patient sensitive information
      for identification, the other with anonymized data only (for the sponsor).

      Patients will be recruited by doctors at Rijnstate Hospital Arnhem. A mixed model with
      repeated measurements analysis will be conducted for the primary outcome measures.
    
  