
    
      Eye defects occur when the eye cannot focus images from the outside world. This results in
      blurred vision, which sometimes is so severe that it causes visual impairment. Among the many
      vision defects, presbyopia is an inevitable, irreversible, universal age-related condition
      where the crystalline lens in the eye loses its accomodation orthe ability to change the
      optical power. This defect occurs as a natural result of aging and will ultimately affect any
      person reaching advanced enough age. It was estimated in 2005 that over 1 billion people
      worldwide suffered from presbyopia, with approximately 400 million suffering from near vision
      loss due to the lack of correction technologies.

      The most inexpensive and commonly used tools to correct vision errors are fixed power
      eyeglasses, which haven't seen any improvement since the mid-1800s. Conventional eyeglasses
      are an ancient piece of technology which originated in Europe's middle ages. A major drawback
      of such eyeglasses is that they can only correct the lack of accomodation at a particular
      object distance, since they use fixed power lenses. As a result, conventional eyeglasses can
      produce sharp images for objects located either far away or near the observer but not both.
      Bifocal, multifocal and progressive lenses can partially alleviate vision defects, but at the
      expense of reduced and fragmented field of view. As an example, multifocal lenses have
      different lens powers in different regions of the lens. With such lenses, it is not possible
      to see objects clearly over the entire visual field. Further, the effectiveness of
      conventional eyeglasses is not monitored outside the optometrist's office.

      The proposed smart eyeglasses system uses a combination of large-aperture fluidic lenses,
      ultra-light actuators, object distance sensors and embedded control, communications and
      computing electronics to continuously produce sharp and focused images at any object range.
      They can also collect the behaviour and characteristics of the observer's eyes to gauge the
      effectiveness of the technology and adapt to observer's visual degradation over age.
    
  