
    
      Aim:The aim of this study is to reduce nurses' psychological distress, burnout and secondary
      trauma stress.

      Design This single-blind randomized controlled trial design was used. Measurements were made
      before, after and 6 months after Participants and Settings The study was perform at a
      hospital in Turkey. Intervention program was applied in 4 week. 84 nurses meeting the
      criteria were invited to the program.48 nurses agreed to participate. Nurses were randomly
      assigned groups.

      Sample Size the sample was calculated with the open epi program. The sample size was
      calculated as 20 per group.

      Intervention The program was created to reduce nurses' psychological distress, and improve
      the professional quality of life.

      The intervention programme were four sessions. The Intervention group was divided into two
      groups. Intervention were applied in a comfortable room in the hospital. Interventions were
      based on cognitive behavioral approach.

      Outcome measures The outcomes were compassion fatigue, burnout and compassion satisfaction,
      psychological distress.

      These variables were evaluated by the Professional Quality of Life Scale (ProQOL-IV). The
      GHQ-12 is a scale surveying psychological distress observed within the last few weeks.

      Data collection Research data were collected before, immediately after, and six months after
      intervention.

      Validity and reliability Measuring tools showing good psychometric properties were used to
      ensure validity and reliability. Volunteer participants were randomly assigned to groups, and
      the intention-to-treat approach was used for data analysis. The study has been reported in
      accordance with the CONSORT 2010 Statement principles.

      Ethical considerations Permission was obtained from the relevant university, and written
      permission was obtained from the hospital. The participants were informed, all participants
      gave written consent.

      Data analysis Mann Whitney U test, and Friedman analysis was used. All analyses were made on
      an intention-to-treat approach. Missing data were compensated for using the last observation
      method carried forward.
    
  