
    
      From Dr. Dave's practice 53 suitable patients who are using CIC to manage NB disease, and are
      receiving long term, low-dose antibiotic prophylaxis designed to prevent RUTI have been
      identified.

      On average, another 5 eligible patients would be expected within a six- month window. From
      this pool, the study will enroll 36 adolescents ≥ 12 years of age. They will have had a
      history of RUTI over the past 12 months and will have been receiving chemoprophylaxis for at
      least one month. The study design and reporting will conform to the CONSORT guidelines.

      Patients will be enrolled after informed consent and the baseline evaluation will include a
      history and physical examination, and verification of previous culture proven UTI. A urine
      sample will be obtained using clean catheterization and subjected to: urinalysis, microbiome,
      metabolome, bacteriological culture and antibiotic resistance assessment, and assayed for
      markers for inflammation. A stool sample will also be collected to analyse the gut microbiota
      and drug resistance profiles of E. coli. Each patient will receive counselling at baseline
      and at 3 months follow up on ensuring adequate fluid intake, proper clean intermittent
      catheterization technique and frequency, and over the- counter treatment for constipation.
      Post catheterization bladder scans will be performed to ensure completeness of bladder
      emptying. Baseline bladder and renal function will be assessed.

      Investigators expect interest from the patients/parents in their practice as at the very
      least the study will entail a check-up of how their condition is being managed, and for us to
      be able to provide them with additional information on their microbiota in urine and stool.
      Thus, patients who do not wish to be randomized to receive probiotics or change to a
      probiotic regimen, can still be included as a control group remaining on prophylaxis (12
      subjects). Investigators would expect their bacterial drug resistance profiles and intestinal
      side effects to remain unchanged for the next six months. For 24 subjects interested in being
      considered for a different approach to their care, they will be randomized using a computer
      generated randomization sequence with balanced block randomization (block size= 4), pre
      generated, and allocation performed using sealed envelopes and a third party to preserve
      allocation concealment from the recruiting physician. A 1: 1 allotment will be performed to
      the 2 study groups: 12 patients will continue antibiotic prophylaxis but also receive daily
      probiotic capsules, and the other 12 will be randomized to receive probiotics and a drug
      placebo for six months after a washout period of 1 week. Patient and parent blinding will be
      partially achieved by each patient taking two pills each day, with the placebo pill or
      capsule resembling the active product. The placebo drug used will be a similar appearance
      sugar based pill with no active ingredient. The probiotic capsule will contain only food
      grade excipients present in the probiotic capsule. Patients will be supplied with their pills
      and capsules for 3- month duration.

      In addition, the laboratory technician and outcome assessor (data entry and analysis) will be
      blinded to patient allotment. Antibiotic prophylaxis will consist of Septra (trimethoprim 2
      mg/kg; sulfamethoxazole) (for the 12 controls or 12 randomized to antibiotic and probiotic
      arm). Probiotic therapy will comprise of two capsules of RePhResh Pro-B (approved by Health
      Canada and sold at Shoppers Drug Mart in Canada), which consists of 5 billion total organisms
      of L. rhamnosus GR-1 and L. reuteri RC-14 per capsule. The capsule can be added to milk or
      orange juice if the patient is unable to swallow it. All 36 patients/parents will be asked to
      keep a diary to record use of medications (OTC medications for colds, flu, others) and will
      be asked not to take any probiotic products (including probiotic yogurt) during the study
      duration. In addition, patients will fill out a questionnaire each week (study duration is 6
      months after the first baseline visit is conducted) to assess a range of potential adverse
      events (such as constipation, diarrhea, bloating, nausea, pain, fever) on a scale of 1-10. At
      the three month follow-up compliance will be assessed by return of the empty product
      containers, and review of the diary. A second course of three month treatment will then be
      provided. At three and six month's clinical assessment, urine and stool samples will be
      provided.

      At 6 month follow-up, patients will receive a renal ultrasound to assess the health of the
      upper renal tract, as well as a post-catheterization bladder scan an cystometry. During the
      study, any patient with two or more episodes of UTI will be treated with an alternative
      antibiotic prophylactic regimen.
    
  