
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Currently, both the incidence and prevalence of chronic kidney disease leading to end-stage
      renal disease (ESRD) continue to increase at an alarming rate in the United States. According
      to the United States Renal Data System, in 2000 there were 370,000 prevalent ESRD patients,
      which was expected to grow to 610,000 by the year 2010. Furthermore, the adjusted death rate
      for all incident ESRD patients was 19.8 per 100 patient years at risk, with cardiovascular
      disease accounting for more than 50 percent of mortality in this patient population. Recent
      analyses demonstrate that there are at least 10.9 million people in the United States with
      chronic kidney disease and, that for this population, there are substantially increased
      cardiovascular risks, prompting the Surgeon General to include chronic kidney disease as a
      focus area for improving the nation's health in Healthy People 2010. The metabolic
      derangements accompanying progressive loss of kidney function lead to unique patterns of
      oxidative injury specific to the uremic state. For patients with chronic kidney disease,
      non-traditional risk factors for cardiovascular disease such as increased oxidative stress
      and inflammation may be especially important.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The broad goals of this study are to develop enhanced understanding of how the progressive
      loss of kidney function leads to increased oxidative stress, inflammation, and accelerated
      development of cardiovascular disease. The long-term objective of this proposal is to develop
      the data critical for a subsequent large scale, multicenter, randomized, controlled trial
      designed to alleviate oxidative stress, reduce inflammation, and reduce cardiovascular
      morbidity in patients with chronic kidney disease. The aims of this study are to determine in
      a prospective study the extent to which oxidative stress is a risk factor for cardiovascular
      events in patients with chronic kidney disease and to characterize the inter-relationships
      between oxidative stress and inflammation. A further aim is to determine in the longitudinal
      study is how progressive loss of kidney function influences oxidative stress propensity to
      inflammation and cardiovascular disease. An additional aim is to determine the effects of
      antioxidant therapy on biomarkers of oxidative stress, markers of inflammation and
      endothelium-dependent vascular function in patients with chronic kidney disease. This study
      incorporates a series of observational and interventional studies measuring the extent of
      cardiovascular disease with extensive ex vivo measures of biomarkers of oxidative stress and
      inflammation in patients with chronic kidney disease. Coordination between the clinical data
      and the ex vivo studies will be emphasized to achieve maximal understanding of the
      pathophysiology of uremic cardiovascular disease.
    
  