
    
      This is a phase 3 Event-Driven, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre
      study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, and Immunogenicity of BBV152, a Whole-Virion
      Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine in Volunteers aged 18 years and above.

      A total of 25,800 subjects will be enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive the
      BBV152 vaccine and control. All participants will be assessed for efficacy and safety
      endpoints and provide a Nasopharyngeal(NP) swab and blood sample before the first dose of IP.
      The NP swab and blood collected will be subject to RT-PCR and Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies.
      The results of this will not affect the enrollment of the participant. Participants who are
      found to be positive for either RT-PCR Or Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies will be excluded
      from the primary efficacy analysis. A safety follow-up will be done for all.

      In addition, sites will be segregated based on the study objectives:

      Category 1 (Symptomatic): In addition to administering the IP, a series of post-dose
      telephonic follow-up visits will be scheduled to detect suspect symptomatic COVID-19
      infections. If a suspect is identified, a nasopharyngeal sample will be collected from the
      participant for detecting the presence of COVID-19 infection. Telephonic follow-up will occur
      at 15 Day intervals.

      Category 2 (Symptomatic/Asymptomatic): In addition to administering the IP, a series of
      post-dose Nasopharyngeal samples for detecting an incidence of asymptomatic COVID-19
      infection at 1-Month intervals will be collected.

      Category 3 (Symptomatic/Asymptomatic+Immunogenicity): In addition to administering the IP and
      collecting NP samples, a series of blood samples will be collected for analyzing serum for
      immunological assessments.

      The Phase 3 study will follow randomized study participants for efficacy until virologically
      confirmed (RT-PCR positive) symptomatic COVID-19 participants will be eligible for the
      primary efficacy analysis. After reaching the target number (n=130) of symptomatic COVID-19
      cases, the study will continue to assess safety until the completion of the study duration.
      It is planned to continue the Phase 3 trial until 130 study participants in the per-protocol
      population develop PCR-confirmed symptomatic COVID-19 disease during follow-up beginning 14
      days after the second dose of vaccine or placebo. We estimate that approximately 25,800
      participants should be randomized to accrue these 130 events. The Lot-to-Lot consistency
      (Immunogenicity) study will be nested within the Phase 3 (Efficacy) study (in three selected
      sites). The Immunogenicity study will assess the immune response of a 2-dose regimen of
      BBV152B vaccine through geometric mean titers (GMTs) by neutralizing antibody, S-protein, and
      RBD specific anti-IgG binding titer in a subset of 600 (450 vaccine: 150 placebo)
      participants, across three consecutive manufacturing Lots. Data generated through Day 56
      (Month 2) will be unblinded only to the biostatistician for evaluation of immune responses in
      the Immunogenicity subset.

      Formal interim analyses are planned when approximately 1/3 and 2/3 of the target number of
      participants with confirmed symptomatic COVID-19 have been accrued, to determine whether the
      sample size and/or length of follow-up should be increased. This interim report containing
      safety and immunogenicity data will be submitted to CDSCO.
    
  