
    
      Specific Aims Eighty-seven percent of cervical cancer deaths worldwide occur in low and
      middle income countries (LMICs) and cervical cancer is the most common cancer in sub-Saharan
      Africa (SSA) (1-4). The significant disparity between cervical cancer outcomes in the United
      States and LMICs is largely attributed to differences in screening (5). While approximately
      89% of US women receive cervical cancer screening (7), less than 5% of women in LMICs have
      been screened (4). Barriers to screening in LMICs include challenges with infrastructure to
      support screening, competing health interests, lack of education, low health literacy, and
      poverty (2, 8-12).

      In addition to the general lack of cervical cancer screening, SSA carries the highest global
      burden of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Women account for 59% of all people
      living with HIV (13) and cervical cancer incidence is higher in women with HIV (14). With the
      advent of antiretroviral therapy (ART), women receiving HIV treatment have increased life
      expectancy approaching that of HIV-negative women (15). However, cervical cancer rates do not
      significantly decline despite ART and immune reconstitution (16), and invasive cervical
      cancer incidence remains high even with ART (17). The aging population of HIV-positive women
      will continue to face a large lifetime risk of cervical cancer (18).

      Because of the burden of both cervical cancer and HIV infection in SSA, improving
      implementation of cervical cancer screening and treatment of pre-cancerous lesions in this
      region is critical. Existing methods for cervical cancer screening include cytology, human
      papillomavirus testing (14), and visual inspection methods (19). Pairing screening with
      treatment of positive screens using cryotherapy or loop electrosurgical excision procedures
      (LEEP) could prevent progression to cervical cancer (20), and greatly reduce morbidity and
      mortality in women. To address this implementation gap, simple, scalable, and sustainable
      interventions are imperative to improve screening and treatment of pre-cancers. The Kenyan
      Ministry of Health (MOH) guidelines stress the need to strengthen capacity, streamline, and
      standardize screening, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer (21). To achieve this, our
      long-term partners in the Mombasa County Department of Health (DOH) are eager to increase
      rates of cervical cancer screening. The investigators aim to test an implementation science
      methodology, Systems Analysis and Improvement Approach (SAIA), to address systems barriers to
      screening and provide quality improvement while relying on existing infrastructure to conduct
      screening. Rather than directly offering screening, this intervention aims to support
      systematic improvements in screening processes in facilities throughout the county. The
      investigators propose a collaborative research project with Mombasa County to achieve the
      following specific aims:

      ￼AIM 1:To describe the cervical cancer screening care cascade, from identification of female
      clients age 21-65 years old, through referral for follow-up of clients with positive or
      suspicious screens, in family planning (FP) clinics in Mombasa County. Following
      characterization of this cascade, we will conduct an analysis of correlates of failure to
      screen for cervical cancer in FP clients seen over a one-year period.

      HYP 1: While many FP clinics are capable of providing cervical cancer screening, the majority
      of clients are not screened appropriately. Failure to screen for cervical cancer will be
      associated with both patient-level (e.g. age) and clinic-level (e.g. resources available)
      factors.

      AIM 2: To test whether SAIA increases cervical cancer screening compared to usual procedures
      in a cluster randomized trial in 20 FP clinics in Mombasa County.

      HYP 2: Family planning clinics randomized to SAIA will have increased rates of cervical
      cancer screening by modifying bottlenecks in screening processes compared to clinics
      randomized to usual procedures.

      AIM 3: To determine the cost and budget impact of using SAIA to increase cervical cancer
      screening in FP clinics in Mombasa County.

      Expected Outcomes and Public Health Impact As one of the leading causes of cancer mortality
      in African women, immediate attention to increase rates of cervical cancer screening and
      treatment of pre-cancers is crucial. This implementation tool holds potential for addressing
      gaps in cervical cancer prevention and lowering cancer morbidity and mortality. Use of the
      reproducible SAIA methodology could provide a template for broader rollout of cervical cancer
      screening throughout the country and region. Using the Consolidated Framework for
      Implementation Research (CFIR) to guide the evaluation of this intervention will provide
      insight about the potential generalizability of the intervention, and improve the likelihood
      of its successful implementation in diverse settings (22).

      The proposed aims will provide valuable training in key competencies in implementation
      research, with measurable and objective indicators of success in skills building and career
      development. The proposal leverages exceptional resources at the University of Washington
      (UW) and our longstanding and productive partnership with multiple institutions in Kenya (see
      letters from Mombasa County DOH, University of Nairobi, Kenyatta National Hospital) to
      facilitate Dr. Eastment's career advancement.
    
  