
    
      Treated head and neck cancer patients are subject to tissue swelling and scarring, known as
      lymphedema and fibrosis (LEF). LEF in the head and neck cancer patient occurs in up to 90% of
      treated patients, is associated with inflammation cells. Aerobic exercise is known to mediate
      these same inflammatory cells in an anti-inflammatory manner due to chronic adaptation of the
      cells. The investigators are therefore proposing a prescription exercise study for head and
      neck cancer patients. This study's primary aim is feasibility and safety. Feasibility of
      gathering study participant inflammation markers, visible LEF, and patient LEF symptoms will
      be a secondary aim of the study. Patient will be asked to journal their experience for a
      qualitative analysis.

      Based on the evidence, the aerobic exercise prescription for those who provide informed
      consent will consist of 10 intervals of intensity, and 10 intervals at rest. Each interval of
      intensity will be 1 minutes long and each rest period will be 1 minute long, and there will
      be a five-minute warm-up and five-minute cool down of easy pedaling for a total of 30
      minutes. Participants will complete two sessions per week, and there will be at least one
      business day in between each session, for a total of 10 total exercise sessions. The total
      study duration will be less than 35 days.

      The supervised prescribed HIIE intervention will be performed on a stationary cycle
      ergometer. A cycle ergometer is preferred for safety reasons since it requires less gross
      motor coordination than might be required with a treadmill. To assist in establishing safety
      (primary aim), the study participants heart rate will be continually monitored by a clinician
      during the exercise, guiding them to keep their heart rate within their specifically
      calculated 80-95% of their maximum HR during the periods of intensity.

      The investigators will compare outcomes at baseline with outcomes at the end of the 5-week
      study period.
    
  