
    
      Patients with potentially limited metastatic gastric cancer or adenocarcinoma of the
      gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) potentially fulfilling the selection criteria and who gave
      informed consent will undergo a careful screening and a central review process. 271 patients
      are to be allocated to the trial, of which at least 176 patients will be randomized. The
      primary objective is to extend overall survival, while preserving quality of life. The study
      has an 80% power to detect a statistically significant improvement (hazard ratio, HR 0.65) in
      overall survival in favor of the bimodal strategy. Quality of life (QoL) under treatment and
      during follow-up represents the most important secondary endpoint.

      All patients enrolled will receive four cycles (= 8 weeks) of FLOT. For HER-2 (human
      epidermal growth factor receptor 2) positive disease, trastuzumab should be added.

      After the 4th cycle of FLOT, patients will undergo a repeated imaging
      (esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy, CT/MRI or PET scan of the involved organs). Patients with
      disease progression will be taken out of the trial. Patients with stable disease, partial or
      complete remission will be stratified by tumor location (gastric vs. GEJ adenocarcinoma),
      response to preoperative FLOT (complete or partial remission vs. stable disease) and based on
      whether they have distant lymph node metastases only or additional organ involvement and will
      be randomized 1:1 to Arm A (with surgery) or B (no surgery).

      Arm A:

      Surgery will be scheduled 4-6 weeks after d1 of the last cycle of preoperative chemotherapy
      (d1 + 4-6 weeks). The protocol gives detailed recommendations for resection of the primary
      tumor as well as the metastases. Post-operatively, further 4-8 cycles of FLOT can be
      administered.

      Arm B:

      Patients will be treated with additional 4-8 cycles of FLOT. Surgical interventions are
      allowed for palliation.

      In both of the arms, tumor assessments (CT/MRI or PET of the relevant organs) are performed
      prior to randomization and then every 3 months thereafter until progression/relapse, death or
      end of follow-up.

      Quality of life (QoL) will be assessed at baseline, prior to randomization, and every 3
      months after randomization during treatment and in the follow-up phase, together with tumor
      assessments.

      Survival status and status on relapse/first progress of disease will be assessed every 3
      months for up to 5 years after randomization.
    
  