
    
      Previous studies have shown that EBV D+/R- lung transplant patients have a high rate of
      post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease up to 22%. Various methods have been proposed to
      decrease the risk of PTLD in EBV D+/R- organ transplants. These include a) antiviral
      prophylaxis with valganciclovir; b) EBV viral load monitoring and reduction of
      immunosuppression; c) avoidance of polyclonal antibody induction; d) treatment of EBV viremia
      with ganciclovir +/- intravenous immunoglobulin; e) pre-emptive systemic rituximab for EBV
      viremia. Antiviral strategies which include (val)ganciclovir in particular do not have proven
      efficacy in this setting. In addition, current antivirals do NOT target latent virus which
      would be the predominant form of virus in the allograft, and is also the predominant viral
      state that drives B-cell proliferation. Rituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody that
      targets CD20+ B-cells. It has been used clinically for many years to treat a variety of
      diseases and is used in transplantation for induction. Rituximab has been used successfully
      as a prophylactic and therapeutic drug for the reduction of EBV viremia and PTLD in
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Ex-Vivo Lung Perfusion (EVLP) is a novel
      method of donor lung preservation and treatment developed in Toronto which allows donor lungs
      to be treated for up to 12h or more under protective physiological conditions. This
      essentially creates a critical time window in which donor lungs can be optimally repaired
      prior to transplant. An advantage of ex-vivo delivery of rituximab includes the ability to
      deliver high-doses locally to the graft while potentially avoiding serious adverse effects in
      the recipient. Pre-clinical studies have shown that adding rituximab to the perfusate allows
      for safe delivery of the drug directly to the lungs and adjacent lymph nodes and is
      non-toxic. EBV D+/R- lung transplant patients have a high rate of PTLD. There are no proven
      prevention measures. Rituximab is a commonly used medication in transplant patients as well
      as for other indications. Rituximab depletes B cells in lung tissues and may reduce the
      transmission of EBV, thereby preventing PTLD. Giving Rituximab directly to the lungs will
      avoid systemic toxicity in the patient. The investigators hypothesize that donor lungs
      treated with Rituximab during ex vivo lung perfusion will result in B-cell depletion and
      therefore be less likely to transmit EBV, thereby reducing the risk of PTLD in the lung
      recipient. As noted above the advantages of delivering rituximab ex vivo include prevention
      of adverse effects of rituximab including systemic depletion of B-cells, reduced systemic
      immunosuppression, and infusion-related toxicities, and ability to deliver a high-dose
      locally to the allograft.
    
  