
    
      Disparities in cardiovascular disease have received particular focus, as cardiovascular
      disease is a major contributor to differences in morbidity and mortality between blacks and
      whites. African Americans, for example, are hospitalized for chronic heart failure (CHF) at a
      higher rate than whites and are 30% more likely to die from CHF than white individuals.
      Community-dwelling patients with CHF typically receive exacerbation-focused care, leading to
      high rates of emergency department (ED) and hospital utilization. The lack of comprehensive
      chronic disease management leads to poor patient outcomes, and increased health care costs.
      Given the larger burden of CHF and the unfavorable disease outcomes in disparity communities,
      a tailored and more focused management of this clinical condition is warranted.

      We propose to:

        1. Assess telehealth self management (TSM) usability, utilizing a mixed-methods approach,
           focusing on patient and stakeholder input, with the goal of adapting the intervention to
           facilitate acceptability and feasibility in a population of low-income ethnic minority
           patients. Prior to intervention implementation, we will determine characteristics of the
           intervention requiring adaptation to maximize usability through focus groups, with key
           community stakeholders, patients and caregivers. We will continue the qualitative
           usability assessment during the intervention with patients enrolled in the study to
           identify barriers/challenges to usability, to further adapt the intervention. Finally,
           we will use quantitative methods to assess usability. These quantitative indicators will
           also be used to make adjustments and inform future wide-scale interventions that will be
           conducted in this community.

        2. Compare hospital utilization of low income ethnic minority patients receiving telehealth
           technology vs. demographically matched patients receiving standard of care. A randomized
           controlled clinical trial will be conducted to test the primary hypothesis that health
           care utilization will be lower in the in the TSM group than the usual-care group. We
           will specifically compare acute care and ED utilization and quality of life (Minnesota
           QoL Questionnaire) between groups. We will adjust for potential confounders
           (demographic, clinical, educational and functional/support variables). The target
           population is community-dwelling CHF patients discharged home from the Nassau University
           Medical Center.

      This research will further our understanding of the use of TSM in the management of CHF for
      low income, ethnic minority seniors. The proposed research will improve patient outcomes
      while reducing unnecessary hospitalizations and ED burden. Chronic disease self-management
      programs have the potential to reduce health care costs while improving patient health
      status, particularly for medically underserved communities.
    
  