
    
      Background:

      Nutrition is a commonly provided therapy in critical illness, but data about effectiveness is
      sparse. Best practice guidelines recommend enteral nutrition (EN), a specialised solution
      delivered into the gastrointestinal tract, as the first line of nutrition therapy. The
      majority of best practice guidelines also recommend delivery of energy and protein amounts
      close to predicted requirements in critical illness over the course of Intensive Care Unit
      (ICU) admission, however the only evidence to support this is from observational data.
      Although recommended that energy and protein requirements be met, and observational data
      suggests this is of benefit, there are practical challenges with the provision of EN.
      International practice surveys report the average energy and protein provided is
      approximately 59% of the patients predicted requirements, for multifactorial reasons. The
      addition of parenteral (intravenous) nutrition has been proposed as a method to provide
      additional energy when EN is insufficient, termed supplemental parenteral nutrition (PN). The
      ability of this strategy to deliver additional energy and protein to patients during critical
      illness has been proven in several feasibility/pilot trials, but the benefit on clinical and
      functional outcomes is unknown.

      Despite observational data suggesting benefit when energy and protein delivery is optimised
      close to requirements, no large scale randomised controlled trials (RCTs) have confirmed
      improved clinical outcomes in critical illness, with some showing no effect with delayed
      nutrition or even harm. There are several possible reasons for the lack of observed benefit
      from RCTs to date; the interventions may have been applied at a time when the patient's
      metabolism is not in a phase of recovery; interventions have been short in duration and;
      studies have not addressed what happens to nutrition intake in the post ICU period of
      hospitalisation in critically ill individuals.

      Aims:

      To determine whether the use of a pre-tested supplemental PN strategy in the ICU and an
      intensive nutrition intervention after discharge to the hospital ward is feasible and will
      deliver more total energy than standard nutrition care over the entire hospital stay, in
      critically ill patients with at least one organ system failure.

      A further aim is to develop a research program that will determine whether optimisation of
      energy to critically ill patients over the entire period of hospitalisation improves
      clinically-meaningful outcomes.

      Hypothesis:

      In critically ill patients with at least one organ failure, the use of a supplemental PN
      strategy in ICU and an intensive nutrition intervention on the hospital ward will lead to an
      increase in daily energy delivery of at least 15% over the entire hospital stay when compared
      to standard care.

      Fifteen percent has been estimated as the minimum acceptable clinical difference between the
      two groups.

      Objectives:

      The major objectives are:

        1. To determine whether the whole hospital nutrition intervention leads to increased
           amounts of total energy delivered over the period of hospital stay

        2. To determine if the whole hospital nutrition intervention is safe in regards to adverse
           effects

        3. To determine if the post-ICU nutrition intervention is practically feasible when applied
           in multiple hospitals, across multiple wards

        4. To measure the clinical outcomes in patients and provide information to assist design of
           a larger randomised controlled trial
    
  