
    
      I. Hypotheses and Specific Aims:

      With changing legislation, the landscape of cannabis use is shifting; data demonstrates that
      public perception of marijuana's "safety" has contributed to increasing usage most commonly
      via the inhaled route (smoking). The effects of habitual cannabis smoking on lung health,
      however, remains unclear. Spirometric data has been inconclusive regarding risk of airflow
      limitation and development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a finding that may be
      attributable to inaccurate reporting due to its former illegal nature. It seems clear,
      however, that these patients suffer from an increased incidence of bronchitis symptoms from
      an uncertain pathophysiologic mechanism. Animal data from the 1990s demonstrates that
      cannabinoid exposure (of which Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is an example) results in increased
      intra-pulmonary oxidative stress indices and immunomodulatory effects resulting in abnormal
      macrophage function; a finding that may be related the aforementioned symptoms. However, this
      data is likely now outmoded given the markedly increased (THC) content of today's cannabis
      for sale (12 percent Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) compared to 3 percent in the 1990s).
      Furthermore, most of these findings have not been validated in human subjects. Thus, the
      investigators hypothesize that habitually smoked cannabis increases intrapulmonary oxidative
      stress resulting in impaired alveolar macrophage (AM) phagocytosis, elicits an attenuated AM
      response to pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and promotes AM apoptosis thereby
      increasing risk of upper and lower airway infections.

      II. Background and Significance:

      Cannabis use in the United States is rising since legalization for medical and, more
      recently, recreational purposes. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime estimates that
      in 2012, when cannabis was legal for medical purposes in 17 states, but illegal for
      recreational consumption nationally, cannabis use among the American population increased
      from 11.5% to 12.1%. Over the past 2 years, an additional seven states have legalized medical
      cannabis, and Colorado and Washington have recently legalized its sale for recreational use.
      Since January 2014, publicly available Colorado data indicate increasing tax revenue from
      cannabis sales (both medical and recreational), suggesting a rise in state-wide consumption
      in a relatively short period of time.

      Effects of modern inhaled cannabis on lung health are not established. Published
      epidemiologic data collected prior to the widespread legalization of cannabis and
      commercialization of the cannabis industry demonstrate consistent associations between
      "regular" (e.g. near daily) and "heavy" (e.g. for multiple years) cannabis use with poorer
      lung health. Clinically, regular inhaled cannabis users complain of increased chronic
      bronchitis symptoms (eg. wheeze, chronic cough) compared to non-smokers; an increased use of
      medical services for respiratory infections due to immunosuppressive effects of the drug has
      also been reported. However, characterization of cannabis use in these investigations varies
      widely, ranging from 7 joint-years (1 joint per day for 1 year) 12 to 117 joint-years in
      cohorts examined. These studies were also potentially confounded by under-reporting of
      cannabis use due to the drug's illegal status, and concomitant use of inhaled tobacco in some
      study populations. Moreover, the quantity of THC in modern cannabis products has been
      increasing over the past two decades. Therefore, it remains unclear what use patterns of
      modern inhaled cannabis are harmful to lung health, although more cannabis is being consumed
      now than ever before, both for medical and recreational purposes. Today, due to the
      decriminalization of cannabis sale and purchase, the accuracy of self-reported cannabis use
      is likely much greater than in prior investigations, providing a novel opportunity to more
      accurately establish patterns of use associated with ill effects on health. Importantly, no
      study to date has utilized time series analyses, such as the time line follow-back (TLFB), to
      quantitate the effects of regular cannabis consumption in association with lung health. TLFB
      techniques are used extensively to quantitate substance use among chronic users of alcohol,
      tobacco, and more recently, cannabis. TLFB are calendar-assisted, structured interviews that
      cue memory to enhance accurate recall, and have been determined to be both reliable and valid
      in quantitating current substance use in detail. TLFB interviews to characterize past 30 day
      cannabis use have been routinely conducted in research subjects by Dr. Corsi's (co-mentor to
      Dr. Biehl) research group since 2010, and longer term joint-year data has been collected as
      well.

      Inhaled cannabis use adversely affects function of alveolar macrophages (AMs), critical
      pulmonary innate immune effectors. AMs express cannabinoid (CB) receptors, primarily CB2, on
      their surface, whose ligand is THC15 (a cannabinoid). AMs represent the first line of defense
      against invading pathogens in the lower airways, and function to keep the lungs sterile.
      Published investigations using AMs isolated via bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) from small
      numbers (n<20) of habitual inhaled cannabis users have reported an inappropriately diminished
      response to S. aureus, an important lung pathogen. When AMs were exposed to S. aureus, they
      exhibited decreased bacterial phagocytosis and killing; hampered production of the
      pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-6, and granulocyte monocyte colony
      stimulating factor; and decreased production of nitric oxide. Preclinical data has suggested
      that AM viability and apoptosis may also be adversely influenced by THC in a dose- and
      time-dependent manner through the CB2 receptor, further impairing the AM's ability to respond
      to pathogens. As mentioned, cannabis use is increasing on a per capita basis, and continues
      to be used via an inhaled route, while its THC quantity is increasing. Collectively, this
      suggests the possibility that individuals who regularly use small doses of inhaled cannabis,
      or have used cannabis for a shorter length of time, may still be at risk for AM dysfunction,
      clinically manifested by increased respiratory symptoms and an increased risk for pulmonary
      infections, particularly since pre-clinical data has consistently reported adverse effects of
      cannabis exposure on infectious disease resistance.

      Cannabis exposure in vitro leads to oxidative stress that in turn affects pulmonary cellular
      viability. Murine lung epithelial cells exposed to cannabis smoke extract in vitro
      demonstrate a dose-related increase in oxidative stress, while human lung BEAS-2B cells
      exposed to cannabis smoke extract in vitro display an increase in reactive oxygen species
      production. Enhanced oxidative stress in each investigation was further associated with
      evidence of cytotoxicity, characterized by cellular apoptosis and DNA damage. It seems
      possible, then, that enhanced oxidative stress due to habitual inhaled cannabis may
      additionally influence the viability and function of AMs in the lower airways. However, the
      effect of inhaled cannabis on oxidative stress and its relationship to AMs has never been
      specifically explored with primary cells from human subjects.

      In summary, our collaboration will utilize validated methods to characterize regular and
      chronic cannabis use patterns among exclusive medical and/or recreational cannabis users, in
      order to examine their impact on cells critical to the maintenance of lung health.
      Information the investigators derive may be used to counsel active and contemplating cannabis
      users, and inform medical providers and researchers.
    
  