
    
      Partners of patients with advanced cancer often take a great responsibility for the patient's
      care. They are often unprepared for a situation where they are faced both with the role as
      caregivers and with the patient's impending death. This lack of preparedness has been
      associated with psychological and physical unhealth. Interventions delivered by
      multi-professional palliative care teams have proved to be effective both in promoting
      preparedness for caregiving, death and the continued life of the bereaved. This project holds
      significant research questions on how to implement an intervention and make it easily
      available to all those in need and prevent negative consequences related to caregiving and
      the loss of a partner. To reach as many partners as possible, a web-based intervention has
      been developed on a website (närstående.se) which consists of supportive films and text as
      well as an online forum. The films show conversations between partners (actors) and
      healthcare professionals (authentic). The conversations concern potentially modifiable
      topics, such as medical issues and communication, that are associated with preparedness. The
      project will study the effects of proactive telephone calls that will be delivered to
      partners with the aim to support their use of the website. Instruments for measuring outcomes
      will be available both on paper or electronically. To obtain data for the main outcomes,
      preparedness for caregiving and for death, 200 partners will be recruited and get access to
      the website. They will also receive a telephone call with instructions on how to use the
      website and have access to technical support if necessary. Preparedness for caregiving will
      be measured at baseline and four weeks later (pre- and post-intervention). Preparedness for
      death will be measured eight weeks after the patient's death. The status of the modifiable
      topics will be measured at baseline and four weeks later. Physical and psychological health
      of the partner will be measured one year later. Further, semi-structured interviews will be
      performed with participants to explore the feasibility and acceptibility of the web
      intervention. The project will add significant knowledge about whether web-based support has
      the potential to increase preparedness and decrease negative consequences for partners of
      patients with advanced cancer during ongoing care and after the patient's death. Because
      current trends point towards increased levels of home-care, web-based interventions could be
      a way to reach more partners in a more cost-effective way. This project is meant to be a
      pilot to a larger study with a randomised controlled design.
    
  