
    
      To autologous peripheral blood T-lymphocytes transduced with the anti-LeY-scFv-CD28-ζ vector
      in patients with LeY expressing advanced solid tumours. evaluate the safety and tolerability
      of an intravenous infusion of autologous peripheral blood T-lymphocytes transduced with the
      anti-LeY-scFv-CD28-ζ vector in patients with LeY expressing advanced solid tumours.

      Aims:

      To evaluate the safety and tolerability of an intravenous infusion of autologous peripheral
      blood T-lymphocytes transduced with the anti-LeY-scFv-CD28-ζ vector in patients with LeY
      expressing advanced solid tumours.

      Primary Objectives To determine the maximum tolerated dose and rate of dose limiting
      toxicities of a single intravenous infusion of autologous peripheral blood T-lymphocytes
      transduced with the anti-LeY-scFv-CD28-ζ vector in patients with LeY expressing advanced
      solid tumours (LeY CAR T cells).

      Secondary Objectives i. To assess the anti-tumour activity of the LeY CAR T cells in terms of
      overall response, duration of response, progression free survival and overall survival.

      ii. To assess persistence in peripheral blood of the LeY CAR T cells.

      The study will recruit an anticipated number of 12 patients in the dose escalation phase
      consisting of 4 dose levels, each with dose level cohorts of 3 patients. Following completion
      of the dose-escalation phase, additional patients with Le Y expressing solid tumours will be
      recruited to the study. These patients will be administered the maximum number of cells
      safely delivered in the dose escalation phase of the study. A subset comprising 5 patients in
      the expansion cohort will be administered Indium-111 labelled T-cells and imaged by SPECT to
      determine the biodistribution of reinfused T cells.

      If the proposed number of T cells is unable to be obtained due to technical production
      reasons, the available number will be infused.

      It is anticipated that up to 30 patients will be treated on this protocol.
    
  