
    
      Purpose:

        -  To determine the acute and late effects of high-dose short-course hypofractionated
           radiotherapy of 55 Gy/16 fraction/4 weeks in the treatment of localized prostate cancer.

        -  To provide clinical data for confirmation of current linear-quadratic radiobiological
           model of fractionation sensitivity in the treatment of prostate cancer by external beam
           radiotherapy.

      Radiotherapy for Prostate Cancer:

      In 2003, 18,800 Canadians were expected to be diagnosed with prostate cancer, 2000 of whom
      were in Alberta. Prostate cancer represents a significant workload in most Canadian cancer
      centres. At the Cross Cancer Institute (CCI), approximately 400 patients underwent a radical
      course of external beam radiotherapy in 2002. Typically, each course of radiation consisted
      of 35 fractions given over 7 weeks. Assuming an ideal efficiency of patient turnover on a
      given linear accelerator, 3000 machine hours would be required to treat 400 patients.

      At present, clinical trials are on-going to confirm that an increase in radiation dose given
      over 39-44 fractions per patient will be more efficacious than the current standard of 35-39
      fractions. Such an increase in radiation dose will require an increase in treatment capacity
      by 10% without increasing the number of patients treated.

      As an alternative to increasing the number of fractions to deliver a greater total dose, the
      radiation dose given in each fraction can be increased. Accordingly the total dose is
      decreased to maintain acceptable toxicity. Such treatment schedule is referred to as
      "hypofractionation".

      Hypofractionation in prostate cancer was studied in the Phase III NCIC Clinical Trials Group
      PR-5 study. The long term outcomes were reported at ASTRO in November of 2003. The results of
      the PR-5 study, together with a similar Australian randomized trial reported in 2003,
      strongly support the biological model of a high fractionation sensitivity of prostate cancer,
      which can be exploited using hypofractionated radiotherapy.

      Hypofractionation - Choice of Dose-Fractionation and Treatment Planning:

      Hypofractionated radiotherapy schedules are designed based on the premise of biological
      equivalent dose, modeled by the linear quadratic method. Possible schedules to achieve
      equivalent results can be given over 10 to 30 fractions. In 2002 and 2003, investigators from
      Toronto, Ontario and Cleveland, Ohio reported promising preliminary results based on 20 and
      28 fractions per treatment course. This technique takes advantage of modern CT-based
      treatment planning systems and technologies to precisely target the prostate with maximal
      sparing of adjacent normal tissues.

      In 2003, investigators from TBCC conducted a dosimetry study to determine the equivalent
      hypofractionated dose given over 16 fractions. The results, presented by this principal
      investigator at the European Cancer Conference in September 2003 and at the Canadian
      Association of Radiation Oncologists scientific meeting in October 2003, showed that a dose
      of 55 Gy in 16 fractions given over four weeks is a biologically equivalent course of
      treatment compared to current standard treatment over seven to eight weeks at the CCI.

      The hypothesis being tested in this study is that hypofractionated radiotherapy of 55 Gy/16
      fractions/4 weeks will be well tolerated with acute and late toxicity comparable to
      conventional radiotherapy. The secondary objective is to determine the rate of biochemical
      control and the need for complex treatment planning (IMRT) as opposed to 3D conformal
      therapy.

      Patient Population:

      Patients with low and intermediate risk prostate cancer are eligible for this study.
      Specifically, patients with clinical T1 or T2, Gleason score 6 and PSA <20 and patients with
      clinical T1-T2, Gleason score 7 and PS <15 are eligible.

      Treatment:

      Neoadjuvant hormonal therapy up to six months is allowed. Radiation dose prescribed is 55 Gy
      in 16 fractions over four weeks, four fractions per week. CTV is the prostate +/- 0.5-1 cm of
      seminal vesicles. PTV is the CTV plus 10 mm margin in all directions except posterior (5 mm).

      To ensure precise targeting using daily on-line imaging and correction of positioning prior
      to treatment, fiducial markers will be inserted into the prostate under transrectal
      ultrasound (TRUS) guidance. Three inert gold markers (0.98 mm diameter x 5 mm length) will be
      implanted into the prostate apex, mid-gland and base. The procedure will follow similar
      guidelines as for a TRUS prostate biopsy.

      Treatment planning guidelines are provided for 3D planning as well as IMRT. All patients are
      planned by 3D conformal technique and if the dosimetry is unsatisfactory, IMRT will be used.
      Failure to meet all dose-constraint criteria for normal tissues will exclude the patient from
      the trial. Details of treatment planning are provided in the full study protocol.

      Radiation Delivery:

      With the use of fiducial markers, isocentre placements (ie: targeting) correction will be
      made to maintain a target error of no greater than 3 mm in the right-left and
      superior-inferior directions, and no greater than 2 mm in the anterior-posterior directions.
      All deviations will be recorded.

      Treatment Outcomes:

      Other outcomes include acute and late GU/bladder and acute GI/rectum toxicity as well as
      patient-assessed quality of life (Prostate Cancer Index). The percentage of patients
      requiring IMRT treatment will be determined. The changes in rectal mucosa will be assessed by
      endoscopy for a subset of patients who agree to undergo sigmoidoscopy at baseline, 18 months
      and then 36 months after radiotherapy. Tumor control will be determined as PSA relapse free
      survival, using the ASTRO consensus definition for PSA failure.

      Statistics and Safety Monitoring:

      The sample six is one of convenience. Given the limitations imposed by the time required for
      treatment planning and completing trials, the investigators estimate that one patient/month
      can be accrued and treated at each of the three centres. They anticipate 72 patients will be
      enrolled in the trial over a two year period. This will allow estimation of the late toxicity
      rate with reasonable precision.

      Approximate confidence interval (CI) width assuming minimal sample size (72), based on exact
      binomial interval:

      Gr 3, 4 toxicity rate 0.05: 0.1: 0.15: 0.2; 95% CI width 0.12: 0.16: 0.18: 0.20.

      Given the potential for increased toxicity due to the larger dose/fraction, the investigators
      will implement early stopping rules for unacceptable acute toxicity. Although the late
      toxicity is the endpoint of interest, acute toxicity will be used as a proxy due to the
      length of time needed to determine late toxicities. Acute GI and GU toxicity have been
      reported to be significant predictors of late toxicity by several investigators.

      The stopping rules were determined following the method of Thall, Simon and Estey (JCO 1996)
      (20). The investigators assume that the apriori distribution for the toxicity rate can be
      described by Betal (1.3, 20) ie: mean toxicity rate = 0.05, 95% probability interval for
      toxicity rate is between 0.00 an d0.10. The trial would be stopped if the posterior
      distribution was such that :

      Pr (toxicity rate > 0.10/data) >=0.80 - that is, if it is very likely that the toxicity rate
      >10%.

      Data Coordination:

      This study will be conducted in three cancer centres, namely the Tom Baker Cancer Centre,
      Calgary; the Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton; and the Saskatoon Cancer Centre, Saskatoon.
      All patient related data will be collected in the individual institution and forwarded to the
      TBCC, the coordinating centre. Grade 3 or 4 toxicity and serious adverse events will be
      monitored and discussed among the co-investigators. Data entry and analysis will be performed
      at TBCC with statistical support from the Division of Population Health and Information at
      the centre.
    
  