
    
      The investigators would like to evaluate consecutively patients, who applied to be operated
      in plastic surgery and ENT clinics due to head and neck pathologies which may cause difficult
      intubation, between May 2016 and December 2017 . The patients will be recruited to study
      consecutively therefore, there is going to be no randomization. The patients' height, age,
      weight, American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) scores will be documented. Additionally,
      their Mallampati scores, thyromental distance, thyromental height, mouth opening values will
      be measured with ASIMETO DEPTH GAUGE digitally. Head and neck movement angle measurement will
      proceed in preoperative evaluation. In the operation room the intubation, determination of
      C-L and IDS are going to be operated by the anesthesiologist who is in charge of operating
      room and he or she will not be informed about airway assessments like SPIDS or TMH. The all
      difficult airway equipment will be readily prepared in advanced. Recorded data will be
      collected by the assistant researcher. The existing difficult intubation interventions will
      be determined by using IDS. The relationship between IDS, TMH and SPIDS values will be
      assessed in the means of predicting difficult airway.

      Measurements:

      Mallampati score: It has four grades and Mallampati 3 and 4 considered predictive factor for
      difficult intubation Thyromental distance (TMD): Short thyromental distance (TMD ≤ 6.5 cm)
      has been correlated with difficult direct laryngoscopic intubation in adult patients.

      Thyromental height (TMH): This is a new technique for predicting difficult intubation and its
      accepted cut off is generally 5cm.

      Height/Thyromental distance: Ratio of height in cm and thyromental distance in cm Intubation
      difficulty score (IDS): 0 is easy, 0-5 is slight difficulty and higher than 5 is moderate or
      serious difficulty in intubation.

      The simplified descriptive intubation difficulty score (SPIDS): The maximum score can be 55
      and the total score greater than 10,not SPIDS ≤ 10 is considered as difficult intubation.
      Calculation of SPIDS score following parameters is needed.

        1. History of pathologies might be related to difficult intubation such as obstructive
           sleep apnea, facial malformations, cervical dislocation etc. no is 0, yes 10 is points

        2. Mouth opening: ≥3.5 cm (0 points)- ≤3.5 cm (10 points)

        3. Maximum head and neck measurement ≥80°(0 points), <80 (5 points)

        4. Modified Mallampati test: class 1 (0 point ), class 2 (10 points), class 3 (15 points),
           class 4 (25 points)
    
  