
    
      The Dengvaxia速 vaccine is being implemented in a difficult context: complex administration of
      the vaccine with the need to perform a biological test beforehand and to administer 3 vaccine
      doses, inconsistent efficacy, controversies and legal actions against the manufacturer in
      some countries where the vaccine has been used in children under 9 years of age, and general
      mistrust of vaccines, particularly the most recent ones.

      In Martinique and Guadeloupe, where dengue circulates in an endo-epidemic mode, outbreaks
      involving all four DENV serotypes were observed in 1997, 2001, 2005, 2007, 2010 and 2013.
      Dengue seroprevalence for the region, estimated in 18-70 year old adult blood donors in 2011,
      was 93.5% (95% CI [91.5-95.1]). It was 86.7% (95% CI [69.3-96.2]) in 18- to 19-year-olds. A
      single dengue virus infection (primary dengue) was observed in 3% of dengue-positive donors.
      The remainder had been infected with two or more dengue viruses. To date, no such
      seroprevalence data exists for individuals aged 9 to 17 years in these regions, hence the
      DengueSEA study.

      At the same time, a survey on the acceptability of dengue vaccination, conducted among
      parents/legal guardians of participating children/adolescents will allow the assessment of
      the degree of vaccine hesitancy, particularly for Dengvaxia速, and to identify its main
      determinants.

      In addition, Martinique and Guadeloupe were affected in 2016 by an epidemic of the Zika virus
      infection, which affected 50 to 60% of the population. The antigenic relationship between
      dengue and Zika viruses can be the cause of serological cross-reactions and could have an
      impact on the efficacy and tolerance of Dengvaxia速 in individuals with a history of Zika
      virus infection. This justifies the conduct of a joint seroprevalence study of Zika and
      dengue virus infections in the study population.

      The DengueSEA study is a key towards the implementation of an optimal dengue vaccination
      strategy for children aged 9 to 17 years in the French Caribbean. The results of this
      research will also permit better organization of health care services and better management
      of medical resources, particularly in anticipation of future dengue epidemics in the region.
      Potential vaccine acceptability challenges will also be better anticipated. Finally, the
      constitution of a biological collection will allow the evaluation of future serological tests
      developed to select eligible individuals for vaccination, notably with Dengvaxia速, and to
      carry out further seroprevalence studies on arboviruses.
    
  