
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      In this research study, The investigators are evaluating the safety and effectiveness of
      Eribulin mesylate with or without Pembrolizumab in metastatic hormone receptor positive
      breast cancer.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of
      Pembrolizumab and Eribulin mesylate for Breast Cancer.

      The FDA has not approved Pembrolizumab for this specific type of breast cancer but it has
      been approved in the United States for other diseases.

      The FDA has approved Eribulin mesylate as a treatment option for this type of breast cancer.

      Pembrolizumab is a medicine that may treat cancer by working with the immune system. The
      immune system is the body's natural defense against disease. The immune system sends types of
      cells called "T cells" throughout the body to detect and fight infections and diseases,
      including cancer. For some types of cancer, the T cells do not work as they should and are
      prevented from attacking the tumors. Pembrolizumab is thought to work by blocking a protein
      in the T cells called PD-1 ("programmed death 1"), which then may allow these cells and other
      parts of the immune system to attack tumors.

      Eribulin mesylate is developed from a natural substance found in a sea sponge. Eribulin
      mesylate works by preventing cancer cells from multiplying.

      The combination of Pembrolizumab and Eribulin mesylate is investigational. The study drugs,
      when given separately, work in different ways to stop the cancer cells from growing and
      spreading. However, it is not known if giving the two study drugs at the same time will have
      a better anti-cancer effect than giving each treatment on its own.
    
  