
    
      The goal of this proposal is to conduct the first pilot study of whether consuming a diet
      high in flavanols will augment the cognitive and mood benefits of antidepressant medication
      in older adults with Late Life Depression (LLD). LLD affects 3% of community-dwelling adults
      over 60 years old, and 15% of older adults living in the community have clinically
      significant depressive symptoms. Diagnosis with LLD increases an older adult's risk of
      disability by 67-73% over 6 year follow up, causes twice the functional impairment compared
      to those without LLD, and is associated with high rates of completed suicide in individuals
      over 65. Currently available treatments for LLD (i.e., antidepressant medication) are limited
      in efficacy, leading to high rates of recurrence and frequent development of chronicity.
      Cognitive impairment, which is commonly associated with LLD, predicts poor acute response to
      antidepressants, leads to higher relapse rates during the continuation phase of treatment,
      and is associated with the development of adverse age-related health outcomes, including
      increased risk of dementia, dependence in activities of daily living (ADL), and driving
      cessation.

      Novel treatments addressing LLD's underlying neurobiology are critically needed, particularly
      therapies that may also have beneficial effects on the cognitive components of LLD. The most
      extensively studied brain region to be implicated in both the depressive and cognitive
      aspects of LLD has been the hippocampus. Decreased hippocampal volumes are found in depressed
      patients compared to controls, and this finding appears to be particularly pronounced in
      individuals with recurrent depressive illness. Among the subregions comprising the
      hippocampus, evidence suggests that it is decreased neurogenesis within the dentate gyrus
      (DG) specifically that may contribute to the development of depression, and it appears that
      part of the mechanism of action of antidepressants is to enhance neurogenesis in the DG. As
      the DG is also a critical contributor to the cognitive functions of the hippocampus, it
      stands out as a highly significant brain region that may be involved with both the mood and
      cognitive components of LLD.
    
  