
    
      This research is designed as a randomized controlled trial, with 1:1 allocation ratio. The
      randomization will be performed through block randomization. For the study setting, to extend
      the generalizability of the intervention results, the participating sites for this study will
      be various cities along Chile, therefore having urban and rural situations, collecting data
      through different social programs where the trained professionals are currently working.

        1. Specific objectives.

           The primary objective of this research is to determinate the effectiveness of the basic
           ODISEA 2.0 Video-feedback intervention in strengthening parenting skills controlled by
           accumulated risk and parenting stress in caregivers of children aged 10 to 47 months
           compared to the control group. Furthermore, the key secondary objectives are the
           following: Firstly, to measure the effect of ODISEA 2.0 video-feedback on the pre-post
           evaluation of parental self-efficacy through the E2P positive parenting scale. Secondly,
           to measure the effect of ODISEA 2.0 video-feedback on a pre-post evaluation of the
           parenting stress levels through the PSI-SF parental stress index - short form. Thirdly,
           to measure the effect of ODISEA 2.0 video feedback intervention on pre-post positive
           parenting behaviors evaluation through the Piccolo scale. Fourthly, to measure the
           effect of ODISEA 2.0 video-feedback intervention on pre-post parental sensitivity
           evaluation through the adult sensitivity scale E.S.A. And lastly, to explore the
           relationship between intervention fidelity and accumulated risk (ACES).

        2. Intervention.

      Eligible caregivers will be randomized in equal ratio, between 5 sessions of ODISEA 2.0
      Video-feedback and a nonintervention control group. The control group, after two months
      without intervention, will receive it either way as an ethical consideration.

      The ODISEA 2.0 Video-feedback strategy is sequenced in three moments, a) a video recording of
      the caregiver-child dyad interaction, b) the selection of specific interactions sequences
      which are later discussed by the professional in charge of the dyad, and c) a feedback and
      reflective process guided by the professional with the caregiver. In this research, the basic
      five-session ODISEA 2.0 model will be implemented, consisting of (1) a game session recorded
      on video between the caregiver and the child, (2) followed by a reflective session between
      the professional and the caregiver, which will be guided using different segments of the
      video, concentrating on the resources of the caregivers, (3) succeeded by the second recorded
      game session between the caregiver and the child, (4) continuing with a second reflective
      session between the caregiver and the professional, integrating more challenging aspects of
      the interaction, (5) concluding with the last recorded video session of the dyad.

      All families assigned to the control group will receive the intervention two months after the
      pre-test as an ethical decision. Therefore, the comparator will be set as untreated,
      assigning the families as a non-intervention control group. Being this research the first RCT
      study where the ODISEA Video-feedback 2.0 methodology will be applied, the rationale for this
      decision is to assess whether the families receiving this intervention will benefit in
      comparison of people that do not. Considering the counterfactual deliberations from this
      methodology, for instance the differentiation between the specific's intervention -ODISEA
      Video-feedback 2.0- influence against common elements such as the professional's empathy,
      warmth, listening skills, among others, this elements will be embedded and assessed through a
      thoughtful fidelity criteria evaluation of the implementation process in order to
      differentiate the treatment's contributions.

      For a given caregiver, the intervention may be needed to be discontinued by the researchers
      for reasons of withdrawal of the participant consent. Even though there are no risks
      associated to this intervention, in a rare case of withdrawal because of emotional damage,
      this will be considered as an adverse event and a protocol has been constructed for managing
      this situation.

      For managing the co-intervention bias, every caregiver will be asked to complete different
      questions of other interventions that they be considered as concomitant care in addition to
      the video-feedback intervention that may impact on this trial, such as parenting schools,
      psychotherapy, among others.

      After gathering the sample, an external research professional, through a random numerical
      assignment will generate a block randomization for the dyads. Once assigned to the control
      group or experimental group, the dyads will be given a document that will reinforce what is
      explained in the informed consent, in informing in which group they been placed, and
      acknowledging that both groups will have the same intervention. This document is named "The
      road that we will travel", and there will be a different format for each group. Due to the
      characteristics of the intervention and the allocation, neither caregivers nor the
      professionals will be blinded, nevertheless the encoders of PICCOLO and E.S.A will be masked,
      considered as an outcome assessor masking procedure. They will be external researchers of
      this study. No emergency unblinding procedures were created, because only the external
      decoders will be masked.

      However, in the analysis stage that is typified in the following diagram, the professionals
      will have to analyze the videos will be masked, not knowing if they are pre or post
      intervention videos.

      Pre-randomization information will be recorded, regarding the interested caregivers that did
      not meet all the inclusion criteria, for example not giving their consent. Post-randomization
      losses will also be recorded.

      By July 2020 it is expected a sample of 100 participating dyads from different regions of the
      country. Participants will be identified and contacted by the intervention professional,
      having no relationship with the principal investigator. Their participation is voluntary and
      has no economic cost to them. For the control group an economic remuneration of $ 10,000
      chilean pesos will be delivered after concluding the two months on nonintervention, being a
      retention strategy for capturing the post evaluation data of this group. The sample will be
      recruited through social networks in the media of Fundación América por la Infancia, and
      through specific strategies of the intervention professionals who will participate in the
      study, adapting to their local realities where they practice their profession, such as
      hospitals and mental health services. There will be a participation agreement signed by the
      directors of the different institutions that will participate in this study.

      An external professional will proceed to generate the blocked randomization, using a random
      number generator. When a caregivers agree to participate in the study, the coordinator will
      give the data to this researcher who till inform the intervention professional the
      corresponding allocation. All caregivers who gives consent for the study and fulfil the
      inclusion criteria will be randomized. After the enrollment of each professional, the data
      will be requested by the study coordinator, which will be assigned to the external researcher
      to proceed to the randomization.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Parenting skills will be measured through four evaluation instruments that will be used as
      dependent variables.

        -  ANCOVA will be used to measure the effect of the intervention for each of the different
           evaluation instruments.

        -  To explore the relationship between the number of adverse experiences experienced in
           childhood and the fidelity of the treatment, a linear relationship measure between the
           two variables (simple regression) will be evaluated.

        -  Measure post-hoc data if the intervention has different effects on each of the
           dimensions of each instrument (post-hoc ANCOVA).

      After proceeding with the data analysis, an outcome research paper will be provided for the
      scientific community.

      DATA MANAGEMENT.

      The intervention professionals will provide the gathered data to the research coordinator
      through two platforms, both password protected: The first platform is
      https://academia.americaporlainfancia.com/, a website designed to be used as a virtual
      classroom for the students of America por la Infancia. Therefore, it will be implemented a
      special section for researches, in which all the intervention professionals will have a
      username and password to access. In this platform, the different professionals will access
      the banner associated with this research - which only they can access with their user and
      personal and non-transferable passwords -, where they will enter the evaluation documents and
      family data. Only the research coordinator will be able to view and download the documents,
      and after downloading them they will be stored on the external hard drive that will be stored
      in the dependencies of Fundación América por la Infancia, being later eliminated from the
      virtual platform. The hard drive will remain in Providencia 201, fourth floor, commune of
      Providencia, Chile. The second platform is https://wetransfer.com/, a website on which,
      through the foundation's account, the professionals will send the videos to the coordinator's
      e-mail, videos that will be sent using a password. This platform allows sending large
      documents to emails. As the data, the videos will be downloaded, eliminated from the webpage,
      and stored on the same hard drive mentioned above.

      The principal investigator, Dr. Gómez, and the co-investigator, M.D. Maureira will be given
      access to the cleaned data sets. The study coordinator, M.D. Gabriel will retrieve the
      password protected data sets, having access to the multi-center data that will be housed on
      the Academia America por la Infancia Web site.

      A data monitoring committee (DMC) will not be necessary for this trial, because of the short
      durations and known minimal risks. Likewise, no interim analyses are considered for this
      study. Also, as this study is a multicenter trial, auditing will be considered both as an
      overall process, and for each recruiting center and their professionals, with the objective
      to monitor consents, completeness, adherence to the protocol, among other relevant data.

      No ancillary studies are considered in the implementation of the study. If any tieried
      consent are constructed for future research unrelated to the this study and for different
      purposes form the main trial should be sent to the ethics committee and implemented in a
      protocol amendment.
    
  