
    
      Coronary artery bypass and ventral cardiac denervation:

      Off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) is performed based on patient's coronary angiography.
      Following the completion of coronary anastomoses, ventral cardiac denervation is achieved by
      removing the nerves around the large vessels of the base of the heart that run from the right
      side of the superior vena cava and end at the level of the midportion of the anterior
      pulmonary artery. This was done by excising the fat pads that surround the superior vena
      cava, the aorta, and the anterior and right lateral aspects of the main pulmonary artery.

      Hemodynamic study:

      All patients underwent OPCAB have Swan-Ganz catheter in our institute. Cardiac output
      measurement is obtained by thermodilution method. Hemodynamic variables (systemic blood
      pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, central venous pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and pulmonary vascular resistance, etc) are recorded
      during the measurement.

      ECG and blood pressure monitoring system:

      ECG and radial arterial blood pressure were recorded by an analog to digital converter system
      (National Instrument Inc.). The analog signals were digitized in a rate of 500Hz and were
      stored in a hard disk. The data were then analyzed by a program written with MATLAB language
      (version 5.2, MATHWORK Co.). QRS complexes were automatically classified and manually
      verified as normal sinus rhythm, arterial or ventricular premature beats, or noise by
      comparison of the adjacent QRS morphologic features. The N-N interval time series were then
      transferred to a personal computer and post-processed.

      Data acquisitions:

      Immediately after induction of anesthesia, the patient was intubated. Routine indwelling
      catheters, like CVP and SG catheter were inserted. Prior to skin incision, the depth of
      anesthesia was monitored by BIS system using bispectral index (60~70) and adjusted by
      inhalation agents. Digital ECG and BP signals were recorded for 15 min without any mechanical
      or pharmacological interference. After completion of surgical procedures, the data
      acquisition was repeated once again in the operation room under the same level of anesthesia.

      Baroreflex sensitivity analysis:

      The analysis of BRS was conducted by both the sequence method and the spectral (α-index)
      method. Sequence method: In brief, the beat-by-beat time series of systolic arterial blood
      pressure and ECG R-R intervals were scanned to identify sequences of over three consecutive
      beats in which the systolic blood pressure (SBP) and R-R intervals of the next beat changed
      concomitantly in increasing or decreasing sequence. Such beat-to-beat sequences were
      identified as baroreflex sequences. A linear regression was applied to the individual
      sequence and only r2 values >0.85 were accepted. The measure of each type of the integrated
      spontaneous BRS was obtained by averaging all accepted slopes of the same type during a
      5-minute recording. Spectral (α-index) method: The α-index (α) was obtained by means of the
      simultaneous spectral analysis of the R-R intervals and the SBP variabilities, with the
      calculation being made from the square root of the ratio between the R-R intervals and the
      SBP variability in low frequency (LF) band (αLF, 0.04 to 0.15 Hz). The coherence between the
      R-R intervals and SBP was assessed by a cross-spectral analysis. The α-index was calculated
      only when the magnitude of squared coherence (K2) between the RR and the SBP signals exceed
      0.5 in LF band.

      Heart rate variability analysis:

      The missing intervals of the raw N-N data were linearly interpolated and resampled at 4 Hz by
      the Ron-Berger method. Each 5-minute segment of N-N intervals was taken for HRV analysis. The
      time domain measurements of HRV included SDNN, r-MSSD. The frequency-domain measurements of
      HRV included LF and HF, which were calculated by Welch's averaged periodogram of the N-N
      intervals.
    
  