
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Decitabine is designed to damage the DNA of cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.

      Peginterferon alfa-2b is designed to strengthen the immune system, which may decrease tumor
      growth.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined this study. Up to 6 groups of 3-6 participants will be
      enrolled in the Phase I portion of the study, and up to 44 participants will be enrolled in
      Phase II.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of decitabine and peginterferon alfa-2b
      you receive will depend on when you joined this study. The first group of participants will
      receive the lowest dose level of the study drug combination. Each new group will receive a
      higher dose level than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This
      will continue until the highest tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase II portion, the dose of decitabine and peginterferon alfa-2b
      you receive will depend on when you joined this study, as well as the research data from the
      Phase I portion. You will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of dice) to receive one of the
      dose levels (which may be from 1 to 6 dose levels, depending on the available data from the
      Phase I portion) that have been found in the Phase I portion to have the least side effects
      and to be possibly the most effective. This means you will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to any of the dose levels that are being used at that time. As the study goes on, if
      the research data suggests that one dose level may be better tolerated than the others, new
      participants enrolling into the Phase II portion would be more likely to be assigned to that
      possibly better dose level.

      No matter which phase you are enrolled in, your dose of the study drugs may be lowered if you
      do not tolerate the study drug combination well.

      Study Drug Administration:

      A "cycle" on this study is 28 days. Decitabine will be given by vein, over 1 hour, on Days
      1-5 of each cycle. Peginterferon alfa-2b will be given by injection under the skin, once a
      week (on Days 1, 8, 15, and 21). You will be giving peginterferon alfa-2b to yourself under
      nursing supervision on the days you are receiving decitabine.

      On Day 6 of each cycle, you will either receive Neulasta (pegfilgrastim) or Neupogen
      (filgrastim). Pegfilgrastim or filgrastim will be injected under your skin. If you receive
      pegfilgrastim, it will be injected only on Day 6 of each cycle. If you receive filgrastim, it
      will be injected 1 time a day for as many days as the doctor decides is needed to raise your
      white blood cell count.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle, the following procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any medications or treatments you may be currently receiving and
           any side effects you may have experienced.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      These same tests listed above will be repeated at additional visits with the research nurse
      during Week 3 of Cycles 1 and 2. If you do not experience severe side effects during Cycles 1
      and 2, these extra Week 3 visits with the research nurse will no longer be necessary in later
      cycles. They may, however, be started again if needed.

      At the end of of Cycle 3, and every odd cycle after that (Cycles 5, 7, 9, and so on), you
      will have a scan performed (such as CT or MRI) to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may remain on study for as long as you are benefitting. If the disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur, you will be taken off study early.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you go off study for any reason, you will have an end-of-study visit with the same
      procedures performed as the Day 1 study visits. You may also have a scan performed (such as
      CT or MRI) to check the status of the disease if you have not had one performed in the last 4
      weeks.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      Every 3 months for about 2 years, researchers will call you to see how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Decitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Peginterferon alfa-2b is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of hepatitis C. Their use together in this study in
      the treatment of melanoma is considered experimental. At this time, the combination is being
      used in research only.

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  