
    
      A. Objective To compare perception of postpartum pain and patient satisfaction between women
      who receive routine obstetric care to those who receive routine obstetric care and complete a
      standardized counseling aid antepartum.

      B. Background Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) is a standardized, evidenced-based
      method for the perioperative management of surgical patients. ERAS protocols have been well
      studied in several surgical specialties, including gynecologic oncology and benign
      gynecology, and have been shown to reduce hospital length of stay and costs without
      increasing rates of complications or readmission.

      The use of ERAS in obstetrics is also growing. Recent studies have shown that an enhanced
      recovery pathway after cesarean delivery can decrease hospital stay and cost and reduce
      opioid use. Guidelines have been developed for evidence-based recommendations for
      preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative phases of care.

      An important component of any ERAS protocol is pre-operative counseling. Postoperative pain
      management starts with counseling prior to surgery. Guidelines suggest that preoperative
      counseling should include patient-centered education on the options for management of pain.
      This process also allows an opportunity to engage patients in the decision making process.
      Previous studies have shown that counseling on pain expectations can improve patient
      outcomes.

      The aim of our study is to develop a standardized antepartum counseling aid and improve
      postpartum pain perceptions and patient experience.

      C. Study Methodology

        1. Study Design The study is a randomized control trial. Patients will be assigned 1:1 to
           the study group and control group.

        2. Comparison Groups:

      1: Group 1:

        -  Study Group: Women will watch an educational video regarding expectations for delivery
           and postpartum care in addition to receiving standard care and counseling.

           2: Group 2:

        -  Control Group: Women will receive standard care and counseling.

           3. Procedures:

      Identification of Potentially Eligible Patients

        1. Potentially eligible patients will be identified through screening of clinic patients at
           time of routine prenatal visit at the Prisma Health OBGYN Center between 35 to 41 weeks
           gestation.

           Study Enrollment

        2. Investigators will review charts of women scheduled for routine obstetric appointments
           and screen for eligibility. Eligible women will be contacted at the time of their
           prenatal appointment.

        3. Study fliers advertising the study will also be posted in OB clinics at the OBGYN
           Center.

        4. Women who are interested in enrollment will be counseled and consented by study
           personnel at their scheduled appointment.

        5. The enrollment process involves a face-to-face interview with one of the study
           investigators for verification of study eligibility and counseling regarding study
           procedures as well as potential benefits and risks prior to obtaining written consent.

           Treatment Allocation

        6. On day of enrollment, patients will be randomized into the treatment group or the
           control group using a computer-generated randomization scheme.

        7. Randomization will be stratified by plan for delivery with plan for vaginal delivery
           versus plan for cesarean delivery, as content of the educational videos will be geared
           towards mode of delivery.

        8. Randomization assignment will not be blinded.

        9. All participants will complete an initial demographic questionnaire immediately
           following randomization via self- administered assessments within the test application
           using a mobile tablet.

       10. Subjects allocated to Group 1: will:

           A. Complete the demographic questionnaire, the survey questions, and then complete the
           counseling aid.

           B. Prior to discharge after delivery, study personnel will administer the postpartum
           questionnaire via a mobile tablet. The questionnaire is programmed into the study
           application.

       11. Subjects allocated to Group 2: will:

           A. Complete the demographic questionnaire and survey questions without watching the
           educational video.

           B. Prior to discharge after delivery, study personnel will administer the postpartum
           questionnaire via a mobile tablet. The questionnaire is programmed into the study
           application.

       12. Research staff will complete chart reviews to confirm delivery information and other
           study related data.

      4. Outcomes:

        1. Primary: What is the impact of a standardized antepartum counseling aid on patient
           satisfaction with pain expectations during hospital admission for labor and delivery
           compared to women who do not use the counseling aid and receive routine counseling only?
           Satisfaction will be measured using the Revised American Pain Society Patient Outcome
           Questionnaire (APS-POQ-R). The APS-POQ-R is designed for use in adult hospital pain
           management QI activities and measures 6 aspects of quality including: (1) pain severity
           and relief; (2) impact of pain on activity, sleep, and negative emotions; (3) side
           effects of treatment; (4) helpfulness of information about pain treatment; (5) ability
           to participate in pain treatment decisions; and (6) use of nonpharmocological
           strategies.

        2. Secondary outcomes: Perception of pain control intrapartum and postpartum based on
           postpartum questionnaires, expectations of what type and how much pain medication at
           time of discharge, use of narcotics postpartum as determined by chart review, pain
           perceptions in patients with history of mood disorder as determined by questionnaire,
           pain perceptions in patients with history of substance abuse as determined by
           questionnaire.
    
  