
    
      Study design This prospective paired clinical cross-over study was carried out in three
      different Post Anaesthesia Care Units (PACUs) at Skåne University Hospital in Malmö, Sweden.
      All patients were supervised and managed according to the local standard of care. The
      measurements were accomplished during daytime over a ten-week study period.

      Two investigators, one male and one female, performed the measurements and collected the
      study data. They were both senior medical students at the same level and of similar age (30
      and 38 years, respectively). Postoperative levels of individual pain intensity were obtained
      as early after arrival at the PACU as possible, depending on how soon the study patient was
      alert enough to participate. Pain was evaluated in each study patient at two consecutive
      study sessions at approximately 15-minute intervals, according to a predefined study
      protocol. Half of the study participants were first evaluated by the female and then by the
      male investigator, and the other half the other way around, according to a cross-over study
      design.

      Pain evaluation Postoperative pain intensity was assessed with three different study
      techniques in each study patient.

      The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), is a long-established technique for measuring pain and
      consists of a 100-millimetre scale ranging from 0 (no pain at all) to 100 (worst imaginable
      pain). Individual scores were recorded with one decimal number (range 0-10.0).

      The Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) is another well-known and reliable method for evaluating pain
      in clinical practice. The rating is verbal, and the subject is asked to estimate current pain
      intensity on an 11-point scale, where 0 indicates no pain at all and 10 the worst imaginable
      pain. The study patients were asked to choose integers only, and no decimal numbers were
      recorded.

      The Painmatcher® (PM) is a rather new instrument (CEFAR Medical AB, Lund, Sweden) developed
      for assessment of pain with a mild electrical stimulus.

      The study patients were told to press two rubber electrodes of the device between their thumb
      and index finger and to release them as soon as the gradually increasing systaltic sensations
      in the finger tips induced by electrical current were considered comparable to their current
      intensity of postoperative pain. On release of the buttons, the local pain immediately ceases
      and a corresponding integer-based score is displayed on the device. Each patient went through
      three measurements with the device during each study session.

      Study procedures Each study session started with a short interview, where the study
      participants were asked to shortly describe, in words of their own, the main character of
      their postoperative pain. They were then requested to rate their current intensity level of
      pain with the three different study techniques (VAS, PM and NRS in mentioned order). The
      study patients were equally informed verbally on how to carry out the pain measurements and
      were blinded to the study aim (of evaluating potential impact of investigator gender).
      Additional information on surgical and anaesthetic procedures, including current analgesic
      medication, was obtained from the peri-operative database of the hospital, and from
      individual patient records.
    
  