
    
      Overall Design: This will be a randomized clinical trial using a prospective cohort model. A
      total of 56 adolescents/young adults with concussion symptoms that persist >4 weeks
      post-trauma and +ve screening for cervical involvement (rated neck pain as a symptom, TOP
      para cervical or suboccipital spine, +ve cervical flexion-rotation test (Hall et al)) will be
      assigned randomly into one of two groups: 1) Control group who undergo traditional usual
      clinical care comprised of bi-weekly physiotherapy sessions and home-based exercise programs
      (TRADITIONAL), and 2) In combination with standard clinical care as described above, 2
      sessions per week training on the TopSpin360 (protocol outlined below). (INTERVENTION). The
      intervention will last up to 7 weeks or until medical clearance to return to normal daily
      activities. Balancing as much as possible the impact of age and sport is critical because
      mechanisms and patterns of injury differ with the patient and the sport in which the
      concussion occurred. The randomization process will balance the influence of one's sex on the
      measured outcomes.

      Randomization: Patients will be randomized into one of the two groups using a 1:1 ratio to
      balance recruitment and covariates. A random number generator will be used to assign groups.

      Test Sequence: Based on previous work, it is anticipated that 7 weeks of intervention will be
      required. (Versteegh et al) Following baseline measures (Week 0) upon study entry, tests will
      be conducted at the midway point (4 weeks) and upon completion (7 weeks) or upon medical
      clearance to return to sport. The test sessions ideally will occur following the clinical
      examination with the physician . This will increase convenience for the patient's family who,
      for this age group, will be with the patient. At each test session a physiotherapist will
      bring the participant through 1. Cervical Flexion-Rotation test, 2. Deep neck flexor
      endurance test, 3. a multi-planar static neck strength assessment using a handheld
      dynamometer (Versteegh et al), 4. Dynamic necks strength assessed via peak RPM and time to
      complete 20 revolutions clockwise and counterclockwise on the TopSpin360, 5. Joint position
      error testing (Revel et al), 6. and complete standard questionnaires: SCAT 5 symptom score,
      Neck Disability Index, Headache Inventory and

      Intervention training protocol using TopSpin360: Participants allocated to the INTERVENTION
      group will participate in 2 training sessions per week using the TopSpin360 neuromuscular
      neck-training device. Each session will be separated by a minimum of 2 days. Given the target
      population for this study will include younger subjects than previous training studies using
      the TopSpin360 and given they will have some neck pathology, a significantly reduced training
      load (number of revolutions used per set) will be used. The advantage of the TopSpin360 as a
      training tool is its safety profile in that the device uses self-generated resistance to
      create the muscular load and training effect.

      The attached weight is only 125gm, and the resistance is generated through the centripetal
      force created as the participant swings the weight about the centrally mounted axis. Much
      like a hula-hoop, the participant is only capable of spinning the weight as quickly as his or
      her neck muscles and coordination are capable of getting it spinning, if they fatigue or lose
      coordination, the weight stops spinning and the resistance is removed. The first 2 weeks will
      involve 3 sets of 20 revolutions in each direction of clockwise and counterclockwise. Weeks 3
      and 4 will involve 3 sets of 30 revolutions in each direction and weeks 4-7 will involve 3
      sets of 40 revolutions in each direction.
    
  