
    
      In Canada, adoption of new systemic therapies for cancer treatment is a multi-step process.
      After completion of clinical trials, pharmaceutical companies submit a request for a new drug
      approval to Health Canada. Therapies undergo rigorous review at Health Canada to confirm
      safety and efficacy before a Notice of Compliance (NOC) or NOC conditional (NOC/c) is issued
      that allows sale of the new medication in Canada. An additional layer of evaluation, a health
      technology assessment (HTA), is undertaken through the pan Canadian Oncology Drug Review
      (pCODR). A positive recommendation from pCODR is required for national price negotiations
      through the pan Canadian Pharmaceutical Alliance (pCPA). Once this step is completed,
      provincial pharmacies establish local contracts to permit local implementation of the new
      therapy.

      As our understanding of pathogenesis evolves and next generation sequencing becomes more
      affordable, rare molecular entities amenable to treatment with targeted or selected
      therapies, like immunotherapy, are being increasingly identified. These molecular aberrations
      can occur with frequencies of 1-2% making it unfeasible to conduct large randomized trials to
      establish benefit. Determination of the added value of these new therapies in terms of
      outcomes and quality of life is challenging in the absence of comparators in trials resulting
      in increased uncertainty in terms of outcomes, quality of life (QOL) and cost-effectiveness.
      To address the uncertainty, pharmaceutical companies and the pCODR economic guidance panel
      create economic models with sensitivity analyses to try to estimate the cost-effectiveness of
      therapy. These models however, are dependent on the nature and quality of available data.

      This study proposes to use real world data to generate evidence to assist in evaluate new
      therapies in rare molecular entities. The key components include regular interval
      radiographic imaging and collection of patient reported outcomes using standardized QOL
      questionnaires. The aim is to provide high quality real world evidence for assessment and
      economic modelling to reduce uncertainty and facilitate HTA decision-making.
    
  