
    
      Hypertension is the single most important risk factor for cardiovascular disease and death.
      Over the last several decades many classes of blood pressure lowering drugs have been
      discovered. These allow physicians to achieve optimal blood pressure and prevent adverse
      cardiovascular outcomes in most patients. However, the optimal blood pressure level has
      changed over time, and most recently has been decreased to 120 mm Hg, on the basis of
      clinical trials. These trials used a specific rigorous method of blood pressure measurement
      (patient alone in room, enforced period of rest, average of multiple readings) that is
      currently not the standard of practice in most clinics. Blood pressure itself is highly
      influenced by technique and device. In particular the length of resting time (if any), and
      whether it is measured with device requiring medical personnel presence in the room or not.
      For the same individual, the difference between blood pressure taken with and without rest
      could be 10 mmHg, and presence vs absence of medical personnel in the room during rest and/or
      BP assessment could be another 10 mmHg. Hence, the target blood pressure could vary
      materially based on BP technique and device used. As it is unlikely that all physicians can
      change their practice overnight and embrace blood pressure device allowing for standard
      resting time and unattended blood assessment, a comparative pragmatic study of the blood
      pressure technique and devices endorsed by Hypertension Canada and used in Canada is
      desirable to avoid either over- or under-treatment of Canadian patients with hypertension.

      In the present study, the investigators will compare 4 different methods of measuring blood
      pressure in the office (casual, resting average of 3 readings with nurse present or absent
      for resting period, and average of 5 readings) as well as a 24 hour ambulatory measurement in
      90 patients. The results of this study will help and enable practicing family physicians and
      specialists in Canada to target BP for their patients based on algorithm and method of
      assessment of BP they use in their offices.
    
  