
    
      In about 60 % of depressed patients, sleep deprivation has an acute therapeutic effect. The
      effect appears within very few hours; this is different from all other antidepressant
      treatments. However, in most cases patients relapse after the subsequent night's sleep (Wu &
      Bunney 1990).

      The antidepressant mechanism of action of sleep deprivation is not known as yet; several
      hypotheses are presented and discussed in various review articles (Wiegand 1995; Kasper &
      Möller 1996; Wirz-Justice & van den Hoofdakker 1999; Gillin et al. 2001; Ringel & Szuba 2001;
      Giedke & Schwärzler 2002). At present, the following general hypotheses are most discussed:

        1. Sleep deprivation exerts its effect by activating or intensifying an antidepressant
           "pro-cess". This "process" may be dopaminergic or serotonergic transmission, thyroid
           function etc.

        2. Sleep deprivation inactivates a hypothetic "depressiogenic" substance which is produced
           during sleep.

        3. Sleep deprivation reduces the central nervous cholinergic transmitter activity and
           restores the balance between cholinergic and aminergic transmitter systems.

        4. Sleep deprivation acts by preventing sleep during a "critical" or "vulnerable" phase of
           circadian rhythms; there are various chronobiological assumptions which can specify such
           a "critical phase".

      Several studies tried to indentify predictors of response to sleep deprivation in order to
      clarify the mechanism of action. Among clinical predictors is a symptom pattern with
      "endogenous" or "melancholic" traits and the presence of pronounced diurnal variations of
      mood, and a behaviour pattern pointing to an elevated level of arousal or activity. Another
      predictor is a pronounced sleep disturbance during the baseline night. Among the many
      neuroendocrine and neurohumoral factors which have been studied, only elevated thyroid
      hormones turned out to be a predictor for response to sleep deprivation. PET and SPECT
      studies have convergently demonstrated an elevated metabolism in parts of the limbic system
      (e.g., the anterior cingulum) at baseline in responders. These findings do not yet allow
      conclusions with respect to the neurotransmitter systems involved.

      Wiegand et al. (1993) investigated whether scheduled daytime naps can induce relapses after
      successful sleep deprivation therapy. The timing of the nap turned out to be a crucial
      factor; nap sleep duration and sleep structure during naps were less important.

      The majority of studies in this field suffers from a methodological problem: there is no
      objective continuous polysomnographic measurement of sleep. The continuous absence of sleep
      during the sleep deprivation period is thus not documented. It is known from sleep
      deprivation studies in healthy probands that during prolonged sleep deprivation, short sleep
      episodes ("microsleep") occur frequently. Hemmeter et al. (1998) were the first to
      demonstrate that also in depressed patients undergoing sleep deprivation, microsleep occurs
      and tends to prevent the antidepressant effect. Data from a recently finished study of our
      group point into the same direction (partly published in Wiegand et al. 2002).

      To further elucidate this question, an experimental procedure appears useful where the
      occurrence of sleep episodes during the sleep deprivation period is suppressed as far as
      possible by the vigilance enhancing drug modafinil.

      The study aims to investigate whether the administration of modafinil or placebo during a 40
      hour sleep deprivation period in depressed patients can intensify the antidepressant effect
      of the sleep deprivation.

      This study is a basic science study that aims to provide information on the therapeutic
      mechanism of sleep deprivation in depression and on the reoccurence of depressive symptoms in
      case of intermittent short sleep episodes.

      Primary Hypothesis:

      There is a significant reduction on the HAMD-6 scale between baseline and 24 h later (at the
      mornings before and after one night of sleep deprivation)

      Secondary Hypotheses:

        1. The amount of "responders" (50% of reduction on the HAMD-6 scale) is significantly
           greater in the modafinil than in the placebo group.

        2. The primary hypothesis and the first secondary hypothesis are also assessed by a
           self-rating scale of global mental state (Befindlichkeitsskala (Bf-s)) and by the
           Stanford Sleepiness Scale.

        3. The overall amount of sleep assessed by polysomnography is smaller in the modafinil
           group as compared to the placebo group during the 40 h sleep deprivation period.

        4. The group differences in HAMD-6 ratings are parralleled by differences in the overall
           amount of sleep during the 40 h sleep deprivation period.

        5. There are group differences (Modafinil versus Placebo) on a comprehensive
           neuropsychological battery taken at baseline and 24 h later (at the mornings before and
           after one night of sleep deprivation)
    
  