
    
      OBJECTIVE

      The natural history of patients who have syringomyelia has not been addressed in a
      prospective study. Present surgical treatment of patients with syringomyelia and neurologic
      deficit results in disease stabilization in many but not all patients, although objective
      improvement is less common. Delayed deterioration is not uncommon. The natural history of
      patients with syringomyelia and without a neurologic deficit or an associated lesion is also
      uncertain. By identifying factors that influence syringomyelia progression and that affect
      the response to surgical treatment, we can acquire knowledge that will enable us to provide
      more accurate recommendations to future patients with syringomyelia regarding optimal
      surgical or non-surgical treatment of their condition.

      STUDY POPULATION

      This study will enroll patients with syringomyelia and patients who are at risk of developing
      syringomyelia, including patients with Chiari I malformation and patients with
      presyringomyelia.

      DESIGN

      Prospective radiological and clinical data will be collected over a 5-year period from
      patients with syringomyelia and patients at risk of developing syringomyelia. Patients with
      syringomyelia and a neurological deficit will be considered to be surgical candidates. In
      this group, neurologic and radiographic outcomes in patients that undergo surgery will be
      compared to those in patients that refuse surgical treatment. Patients with syringomyelia but
      without neurological deficit will not be considered to be surgical candidates. In this group,
      initial neurologic and radiographic findings will be compared to those found one year after
      entrance into the study. Any patient with syringomyelia that develops progressive
      neurological deficit will be offered surgical treatment for his/her condition. In this study
      we will also prospectively collect information on processes that may influence the
      development and progression of syringomyelia, such as trauma and inflammatory diseases.

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      The primary outcome measure will be the change in motor strength, as measured by the American
      Spinal Injury (ASIA) Grading Scale, over 1 year. The secondary outcome measure will be the
      change in maximal syrinx diameter over 1 year in surgical candidates (surgically-treated vs.
      surgically untreated) and in non-surgical candidates.
    
  