
    
      The oXiris® set connection to CPB

        -  The PrismafleX eXeed™ II (Baxter) system control unit will be used to deliver CRRT and
           thus connected to the CPB circuit through the oXiris® set lines.

        -  Priming. For oXiris® set priming use 2 L of normal saline according to the software
           instructions.

        -  Connection. Using a three-way stopcock, oXiris® set must be connected to the arterial
           line just after the oxygenator to derive blood into the oXiris® set and then returned
           into the venous reservoir through the return line. No additional vascular access will be
           required to deliver treatments.

        -  Modality. The Slow Continuous Ultrafiltration modality (SCUF modality) must be selected
           with no pre-set ultrafiltration rate (ultrafiltration rate: 0 ml/hr). A blood flow
           between 200-300 mL/min was set in the PrismafleX eXeed™ II (blood was derived through
           the arterial positive pressure line just after the oxygenator) to be delivered into the
           oXiris® set and then returned into the venous reservoir through the return line.

        -  All treatments should be delivered after reaching full-flow CPB.

        -  CRRT flow, pressure and alarms will be controlled in the PrismafleX eXeed™ II screen,
           independently from CPB circuit.

        -  If CPB is stopped for any reason, then PrismafleX eXeed™ II should be stopped
           temporarily to avoid alarm warning and/or any harm to the patient.

        -  No additional anticoagulation method will be needed besides the systemic anticoagulation
           required for the cardiopulmonary bypass pumping.

        -  The return line clamp (blue clamp) should be adjusted to reach a slight positive return
           pressure in order to avoid low-pressure alarm warning.

      PrismafleX eXeed™ II weaning instructions. 5-10 min before the end of CPB, start the
      blood-return procedure into the venous reservoir of the CPB using 1 L of normal saline.
      Connect the solution into the three-way stopcock. Subsequently, set PrismafleX eXeed™ II flow
      in 80-100 ml/min. Select STOP in the PrismafleX eXeed™ II screen. Adjust the three-way
      stopcock to allow saline to flow into the oXiris® set arterial line an restart PrismafleX
      eXeed™ II to return blood into the venous reservoir.

      • Register all manoeuvres, changes and adjustments in software settings and any technical
      problem during the procedure.

      oXiris® membrane will be only employed for adsorption (neither convection nor diffusion will
      be performed) during all CPB time. Using CPB flow, patient will not require venous catheter
      access neither changes in CPB normal settings.

      oXiris® membrane set is composed of a 1.5 m2 copolymer of acrylonitrile and sodium
      methylsulfonate (AN 69) with polyethylenimine treated surface and adhered heparin during
      set´s fabrication [oXiris® (Baxter Gambro)].

      All blood samples collected during study will be obtained from CPB circuit or central venous
      catheters (standard cardiac surgery protocol).

      During all CPB time besides the ordinary cardiac surgery assistance team, a supplementary
      CRRT expert team will be present in those patients randomized to CPB-oXiris®.

      Blood samples and all variables will be equally collected and registered in the control group
      (CPB-Standard) with no modifications from CPB standard practice.

      Adverse events will be reported (in less than 24 hours if severe) to the sponsor centre to be
      properly evaluated. If the severe adverse event (SAE) is finally evaluated by the study board
      as related to the intervention arm, urgent notification to health authorities must proceed
      and study should be interrupted until further decision.

      Investigators will warrant a correct protocol application. Study data will be reviewed by an
      external monitoring committee from the clinical assay research central unit (UCICEC -
      IDIBELL). Monitors will contrast registered data from the collection data form (CDF) with
      data from patients' medical record. All patients' medical records will be indefinitely saved
      in electronic format to be reviewed if necessary.

      Efficacy Assessments:

        1. Registered variables and follow-up. Renal function related parameters Plasma creatinine
           and urine output will be registered at baseline, prior to CPB, at ICU admission, 6 hours
           ,12 hours, 24h postCBP and every 24h during the first week after cardiac surgery in
           order to evaluate CS-AKI based on KDIGO AKI criteria (KDIGO criteria Kidney inter.,
           Suppl. 2012; 2: 1-138.) Urinary NAD (uNAD) will also be quantified at ICU admission.
           Renal function will be checked at hospital discharge.

           Inflammatory response parameters Interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor alpha
           (TNF-α), monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-6
           (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-10 (IL-10), interleukin-18 (IL-18), complement
           5a (C5a), high mobility binding protein 1 (HMBP-1), RANTES, GRO-alpha, leukocytes count,
           lactate, D-dimer, free plasma hemoglobin, HO-1, free iron and Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
           levels will be determined in plasma.These determinations will be measured baseline (0
           hours), and at times T1 (at the end of CPB), T2 (ICU admission) and T3 (24 hours after
           ICU admission).

           Ordinary laboratory parameters Plasmatic urea, potassium, albumin, magnesium, phosphate,
           glucose, sodium, chloride, AST, ALT, blood cell count and coagulation times will be
           determined following the ordinary cardiac surgery protocol (every 8 hours during the
           first 24h).

           Clinical and respiratory parameters Hemodynamic and respiratory parameters will be
           registered every hour. Arterial and venous blood gases with arterial lactate will be
           determined every 8 hours during the first 24 hours. Temperature, heart rate, arterial
           blood pressure (systolic, diastolic, and mean), central venous pressure, vasopressor
           and/or inotrope dose will be registered during surgery and at ICU according to standard
           protocol.

           Demographic and clinical record data Age, gender, weight, height, relevant clinical
           records, previous or chronic medication, type of cardiac surgery, surgery times, time on
           CPB, surgical complications, blood transfusions during and after surgery, prognostic
           scores (SOFA, APACHE II and SAPS II), ICU stay, hospital stay. Clinical outcome
           (survival at discharge, 28 and 90 days) and renal outcome (renal function, and RRT
           requirements).

        2. Techniques. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) LPS plasmatic concentration will be measured using
           an Limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) test (Levin, J, et al. Thrombosis Et Diathesis
           Haemorrhagica. 1968; 19:186). This technique is performed when LAL proteolytic factors
           are activated by LPS. Life Technologies kit will be used for this (Thermo Fischer
           Scientific).

      NAD Urinary and blood levels of NAD will be determined at 0 hours and at times T1 (end of
      CPB), T2 (ICU admission), and T3 (24 hours after ICU admission) applying multiplexed mass
      spectrometry techniques.

      Cytokine analysis IL-1, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-18, TNFα, MCP-1, HMBP-1, RANTES, GROα
      quantification will be performed with multiplex new technology. MILLIPLEX (Millipore)
      magnetic balls system will be used.

      LPS, NAD, and Cytokine analysis will be all performed after completing recruitment and in the
      meantime all samples will be safely stored at -70°C.

      Statistical Methods (for analyzing primary & secondary endpoints):

      Statistical analysis will be done by the statistics investigator who won't have any role in
      patient selection, randomization, or follow up. SPSS v. 20.0 for statistical analysis will be
      used. Variable distribution will be studied and logarithmic transformation will be used on
      those variables that don't present normal distribution, presumably cytokine and LPS levels.
      Univariate analysis comparing clinical, demographic, biochemical, metabolic, hemodynamic and
      respiratory baseline variables between both arms (CPB-oXiris® and CPB-Standard), will be done
      with two-tailed t test for continuous variables and chi-square test for categorical
      variables.

      Variables determined several times (T0, T1, T2, T3) will be analysed using a one-way repeated
      measures ANOVA test in order to demonstrate differences between both arms. Multivariate
      analysis will be completed to control those clinically relevant confounding variables as well
      as to discover baseline differences. According to hypothesis and to the dependent variable on
      study investigators will use a survival analysis (to study CS-AKI within the first week
      postsurgery) with a Cox regression model, or a hierarchic multiple linear regression model
      when the dependent variable is continuous (for example, uNAD). Arm intervention (CPB-oXiris®,
      CPB-Standard) will be considered as the main independent variable adding other control
      independent variables.

      As the study is measuring cytokine and LPS levels in four different moments (T0, T1, T2, T3),
      in order to maximize statistical power and reduce control variables number, the area under
      the curve (AUC) will be calculated for every cytokine and LPS during the first 24 hours. Due
      to this statistical maneuver investigators will obtain a continuous variable that represents
      each cytokine-LPS level during the biochemical study period (24 hours). To evaluate if the
      arm intervention improvement in terms of efficacy and safety could be related to cytokine
      and/or LPS levels during the first 24 hours, a mediation complementary analysis will be
      performed considering cytokine-LPS (represented by AUC) as a mediator between the independent
      variable (intervention arm) and the effect we study.
    
  