
    
      The present study was carried out on fifty patients with chronicunilateral PF. Patients were
      recruited from Outpatient Clinic of Physical medicine, Rheumatology and Rehabilitation at
      Mansoura University Hospital during the period from January 2016 to September 2016. Patients
      were classifiedrandomly into two groups:the 1stgroup included 25 patients (20 females and 5
      males) treated by local corticosteroid injectionand the 2ndgroup included 25 patients (20
      females and 5males) treated by PRP injection.

      We obtain an informed written consent from each participant sharing in the study. We take
      approval on our study by the research board of faculty of medicine, Mansoura University,
      code: MS/15.10.08.

      All patients were subjected to the following:

      1- Complete history taking:

      a. Personal history: with special stress on: i. Age and sex. ii. Occupation: occupation which
      needs prolonged standing is a risk factor for PF.

      b. Complaint: Taken in the patient's own words with special stress on disease duration. c.
      Present history: i. Pain as regard onset, course, duration, provocative factors, relieving
      factors, limitation of movement and diurnal variation.

      ii. History of arthritis and joint affection. iii. History of other systems affections:

        -  Neurological symptoms: (muscle power and sensation of the lower limbs).

        -  Eye symptoms: (redness, ulcers and blurred vision).

        -  Gastrointestinal tract (GIT) symptoms: (diarrhea, heart burn and mucus in the stool).

        -  Urinary tract (UT) symptoms: (dysuria and frequency).

        -  Skin affection: (ulcers, erythema, papules and nodules). b. Locomotor system
           examination:

        -  Of all joints with special stress on the ankle, subtalar andmidtarsal joint including:

           i. Inspection: swelling, deformity and muscle wasting. ii. Palpation: hotness,
           tenderness. iii. Range of motion: active and passive.

        -  Clinical examination of the heel:

             -  Inspection of any obvious deformities (pesplanus, pescavus and hallux valgus) and
                skin changes (redness and swelling).

                  1. corticosteroid injection: Patients were put in the supine position. Injection
                     was done usingthe medial technique. Identification of the tenderest point of
                     the heel was done by palpation. Antiseptic solution was used to disinfect the
                     skin overlying theheel. Then1ml of 40 mg methylprednisolone acetate and 1 ml
                     of local anaesthetic as lidocaine 2% were injected into the plantar fascia by
                     a 22gauge needle. After injection, participants were advised to stay sitting
                     without foot movement for 15 minutes (Khan et al., 2014).

                  2. PRP injection:

      It started with puncture of the vein and taking specific amount of autologous blood from the
      participantnearly a sample of 20 ml of venous blood (Co AY, 2012).The blood sample was put in
      a sterile tube containing an anticoagulant as sodium citrate.Then the blood sample
      wascentrifuged for 15 minutes at 1800 rpmwhich leads to separation of the plasma at the top
      layer from the packed RBCs at the bottom layer. The RBCs layer is removedthenanother
      centrifugationwas done at 3500 rpm for 10 minuteswhich leads to formation of a more
      concentratedplatelet layer after removal of PPP(Anitua et al., 2012).

      Patients were put in supine position. Betadine was used to disinfect the skin of the heel. 1
      ml of local anesthesitic (lidocaine) was injected;then, by the same syringe, 2.5 ml of PRP
      was injected in the tenderestarea.After extraction of the needle, a bandage was puton the
      injected area. The patient was kept in the supine position for twentyminutes and then
      discharged (Say et al., 2014).

      Somepatients may have minimal to moderate discomfort afterinjection that may continue for 7
      days because PRP stimulates an inflammatory response. So, to control pain, patients
      shouldapply ice on the heeland also modify activity as tolerated
    
  