
    
      Primary care providers (PCPs) are often on the front lines of helping patients manage acute
      and chronic pain. These pain management decisions have become especially important in light
      of the national opioid crisis that has seen an unsettling rise in opioid dependency,
      over-doses and fatalities. The Centers for Disease Control has developed specific
      evidence-based guidelines to help clinicians make more informed decisions about appropriate
      use of opioids as well as identifying and managing patients at risk for opioid-use disorder
      and overdose.

      The investigators' previous work has shown that patient simulations can rapidly and reliably
      measure unwarranted practice variation among providers. In addition, published work shows
      that patient simulations, when administered serially and combined with customized feedback on
      improvement opportunities can reduce practice variation and improve performance on
      patient-level quality measures. Given the challenge of the current opioid crisis and the
      large scope of unwarranted variation in medical practice, there is a need for scalable
      approaches to measure care decisions, provide feedback on improvement opportunities and
      benchmark performance to peers.

      This study seeks to evaluate the impact of personalized measurement and feedback on
      evidence-based care decisions made by primary care providers across the country concerning
      opioid care. The study, a prospective cohort trial, will enroll primary care physicians
      (PCPs) practicing in the U.S. Upon enrollment, eligible providers will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire detailing their practice and professional background. They will then be asked
      to complete the following:

      Pretest: Pre-project, participants will take a multiple-choice assessment test. These
      assessments measure CDC Opioid Guidelines knowledge and adherence. Study administrators will
      randomize half of providers to take Assessment A pre-intervention, and half to take
      Assessment B pre-intervention, and have attempted to make these two assessments of equal
      difficulty.

      Intervention: All providers will then care for 1 online CPV QualityIQ patient simulation each
      week over the course of 6 weeks. The simulated patients will be adults aged 18-75 and present
      with clinical conditions commonly seen by PCPs, such as chronic or acute pain, for whom
      opioids are currently in use or may be considered. In the patient simulations, participants
      will make work-up, diagnostic and treatment decisions relevant to the patient's pain
      management and will receive real-time feedback on how those decisions align with the CDC
      recommendations. Each week, participants will receive an email notification with their case
      score from the previous week, how their care compares to their PCP peers, and a link their
      new case to be completed.

      Posttest: Recruits will take the remaining assessment as described above after completion of
      the intervention.
    
  