
    
      Objectives: 1) to evaluate the efficacy of PeriZone PerioPatch (FDA approved device, 510K
      number K103054) in reducing pocket depth (PD) in subjects with moderate to severe chronic
      periodontitis; and 2) to assess the effect of PeriZone PerioPatch on secondary clinical
      outcomes associated with chronic periodontitis including bleeding on probing (BOP), clinical
      attachment level (CAL), Gingival Index (GI) and Plaque Index (PI).

      Participants: A total of 80 participants with generalized moderate to severe chronic
      periodontitis will be recruited for this clinical trial.

      Trial Design: This study is a multicenter, randomized, single blind, and controlled design
      trial with two parallel arms. The 2 arms of the study are:

        -  Arm A - Scaling and root planing plus PeriZone PerioPatch;

        -  Arm B - Scaling and root planing alone (control group).

      Procedures (methods): After potential patients have been screened, informed consent forms are
      signed, and patients have completed the remaining screening evaluations, each patient will be
      randomized to a treatment group. Patients must present with generalized, moderate to severe
      chronic periodontitis defined as having at least two periodontal pockets measuring 6 mm or
      more and bleeding on probing (at Baseline).

      Periodontal probing measurements (PD, CAL, GI and PI) will be performed at Baseline (prior to
      randomization), and at Weeks 4, 8 and 12. All subjects will receive scaling and root planing
      (full mouth during at most 2 sessions within two weeks following the Baseline exam).
      Thereafter, PeriZone PerioPatch will be dispensed to subjects per randomization for
      administration over the trial period (i.e., Days 1-6; Days 14-20; Days 28-30; Days 42-44).
      Intraoral soft tissue inspection will be performed at Screening, Baseline and at Weeks 4, 8
      and 12. Adverse event collection will be performed at Weeks 4, 8 and 12. Compliance will be
      will be evaluated via collection of unused study devices.

      Analysis Plan: Baseline and demographic data will be summarized by treatment. Adverse events
      and safety outcomes will be categorized by treatment and summarized with descriptive
      statistics. Changes in probing depths, bleeding scores, clinical attachment levels Gingival
      Index and Plaque Index scores (from Baseline) will be expressed as means per subjects and
      tested for inter-group differences using nonparametric rank analysis of covariance.
    
  