
    
      The dietary restriction of proteins and sodium is a cornerstone in the treatment of chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) and of its metabolic consequences. In fact, a reduced protein intake
      decreases load on remaining nephrons, reduces signs and symptoms of uraemia, lessens the
      accumulation of waste metabolic products and oxidant stress, improves insulin-resistance and
      lipid profile, ameliorates proteinuria, additives effects of angiotensin-converting-enzyme
      inhibitors, and decreases likelihood of patients death or delays initiation of dialysis by
      40%.

      Dietary adjustments in subjects with chronic renal failure are complex because multiple
      nutrient modifications are required and changes in lifestyle must be maintained for years.
      Furthermore, low-protein diet is considered tedious, unpalatable and difficult to achieve.
      This has an obvious negative influence on the quality of life of patients and makes their
      adherence to the new therapeutic prescriptions more difficult. In fact, the difficulty to
      reach patients' compliance is well known. There is ample evidence that poor adherence is
      considered a critical barrier to treatment success and remains one of the leading challenges
      to healthcare professionals. Few data are available in clinical practice concerning the
      patients' compliance to low protein diet. A dietary interview method is a validated
      instrument to evaluate the practice and routines related to the assessment of nutrient intake
      in nondialyzed CKD patients and to obtain the patients' compliance. However, the interview
      requires the presence of a dedicated dietitian and a lot of his time.

      For these reasons, and because of the absence of dedicated dietitians in many nephrology
      centres, it is usual practice to give standard low protein diets to CKD patients not on
      dialysis.

      Aim of this study was to verify if few simple tips were able to reduce protein, phosphate and
      sodium intake in patients with CKD, as compared to the practice of giving a low protein diet
      elaborated by a renal dietitian.
    
  