
    
      The prevalence of morbid obesity is increasing worldwide. As the severity of obesity
      increases, the incidence of diagnosed obstructive sleep apnea also rises. Studies have shown
      an incidence of sleep apnea as high as 64% in patients with a body mass index (BMI) over 40
      and 100% in patients with a BMI greater than 60. Patients with OSA have been shown to have
      significant desaturations under intravenous sedation due to airway narrowing and obstruction.
      Several studies have also shown that morbidly obese subjects, independent of a diagnosis of
      OSA, run a higher perioperative risk of adverse airway events, including hypoxia. Providing
      anesthesia for this patient population is challenging and requires careful titration of drugs
      and superb airway management skills.

      The current standard of care for oxygen delivery in this setting is a Salter nasal cannula.
      Humidified high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen therapy utilizes an air oxygen blend
      allowing from 21% to 100% FiO2 delivery and generates up to 60 L/min flow rates. The gas is
      heated (35 to 40 degree Celsius) and humidified through an active heated humidifier and
      delivered via a single limb heated inspiratory circuit (to avoid heat loss and condensation)
      to the subject through a large diameter nasal cannula. Theoretically, HFNC offers significant
      advantages in oxygenation and ventilation over conventional methods. Constant high flow
      oxygen delivery provides steady inspired oxygen fraction (FiO2) and decreases oxygen
      dilution. It also washes out physiologic dead space and generates positive end expiration
      pressure (PEEP) that augments ventilation.

      Some studies have demonstrated a positive effect of HFNC on the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI)
      showing that use of HFNC could decrease hypoxic episodes in subjects with repetitive upper
      airway obstruction such as obstructive sleep apnea. The STOP-BANG questionnaire (SB) has been
      used successfully to screen patients undergoing therapeutic endoscopic procedures at higher
      risk for sedation-related adverse events.
    
  