
    
      A total of 50 men and postmenopausal women between the ages of 45 and 80 who have T2D will be
      recruited for this study. Participants with T2D will be recruited from Tallahassee, FL and
      surrounding areas through campus and community advertisements through flyers, newspaper
      articles, and public events. After an initial telephone screening, all participants will be
      requested to report to the clinical area of the Sandels building at FSU (study site) for
      their first on-site visit (and all visits if the participant qualifies). On the first visit
      (screening), the potential participants will be provided with verbal and written explanation
      of the project and will have any questions regarding the study answered by trained research
      personnel during the informed consent process. Then the individual will be asked to sign an
      informed consent form, followed by a medical history questionnaire to confirm their diabetic
      state, and measurements of their fasting blood glucose levels and HbA1c will also be done to
      assess any changes that may occur throughout the study. Anthropometrics will be measured and
      questions on medical history and medication use will be asked during the screening visit to
      confirm eligibility. Randomization of participants in the potato or the calorie-matched
      refined grain group will be done after the screening visit and following completion of a
      Seven-Day Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ), which will indicate if individuals frequently
      consume potatoes. If participants are considered "non-frequent" white potato consumers (<2
      servings per week), they will be included in this study and asked to come for following
      visits, additionally during this visit participants will be familiarized with vascular
      assessments prior to their baseline appointment. On the second (baseline) visit participants
      will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: 1) 100 g cooked white potato or 2) 75 g
      calorie-matched cooked refined grain (cooked long-grain white rice) daily for 12 weeks
      following a 2-week washout period prior to the other intervention group (a total of 26 weeks
      upon completion of the study). Study foods will be prepared at the Florida State University
      Metabolic Kitchen and Diet Assessment Lab following SafeStaff Foodhandler Training, an
      approved Florida foodhandler program, protocols for preparation, storage and handling. At the
      baseline visit participants will be asked to come fasted; BP and vascular function will be
      measured followed by blood draw, anthropometrics, body composition (via BIA), and a physical
      activity questionnaire will be administered. Participants will be provided with their
      assigned dietary regimen and will receive instructions on how to fill out daily diaries for
      their dietary regimen and will be given three-day food records to bring back for their
      subsequent visits to assess typical intake throughout the study. BP, vascular function, blood
      draw, and anthropometric, body composition, diet, and physical activity assessments will be
      repeated at 6-, and 12-week visits for both intervention periods with a 2-week washout
      between each intervention period (for a total of 5 study visits). After the 2-week washout
      period, participants will be asked to come to the study site, to receive the other
      intervention group and be given instruction on their new dietary regimen. Participants will
      be asked to come to the study site on a bi-weekly basis to pick up potato and white rice
      regimen, which can be stored in the freezer/refrigerator prior to consumption. Additionally,
      participants will be given portioned cooked rice to take home with them for the long-grain
      white rice regimen. All cardiovascular measurements will be performed between 7:00-10:00
      A.M., in a quiet temperature-controlled room after an overnight fast and 12 hours after the
      abstinence of caffeine and/or 24 hours after the last bout of moderate to heavy physical
      activity.
    
  