
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The behavioral study determines whether sex differences in stress responses may assist in
      explaining sex differences in CHD. The ongoing research program has documented differences in
      psychological responses to acute stress between men and women and among women who vary in
      reproductive hormone status. Building on these findings, but also departing from previous
      efforts in strategy and design, five studies are conducted. Study 1 measures hemodynamic
      measures that underlie sex differences in cardiovascular responses to behavioral challenge.
      Using longitudinal designs, Study 2 compares women's stress responses prior to and three
      months after surgical menopause, whereas Study 3 compares healthy women's stress responses
      prior to and three months after a "temporary menopause" due to the administration of a GnRH
      agonist. In both studies, some women after the second testing are administered estrogen
      replacement therapy and stress responses are again measured. Thus, Studies 2 and 3 also
      address the effects of estrogen replacement therapy on stress responses. These studies gain
      significance from the fact that surgical menopause is associated with heightened risk for
      CHD, whereas estrogen replacement therapy is associated with protection from CHD. Study 4
      describes the extent of sex differences in exposure to psychological stressors among men and
      women from two levels of social class. Social class is included in the design because it is a
      risk factor for psychological stress and for CHD. The final study tests the hypothesis that
      sex differences in stress responses are attenuated during a task within a feminine area of
      competency and accentuated during a task within a masculine area of competency.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  