
    
      Hypothesis: Electrical stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve using transcutaneous
      skin electrodes attached on the dorsal foot can treat non-obstructive urinary retention
      either by enhancing bladder sensation thereby reducing bladder volume needed for initiating
      voiding and/or by enhancing bladder contraction, thereby increasing voiding efficiency and
      reducing post-void residual (PVR) volume.

      Rationale: The investigators conducted preliminary studies in cats that have demonstrated an
      excitatory reflex to the bladder elicited by stimulation of afferent axons in the superficial
      peroneal nerve. Activating this excitatory reflex in cats reduced bladder capacity (the
      minimal volume for initiating a micturition reflex), enhanced bladder contractions and
      overcame bladder inhibition emanating from somatic (tibial) afferent activation. Since the
      superficial peroneal nerve innervates the dorsal skin of the foot in humans, it can be
      stimulated non-invasively by skin surface electrodes. Transcutaneous stimulation of this
      nerve, should it prove efficacious, would likely be more acceptable to patients with
      non-obstructive urinary retention (NOUR) than invasive sacral neuromodulation therapy.
      Therefore, in this study, the investigators propose to test the superficial peroneal nerve
      neuromodulation in non-obstructive urinary retention patients.

      Specific Aim: Determine the efficacy of superficial peroneal nerve stimulation (SPNS) in the
      treatment of patients with non-obstructive urinary retention using skin electrodes attached
      to the dorsal surface of the foot.

      Rationale: Based on a preliminary discovery in cats, the investigators propose to further
      investigate the effect of superficial peroneal nerve stimulation (SPNS) on voiding
      efficiency, post-void residual (PVR) volume, and bladder capacity (voided volume + post-void
      residual) in patients with non-obstructive urinary retention. A reduced bladder capacity
      indicates more normal bladder filling sensations, thereby allowing voiding at more normal
      volumes. The investigators plan to test superficial peroneal nerve stimulation in 20
      non-obstructive urinary retention patients by collecting voiding diary during a 3-week
      period. Baseline voiding diary will be collected during the first week before superficial
      peroneal nerve stimulation initiation. During the second week, superficial peroneal nerve
      stimulation will be administered to each patient for 3 hours/day before sleep and it will
      also be administered immediately prior and throughout each void. The 3-hour stimulation is
      designed to modulate bladder sensory pathways to enhance bladder sensation, thereby reducing
      the bladder volume required to initiate voiding. The acute stimulation during each void is
      designed to enhance bladder contraction, thereby increasing voiding efficiency and reducing
      post-void residual. During the third week, superficial peroneal nerve stimulation will not be
      applied, and a voiding diary will be collected to determine any post-stimulation effect.
      Since the superficial peroneal nerve is a cutaneous nerve innervating the skin of the dorsal
      foot, superficial peroneal nerve stimulation will be applied non-invasively by attaching skin
      surface electrodes to the dorsal side of the foot.
    
  