
    
      Subjects will be exposed to 200 mg and 400 mg caffeine pills and placebo pills (free of
      caffeine). During each treatment period, participants will be required to avoid caffeine
      (except for the caffeine within the given treatment). The study is staged into 3 phases,
      which will last for 7 days each. After enrollment, participants will be asked to refrain from
      consuming any substances containing caffeine during the 21 days of treatment. Instead of
      coffee or other caffeine items, they will be exposed to caffeine in pill form. Participants
      will complete each treatment in a random, cross over blinded fashion. One phase of treatment
      will have participants consume two 200 mg-caffeine pills a day (total of 400 mg of
      caffeine/day), a second treatment will have participants consume one 200 mg-caffeine pill and
      one placebo pill a day. And the final treatment will have participants consume two placebo
      pills each day. Treatment phases will be assigned randomly to each participant. The
      participant will not know which phase they are receiving.

      Prior to the treatment, the participant will be asked to fill out a detailed diet log of her
      eating and drinking habits. Participants will also be asked a series of questions on a survey
      related to bladder symptoms and mental health periodically throughout the study. It will take
      about 30 minutes of their time to answer the questionnaires at individual time points.

      During the 21 days of the study period participants will be asked to self-monitor fluid
      intake and note any major changes of fluid intake compared to the initial intake log. They
      will be asked to conduct a 24-hour voiding and defecation log at two different time points
      within each treatment phase as well as prior to the study. 24-hour urine will be collected
      during each treatment phase at two different time points as well as prior to the study.
      Participants weight and lean body mass will be assessed in clinic using a Tanita scale at two
      times within each treatment phase and one time prior to the study
    
  