
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disorder which influence about 8.3% of adult population
      and is the fifth major cause of death globally. In Pakistan, prevalence of type 2 diabetes is
      16.98% according to recent survey held in 2019. DM is classified into type 1 and type 2
      diabetes. In type 1 diabetes, there is an absolute deficiency of insulin secretion due to an
      autoimmune pathologic process occurring in beta islets of pancreas. While Type 2 diabetes is
      characterized by a combination of insulin resistance and inadequate insulin secretion with
      resultant hyperglycemia leading to micro and macrovascular complications. Macrovascular
      complications include cardiovascular disease, stroke and peripheral artery disease. Amongst
      microvascular complications, Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is one of the most common
      complication in both developed and developing countries. DPN is a symmetrical,
      length-dependent sensorimotor polyneuropathy which is attributed to metabolic and micro
      vessel alterations due to hyperglycemia and concomitant cardiovascular risk covariates. Major
      risk factors for development of DPN include duration of diabetes, hyperglycemia, and age,
      followed by prediabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and obesity. DPN can engender
      disablement in touch sensation, vibration sense, lower limb proprioception, and kinesthesia
      thus contributing to impaired balance, altered gait with increased risk of falling. DPN
      occurs in more than 50% of people with type 2 diabetes. It is a salient risk factor for skin
      breakdown, amputation, and reduced physical mobility consequently lowering the quality of
      life Management of DPN is multifaceted and includes efforts to alter the natural history
      (lifestyle changes) and symptomatic treatments through pharmacological interventions. Daily
      habits and actions exert an enormous influence on short-term and long-term health and quality
      of life. Importance of dietary modification is enhanced if it is synchronized with the
      circadian rhythm of the body. Therefore, Synchronized Lifestyle modification program is a
      personalized, homeostasis restoring, liver centric lifestyle modification program that works
      through the correction of body clock rhythm. Lifestyle medicine comprises of cluster of
      positive lifestyle practices including maintenance of a healthy body weight, regular physical
      activity, cessation of cigarette smoking, stress reduction as well following a few
      nutritional practices such as increasing whole grains and consuming more fruits and
      vegetables. Lifestyle modification, including diet and exercise, slow the progression of
      neuropathy by promoting small nerve fiber regeneration. Dietary modifications include intake
      of nutrient, such as whole grains, vegetables, fruits, legumes, low-fat dairy, lean meats,
      nuts, and seeds. These foods help to maintain body weight, attain individualized glycemic,
      blood pressure, and lipid goals and prevent complications of diabetes. Exercise improves
      three of the biggest risk factors for diabetic neuropathy including insulin sensitivity and
      glucose control, obesity, and dyslipidemia. These exercises include aerobic exercise that
      improves glycemic control and insulin sensitivity in diabetics. Strength training exercise
      improves postural sway during standing, and gait characteristics during level-ground walking.
      While the flexibility exercise are suggested for refining distal joint mobility and plantar
      pressure distribution during gait. Thus, Exercise is known to enhance multiple metabolic
      factors that may affect nerve health and microvascular function, which may indirectly protect
      against peripheral nerve damage.
    
  