
    
      Following the initial recruitment, all individuals who are willing to participate and sign
      the informed consent document will be provided with a medical history form to complete. In
      addition, the investigators will ask participants to sign a HIPAA authorization form in order
      to look into their medical records for monthly blood work (blood chemistry), anthropometric
      data (height and weight), interdialytic weight gain (weight gain since last treatment)
      history, and current medications.

      Testing DURING all study protocol days:

      Testing will be performed on three consecutive dialysis days during a one-week period
      (Monday/ Wednesday/Friday or Tuesday/Thursday/Saturday). If a data collection period is
      missed for any reason, an alternative data collection day will be scheduled. All three study
      visits are identical with respect to the study procedures performed:

        1. Hemodynamics: The hemodynamic response to dialysis will be obtained using the Task Force
           Monitor (TFM). The TFM will be connected to the subject prior the start of the HD
           session. The TFM is a non-invasive device that uses thoracic bioimpedance to collect a
           variety of data related to cardiovascular function, including:

           Heart Rate Variability: Beat-to-beat heart rate (HR) will be recorded using the Task
           Force Monitor. The ECG will be collected online at a sampling rate of 1,000 Hz, in real
           time, and stored on a computer (Dell, Austin, TX). Heart rate and the variability of the
           intervals between successive heart rates will be derived from the ECG signal.

           Beat-to-Beat Blood Pressure: Beat-to-beat peripheral BP will be derived via finger
           plethysmography (Task Force Monitor). A finger cuff will be placed around the
           non-dialyzing index and middle finger. These cuffs measure the change in blood pressure
           from successive beats continuously.

           Cardiac Output: Cardiac output and stroke volume will be collected by the task force
           monitor. An electrode will be placed around the chest to measure changes in impedance
           continuously.

           Blood Pressure: Blood pressure will be measured before the start and every 10 minutes
           throughout the session using an automated cuff connected to the TFM. The cuff will be
           placed on the non-dialyzing arm of the patient. The continuous non-invasive arterial
           pressure (CNAP) technology on the TFM machine will also be performed continuously during
           10 minute segments every hour until the end of the HD treatment (i.e. from minute 0 to
           10, 60 to 70, 120 to 130, 180 to 190).

           The TFM will measure these hemodynamic values continuously throughout the entire HD
           session.

        2. Relative Blood Volume and Hematocrit: The Critline is a regular part of dialysis
           treatment at the Champaign Urbana clinic. The Critline non-invasively measures
           hematocrit, relative blood volume, and oxygen saturation in real time. A trained staff
           member of the Champaign Urbana Dialysis Clinic will add a disposable blood chamber to
           the dialysis machine. As blood travels through this chamber hematocrit and oxygen
           saturation are measured by the absorbance and scattering of light. The hematocrit value
           is then used to estimate the blood volume relative to the start of the dialysis session.

        3. The Wrist0x2 will be connected prior to the HD session and measurements will be recorded
           continuously throughout the entire HD session.

        4. Clinic Factors: The investigators will gather some information collected by the clinic
           including: participant weight gain since the previous treatment, the volume of fluid
           removed during the treatment, the composition of the dialysate used during the
           treatment, and the rate of flow of both the blood and dialysate through the hemodialysis
           machine during the treatment.

        5. Lab Values: The investigators will also obtain results from monthly blood chemistries
           run on patient's blood samples by the clinic in the month prior to participant
           enrollment. These values will include but are not limited to information such as serum
           albumin, phosphorus, and calcium.

      After completion of the HD treatment, the patient will be disconnected from the TFM and
      Wrist0x2.
    
  