
    
      Introduction Plantar fasciitis is characterized by localized pain at the insertion site of
      the plantar fascia on the calcaneus, which can radiate toward the medial edge of the foot.
      The pain worsens in the morning with the first step of the foot, after resting or at the
      beginning of a workout, it can increase after intense activity and persist even when it
      stops. These symptoms can lead to functional limitation and prolonged disability. It is one
      of the most common foot pathologies. The first-line plantar fasciitis treatment is
      conservative. Although few studies have currently evaluated the effectiveness of physical
      therapy, it appears that the combination of several techniques is more effective than any
      technique used in isolation.

      The objective of this study is to know the results of two manual therapy treatments in terms
      of pain and functionality with a direct action on the plantar fascia.

      Material and methods

      Patients diagnosed with plantar fasciitis will be recruited. Patients will sign an
      explanatory informed consent for the project before starting it. All patients are volunteers.
      They will be randomly assigned into two intervention groups:

        -  Group 1 will receive a direct treatment on the plantar fascia and posterior aspect of
           the leg to relax and elongate the tissues. It will consist of manual therapy of the foot
           and ankle, treatment of the trigger points of the soleus muscle and plantar square, and
           also massage, and passive stretching.

        -  Group 2 will receive a placebo treatment with superficial massage. The intervention
           consists of a weekly session for 4 weeks, evaluations will be carried out at the
           beginning of treatment, at the end of the treatment and a follow-up one month.

      The evaluations will consist of ankle goniometry, pain measurement using the visual analog
      scale (VAS), pain and lower limb functionality with the validated Foot Function Index (FFI)
      scale, dynamic balance using the Star Excursion Balance Test, evaluation of the function and
      daily activities with the Foot and ankle ability measure (FAAM) scale and pain on pressure
      using an algometer.
    
  