
    
      Our primary objective is to compare three IOL power calculation formulae and determine the
      most appropriate formula for accurate prediction of postoperative refractive error in Asian
      eyes with axial length less than 22mm and greater than 25mm that are undergoing
      phacoemulsification cataract surgery.

      This will be a randomized prospective study in patients with axial lengths less than 22mm and
      greater than 25mm undergoing phacoemulsification cataract surgery and IOL implantation. Each
      patient will be randomly assigned to have their IOL power calculated using one of three IOL
      power calculation formulae (SRK-T, Hoffer Q and Holladay 2). A randomization list will be
      used to decide the IOL formula allocation.

      The primary outcome measure of this study is the mean absolute error (MAE) which is
      calculated by subtracting the intended formula-derived preoperative refractive error from the
      actual postoperative refractive error.

      Based on the estimates from a previous study, it is postulated that the MAE for Hoffer Q,
      Holladay 2, and SRK-T are +0.36 D, +0.53 D & +0.74 D, respectively.

      The interest here is pair-wise comparisons amongst SRK-T, Hoffer Q and Holladay 2. The sample
      size calculations for each pair-wise comparison is based on a SD of 0.57 D with a power of
      80% and a 2-sided test of 5%. Using equal randomization, a total of 176 subjects would be
      sufficient to achieve statistical differences between Hoffer Q over the Holladay 2 & SRK-T
      and also the Holladay 2 over SRK-T (standardized effect difference of 30% between Hoffer Q &
      Holladay 2; 67% & 37% effect size for Hoffer Q vs SRK-T and Hollady 2 vs SRK-T,
      respectively).

      Factoring in an attrition rate of 20%, a total sample size of 210 eyes will be recruited for
      the study.

      Preoperatively, Snellen visual acuity will be assessed and all patients will undergo a
      non-cycloplegic autorefraction, keratometry measurement and axial length measurement with the
      Zeiss IOL Master (see below Visit 1). All patients will undergo phacoemulsification and
      'in-the-bag' IOL implantation (Visit 2). Surgery will be performed through a 2.75mm temporal
      clear corneal incision and only the Alcon MA60BM or MA60MA 3-piece acrylic foldable IOL will
      be implanted. A standard postoperative topical antibiotic and anti-inflammatory regime
      consisting of tobramycin and beclomethasone will be administered (Visit 3-5).

      Patients will be examined at the following intervals:

      Screening Within 90 days prior to surgery Preoperative (Visit 1) Within 30 days prior to
      surgery Operative (Visit 2) Day of surgery Postoperative (Visit 3) 1 day after surgery
      Postoperative (Visit 4) 3-5 days after surgery Postoperative (Visit 5) 4-5 weeks after
      surgery Postoperative (Visit 6) 3-4 months after surgery

      Postoperatively, logMAR visual acuity will be recorded at every visit and non-cycloplegic
      refraction will be carried out at Visit 5 and Visit 6.
    
  