
    
      HYPOTHESIS The hypothesis that a combination therapy of misoprostol and lansoprazole is
      superior to lansoprazole alone for the prevention of recurrent ulcer bleeding in patients
      with a history of idiopathic ulcer bleeding.

      STUDY DESIGN OVERVIEW It is a two-year, double blinded, randomized trial of a combination
      therapy with misoprostol with PPI (lansoprazole) versus misoprostol placebo plus PPI
      (lansoprazole) in patients with a history of idiopathic ulcer bleeding.

      Randomization All eligible patients will be randomly assigned (in a 1:1 ratio) to receive 24
      months of either misoprostol 800 micrograms daily (i.e. misoprostol 200 micrograms four times
      daily) combined with lansoprazole 30 mg once daily, or misoprostol placebo four times daily
      plus lansoprazole 30 mg once daily. A computer-generated randomisation schedule is used to
      assign patients to the treatment sequences. Concealment of allocation will be ascertained by
      an independent research staff member. The Clinical Research Pharmacy located in Prince of
      Wales Hospital will dispense consecutively numbered, identical packs that contain sealed
      bottles of the study medications.

      Follow-up assessment After the randomisation visit, patients will return at month 2, month 6,
      and then every four months thereafter until 24 months (follow up ± 14 days from scheduled
      clinic visit is allowed). At each visit, patients' complete blood picture, renal and liver
      function tests, and serum salicylate level, compliance to study medications, and the use of
      other medications including over-the-counter drugs, and safety of the treatment will be
      assessed. Drug adherence is assessed by counting the study drugs. Patients are permitted to
      take antacids to relieve dyspepsia. Drugs prohibited during the study include anticoagulant
      agents, NSAIDs, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, over-the-counter analgesics (including herbal
      products), corticosteroids, misoprostol, sucralfate, antiplatelet drugs, bisphosphonates, and
      PPIs/H2RAs apart from the study drugs.

      :
    
  