
    
      Colonoscopy is currently the best method for the detection of colon carcinomas and, as
      precursor, adenomas, since these can also be biopsied and removed. Therefore, the screening
      colonoscopy was introduced at the end of 2002 (covered by state insurance) from the age of
      55. The main quality parameter for outcome quality is the adenoma detection rate (ADR), which
      correlates with the rate of the carcinomas prevented. However, since even smaller polyps,
      especially if they are flat or sunken, may be relevant for colon cancer development, the aim
      of colonoscopy should be to be able to recognize and remove as many adenomas as possible.
      There is a need to optimize the efficiency of screening colonoscopy by increasing the rate of
      adenoma detection, as it is known from many studies that approximately 15-30% of adenomas can
      be missed- even though the adenoma rate in the German screening colonoscopy register
      continues to increase over the years and currently stands at 28%.

      Previous studies on the increase of the adenoma detection rate by endoscopy concerning newer
      endoscope technologies including conventional caps have been almost entirely negative.

      For about 2 years, a newer version of ENDOCUFF VISION速 caps (caps with soft, about 1 cm long
      lateral feet of rubber (Endocuff) to flatten the colon folds) is available which has already
      been used in about 8,000 colonoscopies in Germany and another 10,000 colonoscopies in Europe;
      there are no studies on this version of Endocuff caps.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of ENDOCUFF VISION速 in a real-life setting
      (general practices) and in a homogenous patient collective (screening colonoscopies only).

      It is a prospective randomized multi centric study, with participation of at least 10 study
      sites (private practice). The study is an inverstigator-initiated trial (IIT).

      A new technique for ADR improvement within colonoscopy can only be tested in a comparative
      study in two groups comparing the adenoma rate between the two groups. An independent gold
      standard does not exist in this sense, but the confirmation by the endoscopically taken
      histology serves as gold standard for the diagnosis adenoma. The alternative of double
      examinations (tandem colonoscopy) in each patient is in the setting of private practice not
      feasible.

      Depending on the randomization (closed envelope), the patients are examined with the standard
      instruments without or with ENDOCUFF VISION速.

      Group 1: screening colonoscopy with standard colonoscopes with ENDOCUFF VISION速 Group 2:
      screening colonoscopy with standard colonoscopes without cap
    
  