
    
      Static handgrip provides unique mechanistic insights into putative therapeutic targets (in
      this case the SGLT2 inhibitors) within the human autonomic nervous system include examining
      the reflexes within the nervous system and its response as a result. Static handgrip will
      require that patients lay down and with the use of a dyanometer (handgrip device which
      measures the force output generated from the handgrip exercise) and they will squeeze to the
      maximum of their ability for 30 seconds, then have a relaxation period, and grip again.

      Typically responses to the nervous system travel via unmyelinated skeletal muscle nerve
      fibers (afferent signals) and the brain responds via the central motor command (or voluntary
      motor effort) which is its communication to the body to indicate the perception of effort
      needed in order to complete the task at hand. This volitional component of exercise- is the
      main mechanism driving heart rate during static handgrip.

      When activated by exercise-induced skeletal muscle acidosis (as with static handgrip), muscle
      afferents signal the brain of a mismatch between muscle perfusion and metabolic demand and
      trigger a reflex increase in sympathetic nerve activity to non-exercising skeletal muscles.
      This raises blood pressure and shunts blood to the metabolically active muscle groups. Also,
      with voluntary exercise, the activation of brain pathways leading to the engagement of
      parallel central inhibition of the vagus nerve. The result is an increase in cardiac
      sympathetic nerve activity but it has an an insignificant effect on muscle sympathetic nerve
      activity, which is driven almost entirely by direct input from the afferent signals.

      Thus, the investigators hypothesize that, in type 2 diabetes, impaired skeletal muscle
      energetics requires patients to use excessive voluntary motor effort to perform routine
      static handgrip, resulting in a parallel augmentation in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity.
      If Ertugliflozin improves skeletal muscle energetics, the same isometric exercise will
      require less motor effort which should result in smaller increases in cardiac sympathetic
      nerve activity and heart rate as well as a lower rating of perceived exertion on the Borg
      scale (an established index of central command).

      The proposed work stands to advance several innovative concepts that could change the
      clinical approach to the early management of type 2 diabetes:

        1. The sympathetic nervous system as a novel therapeutic target in the mechanistic
           underpinning of how SGLT2 inhibitors protect against major CVD.

        2. Hyperfunction of unmyelinated autonomic (skeletal muscle) sensory nerves as a putative
           abnormal indicator of diabetic autonomic cardiovascular neuropathy.

        3. Early SGLT2-mediated correction of sympathetic overactivity in patients with type 2
           diabetes could favorably alter the natural history of diabetic autonomic neuropathy.

      The proposed methodology incorporates several scientific rigors:

        1. Direct measurement of sympathetic nerve action potentials in human patients using
           intraneural microelectrodes. This is the gold standard for studying the regulation of
           the sympathetic nervous system in patients.

        2. This microneurographic technique is highly quantitative and remarkably reproducible when
           a given subject is studied repeatedly without intervention. The spatial resolution is a
           major advantage by permitting recording of postganglionic fibers innervating the
           skeletal muscle circulation without "interfering noise" from surrounding postganglionic
           fibers innervating the skin and from muscle spindles. The temporal resolution permits
           calculation of the primary endpoint which relates sympathetic discharge rate to the
           cardiac cycle, providing the best indicator that sympathetic regulation is altered by an
           SGLT2 inhibitor.

        3. Skin sympathetic nerve activity recorded using standard ECG chest leads. The rationale
           is that the stellate ganglion gives off parallel sympathetic fibers to the heart and to
           the skin of the chest wall. Conscious dog studies in Dr. Peng-Shen Chen's lab at Indiana
           University show > 70% concordance of bursts in simultaneous recordings from the stellate
           ganglion, the cardiac sympathetics, and the chest wall skin sympathetics; similar data
           are obtained from standard non-invasive ECG chest leads using appropriate bandpass
           filtering and amplification. Collaborative translational data on healthy human subjects
           in my lab at Cedars-Sinai show that Skin sympathetic nerve activity displays
           characteristic discharge properties of Skin sympathetic nerve activity recorded with our
           intraneural microelectrodes: large non-pulse synchronous bursts of activity that
           increase immediately with the onset of static handgrip preceded by clear anticipatory
           bursts. Thus, Skin sympathetic nerve activity provides in conscious human patients a
           novel quantitative measurement of the centrally-influenced/baroreceptor-insensitive
           component of cardiac sympathetic nerve activity. Dr. Chen has shown large bursts of Skin
           sympathetic nerve activity trigger episodes of ventricular tachycardia (VT) in some VT
           patients with implanted automatic defibrillators. So, if SGLT2 inhibitors buffer
           excessive increases in Skin sympathetic nerve activity at rest or during static handgrip
           in patients with type 2 diabetes, this could potentially protect against one form of
           catecholamine-induced sudden cardiac death.

        4. CleverCaps Pill Dispensing System- this unique electronic pill bottle system
           incorporates wireless technology and state-of-the-art methodology for quantifying and
           optimizing medication compliance. The system sends reminders for each scheduled dose of
           each pill type and tracks opening and closing of the bottles in real time as well as the
           weight of the remaining pills.

        5. Welch Allyn Spot Vital Signs Monitor-- provides vital signs in seconds with
           hospital-grade technology and received an AA rating for continuous inflation mode which
           takes 6 readings per inflation sequence. This will allow for close titration of
           medications to induce a 10mmHg bidirectional changes in the mean arterial pressure.

        6. the investigators will conduct careful pharmacologic quantitative testing of the
           baroreceptor reflex.
    
  