
    
      This is a prospective multi-centre observational research project that will be carried out by
      8 European partners in 9 sites: 1 in Ireland (Dublin), 1 in the Netherlands (Utrecht), 2 in
      the United Kingdom (UK) (Sheffield and London), 2 in Italy (Turin and Milan), 2 in Germany
      (Berlin and Munich), and 1 in Belgium (Leuven). In terms of data collection, the study
      consists of 3 substudies and will be organised in 6 interlinked work packages spanning
      clinical, epidemiological and health services research.

      All partners will contribute in participant recruitment and collect comparable data, which
      will be used for fulfilling the deliverables of each work package. Central co-ordination of
      research activities in the 2 UK sites will be undertaken in Sheffield. This protocol concerns
      research activities in relation to the ALS-CarE project involving the 2 UK-based
      participating sites.

      Following ethical and research governance approvals, ALS-CarE officially started on 1st April
      2014 and will run for 3 years. Participant recruitment will commence following ethical and
      research governance approval and will occur for the first 4 months at the Sheffield and
      King's College MND Care Centres. The follow-up period of each participant will take 12 months
      depending on the rate of progression of the illness. Finally, a period of 11 months at the
      end of the project will enable analysis of data, dissemination of findings and report
      writing.

      SCIENTIFIC SUMMARY

      Background:

      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) or else known as Motor Neurone Disease (MND) is a
      progressive neurodegenerative disease that strikes in the prime of life. There are currently
      no effective disease modifying therapies for ALS and death usually occurs within 3 years of
      symptom onset. Management is palliative and is aimed at maximising quality of life and
      minimising the burden of disease. The complexity and rapidly progressive nature of ALS
      requires a responsive multidisciplinary care system that that is built on reliable disease
      staging and evidence based symptom management.

      Aim:

      To incorporate detailed clinical information drawn from population based sources into a
      responsive care programme.

      Plan of investigation:

      A standardised staging system will be validated, and quality of life and patient experiences
      will be measured and management optimised across disease stages from diagnosis to end of
      life. Health economic analysis will identify key differences in resource utilisation and will
      be useful for pharmaco-economic analyses of new therapeutics.

      Potential impact:

      The completed project will provide a user-friendly best practice framework for ALS that can
      be modified for management of other neurodegenerative diseases.
    
  