
    
      This is a multi-phase study to be conducted in 3 countries: Canada (Quebec and Alberta),
      Sweden and Netherlands. The primary objective is to provide e-decision support technology
      that will facilitate self-management in the context of aging in place and foster informed
      value congruent decisions about options to age safely at home.

      The aim of the project is to develop and validate a e-technology based on already existing
      components (e.g. GPS devices, diverse e-platforms and decision support interventions) to 1)
      help older adults with mild cognitive impairment/memory problems to stay safely at home as
      long as possible and 2) to provide older adults with decision support tools to help them make
      informed value congruent decisions (e.g. foster a shared decision-making process) regarding
      aging at home in a safe manner.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. Assess autonomy and mobility of older adults with mild cognitive impairment/memory
           problems living at home.

        2. Inform shared decision-making processes about options to safely age in place for all
           those involved.

      The investigators will apply an integrated Knowledge Translation (iKT), comparative,
      mixed-methods approach to explore, older adults living at home with mild cognitive
      impairment/memory problems, their use of space in their homes and neighbourhoods.

      The project is divide into 4 work package (WP). In more details, during WP1, the
      investigators will collect spatial data (e.g. using GPS) and self-reported data (e.g. travel
      diaries, walking interviews, in-depth interviews, surveys). At WP2, the investigators will
      use iterative end-user feedback and end-user consultation discussion group to tailor a
      decision support technology to knowledge-users. At WP3, investigators will assess user
      opinion regarding factors that could influence their use of the newly adapted e-decision
      support technology. Finally, at WP4 the investigators will triangulate data and take into
      account differences between jurisdictions.

      This collaboration and our cross-country comparisons will contribute to scaling up e-decision
      support solutions in the future for the older adults with mild cognitive impairment/memory
      problems who want to age safely at home.
    
  