
    
      Subclinical rejection (SCR) has been defined as "the documentation by light histology of
      unexpected evidence of acute rejection (AR) in a stable patient". The diagnosis of SCR is
      important given that the treatment of subclinical T-cell-mediated AR results in similar
      long-term graft survival to that in patients without rejection. Surveillance transplant
      biopsies are, by definition, required for the diagnosis of SCR. Still, only 17% of transplant
      centers in the United States perform surveillance biopsies in all patients, whereas 62% do
      not perform surveillance biopsies at all because the incidence of SCR is low3. Non-invasive
      biomarkers may thus be developed as "rule out" tests, with the highest negative predictive
      value, in order to reduce the indiscriminate use of allograft biopsies in stable kidney
      transplant recipients (KTR). Beside urine-derived and blood-based biomarkers of SCR, the
      investigators have recently reported in a monocentric prospective pilot study that
      18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography coupled with Computed Tomography (18F-FDG
      PET/CT) non-invasively rules out SCR at ~3 months post kidney transplantation (KTx).

      In previous 92-patient cohort published by the investigators, the ratio between the mean
      standardized 18F-FDG uptake values (SUVs) of the renal allograft and the psoas muscle (used
      as reference tissue) was significantly higher in the group with biopsy-proven SCR versus the
      group with strictly normal histology. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) reached 0.79, with a
      negative predictive value of 98% using an mSUVR threshold of 2.4.

      All adult KTR who undergo surveillance transplant biopsy at ~3 months post KTx are eligible
      for the present study, except pregnant women and patients PCR-proven BK nephropathy. Written
      informed consent will be obtained. KTx will be performed in accordance with the Declaration
      of Istanbul. Surveillance biopsies will be locally (in each participating centers) and
      centrally (at ULiège CHU) assessed by pathologists blinded to the results of 18F-FDG PET/CT.
      Banff 2017 classification will be conventionally used. Total inflammation (ti) will take into
      account interstitial inflammation in both non-sclerotic and sclerotic areas. C4d staining
      will be performed in all cases. PET/CT will be performed with late acquisitions (~180
      minutes) after 18F-FDG intravenous injection (~3 Mbq/kg) within a 48-hour period around the
      biopsy, before any modification of immunosuppressive regimens. The mean standardized uptake
      value (mSUV) of kidney cortex will be measured and averaged from 4 volumes of interest (VOI)
      distributed in the upper (n=2) and lower (n=2) poles, both locally (in each participating
      centers) and centrally (at ULiège CHU)10. The mSUV of kidney will be normalized to the mSUV
      of psoas muscle (VOI of 20 ml) or the liver (VOI of 20 ml), considered as reference tissues
      in order to obtain the corresponding mean SUV Ratios (mSUVR).

      The patients will be afterwards in one of these three categories :

        1. The renal biopsy shows signs of humoral rejection: the patient is excluded from the
           study and is treated "as usual" on the basis of the histological results.

        2. The renal biopsy does not show signs of humoral rejection but the 18FDG PET / CT shows a
           high metabolic activity of the graft (> 2.4): the patient is treated "as usual" on the
           basis of histological findings.

        3. The renal biopsy does not show signs of humoral rejection and the 18FDG PET / CT shows a
           weak metabolic activity of the graft (<2.4): the immunosuppressive treatment is
           gradually weaned off corticosteroids.

      The goals are :

      (i) to use the measurement of renal accumulation of the 18FDG marker at the level of the
      renal graft as a non-invasive indicator of the absence of a subclinical cellular rejection
      and to use the information from the renal biopsy only if the metabolic activity of the graft
      is increased.

      (ii) to use the measurement of renal accumulation of the 18FDG marker in the renal graft as a
      non-invasive indicator of the absence of cell rejection and to initiate the withdrawal of
      corticosteroids if the metabolic activity of the graft is normal.
    
  