
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by repetitive collapse or 'obstruction' of the
      pharyngeal airway during sleep. These obstructions result in repetitive hypopneas/apneas and
      intermittent hypoxia/hypercapnia, as well as surges in sympathetic activity. Such processes
      disturb normal sleep and impair neurocognitive function, often resulting in excessive daytime
      sleepiness and decreased quality of life. Furthermore, OSA is associated with cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality, making OSA a major health concern.

      Current evidence suggests that OSA pathogenesis involves the interactions of at least four
      physiological traits comprising: 1) the pharyngeal anatomy and its propensity towards
      collapse. This collapsibility of the upper airway is measured as the critical closing
      pressure or PCRIT. 2) the ability of the upper airway dilator muscles to activate and reopen
      the airway during sleep (i.e. neuromuscular compensation) measured as the increase in upper
      airway electromyography (EMG) activity above the baseline level. 3) the arousal threshold
      from sleep (i.e. the propensity for hypopneas/apneas to lead to arousal and fragmented sleep)
      measured as the epiglottic pressure occurring just at the time of arousal and 4) the
      stability of the ventilatory feedback loop (i.e. loop gain). Continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) is the most common treatment for OSA but it is often poorly tolerated; only
      ~50% of patients diagnosed with OSA continue therapy beyond 3 months. Given this limitation,
      alternative approaches have been tested and have generally focused on the use of oral
      appliances and upper airway surgery.

      In addition to these alternative therapies, the use of pharmacological agents for the
      treatment of OSA has been gaining widespread interest. Previous data have shown that the
      non-myorelaxant hypnotic trazodone increases the arousal threshold however its effects on
      sleep apnea severity remain unclear. Based on studies showing that increasing the arousal
      threshold with a different hypnotic improves sleep apnea severity, we hypothesize that
      trazodone will increase the arousal threshold and this will be associated with an improvement
      in sleep apnea severity.

      Therefore the overall aim of this study is to examine the effects that trazodone has on OSA
      severity.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      A double-blinded randomized control design will be used. Initially, participants will be
      randomized to the trazodone or placebo arm where they will have both a clinical
      polysomnography (PSG) with the addition of an epiglottic pressure cathether. The purpose of
      the clinical PSG is to determine the severity of OSA (i.e. AHI) and the epiglottic catheter
      allows the calculation of the arousal threshold to be completed.

      During the trazodone arm, participants will be given trazodone (100mg by mouth) to take
      before bed. During the placebo arm, subjects will be given a placebo to take before bed.

      Participants will have at least a 1-week washout period before cross over to the next arm of
      the study whereby the clinical PSG will be repeated. In total each subject will be studied
      for 2 nights.
    
  