
    
      Medical and dental history: diagnostic charts will be collected in a case report from by the
      investigators and confirmed for eligibility with the assistant supervisor.

      Radiographic examination: preoperative radiographs will be taken to examine the tooth
      structure, caries detection, periapical status.

      Clinical examination: intraoral examination include visual examination for caries,
      restorations, swelling, fistula, mobility, percussion were done.

      Diagnostic criteria for necrotic tooth:

        1. The patient marks moderate to severe pain on the numerical rating scale (NRS)a
           horizontal line of 11 marks and 10 intervals each takes number form 0 - 10 0 reading
           represents "no pain", 1- 3 readings represent "mild pain", 4- 6 readings represent
           "moderate pain", 7- 10 readings represent "severe pain".

           (recording baseline degree of pain preoperatively before initiating the endodontic
           treatment ) All step will done by operator.

           The measurement time will be at 4 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours and after 14 days. (Day
           of Obturation)

        2. The patient not responding to electric pulp tester at higher level than the
           contralateral tooth or the adjacent tooth if the contralateral one is missing.

        3. Preoperative periapical x- ray film is done to detect any periapical changes.

      Intervention:

      Forty five patients will include were allocated by random or by chance to receive several
      clinical interventions and one of these interventions was control (Group A) where the
      patients did not receive any intracanal medication, (Group B) where the patients receive
      intracanal medication calcium hydroxide (CALCIPAST Paste, (Poland) and chlorhexidine 2 % gel.
      (Gluco-Chex 2%, Cerkamed, Poland), (Group C) calcium hydroxide paste only CALCIPAST Paste
      (Poland).

      Procedure steps:

      At the 1st appointment.

        -  Each patient will be given a numerical pain rating scale chart in order to rate his /her
           presenting pain as preoperative pain

        -  Anesthesia will be done with Carpule 3M™ ESPE™ Ubistesin™ Articaine HCI 4% & Adrenaline
           1:100,000 3M Australia the tooth with decayed using a standard dental aspirating
           syringe.

        -  After diagnosis disinfecting the tooth surface by 30% H2O2 (Perfect Medical, Egypt)
           followed by 2.5% NaOCl inactivated with sodium thiosulfate (El Nasr CO. for
           pharmaceuticals and chemicals).

        -  Access cavity will do under rubber dam isolation and with Sterile burs for access cavity
           preparation with distilled water as a coolant and flaring will done by endo-z bur.

        -  If successful anesthesia occurs, working length will be determined with an apex locator
           (Root ZX, J.Morita, Irvine, California, USA.) then confirmed with intraoral periapical
           radiograph (Kodac Dental film, speed D, size 2, Carestream Health, Rochester, NY, USA)
           to confirm the length to be 0.5-1 mm shorter than radiographic apex.

        -  The first sample of endotoxin (S1) is taken by a sterile paper points after access
           cavity preparation and introduced in the root canal for the working length for 60
           seconds.

        -  The sample is then placed in a pyrogenic free plastic tube and frozen to negative 200c
           for endotoxin determination by LAL test.

        -  Canal instrumentation will be done using NiTi rotary files system (Revo-S MicroMega,
           France) in an endodontic motor (X-Smart, Dentsply Maillefer, USA.) according to the
           manufacturer instructions to ensure adequate space for placement of the intracanal
           medicaments and proper removal of bacteria and debris, till size AS 35 file. The rotary
           files will be introduced inside the canal with EDTA gel (MD-Chelcream, META BIOMED CO.,
           LTD, Korea) as lubricant.

        -  The irrigant solution will be NaOCl with concentration 2.5% for its tissue dissolving
           properties between each file and will be delivered by disposable plastic syringe.

        -  Another sample (S2) will be taken after the cleaning and shaping and before placing the
           intracanal medications by sterile paper point for endotoxin determination.

        -  The first group will be subjected to combined therapy of both calcium hydroxide
           intracanal medication CALCIPAST Paste (Poland), with 2% chlorhexidine gel intracanal
           medication (Gluco-Chex 2%, Cerkamed, Poland) after the cleaning and shaping for 2 weeks
           period.

        -  The second group will be subjected to calcium hydroxide intracanal medication alone for
           2 weeks period after the cleaning and shaping. Calcium hydroxide will be in form of
           ready-made paste in a measured special syringe CALCIPAST (Poland).

        -  The third group will receive plain cotton with temporary filling without any intracanal
           medication.

        -  Placement of the intracanal medications by lentuolo spiral by low speed hand piece and
           condensed with paper points.

        -  Temporary filling is done by glass ionmer filling to ensure proper sealing with no
           leakage of any oral fluids inside the root canal, which may disturb the action of the
           intracanal medication.

        -  Pain will be assessed by numerical pain rating scale (NRS) will be given to each patient
           to complete a t home at the specified times at 4, 24, 48 hours after the first visit.

      At the 2nd appointment:

        -  After 2 weeks from application of ICM, rubber dam will be applied then removal of the
           temporary dressing by following the previous infection control protocol, then a sterile
           paper point (S3) will be introduced into the canals after irrigation and removal of the
           remnants of the intracanal medicament with the saline solution.

        -  Removal of the paper sample to determine the endotoxin concentration.

        -  The canals will be obturated by single cone technique using gutta percha point tapered
           0.4% (Gutta percha point, Revo-S MicroMega CO., LTD, France) corresponding to the final
           apical size of the file and the root canal sealer will be resin sealer (Adseal, META
           BIOMED CO., LTD, Korea).

        -  Pain will be assessed by numerical pain rating scale (NRS) after 14 days from the first
           visit (at the day of the Obturation) before the beginning of Obturation.
    
  