
    
      This is an open labeled study to determine the response and characteristics, safety and
      efficacy, of the proprietary DPCP ointment composition as a topical immunotherapeutic agent
      for the treatment of extensive alopecia areata.

      Up to 10 subjects with 76% to 99% scalp hair loss that, in the opinion of the PI, are
      eligible for treatment with DPCP will be enrolled. Patients will be recruited from the new
      and current patient population seen for alopecia areata through the University of Minnesota
      Medical Center Dermatology Clinic as well as through partnership with the National Alopecia
      Areata Foundation Clinical Trials Network, and various media outlets.

      The products to be evaluated are as follows:

        -  0.05 mL of 0.4% DPCP (sensitization dose) applied topically to the inner aspect of the
           upper right arm. ("Sensitization and Baseline Sample Collection Visit")

        -  0.05 mL four dose concentration matrix of DPCP ointment (0.1, 0.05, 0.01, 0.005%)
           prepared through dilutions in a non-volatile vehicle (applied to the inner aspect of the
           left upper thigh). ("Dose Determination Visit"; 10-14 days after the Sensitization
           Visit)If sensitization is not attained after 10 to 14 days, the procedure will be
           repeated once.

      The subject will return 2 days after the Dose Determination Visit, so the PI or co-PI can
      assess the dose concentration matrix. The weakest strength concentration that caused a
      minimal reaction will be used throughout the study. 0.75-1 g of the treatment drug will be
      aThe treatment drug will be applied by the PI, a trained study coordinator, or a staff member
      of the Clinical Research Unit at the University of Minnesota. Eligible subjects may begin
      receiving the study drug immediately after enrollment and screening.

      The estimated duration of the study is 22 weeks. See Appendix A for the schedule of visits.
      There will be a total of 42 visits, beginning with a screening visit followed by a single
      sensitizing dose of study drug at baseline (Day -16) and a dose determination application at
      Day -2.

      Subjects will undergo twice weekly (+/- 2 days) topical applications of an ointment
      formulation of DPCP during Weeks 1-18. Application will be done twice per week. The drug
      application will be performed by a board certified dermatologist for the first two treatment
      visits (Days 0 and 3; Visits 4 and 5), after which a trained member of the Clinical Research
      Unit staff will apply the drug twice each week (Weeks 2-18; Visits 6-39). The investigator
      will attend one treatment visit in the Clinical Research Unit each month to evaluate the
      extent of hair loss and hair growth (Weeks 4, 8, 12, and 16).

      Scalp biopsy specimen collection will be performed at baseline (Day -16, Visit 2), three days
      after the first treatment (i.e., challenge) application (Day 2, Visit 5), three days after
      the final application (Week 18 +3d, Visit 39) or during treatment when the study subject is
      determined to have achieved >=50% hair regrowth.

      Three scalp biopsy samples will be collected by a board certified dermatologist. When
      possible, each sample will be taken from a balding area near an area with hair preferably in
      a non-androgen dependent site of the scalp. One of the three samples will be frozen in OCT
      for histologic examination and immunohistochemical studies. A second biopsy sample from an
      adjacent area will be placed in 10% buffered formalin for histologic examination and
      assessment of inflammation and hair follicle differentiation. The third sample from each area
      will immediately be placed in RNAlater (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) for cytokine expression
      analyses.

      Peripheral blood collection for the study will include whole blood for serum and obtaining
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). All blood samples will be transported to the
      Dermatology laboratory at the University of Minnesota for immediate processing and storage
      for additional biomarker studies.

      Research coordinators will be involved in patient recruitment, contact, and scheduling. The
      PI and research coordinators will all be involved in the collection, analysis, and reporting
      of collected data.

      applied in a thin film that covers the entire scalp.
    
  