
    
      Refractory ascites is when fluid recurrently accumulates in the peritoneal cavity, as an end
      result of multiple mechanisms, including liver cirrhosis, peritoneal infiltration by tumor,
      portal hypertension, lymphangitic carcinomatosis, congestive heart failure, or lymphatic
      obstruction. It is associated with increased mortality and morbidity, including complications
      of abdominal wall hernias, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, kidney dysfunction, and pleural
      effusions. The development of ascites also leads to multiple symptoms including anorexia,
      early satiety, nausea and vomiting, shortness of breath, and limited mobility.

      The management of ascites associated with liver dysfunction usually follows a stepwise
      escalation in treatments. The initial management typically involves sodium restriction and
      diuretic therapy up to a daily maximum of 160 mg of furosemide and 400 mg of spironolactone.
      When ascites no longer can be controlled by these measures, one option is to decrease portal
      hypertension, a main pathogenic factor in ascites development, by undergoing a procedure
      called transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). This procedure requires certain
      patient criteria to be fulfilled and is associated with complications and increased risk of
      hepatic encephalopathy, and therefore is confined to a small subgroup of patients with
      ascites. Consequently, abdominal large volume paracentesis (LVP) is the treatment of choice
      in many patients. This procedure involves insertion of a needle into the peritoneal cavity
      where ascites accumulates, then attaching the needle to a collection system that drains the
      ascites by gravity. The definitive treatment for ascites in patients with cirrhosis is a
      liver transplant, but due to limited supply of organs, and contraindications to
      transplantation, patients often undergo repeated LVP while waiting on the wait list or until
      death. Paracentesis is associated with risks including post paracentesis circulatory
      dysfunction leading to hyponatremia, kidney dysfunction, viscus puncture, and peritonitis. It
      also is a costly, resource intense, and at times an uncomfortable treatment for patients due
      to the procedure itself and the need for repeated treatments.

      A potential alternative to LVP is the placement of an intraperitoneal catheter, in the same
      manner that a peritoneal dialysis (PD) catheter, to drain ascites. The procedure has a high
      technical insertion success rate with minimal complications and is routinely done at the
      bedside by nephrologist under local anesthesia. PD catheter placement for ascites drainage
      has many potential advantages, including the ability for it to be done at home by the patient
      and avoid visits to clinics or hospitals; the frequency of drainage can be timed to patient
      symptoms, and perhaps have less complication rates than LVP. However, the efficacy and safety
      of this approach in decompensated cirrhosis when compared to periodic LVP (current standard
      of care) has not been tested in a randomized trial. Investigators propose a single center,
      multi-site randomized control trial comparing bedside PD catheter placement versus usual
      standard of serial LVP for treatment of refractory ascites. The primary outcomes will be
      improvement of 10 points in the physical component score (PCS) of the Short Form-36 (SF-36)
      at two months. Investigators plan to randomize 50 patients (25 per arm) based on a power
      calculation to achieve an 10 point improvement in the PCS-SF-36 (SE = 5). Secondary outcomes
      will include incidence of mechanical and infectious complications, emergency department
      utilization, hospitalization and mortality, all other domains of the SF-36, Euroquol-5D
      (EQ-5D), the Newcastle Patient Reported Ascites Measure and overall health care costs.

      Primary Hypothesis: Drainage of ascites associated with liver failure via PD catheter is
      superior to serial LVP in improving the physical component of quality of life as measured by
      SF-36.

      This trial will be pivotal in possibly changing the standard of care for the management of
      refractory ascites from cirrhosis. If the primary hypothesis is confirmed, investigators will
      design and conduct subsequent trials to address potential morbidity and mortality benefits
      associated with this technique for ascites management.
    
  