
    
      1.0 INTRODUCTION

      1.1 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

      The use of ultrasound as a tool for guiding regional anaesthesia has been growing in
      popularity and use. The National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) has acknowledged the
      role of ultrasound in regional anaesthesia by issuing guidance governing incorporation in
      clinical practice. The focus of this guidance was on the adoption of ultrasound by properly
      trained practitioners in a setting of adequate clinical governance, consent and audit. [1]
      Trainees in anaesthesia are expected to become familiar with regional anaesthetic techniques,
      increasingly involving the use of ultrasound. Of paramount importance is the acquisition of
      the skill of needle visualisation under ultrasound guidance in real time. There is growing
      consensus that trainees should undergo a period of training on a phantom prior to performing
      techniques on patients [2, 3].

      Given the increasing use of ultrasound for regional anaesthesia within our trust, together
      with the recognition of the requirement for adequate formal training in its use we plan to
      introduce a program of phantom based training in ultrasound needle visualisation and control
      for trainees prior to commencing clinical practice.

      1.2 RATIONALE FOR CURRENT STUDY

      The amount of training required to achieve competency, both on phantom models or in clinical
      practice is unknown. Some work has been done using the cumulative sum (CUSUM) method with
      several different anaesthetic related practical procedures. These show that individual
      learning curves vary greatly, however the CUSUM method has shown promise as a technique for
      determining the acquisition of competence. [4, 7] Unsurprisingly it has also been suggested
      that providing training, before and during phantom practice, improves the success and rate of
      skill acquisition [4, 5, 6]. In order to conduct any future work into the effect of
      interventions in training methods on learning curves in regional anaesthesia a baseline
      learning curve needs to be constructed. As part of our planned training program we intend to
      collect observational data to enable the construction of a baseline learning curve for the
      attainment of competence in ultrasound needle visualisation.

      One of the weaknesses of previous attempts at incorporating CUSUM into training analysis has
      been the need to arbitrarily select values for acceptable and unacceptable failure rates. We
      hope to address this in our study by simultaneously determining the local failure rate of the
      technique amongst proficient practitioners, and applying this data in CUSUM analysis of data
      collected during novice training. In order to provide pragmatic data applicable to the
      average anaesthetic department we will define proficient practitioners, for the purposes of
      calculating acceptable failure rates, as those anaesthetists routinely incorporating in-plane
      ultrasound guided needle visualisation in their practice and teaching it to others.

      The investigators suggest that providing novices with instruction during the practice
      process, rather than allowing a 'discovery learning' approach as previously studied [4], will
      result in a lower total and narrower spread of attempts required to attain competence. By
      using a measured acceptable failure rate we will add validity to our data.

      2. STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective - Determine the amount of training required (number of attempts) to attain
      statistical proficiency in the average anaesthetist.

      Secondary outcomes - Determine the effect of prior experience or demographic factors on the
      rate of skill acquisition.

      Determine whether trainer assessment predicts statistical outcome.

      3. STUDY DESIGN

      The proposed study will be a prospective observational study.

      We aim to recruit 20 participants in this pilot study.

      Methods -

      Anaesthetists within the department will be invited to participate in a short training and
      observational exercise.

      Participants will be asked for consent in advance to have the ultrasound images of their
      practice attempts recorded anonymously and subsequently assessed. Refusal of consent will not
      preclude them from taking part in the training if desired.

      Participants will be asked to provide some background demographic data on subjects which may
      be expected to effect the rate of skill acquisition. This will include age, sex, grade of
      anaesthetist, prior experience with in-plane ultrasound guided needling (regional anaesthesia
      or vascular access), exposure to computer gaming. (See Appendix)

      Participants will be asked to declare their level of experience

        1. New to in-plane ultrasound guided needling. Little or no experience in technique.

        2. Some exposure to in-plane ultrasound guided needling. Infrequent use in clinical
           practice.

        3. Regularly incorporate in-plane ultrasound guided needling in clinical practice. Teaching
           technique to others.

           Experience gained in Ultrasound Guided Regional Anaesthesia and vascular access
           techniques will be deemed valid.

           All participants, irrespective of previous experience, will then complete a training /
           observational package as detailed below.

           Training sessions will be run on a one to one basis by the local Fellow in Regional
           Anaesthesia. Participants will spend approximately 15 minutes viewing a brief powerpoint
           presentation introducing the principles of ultrasound followed by machine orientation
           and instruction on needle handling and visualisation techniques. The trainer will
           demonstrate the technique.

           Participants will then spend approximately 45 minutes of hands on practice at needle
           handling and visualisation while performing a task in a standardised gelatin based
           phantom. Instruction and feedback will be provided throughout, with the aim being to
           develop or demonstrate skill in maintaining needle tip visualisation at all times while
           advancing towards and contacting a target. It is anticipated that participants will
           undertake approximately 50 needle passes during this time.

           For each attempt the participant will be asked to advance the needle under ultrasound
           guidance toward a target, maintaining constant needle visualisation to the best of their
           ability. A brief period of initial shallow insertion to locate the needle with
           ultrasound will be permitted, as will partial withdrawal and re-alignment of the needle.
           A fresh puncture of the phantom will be regarded as the next attempt. Once participants
           feel they have optimised the needle position contacting the target the trainer will
           ensure optimal needle visualisation to exclude tip placement within or traversing the
           target. The needle will be withdrawn and the participant proceeds to the next attempt.

           We will be using a Sonosite M-Turbo ultrasound machine with HFL38X 6-13MHz linear probe
           and Sonoplex 80mm 20G needles. Ultrasound images will be recorded digitally using an
           "iGrabber" USB video capture device onto a laptop computer. Recording will start
           immediately prior to needle insertion. Once the participant has optimised needle
           position for that attempt the image will be frozen to indicate the end point, unfrozen
           and visualisation of the needle optimised by the trainer (with participant maintaining
           static needle position) before withdrawal of the needle, after which recording will be
           stopped. The process will be repeated for each subsequent attempt. At the end of the
           period of training of participants rating themselves as within group 1 the trainer will
           record whether they feel the participant has demonstrated competence, for later
           comparison with CUSUM analysis.

           Following this period of training and observation the anonymised video recordings of the
           participants attempts will be exported for review by two consultant anaesthetists, each
           experienced in ultrasound guided regional anaesthesia. Each needle pass will be
           assessed, out of sequence, and graded against previously agreed criteria based on a
           previously published system [4](appendix). Sequential grading information for each
           participant will be collated. Data for participants in group 3 will be used to calculate
           the actual failure rate of anaesthetists within our department considering themselves
           competent enough to teach the technique. This will be used as the acceptable failure
           rate to generate a CUSUM chart for those participants in group 1 to assess the
           attainment of competence. If desired this information will subsequently be fed back to
           the participant, but will not play any part in determining the progress of their
           training or practice.

           3.1 STUDY OUTCOME MEASURES

           The outcome will be an indication of the amount of training required to attain
           competence in the average novice anaesthetist, validated by using the measured success
           rate of those already deemed competent working within the department.

        4. PARTICIPANT ENTRY

           4.1 PRE-REGISTRATION EVALUATIONS Nil

           4.2 INCLUSION CRITERIA Any anaesthetist within the anaesthetic dept of Aberdeen Royal
           Infirmary or Woodend Hospital, Aberdeen providing written, informed consent.

           4.2 EXCLUSION CRITERIA Refusal of consent.

           4.3 WITHDRAWAL CRITERIA Participants are free to withdraw from the study at any time,
           with no detriment to training offered.

        5. ASSESSMENT AND FOLLOW UP

           Following construction of CUSUM charts and analysis of each participants performance,
           the individuals results will be fed-back to them if desired. No further follow-up is
           planned beyond this. Following feedback links between data and person-identifiable
           information will be broken.

        6. STATISTICS AND DATA ANALYSIS

           This is a pilot project and a power calculation was not possible.

           Assistance will be given by the medical statistics department of the University of
           Aberdeen with the construction of CUSUM charts and any subsequent analysis if required.

        7. REGULATORY ISSUES

      7.1 ETHICS APPROVAL

      The Chief Investigator will obtain ethics approval from the North of Scotland Regional Ethics
      Committee. The study will be submitted for Site Specific Assessment (SSA) at each
      participating NHS Trust. The Chief Investigator will require a copy of the SSA approval
      letter before accepting participants into the study. The study will be conducted in
      accordance with the recommendations for physicians involved in research on human subjects
      adopted by the 18th World Medical Assembly, Helsinki 1964 and later revisions.

      7.2 CONSENT

      All potential participants will be provided invitation and participant information letters
      detailing the study aims, objectives and protocol. A minimum period of overnight will be
      allowed to peruse information, after which an opportunity to discuss the study will be made
      available prior to seeking informed, written consent. An independent point of contact will be
      available to discuss the study if desired. Participants are free to cease participation in
      the study at any point if desired, with no effect on training opportunity. Equally should
      potential participants refuse consent to the study, they may complete the training session if
      desired.

      7.3 CONFIDENTIALITY

      The Chief Investigator will preserve the confidentiality of the participants taking part in
      the study.

      All data will be collected under an individual study number only. A separate database will be
      held linking participant contact details to study numbers. To further decrease the
      possibility of participant identification by assessors video clips will be assessed in
      batches of five.

      Following feedback of statistical performance to participants links between data and
      person-identifiable information will be broken.

      All data will be collected in paper form then transferred to a digital format. Paper copies
      will be stored in a locked box in the acute pain team office at woodend hospital. Digital
      information will be stored on a password protected account on the NHS Grampian computer
      network.

      It will be necessary to process the anonymised video recordings on a home computer prior to
      assessment.
    
  