
    
      This study will test the hypothesis that Moxidectin combination therapies are superior to
      ivermectin combination therapies for achieving sustained clearance of W. bancrofti
      microfilaremia.

      This trial is designed as single-site, Phase III, randomized, open-label, masked-observer
      superiority trial with four treatment arms: ivermectin + albendazole (IA), moxidectin +
      albendazole (MoxA), ivermectin + diethylcarbamazine + albendazole (IDA), and moxidectin +
      diethylcarbamazine + albendazole (MoxDA). The primary endpoint is the proportion of
      participants achieving complete clearance of microfilaremia at 12 months (IA vs. MoxA
      comparison) or 24 months (IDA vs. MoxDA comparison). Block randomization by gender will be
      used to assign treatment arms.

      The first 48 participants (12 each arm) will be treated at Agboville Hospital in Cote
      d'Ivoire at the Centre de Recherche de Filariose with inpatient AE monitoring and collection
      of post-treatment plasma drug levels (Part 1). For Part 1, active AE surveillance will be
      conducted in the hospital on days 1, 2, and 3, post-treatment, and in the participant's
      village of residence on day 7 post-treatment and passive surveillance will be conducted by
      trained village health workers on days 4-6. An interim safety analysis will take place after
      Part 1. If no safety concerns are identified, the remainder of the participants will be
      treated in their home villages, with active AE monitoring on days 1 and 2 post-treatment
      (Part 2) with passive surveillance by trained village health workers on days 3-7. Any
      participant in either Part 1 or Part 2 experiencing AEs of grade 2 or higher will be followed
      until adverse event (AE) severity falls below grade 2. Follow-up assessments for efficacy of
      treatments for all participants (Parts 1 and 2) will be conducted at 6, 12, 24, and 36
      months.

      The study includes both safety and efficacy analyses. The safety assessment (Part 1 only)
      ends 7 days after treatment (unless AEs remain grade 2 or higher). The efficacy assessment
      (Parts 1 and 2 combined) ends when participants are retested for filarial infection 36 months
      post-treatment. Participants in the IA arm will receive IA annually (standard of care).
      Participants in the other arms will receive the assigned treatment at baseline; those found
      to be microfilaremic at 24 months post-treatment will be retreated with the same treatment
      received at baseline. If clearance of microfilariae (Mf) at 12 months in the IA arm is
      superior to Mf clearance in the MoxA arm, the MoxA group will be switched to annual IA
      treatment.

      The study design does not currently include stratification, nor do any sub-studies. However,
      the study may stratify based on pre-treatment Mf levels if high variability among
      pre-screening Mf counts is observed.
    
  