
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) or clarithromycin causes a significant
           reduction in bone marrow plasmacytosis, serum and/or urine M protein or Bence Jones
           protein, and surrogate endpoint biomarkers in patients with monoclonal gammopathy of
           undetermined or borderline significance.

        -  Determine whether differences in interleukin-1-beta (IL-1-beta) expression and IL-1-beta
           dependent biomarkers (adhesion molecule expression and serum interleukin-6 levels) are
           useful surrogate endpoint biomarkers in these patients.

        -  Determine whether differences in ploidy, proliferative index, nuclear pleomorphism
           index, circulating monoclonal plasma cells, Th1/Th2 ratios, serum s-interleukin-6R
           (SIL-6R) levels, interleukin-6 and SIL-6R expression, or plasma cell apoptosis assay are
           useful surrogate endpoint biomarkers in these patients.

        -  Determine the effects of these treatment regimens on the quality of life of these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to disease (monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance vs
      monoclonal gammopathy of borderline significance) and monoclonal protein abnormality (IgG vs
      IgA). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) once daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral clarithromycin once or twice daily.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive oral placebo once daily.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily. Treatment continues for 6 months in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 6 months, 12 months, and then at disease
      progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 1.5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 patients (25 per treatment arms I and II and 25 between arms
      III and IV) will be accrued for this study within 2.5 years.
    
  