
    
      Adequate analgesic strategies for Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) are of paramount importance in
      early rehabilitation and enhanced recovery. Ultrasound guided peripheral nerve blocks emerge
      as the key element of multi-modal analgesia in modern orthopaedic surgery, but in this
      setting, given the complex sensory innervation of the hip joint, the optimal regional
      technique for THA is yet to be elucidated. Many centres incorporate Suprainguinal Fascia
      Iliaca Block in their THA regimen. Although it confers certain benefits, its analgesic
      efficacy may be suboptimal for posterior approach THA, especially with regards to dermatomal
      sensory distribution. The Quadratus Lumborum Block (QLB) is a relatively novel technique, yet
      its role is already established in providing somatic and visceral analgesia for abdominal and
      pelvic surgery. There are case reports indicating its utility in THA; Adhikary et al. report
      that QLB is non inferior to Lumbar Plexus Block in terms of its analgesic efficacy, while
      being easier to perform and carrying less risks.

      There remains some debate regarding the QLB mechanism of action. Its clinical effect may be
      attributed to the spread to thoracic and lumbar paravertebral spaces, spread within the
      thoracolumbar fascia or even direct spread to the lumbar plexus branches; perhaps all three
      mechanisms are involved. Thus, QLB is biologically plausible to provide analgesia without
      significant motor block for posterior approach THA, but for that purpose, neither the optimal
      volume of local anaesthetic nor the site of injection (anterior vs posterior vs lateral QLB
      or the vertical height of injection endpoint) have been established in the literature. Based
      on the available evidence, as well as experience at our institution, the investigators
      hypothesise, that in patients undergoing THA via posterior approach, anterior QLB at L4 level
      using 30 ml 0,5% ropivacaine, 100mcg dexmedetomidine and 1:200,000 adrenaline will reduce
      movement pain scores within the first 24hours, without clinically significant motor block.

      The participants will be randomised into one of two groups using an internet based
      randomisation tool (https://www.randomizer.org/), and subsequently allocated to either group,
      with the allocation concealed in a sealed opaque envelope.
    
  