
    
      Episodic and working memory processes are the most affected cognitive domains in Alzheimer's
      Disease (AD) and its early stage, Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). Transcranial Magnetic
      Stimulation (TMS) is a unique tool to interfere with cognitive processes by inducing "virtual
      and transient lesions", mimicking those observed in MCI. It has proven repeatedly its
      capacity to interfere with encoding-retrieval memory task. However, to date, only few imaging
      data exist on the cerebral pathways involved in encoding memory task. Moreover, the stability
      of TMS effects over time remains to be investigated. If proven to be a stable interfering
      challenge, TMS could be used to investigate the potential restoring effect of new medication
      in AD.

      The study is the pilot study of a larger clinical trial which aims to prove the utility of
      rTMS as a potential model for prediction of clinical efficacy using a combination of
      cognitive and neuroimaging endpoints.

      This pilot study specifically aims:

        -  to determine the cerebral region to stimulate using functional neuronavigation,

        -  to evaluate the effects of rTMS on behavioral and functional imaging data (functional
           Magnetic Resonance Imaging, fMRI)

        -  to investigate the stability of the TMS interfering effects by replicating the
           experimental day up to 4 times.

      The study is composed of two parts:

        -  Part A: on Day 1, the subjects will perform the episodic memory task in the MRI scanner
           to determine individual main activations. The mean activation peak obtained by a group
           analysis will be used as the target coordinates during the part B. Two weeks later, on
           Day 2, the subjects will repeat the episodic memory task in the MRI scanner. The BOLD
           signal changes will be compared between Day 1 and Day 2 to investigate the stability of
           the activations elicited by the memory task.

        -  Part B: subjects will randomly be assigned to Group 1 or 2.

             -  GROUP 1: The subjects will come on 4 different days. On each day, the subjects will
                perform the episodic memory task while being actively stimulated using rTMS over
                L-DLPFC and Vertex (control region) in random order and will undergo an fMRI
                session on Day 1 and Day 2. Later, they will undergo another set of behavioral
                tasks from the CANTAB battery and will be stimulated by rTMS using a placebo coil.

             -  GROUP 2: The subjects will come on 4 different days. On each day, the subjects will
                perform the episodic memory task while being actively stimulated using rTMS over
                L-DLPFC and Vertex (control region) in random order and will undergo an fMRI
                session on Day 1 and Day 2. Later, they will undergo another set of behavioral
                tasks from the CANTAB battery and will be stimulated by rTMS using an active coil.

      Total expected number of subjects:

      34 subjects for the Parts A and B PART A: 10 subjects PART B: 24 subjects (12 per group)
    
  