
    
      Systemic amyloidosis are a family of diseases induced by misfolded and/or misassembled
      proteins. Extracellular deposits of these proteins disrupt vital organ function. Two types of
      amyloid commonly infiltrate the heart: immunoglobulin light-chain amyloid and transthyretin
      (TTR) amyloid. Among the TTR variants that predominantly target the heart, the valine to
      isoleucine substitution at position 122 (V122I or Ile122) is the most common. This TTR
      variant is responsible for the most frequent form of amyloid cardiomyopathy in the Caribbean
      basin. Increasingly study data supports a central role for circulating or pre-fibrillar
      amyloidogenic proteins in the disruption of cardiac function in TTR mediated amyloid disease.
      In vivo exposure of cultured cardiomyocytes to pre-fibrillar an amyloidogenic proteins
      stimulate the production of reactive oxygen species and disrupts calcium fluxes. (Recent
      studies indicate that pre-fibrillar amyloidogenic proteins may also induce apoptosis through
      the mitochondrial pathway, eventually leading to cardiac cell injury). Hence, growing
      evidence suggests that end-organ damage by pre-fibrillar TTR amyloid may be related to
      mitochondrial dysfunction. Diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis can be based on invasive heart
      biopsies or a non-invasive approach including identification of amyloid tissue deposits from
      abdominal fat biopsies. The investigators aim is to demonstrate that transthyretin mediated
      amyloid disease alters the mitochondrial function of subcutaneous abdominal adipocytes.

      The investigators objective is to study mitochondrial respiration assessed by oxygraphy in
      fragments of subcutaneous abdominal fat biopsies performed for diagnosis of TTR amyloidosis.
      Mitochondrial respiration will be evaluated in the absence and in the presence of ADP.

      Follow the evaluation of mitochondrial respiration. So, no patient follow-up will be
      performed.
    
  