
    
      Cerebral Blood Flow (CBF) regulation is crucial for the adequate oxygen supply to the brain
      and the sustenance of cerebrovascular reserve capacity. A fundamental physiologic regulator
      of CBF is the carbon dioxide partial pressure (pCO2), which determines the dilatation or
      contraction of cerebral vasculature. CBF regulation response has been found to be strongly
      dependent upon pCO2 but much less so upon changes in arterial oxygen saturation. CBF is
      highly sensitive to pCO2 changes which cause pronounced-vasodilatation in increased pCO2 (CBF
      augmentation) or vasoconstriction in decreased pCO2 levels (CBF diminution). During cerebral
      activation and increased metabolism, cerebral arterioles dilate contributing to increase CBF
      but this process is often challenged during exercise and has a potential impact on cognitive
      function. CBF is linked to cognitive function while serum level of Brain Derived Neurotrophic
      Factor (BDNF) has been shown as a critical driving force behind neural plasticity with a
      potential utility as a biomarker of cognitive decline.

      Investigators assume that major pCO2 oscillations during exercise (ΔpCO2 >4 millimeters of
      mercury [mmHg] from baseline) as a reflection of the abnormality in ventilatory
      efficiency/drive, lead to overall and local disturbances of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and
      thus can be associated to increased prevalence of cognitive dysfunction in patients with
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Moreover, investigators hypothesize that
      patients with major pCO2 oscillations during exercise may develop worse cognitive impairment
      in several cognitive domains and greater cognitive decline compared to "isocapnic" patients
      at 6, 12, and 18-month follow-up. Inpatient PR may benefit cognitive function by improving
      breathing (diminishing pCO2 oscillations), therefore improving CBF, and by increasing
      cerebral neural activation through exercise.

      With regard to cognitive dysfunction, which is associated to increased all-cause mortality
      and disability, investigators wish:

      (A) to detect a relationship between major pCO2 oscillations during exercise and increased
      prevalence of cognitive dysfunction in COPD; (B) to investigate the impact of different pCO2
      transitory-patterns (1. pCO2: decline/ hypocapnic, 2. steady/ isocapnic, 3. increase/
      hypercapnic) on CBF regulation and cognitive function; (C) to examine whether major pCO2
      oscillations can be a determinant of greater cognitive deterioration in several cognitive
      domains at 6, 12, and18-month follow-up and (D) to explore the acute effect of 3-week PR on
      pCO2 oscillations and CBF in respect to cognitive function in COPD patients with cognitive
      impairment.

      The evaluation of cognitive function will be performed by the use of Standardized Mini Mental
      State Examination (SMMSE), Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination (ACE-R), Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment (MoCA) and Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS) assessing several
      cognitive domains (cognitive scores) whereas Stroop test will be used for measuring cognitive
      performance (Reaction-Time).
    
  