
    
      Wood smoke pollution is a common problem across the world, including in the US. This wood
      smoke comes from people using wood to heat and cook, as well as from wildfires. The purpose
      of this research study is to investigate the cardiovascular effects of exposure to wood smoke
      in young healthy human subjects. Results from this study will also increase our understanding
      of how wood smoke exposure adversely affects the functioning of the human cardiovascular and
      respiratory systems. This understanding may be especially important for patients with
      cardiopulmonary diseases.

      Approximately 80 people will participate in this study.

      You should expect to be in this study for about a month, but your participation could
      possibly last for 6 months. There are 4 sessions, including a consenting session (today)
      which will last for about 4 hours. The two exposure-day sessions will last approximately 8-9
      hours each. There will also be an approximately 3-hour follow-up visit the day after your
      last exposure.

      Before you agree to participate in this study, you must read the consent forms in their
      entirety. The research and medical staff will then answer all your questions and explain all
      the risks involved in this study to your satisfaction.

      You should have already undergone a general physical examination to ensure that you are a
      suitable candidate for this study. If you are a female, you will be asked about your
      menstrual history. For all other female participants, a pregnancy test will be performed
      today, and this will be repeated on the exposure day if more than 7 days since last pregnancy
      test.

      Consenting Day We will go over the study in detail so that you will know what we will expect
      from you as a participant and what you should expect from us as investigators. If you agree
      to participate in the study, you will sign all study consent forms and receive one set of
      signed copies.

      You will have a breathing test (spirometry). You will breathe through a filter into a plastic
      device. Your lung function test results should meet certain criteria (Both Forced Vital
      Capacity (FVC) and Forced Expiatory Volume at the 1st second (FEV1) are equal to and greater
      than 80% of the reference value) to allow you to participate in the study.

      You will be asked to wear a face mask, also called face filtering pieces (FFP), and the
      efficiency of the FFP will be measured. You will complete a short survey on your previous
      experience of using such masks. Then you will put on a provided mask under four scenarios
      that simulate real world conditions. During the test, you will be asked to perform a few
      simple tasks such as bending over, talking, etc. A particle counter will be used to monitor
      the particle number behind the facemask and in the ambient air. Room air particles will
      consist of fine droplets made up of water and table salt (sodium chloride) that will be
      emitted by a particle generator. The efficiency of the facemask performance under each
      condition will be recorded and compared.

      You will undergo a procedure for nasal epithelial lining fluid (NELF) sampling (nasal mucosa)
      and a procedure for induced sputum. If you are a non-producer or the quality of the induced
      sputum sample that you produce does not meet the study criteria (we will know the sputum
      quality in the next two days), we will exclude you from the study. If that happens, you will
      be reimbursed for the time and procedures for the consenting session. If you qualify, you
      will be given instructions to prepare for the exposure sessions. Then you will be scheduled
      for the exposure sessions.

      Exposure days We will call you a few days before the exposure session to remind you of your
      scheduled visit. You should avoid smoke, fumes, alcohol, and strenuous exercise 24 hours
      prior to all visits, and abstain from pan fried or grilled meat after midnight of the
      exposure day.

      You will be asked to eat a light breakfast and arrive at the EPA medical station by 7:30 am.
      Please understand that it is very important that you arrive by this time in order for the
      study team to process all of the samples and data. Please note that we may have to cancel
      your participation if you arrive late.

      Prior to exposure, you will:

        -  Have your vital signs checked (heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, oxygen
           saturation level, and fill out a symptom questionnaire electronically).

        -  Have your heart rhythm recorded by a Holter monitor. You will have (10)
           electrocardiogram (ECG) leads attached to your chest. It may be necessary to clean and
           shave the areas of your chest where these leads will be placed. Excessive deodorant,
           skin lotions, and body sprays may interfere with the function of some of these leads.
           Therefore, we ask you to not apply these to your chest area on the day you report to the
           HSF. The leads will be connected to 2 monitors (small recording devices about the size
           and weight of a cell phone) to obtain readings of your heart rate and rhythm. It is
           preferable that the electrodes will stay in place for approximately 2 ½ days as you will
           have this measured several times during the study, however, you will be given the option
           to remove the electrodes by the end of each exposure day. You will be asked to recline
           quietly for 30 minutes while collecting your heart rhythm. It is important that you do
           not fall asleep during this 30-minute period. These measurements will allow us to
           determine whether wood smoke exposure causes small changes in the ability of your
           nervous system to regulate how your heart beats.

        -  Have the diameter of an artery in your upper arm measured by an ultrasound machine
           (BAU). The ultrasound operator will scan your arm with a probe and then place a
           tourniquet on your arm, much like a cuff used to measure blood pressure. Measurement of
           the size of the artery will be made two times. First, you will be asked to rest quietly
           for 15 minutes, and then the first 90 second scan will be performed. Then the blood
           pressure cuff on your arm will be inflated for 5 minutes in order to temporarily stop
           the flow of blood. You may feel sensations similar to that when your foot "goes to
           sleep", such as "pins and needles" and tingling. After the pressure cuff is released, a
           second scan will be taken of the artery.

        -  Have your retinas imaged using an ophthalmic camera before and after each exposure, and
           on the follow-up visit. You will be asked to place your chin on a rest in front of the
           camera. We will take pictures of the inside of both of your eyes. Glasses or contacts
           have to be removed for this test. Please bring your own contact lens container and
           solutions.

        -  Approximately 60 ml blood drawn (about 4 tablespoons) before and after each exposure,
           and on the follow-up visit. We will test this blood to see if wood smoke affects the
           ability of your blood cells to function. A small portion of the blood sample will be
           used to measure the relative content of various fatty acids present in your blood. With
           your permission, we also store some of the blood that we obtain during the study for
           yet-to-be-determined tests in the future.

        -  Have a breathing test (spirometry).

        -  Enter the exposure chamber and be exposed to filtered air or wood smoke.

      During the exposure, you will:

      • Undergo exposure for 2 hours to either clean filtered air or wood smoke in the chamber. You
      will receive clean filtered air on one day and wood smoke on the other day. You will not be
      given the information of the sequence of the exposure. The concentration of wood smoke that
      you will be exposed to in this study (approximately 500 μg/m3) are below those reported for
      those using biomass burning for heating and food preparation, those firefighters are exposed
      to, and those living in the area of a forest fire or agricultural burning are exposed to.
      Chamber conditions will be at a comfortable temperature and relative humidity. You will do
      mild exercise on a stationary bicycle in the chamber every other 15 minutes alternating with
      resting period for a total of 1 hour of exercise per chamber exposure. The target ventilation
      rate will be maintained at 12 L/min/ m2 and monitored by using pneumotach and BioPac methods.
      A study coordinator or other trained person will be seated outside the chamber observing you
      at all times. During the exposure, your heart will be monitored and the amount of oxygen
      present in your blood will be monitored by placing a device (pulse oximeter) on your finger.
      If it appears you are experiencing significant discomfort, breathing or heart problems, the
      exposure will be terminated immediately. In addition, you may elect to terminate the exposure
      at any time for any reason. If you do so, you will be paid in full for that day's session but
      will be ineligible for further participation in the study and any payments you would have
      received for future participation.

      Immediately following the exposure, you will repeat the pre-exposure procedures and have a
      low fat lunch brought by you.

        -  Once you complete the above procedures, you will have about 1-2 hour waiting time before
           the next procedure. You can bring your personal laptop or books to use during that time.
           You will not be able to eat any food during this break time. We also encourage you to
           take a shower to get rid of the wood smoke odor at a private shower facility here at the
           HSF. Towel, soap and shampoo will be provided.

        -  Have samples of your nasal epithelial lining fluid (NELF) collected. Study staff will
           give you small filter paper strips and you will insert one into each nostril. You will
           wear nose clips for two minutes to allow for lining fluid absorption to the paper. The
           paper will then be removed and collected specimen placed into sample tubes.

        -  Have samples of your airway secretions collected using the induced sputum procedure. You
           will be asked to breathe in different saline solutions (up to 5%) to help you
           expectorate. We will coach you on the procedure. First, you will gargle and clear your
           throat, and the cough up samples from deep in your chest and spit them into a cup. Your
           lung function will be monitored during the procedure. Food must be avoided for 2 hours
           prior to this test.

        -  TracMyAir: The TracMyAir App on an EPA provided smartphone will be used by study
           personnel each day when you visit the EPA health study facility. The App will not be
           installed on your phone. The study staff will ask you questions on your home building
           characteristics, home operating conditions, time-spent in different outdoor and indoor
           environments, and time-spent at different physical activity levels. The study personnel
           will input data for you into the App. At the end of each exposure day, the EPA
           smartphone with TracMyAir app will be issued to you and will continuously measure your
           location like a GPS travel recorder. You will return the phone on the following day.
           TracMyAir does not save the calculated exposures on the smartphone and the data is
           de-identified.

        -  GPS travel recorder: will be issued to you on the day of your exposure session and
           returned to facility on the next day. This device continuously monitors GPS coordinates
           and records internally. You will carry the device at all times (24 hours) to record your
           location so that we can assess your exposure to air pollution during the day. The
           location data are not displayed and are only available to download with proper
           proprietary software after your session. Data will be downloaded and stored onto a
           secure database.

        -  Be assessed and discharged by the study personnel.

      Follow up visit (about 3 hours) You will return to the HSF the next morning (approximately 18
      hours after your 2nd exposure) and you will repeat the pre-exposure procedures.
    
  