
    
      Fabry disease is caused by the deficiency or absence of alpha-galactosidase A (α-Gal A)
      activity, leading to progressive deposition of glycosphingolipids, mainly
      globotriaosylceramide (Gb3), in the lysosomes of multiple tissues and organs. The frequency
      of classic Fabry disease has been estimated as one in 40,000, and its symptoms typically
      manifest during childhood, including acroparesthesias, angiokeratoma, corneal opacities, and
      anhidrosis (Desnick et al. 2001; Ries et al. 2005). Originally thought to be less severe in
      females (Desnick et al. 2001), more recent evidence indicates that symptoms of this X-linked
      disorder can manifest as severely in females as in males (Mehta et al. 2004; Wilcox et al.
      2008), although they generally occur later in life and show greater variation in severity
      among female patients (Deegan et al. 2006).

      Atypical, late-onset phenotypes have been reported that lack these classic symptoms but
      instead present with cardiac (Nakao et al. 1995), renal (Nakao et al. 2003), or
      cerebrovascular disease (Brouns et al. 2010). The frequency of atypical Fabry disease is
      unknown, but it has been suggested to be more common than previously believed (Nakao et al.
      1995). In Taiwan, Dr. Niu first revealed a surprisingly high incidence (approximately one in
      1,600 males) of a cardiac variant GLA splicing mutation, IVS4+919G>A, in newborn screening
      (Chong et al. 2008). Affected males with IVS4+919G>A mutation typically lack the
      angiokeratomas, acroparesthesias, hypohidrosis, gastrointestinal abnormalities and corneal
      opacities that are characteristic of the classic, early-onset, more severe phenotype and may
      manifest cardiac disease with LVH leading to HCM in the third to sixth decades of life
      (Desnick et al. 2001, von Scheidt W, et al. 1991, Nakao et al. 1995, Nakao et al. 2003). In
      Dr. Niu's study, patients who carried the IVS4 + 919G > A mutation and were older than 40
      years had a higher prevalence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (72% of males and 35% of
      females) (Tai et al., 2012). Endocardial biopsy of these patients with hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy showed significant Gb3 accumulation in the cardiomyocytes which is the typical
      pathological change in patient with classical Fabry disease. Lin et al's previous study (Lin
      et al. 2010) showed that a high proportion of adults (>40 years of age) carrying the IVS4
      +919G>A mutation experienced microalbuminuria and retinal vessel tortuosity, but symptoms
      involving these organs were very mild and did not cause significant morbidity. Although the
      hotspot IVS4+919G>A mutation is now being observed with greater frequency, understanding of
      the natural course of cardiac variant Fabry disease with this specific mutation remains
      limited.

      Primary objective :

        -  To map the IVS4 family tree and identify obligate carriers with Chinese hotspot
           late-onset Fabry mutation IVS4+919G>A through pedigree analysis.

        -  To explore and enhance the understanding of the clinical manifestation, disease severity
           and natural history of patient with Chinese hotspot late-onset Fabry mutation
           IVS4+919G>A in Taiwan.

      Primary End Point :

      - Completeness of IVS4 family tree mapping and obligate carrier identification within their
      family pedigree.

      Definition of family tree completeness:

      - Enroll first generation (newborn), at least one member from second (parent) and third
      generation (grandparent) for a complete IVS4 family tree mapping.

      Secondary endpoint :

      - Collect and analyze medical history, genetic and biochemical assessment data. Perform eGFR
      and albumin to creatinine ratio (ACR) measurement for renal function assessment, Perform
      echocardiography and electrocardiography for cardiac function assessment.
    
  