
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of induction therapy comprising paclitaxel, cisplatin, and
           cetuximab followed by cetuximab in combination with low-dose or standard-dose
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy, as measured by 2-year progression-free survival (PFS),
           in patients with human papillomavirus(HPV)-associated resectable stage III-IVB squamous
           cell carcinoma of the oropharynx.

      Secondary

        -  To assess overall survival.

        -  To evaluate the objective response, local control, and metastatic rate.

        -  To evaluate early and late toxicities of treatment.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate quality of life and speech and swallowing function as measured by Functional
           Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), Functional Assessment of Cancer
           Therapy-Head and Neck (FACT-HN), and Vanderbilt Head and Neck Symptom Survey (VHNSS).

        -  To assess the effect of treatment-induced fatigue on general physical functioning in
           patients with head and neck cancer.

        -  To correlate functional decline with clinical, physical, and biologic correlatives.

        -  To evaluate radiation-resistance markers, including ERCC1 single nucleotide polymorphism
           and protein expression, and to correlate them with treatment efficacy.

        -  To demonstrate the usefulness of biomarkers, including ERCC1, epidermal growth factor
           receptor (EGFR), cytokine and chemokine markers, and plasma transforming growth factor
           alpha (TGFA) and transforming growth factor beta (TGFB) levels, in predicting
           progression-free survival (PFS) and other outcome parameters.

        -  To evaluate the correlation between the efficacy of cetuximab and polymorphisms in
           FcγR-receptors.

        -  To evaluate functional outcome and biological parameters, including telomere length,
           angiotensin-converting enzyme polymorphism, and C-reactive protein level.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1
           and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, and 15.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses. Patients then undergo evaluation of
           response to induction therapy. Patients with a clinical complete response (CR) at the
           primary tumor site proceed to group 1 of concurrent radiotherapy and cetuximab. Patients
           with a clinical partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) at the primary tumor site
           or those with grossly positive disease at the primary tumor site proceed to group 2 of
           concurrent radiotherapy and cetuximab.

        -  Concurrent radiotherapy and cetuximab: Treatment begins 14-21 days after the last day of
           induction therapy.

             -  Group 1 (CR): Patients undergo low-dose intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) 5
                days per week for approximately 5 weeks (27 fractions). Patients also receive
                cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours once weekly for 6 weeks.

             -  Group 2 (PR, SD, or grossly positive disease): Patients undergo standard-dose IMRT
                5 days per week for approximately 6 weeks (33 fractions). Patients also receive
                cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours once weekly for 7 weeks.

      Patients complete questionnaires assessing fatigue, physical function, weight loss, quality
      of life, head and neck symptom burden, and speech and swallowing function at baseline and at
      1, 6, 12, and 24 months after completion of study treatment.

      Tumor tissue and serum samples may be collected periodically for correlative laboratory
      studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 83 patients
    
  