
    
      This prospective, randomized, controlled, observer and patient-blind study will be conducted
      by the General Surgery, Anesthesiology and Reanimation Departments of Private Medicabil
      Hospital in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice
      Guidelines. Hospital ethics committee approval was obtained for the study and the study was
      conducted between january 2021 and april 2020. Informed consent for the study to be conducted
      will obtained from each patient.

      Study Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria The study will included American Society Anesthesia
      (ASA) 1 and 2 patients aged 18-70 years who underwent conventional four-quadrant LC.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patients who did not agree to participate in the study,

        2. ASA 3 and above patients, those who will undergone emergency surgery, open
           cholecystectomy

        3. BMI of >40,

        4. İntraoperative major complications,

        5. History of severe allergy,

        6. Chronic analgesic use, Study Parameters

      1. gender, age, presence of comorbidity, weight, height, smoking status, operative time,
      length of hospital stay, intraoperative fluid volume, and developed complications 2. the
      primary data of the study: the postoperative 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24-hour VAS scores (0 lowest-10
      highest) at rest and on cough after surgery 3. the rate of rescue analgesic dose of tramadol
      4. as the secondary data: nausea-vomiting, shoulder pain, discharge duration exceeding 24
      hours, and pre-discharge patient satisfaction (strongly disagree 1-strongly agree 5 on a
      Likert-type scale).

      The mean postoperative 1-hour Visual Analog Scale (VAS) scores and the rates of rescue
      analgesic use of 20 patients operated before the study were determined. With these values, it
      was calculated that there should be 40 patients in each group, with a 33% decrease in pain
      scores and rescue analgesic use after LTAP at a statistical power of 80% and a significance
      level of 5%. The study was conducted with 30 patients in each group for a better analysis.

      Randomization Randomization will be performed immediately before the surgery using a
      computer-generated random number table and was reported to the surgeon who would perform the
      surgery. Anesthesia team, the patient, and the clinical nurses who carry out and record the
      postoperative evaluation will blinded to the group of patients.

      Procedure and Study Groups

      The study groups were planned as follows:

      Group 1 (Standard IV analgesia group (SA), n=40):

      Group 2 (Local analgesia group (LA), n=40):

      Group 4 (Four qudrant-Laparoscopic-assisted transversus abdominis plane block (LTAP) group,
      n=40) Postoperative analgesic administration will be carried out following a standard
      protocol in all groups. Acetaminophen 1 g was gradually will administered every 6 hours
      depending on the level of pain, and diclofenac sodium will intravenously administered every
      12 hours depending on the requirement. In the case of a pain score above 4, tramadol 100 mg
      will be given intravenously as a rescue analgesic.

      Statistical Analysis The SPSS (IBM SPSS, version20) software will be used for the statistical
      analysis. The t-test was will use for continuous variables, while the chi-square test for
      categorical values. The level of significance was set at p<0.05.
    
  