
    
      Hemoglobinopathies, such as sickle cell disease and thalassemia major, constitute a group of
      genetic diseases associated with significant morbidity and premature death. In the 1970s, the
      mean survival of patients with sickle cell disease was 14.3 years. With improvements in
      medical practice, this has improved such that estimates are now into the third decade of
      life.

      In patients with sickle cell disease, a single amino acid substitution in beta-hemoglobin
      causes erythrocytes to sickle in response to oxidative stress. The sequelae of this defect
      are vaso-occlusive crises, resulting in episodes of bony pain and infarction, acute chest
      syndrome, and strokes. Life long need for transfusion leads to complications including
      alloimmunization and iron overload. The latter condition is frequently associated with
      significant end-organ damage.

      In recent years, new strategies in supportive care, such as the use of hydroxyurea to
      stimulate fetal hemoglobin production in patients with sickle cell anemia, have resulted in
      the amelioration of some of the devastating manifestations of this disease. However, this
      therapy does not benefit all patients, and there have been concerns about the possible risk
      of latent transformation to leukemia with prolonged use of this drug. Clearly, better
      treatment strategies are needed for this devastating group of diseases.

      Patients with sickle cell anemia will be offered enrollment on a clinical trial of reduced
      intensity stem cell transplant. The transplant donors will be either HLA matched siblings or
      family members who are 50% matched for HLA. Patients will receive therapy in 2 steps.

      For patients who are allo-immunized against the donor (patients who have made an immune
      response already against the donor's HLA type), there will be a desensitization process. This
      will be outpatient therapy and will include therapy with bortezomib on the 1st, 4th, 8th and
      11th day of a 21 day cycle. This will be repeated for a second cycle, for a total of 8 doses
      of bortezomib over a 6 week period. In addition, they will receive rituximab on the 1st and
      8th day of each cycle. These therapies are designed to decrease the subject's chance of
      rejecting the transplant, as it is known that patients with sickle cell anemia are likely to
      be heavily immunized against donors. For patients who have high levels of antibodies against
      the donors, a plasmapheresis procedure will be performed prior to admission as well. All
      patients will undergo red cell exchange prior to admission.

      During the transplant admission, subjects will receive a "Two Step" chemotherapy and
      transplant regimen. The chemotherapy "first step" will be with fludarabine and cytarabine and
      a low dose of total body irradiation. This will be followed by the "first step" of the
      transplant graft - the donor lymphocytes. The "second step" of the chemotherapy will be two
      doses of cyclophosphamide. This will then be followed by the "second step" of the transplant
      graft - the stem cells.
    
  