
    
      In the investigators' pilot trial, 20 patients were randomized, 10 receiving regular
      counseling by regular oncodietitians, while the 10 others received nutrition therapy. In the
      latter group, an assessment of biophysical parameters was made (including the Bioelectrical
      Impedance Analysis or BIA for body composition), and the patients' Energy Expenditure was
      assessed using indirect calorimetry. Afterwards, the patients received nutrition therapy
      according to the ESPEN (European Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition) guidelines.
      Supplementary interventions were made to match caloric intake to energy expenditure (the
      'Tight Caloric' approach), using enteral and parenteral nutrition if indicated, by an
      intensive coaching and follow-up to continue this nutrition strategy (with dieticians even
      being "on call" after hours). While the study follow-up lasted 2 years, nutrition therapy was
      only performed during the first 3 months. The results were striking: apart from keeping their
      body weight in balance, the patients of the nutrition therapy group counted much less
      unexpected hospitalisation days and they clearly lived much longer .

      This project targets the validation of these results on a large scale. For this study,
      patients with either colorectal adenocarcinoma, lung carcinoma, oesofageal carcinoma, gastric
      carcinoma, pancreatic carcinoma and head and neck cancer, due to the high prevalence of
      cachexia in these patients will be included. A weight loss can also occur during treatment,
      and does not need to be present at the start of the study. Patients will be randomized, and
      the study is intended to be be double-blinded, although this will be difficult to maintain in
      practice due to the nature of the treatment. The recruitment phase will last 2 years, keeping
      refusals and dropouts in mind. Follow-up will last 1 year after inclusion, although the
      actual nutrition therapy will again last only during therapy (3 months for chemotherapy, 6
      weeks for radiotherapy): the period of active oncological treatment. An intermediate analysis
      is already made after 6 months of follow-up. In case survival is already statistically
      significant, the trial will be stopped for ethical reasons. In case of a positive result, the
      investigators want to implement nutrition therapy as a standard treatment in cachectic cancer
      patients in Belgium.

      In case of a positive outcome (i.e. mere confirmation of our published results), the major
      advantage of nutrition therapy will be its relatively low cost while still affecting
      morbidity and mortality significantly. This can be practically achieved by redefining the
      dietician's task. The patient's own active participation in the decision making process is an
      important surplus in well-being and overall treatment. In combination with decreased
      morbidity and mortality the benefit of the patient can be found on every level.

      Protocol Amendment dd 12/06/2017

      Background:

      Due to lack of patients with 5% weight loss in 6 months and, by consequence, very low
      inclusion rate, it was decided to amend the protocol. To achieve this, a special cooperation
      with the department of Radiotherapy was established. The service sees many patients who lose
      weight during radiotherapy, partly because of cancer-related cachexia, but mostly due to the
      mucositis caused by radiotherapy itself, losing > 10% of their initial body weight (at the
      start of their therapy). This is especially seen in cancers of head and neck, oesophagus and
      stomach. Radiotherapy is performed on working days and treatments typically last 5-7 weeks
      (depending on indication).

      Amendment:

        -  Inclusion of patients with colorectal, lung and pancreatic cancer will be changed to:
           Inclusion of patients with lung, gastric, oesophageal, head and neck and pancreatic
           cancer

        -  5% weight loss over the past 6 months will be changed to: patients with the
           aforementioned cancers where radiotherapy will be part of their treatment (or will be
           the entire treatment)

        -  Duration of intervention of 3 months will be changed to: duration of intervention for
           the entire period of radiotherapy

        -  After recalculation of statistical power, only 48 patients will be needed instead of 96.
           With correction for dropouts, this will become 60 patients instead of 120. This means 30
           controls and 30 patients in the intervention group.

        -  The amendment will be added to the registration at clinicaltrials.gov.

      The procedure and flowchart will remain unchanged. Analysis of the data will remain: in
      whole, per cancer and per sex (the latter two criteria requiring 60 patients in each group).

      Protocol Amendment dd 19/09/2017

      Background:

      The study has seen much more inclusions and is running well thanks to the previous amendment.
      Due to a typo, the colorectal cancer group was unfortunately omitted. Also, the absolute
      difference of survival in the TiCaCo trial after one year was similar to that after the
      second year.

      Amendment:

        -  Colorectal cancer patients are still to be included. Otherwise, nothing changes
           concerning inclusion criteria.

        -  The follow-up will be shortened from 2 years to one year.

        -  The amendment will be added to the registration at clinicaltrials.gov.

      Protocol Amendment dd 05/02/2019

      Background:

      The study needs 48 inclusions that remain in the study until the end. However, the number of
      dropouts is too high, severely compromising the study's statistical power. Therefore, an
      inclusion surplus of 20 - 25% is required.

      Amendment:

        -  The inclusion period will be expanded to 31/12/2019 or the inclusion of 60 patients
           (including dropouts), whichever is sooner.

        -  The amendment will be added to the registration at clinicaltrials.gov.
    
  