
    
      The DA is a tool to assess risk for homicide, near homicide, re-assault or severe re-assault
      by an intimate partner. In the culturally adapted DA-informed safety decision aid
      intervention, women answer questions on the DA, receive immediate feedback on their level of
      danger as well as personalized messages about safety based on their scores on the DA. The
      risk factors and scores on the DA are then combined with the safety priorities of women to
      develop a tailored safety action with links to community resources. Using a computerized
      randomization scheme, women are randomly assigned to either the internet and/or smartphone
      app accessible SDA website or control website.

      This trial is being conducted in various geographical regions in the US to address the
      following aims:

        1. Evaluate the impact of administering culturally adapted DA-informed interactive
           internet-based SDA intervention on abused women's safety compared to women assigned to
           the control website. It is hypothesized that at 3, 6, and 12 months post-baseline, the
           intervention group will have increased safety seeking behaviors and reduced exposure to
           intimate partner violence in comparison to the control group.

        2. Evaluate the impact of administering culturally adapted DA-informed interactive
           internet-based SDA intervention on abused women's mental health compared to women
           assigned to the control website. It is hypothesized that at 3, 6, and 12 months
           post-baseline, the intervention group will have improved mental health in comparison to
           the control group.

        3. Evaluate the impact of administering culturally adapted DA-informed interactive
           internet-based SDA intervention on promoting abused women's empowerment compared to
           women assigned to the control website. It is hypothesized that at 3, 6, and 12 months
           post-baseline, the intervention group will have increased empowerment in comparison to
           the control group.

      The study will establish evidence base for a culturally-informed intervention for immigrant,
      refugee and indigenous women. The intervention will not only prevent future exposure to
      intimate partner violence, it will also promote abused women's mental health and empowerment.
    
  