
    
      This is a Phase 1/2, multi-center, randomized (the study medication is assigned by chance)
      study. This study will be conducted in 2 Phases (Phase 1 and Phase 2). Phase 1 of this study
      will be non-randomized, open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention) and
      dose-escalation phase. It includes screening period and treatment period, which consists of 2
      parts (Part 1 and Part 2). In Part 1, participants will receive 1 of 3 single dose levels of
      intetumumab [3 milligram per kilogram (mg/kg), 5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg]. Part 2 will include 2
      dose cohorts: dacarbazine plus intetumumab (5 mg/kg) or dacarbazine plus intetumumab (10
      mg/kg). Phase 2 of this study will be randomized, blinded (neither physician nor participant
      knows the intervention which the participant will receive) and controlled (an inactive
      substance and other medication is compared with a study medication to test whether the
      medication has a real effect in this clinical study). This phase of the study will include
      screening period, treatment period (8 cycles of treatment with every cycle once in 3 weeks)
      and follow-up period (24 weeks). During the treatment period, participants will be randomly
      assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups, Group 1: dacarbazine plus placebo, Group 2: intetumumab
      (5 mg/kg), Group 3: intetumumab (10 mg/kg) and Group 4: dacarbazine plus intetumumab.
      Randomization will be further based on the site of metastases and Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group performance status at Baseline. Single-medication intetumumab treatment groups
      will be open-label, while the dacarbazine plus intetumumab or placebo groups will be blinded.
      The total duration of the Phase 2 of this study will be up to 52 weeks or up to 76 weeks in
      case of extended dosing (extended administrations [up to 8 additional cycles] of the same
      assigned treatment will be allowed for participants that are responding to therapy with
      stable disease or better). Participants will be assessed for incidence of dose limiting
      toxicities, pharmacokinetics and tumor responses. Participants' safety will be monitored
      throughout the study.
    
  