
    
      Methodology:

      Cluster randomized controlled clinical trial

      Methodology:

        1. Stages I and II: Feasibility/demonstration stage will be done as an internal pilot in 3
           hospitals

           a. Current treatment practice, facilities, and operational challenges will be evaluated
           for the introduction, clinical use and maintenance of bubble CPAP

        2. Stage III: Implementation of bubble CPAP will be done in 12 hospitals a. It will be done
           following a cluster randomized design

      Data collection-socio-demographic and clinical data will be collected using structured
      questionnaire by trained nurses and physicians.

      Research Site:

      St. Paulos Millennium Medical College, Yekatit 12 and Tikur Anbessa Specialized hospitals, 14
      district hospitals

      Number of Participants/Patients:

      Stage I-30 children in each tertiary hospital (this stage has completed and we enrolled 49
      children from two tertiary hospitals; these 49 enrolled children took double of our
      anticipated time {4 months}) Stage II- 20 children in each general hospital (2
      general/district hospitals, we have enrolled total 40 children from this two hospitals from
      January 2020 to July 2020, which included COVID-19 period) Stage III-1240 children in 12
      general/district hospitals (620 in bubble CPAP arm and 620 in WHO standard low flow arm; each
      hospital will be the cluster and 6 will be randomized to each arm)

      Main Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Age between 1 month and 59 months

        -  Meet WHO clinical criteria for severe pneumonia with hypoxemia

        -  Hypoxemia (Oxygen saturation <90% in room air)

        -  Parent/guardian gives informed consent to participate in the study

      Statistical Analysis:

        -  STATA -14: for initial two phases descriptive analysis of level of feasibility and
           acceptability will be performed

        -  For the phase III: We shall follow the principle of intention to treat. --Treatment
           failure and/or death will be analyzed using χ² or Fisher's exact tests as appropriate.

        -  Primary and secondary outcomes will be compared by calculating relative risks (RRs) and
           their 95% confidence intervals.

        -  Log-linear binomial regression will be applied to adjust for covariates to evaluate the
           true impact of bubble CPAP in evaluating primary and secondary outcomes and to adjust
           for baseline differences.

        -  Continuous variables will be analyzed using the Student t-test or the Mann-Whitney test
           as appropriate.

      Study Duration:

      48 months.
    
  