
    
      Elderly people are the fastest growing segment of our population. As the geriatric population
      continues to rise, the consequences of falls and fall-related injuries carry increasing
      socioeconomic significance. One-third of community- dwelling elderly fall each year; 5% of
      these experience fracture or injury requiring hospitalization and expenses now exceed $20
      billion annually.

      The most common activities being performed at the time of fall-related hip fracture are
      walking forward and turning around. Although 40% of hip fractures occur during walking and
      18% occur during turning. Cumming & Klineberg found that a fall while turning is 7.9 times
      more likely to result in hip fracture than a fall while walking straight. This evidence
      suggests that turning is a greater challenge for individuals with mobility problems than is
      walking straight ahead. Hence, turning carries a significant risk for hip fracture.

      Nearly every daily activity that requires locomotion requires turning, yet most gait research
      has focused on straight ahead walking.Glaister et al (2007) show that while straight walking
      makes up the majority of steps taken during the four daily living tasks observed,
      non-straight steps still make up approximately 35-45% of all steps taken during a typical
      day.

      An important and common component of mobility is changing travel direction when walking.
      Turning requires the central nervous system to coordinate whole-body reorientation toward a
      new travel direction, while continuing with the on-going step cycle. Balance maintenance
      during turning involves complex integration of multiple sensory systems (vestibular, visual,
      and somatosensory) and motor output. Aging is associated with a slow and progressive decline
      of the sensory and motor systems as well as their integrative functions.

      Turning affects lower limb kinematics, kinetics, and step length. Significant age differences
      were found among healthy young and older adult subjects in their abilities to quickly turn or
      stop in order to avoid obstacles that suddenly appear; in the gait path much of the older
      adults' need for longer response times than those of the young was attributable to the
      lengthened first phase of their responses.

      Standing turn performance has been used to delineate elderly fallers from non-fallers.

      Dite & Temple (2002) showed that older adults who had multiple falls in the past six months
      took on average two or more steps to complete a 180 turn compared to older adults who had
      only one fall.Authors recorded the basic temporospatial aspects of turning during
      walking.These categories are: (1) the type of turn (or strategy) used to accomplish the turn,
      (2) the number of steps taken during the turn, (3) the time taken to accomplish the turn, and
      (4) staggering during the turn.

      These categories were found to it being a reliable and valid clinical measure of turning
      while walking for older adults. Specific turn items were found to discriminate between groups
      of healthy and impaired older adults and had good sensitivity for identifying multiple
      fallers. Thigpen et al (2000) confirmed these results.

      The purpose of the current study is to explore the validity of the TURN180 test to
      distinguish between the Non fallers, Fallers and Multiple fallers in the elderly population
      and compare it to the known gold standard clinical tests : Timed "Up and Go" test (TUG),
      Tinetti Balance Test (Tinetti), Berg Balance Scale (BBS).

      According to the reviewed literature the TURN180 test is sensitive to the age changes and can
      delineate elderly fallers from non-fallers. If it does so, it could be a quick, practical and
      low-cost test to identify those who are in danger to fall and estimate a change fallowing an
      intervention.

      This is a validation study of balance and mobility tests using a three-group sample of
      convenience.
    
  