
    
      Ovarian cancer ranks seventh in incidence of malignant neoplasms in women younger than 65
      years and is the leading cause of cancer death in women in the United States. Due to the
      absence of an effective screening method and early symptoms, 70% of the cases are diagnosed
      in advanced clinical stage (stage III or IV) and the overall 5-year survival is 30-40%.

      The standard treatment of locally advanced ovarian carcinoma is primary cytoreductive surgery
      plus adjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin and taxanes. In cases where it is not possible to
      perform primary cytoreductive surgery a treatment option is to start with induction
      chemotherapy (three or four cycles), in order to reduce tumor size and volume, after which it
      is performed an interval surgery, during which it has been reported that optimal
      cytoreduction is achieved in 77-94% of patients, with lower morbidity and mortality than
      primary surgery, without oncological compromise. Subsequent to interval surgery three
      additional cycles of chemotherapy are applied.

      Despite an adequate response to the treatment aforementioned, 70% of patients will recur
      within the first two years. Because of this high recurrence rate, other therapeutic
      alternatives have been evaluated, among them is hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy
      (HIPEC). Since its first description 20 years ago, the HIPEC associated with cytoreductive
      surgery in the treatment of malignant neoplasms (primary or metastatic) in the peritoneal
      surface has become the standard of treatment, specifically in patients with peritoneal
      pseudomyxoma, peritoneal mesothelioma, and cancer with limited peritoneal involvement. In
      ovarian cancer, attempts are being made to determine its usefulness in specific scenarios of
      this disease.

      The increasing interest in the use of HIPEC in the management of advanced ovarian cancer is
      based on the coelomic dissemination of ovarian cancer, which in theory would allow this
      modality of treatment to be effective. Moreover, optimal cytoreduction and administration of
      intraperitoneal chemotherapy over intravenous (intraperitoneal normothermy) have been shown
      to be superior in achieving higher survival rates in randomised trials.

      Few groups in the world have studied the use of HIPEC in ovarian cancer, however, studies
      have been (and are being conducted) in the following scenarios: a) during primary
      cytoreduction, b) during interval laparotomy, c) as consolidation after standard treatment,
      d) recurrence of platinum resistant carcinoma and e) in the recurrence of "platinum
      sensitive" carcinoma. The morbidity of this procedure reported in different series is 33-39%,
      and mortality of 0-9%. The feasibility of the procedure with low rates of morbidity and
      mortality has been reported, specially when the treatment is done by a multidisciplinary
      group especially trained in HIPEC.

      The present project is a Phase II, randomised study whose primary objective is to evaluate
      the morbidity, mortality, and quality of life of patients undergoing HIPEC during the surgery
      with optimal surgical cytoreduction. One group will be treated with cytoreduction and
      adjuvant chemotherapy, while the experimental group will be treated with cytoreduction
      followed by HIPEC. Our secondary objectives are the assessment of the disease-free period and
      overall survival. The working hypothesis is that the use of HIPEC during interval surgery
      will have a morbidity considered as acceptable as reported in the literature without
      significant deterioration in the quality of life.

      The importance of evaluating this new therapeutic tool is that any of the current treatments
      for ovarian cancer have a high rate of recurrence. Based in the evidence, biological
      behaviour and pattern of dissemination of ovarian cancer, treatment should incorporate both
      systemic and locoregional therapy, because the neoplasm spreads via coelomic, lymphatic and
      hematogenous. The use of HIPEC together with the surgical event of cytoreduction could avoid
      recurrence and allow us to distinguish those patients who are candidates for this procedure
      and their actual benefit.
    
  