
    
      This study intends to enroll up to 121 subjects at up to 18 investigational sites in the
      United States. This is a single-arm study of the Revolution™ Peripheral Atherectomy System in
      subjects with peripheral arterial disease (PAD).

      The primary safety endpoint is freedom from 30-day Major Adverse Events (MAE), defined as the
      composite of all-cause mortality, clinically-driven target lesion revascularization (TLR),
      major target limb amputation, major target vessel perforation requiring surgical or
      endovascular repair and clinically-significant distal embolization in the target limb; as
      adjudicated by the independent Clinical Events Committee (CEC).

      The primary effectiveness endpoint is technical success, defined by ≤50% diameter stenosis
      after atherectomy with the Revolution™ Peripheral Atherectomy System and prior to adjunctive
      therapy, as measured by the independent core laboratory on the post-atherectomy contrast
      angiogram. Effectiveness will be assessed for investigator-identified target lesions and will
      be calculated as a binary variable as the proportion of target lesions with technical
      success.

      The following will be assessed as secondary endpoints of the study:

        1. Change in % stenosis after treatment with Revolution™ Peripheral Atherectomy System,
           determined after atherectomy and prior to other adjunctive therapies, as measured by the
           angiographic core laboratory.

        2. Procedural success as defined by target lesion residual stenosis of <30% at the
           conclusion of the index procedure, after atherectomy and any adjunctive endovascular
           treatment, as measured by the angiographic core laboratory.

        3. Assessment of the individual components of the primary safety endpoint (MAE); including
           all-cause mortality, major target limb amputation, clinically significant distal
           embolization, major target vessel perforation requiring surgical or endovascular repair,
           and clinically-driven TLR, measured through 30 days and at 6 months.

        4. Minor unplanned target limb amputation rate through 30 days and 6 months;

        5. Myocardial infarction through 30 days and 6 months;

        6. Incidence of target vessel revascularization (TVR) through 30 days and 6 months;

        7. Frequency of angiographic procedural distal embolization (symptomatic) in the target
           limb as confirmed angiographically by the core laboratory;

        8. Primary patency of the target lesion at 30 days and 6 months, determined by duplex
           ultrasound or angiography;

        9. Primary-assisted patency of the target lesion at 30 days and 6 months, determined by
           duplex ultrasound or angiography;

       10. Secondary patency of the target lesion at 30 days and 6 months, determined by duplex
           ultrasound or angiography.

      Subjects with symptomatic PAD eligible for treatment with the Revolution™ Peripheral
      Atherectomy System with atherosclerotic lesions of the superficial femoral, popliteal and
      tibial arteries will be eligible for inclusion in the study.

      A performance goal of 80% for safety and 76% for effectiveness has been established from
      prior studies. Enrollment of 121 subjects will provide 90% power, based upon a one-sided
      97.5% exact binomial test, an anticipated 30-day MAE rate of 9%, acute technical success of
      86%, and a 30-day attrition rate of approximately 10%.

      The regulatory submission will be based on an approximate sample size of 121 subjects.
      Assuming a lesion-to-subject ratio of 1.5, approximately 165 target lesions will be evaluable
      for the primary effectiveness endpoint. Subset analyses will be performed for device
      effectiveness for superficial femoral/popliteal and tibial artery target lesions.

      Pre-Enrollment procedures include testing, reviewing Medical history, physical examination
      with vital signs and directed peripheral vascular examination, laboratory assessment,
      ankle-brachial or toe-brachial index, and patient-reported outcome measures. The diagnostic
      angiogram at time of the planned index procedure is performed prior to the point of
      enrollment in the study; eligibility is, in part, based upon the anatomic findings of the
      angiogram.

      Subjects will have required follow-up evaluations at the following time points:

        1. Discharge;

        2. 1 month post index procedure;

        3. 6 months post index procedure;

      Follow-Up Data Collection:

        1. Adverse Events at the index procedure, hospital discharge, and through 6 months;

        2. Rutherford Classification at 1 and 6 months;

        3. Ankle-brachial or toe-brachial index at 1 and 6 months;

        4. Duplex ultrasound of the target vessel at 1 and 6 months.

      An independent Clinical Events Committee (CEC) will review all primary safety endpoint
      events, unanticipated adverse device effects, and other important safety occurrences as
      specified in the CEC Charter. Additionally, an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board
      (DSMB) will review safety data from the study at predetermined time points and as deemed
      necessary by the Sponsor or the DSMB Chair. The DSMB will make recommendations on protocol
      modifications and continuation of the study.
    
  