
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall hematologic response rate (stringent complete response [sCR] +
      amyloid complete response [ACR]+ very good partial response [VGPR] + partial response [PR])
      during the first 6 cycles for ibrutinib with bortezomib and dexamethasone added for lack of
      response in patients with amyloid light chain (AL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall hematologic response rate (sCR+ACR+VGPR+PR) of single agent ibrutinib
      in patients with AL.

      II. To evaluate overall hematologic response rate (sCR+ACR+VGPR+PR) to ibrutinib + bortezomib
      and dexamethasone (Vd) in subjects with progressive disease after initial response to single
      agent ibrutinib.

      III. To describe the toxicities associated with ibrutinib, alone and in combination with Vd,
      in patients with AL.

      IV. To determine the organ response in AL patients treated with ibrutinib alone and in
      combination with Vd.

      V. To determine 3 year progression free survival of AL patients on the study.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize health related quality of life of patients. II. To determine the caregiver
      and patient disease burden. III. To determine the correlation between cardiac biomarkers and
      hematologic response to therapy.

      IV. To evaluate the effect of ibrutinib on AL microenvironment. V. To characterize BTK
      expression in neoplastic plasma cells. VI. To evaluate the characterization of CD38
      expression on neoplastic plasma cells.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) daily (QD) on days 1-28. After 3 courses, patients who
      achieve partial response repeat treatment every 28 days for up to 18 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not achieve partial response
      after 3 courses continue receiving ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-28. Beginning at course 4,
      patients who do not achieve partial response also receive bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) and
      dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 18 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, and
      then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  