
    
      Role confusion is hampering the development of primary care nurses' capacity for health
      promotion. Organizations can implement role clarification programs to develop the description
      of an expected role in the organization and reduce the negative effects of role confusion.
      Literature on role clarification interventions reveal that they are complex interventions
      seeking discussion to reach agreement between professionals about the expected role
      activities. However, such interventions have shown several methodological shortcomings. This
      study aims to implement and evaluate a multi-component program to clarify primary care
      nurses' role in health promotion. An exploratory clinical trial will help evaluate the
      preliminary efficacy and understand if an intervention of these characteristics is feasible,
      if its components are appropriate and / or if it is accepted by the participants. This is a
      pilot cluster randomized exploratory trial, which corresponds to Phase II of the Medical
      Research Council (MRC) framework for the development and evaluation of clinical trials in
      complex interventions. The study will be conducted in the province of Navarra (Spain), in the
      primary health care service. The study will follow a cluster randomised design with primary
      care teams (PCT) as sampling units. A PCT consists of a group of family physicians who work
      in close cooperation with nurses and social workers to offer primary care services to
      registered individuals in the area. Each cluster will be randomly assigned to one of the two
      groups, control or intervention. The main reason for using a cluster design is to avoid
      contamination, which could occur among nurses working in the same PCT. The randomisation of
      the study groups will be stratified according to the scope of work (rural / urban), to
      guarantee the representativeness of the different segments of the study population. It has
      been considered that nurses' activities and the perception they may have about their health
      promoting role may be conditioned by two factors: the organization and structure of the PCT
      and the characteristics of the populations they attend. These two factors may vary depending
      on the team attending rural or urban population, so it will be considered as a possible
      confusing variable. The control group will continue with their routine.
    
  