
    
      The primary goal of the BLINK2 Study is to determine correlates of myopia progression using
      non-invasive measurement of biomarkers, such as choroidal thickness and intrinsically
      photosensitive retinal ganglion cell-mediated pupil function, and outdoor light exposure in
      children. If multifocal contact lenses slow the progression of myopia by 30 percent or more
      compared to single vision contact lenses during the BLINK Study, the investigators will also
      answer important questions about the consequences and mechanism of the treatment effect, such
      as whether multifocal contact lens wear alters accommodative function and whether or not the
      treatment benefit is transient. Specifically, the investigators will investigate whether
      myopia progression is slowed or simply delayed by multifocal contact lens wear and whether
      there is a rebound in myopia progression, an increase in progression rate, after
      discontinuation of multifocal contact lenses. The investigators will identify myopic children
      who will most benefit from myopia control by determining those who are most likely to
      progress, thereby maximizing the potential for benefit and minimizing risk. The investigators
      will accomplish this goal by investigating the effect on progression of the most important
      ocular and environmental risk factors recently hypothesized to control eye growth. The
      project will collect the most extensive longitudinal dataset ever on choroidal thickness in
      childhood myopia. The investigators will test the important question of whether time outdoors
      and light exposure influence myopia progression after onset in addition to whether these
      affects are mediated by intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells. If soft
      multifocal contact lenses show a clinically meaningful slowing of myopia progression, we will
      also answer important questions asked routinely by our clinical colleagues. The investigators
      will know the accommodative effect of multiple years of multifocal contact lens wear in
      children, the investigators will know if multifocal contact lenses slow or simply delay
      myopia progression, and the investigators will know whether myopia progression increases
      following discontinuation of soft multifocal contact lens wear. Answers to questions
      addressed by this proposal could improve care for 60 million myopic children in the United
      States. While the consequences of ordinary myopia are rarely sight-threatening, the quality
      of life for myopic patients is negatively affected and the health care costs to treat myopia
      are approximately 4.6 billion dollars in 1990 US dollars. The National Eye Institute
      recognizes the need to evaluate the efficacy of potential treatments for delaying the onset
      or for slowing the progression of myopia, such as lenses that alter peripheral defocus. The
      BLINK2 Study seeks to maximize benefit while lowering the risk of multifocal contact lens
      wear for myopia control while answering important scientific and clinical questions about the
      consequences and mechanism of myopia progression, a problem that affects many people in the
      United States.
    
  