
    
      The study will recruit HIV-negative adult women who had two or more sexual partners within
      the past four weeks in the Nyanza region of Kenya. Beach communities and female sex worker
      hotspots will be randomized to an intervention group or a control group. In intervention
      clusters, participants will receive multiple oral fluid-based HIV test kits over a period of
      up to 24 months, training on how to use the tests, and encouragement to offer tests to
      current and potential sexual partners with whom sex without condoms is likely. In the
      comparison clusters, participants will be given referral vouchers for clinic-based HIV
      testing over a period of up to 24-months and encouraged to distribute these vouchers to
      sexual partners.

      Data will be collected from study participants at baseline on demographic and socio-economic
      characteristics, self-reported sexual behavior, HIV testing history, intimate partner
      violence history, and mental health outcomes. Follow-up data collection will occur every 6
      months. Each month, participants will be sent an invitation to participate in short mobile
      phone based text message surveys. HIV testing of participants will occur at baseline and at 6
      monthly intervals.

      Based on their reported use of the HIV self-tests, participants will be invited for
      qualitative interviews to learn more about their interactions with partners with regard to
      the distribution of self-tests and referral vouchers. Participants will also be given
      information to distribute to some of their male partners so that those partners can contact
      study staff to participate in qualitative interviews that will inquired about their
      perceptions of self-tests.

      The study has 3 specific aims. Aim 1 will determine the intervention's effect on uptake of
      HIV testing and identification of HIV infection among participants' sexual partners,
      self-reported sexual behavior of participants with partners whose HIV status was HIV-positive
      or not known, and HIV incidence among participants. Aim 2 will use a mixed methods approach
      to assessing safety and perceptions of the intervention by participants and their sexual
      partners. Aim 3 will assess the cost-effectiveness of the intervention and obtain information
      necessary to inform scale-up of the intervention in Kenya and other countries.
    
  