
    
      Primary prevention of intimate partner violence among young men and women requires an
      intervention which addresses the underlying driving factors of such violence operating at
      different ecological levels.That is, interventions need to address factors impacting directly
      on youth and their family relationships, school as an institutional setting. In the school,
      holistic interventions strengthen the curriculum and teaching, but also the broader
      environment of learning, including addressing positive discipline and the culture of the
      school. In order to prevent violence, interventions need to build gender equality, challenge
      the normative use of violence in schools and homes (e.g., corporal punishment), strengthen
      teen-adult relationships and communication, and build negotiation and conflict resolution
      skills, as well as addressing stress and coping.

      A three-arm, cluster randomised controlled trial based in high schools in Gauteng, South
      Africa is evaluating such a multi-faceted primary prevention intervention. This intervention
      includes school strengthening components for learners and educators, which includes providing
      a teaching materials for the grade 8 life orientation (LO) curriculum (which covers gender
      and violence), training teachers in LO teaching, training staff on positive discipline and
      establishing learner clubs. A second intervention seeks to strengthen families and is a
      workshop based intervention delivered over 4 day long sessions for a parent or caregiver and
      their grade 8 adolescent.

      The intervention is being evaluated in a three arm randomised controlled trial, with
      school-level randomisation involving 24 schools. One is a delayed intervention control arm,
      two arms have the school strengthening intervention and one arm additionally have the family
      strengthening intervention.

      The outcomes will be addressed using qualitative and quantitative methods with data collected
      from Grade 8 learners (the primary outcome group), school educators and administrators, and
      parents/caregivers of Grade 8s. These measures will be conducted pre-intervention and at 6,
      12, and 18 month follow up periods. In addition, an economic costing evaluation will be
      conducted.
    
  