
    
      There is a high unmet medical need for efficacious and safe treatment of LAM, to halt lung
      function decline, improve patient-reported outcome, reduce size of angiomyolipomas and
      ultimately decrease mortality. Guidelines recommend participation in research trials if
      possible.

      To date, therapeutic options include mTOR inhibitors sirolimus and everolimus. Among these,
      sirolimus, has been approved by FDA based on a clinical trial which showed a stabilization of
      lung function expressed as FEV1 during the 12 month treatment period. Thus the stabilization
      of lung function appears to require continuous exposure to the drug. Sirolimus is associated
      with an increased frequency of adverse events like mucositis, gastrointestinal events,
      hypercholesterolemia, acneiform rash, and swelling in the lower extremities.

      Nintedanib was shown to dose-dependently inhibit PDGFR phosphorylation and subsequent
      signaling via protein kinase B (Akt) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 in
      lung tissue from mice. Akt and ERK 2 can both phosphorylate tuberin resulting in inactivation
      of hamartin-tuberin complex and consequent activation of mTOR .

      It has been demonstrated that platelet-derived growth factor β receptor (PDGFRβ) is present
      and active in human and murine TSC lesions. Thus, an inhibition of PDGFR may be effective in
      LAM. Moreover, the inhibition of VEGF, PDGF and FGF signaling pathways reduces tumor
      angiogenesis in lung. As angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis are mechanisms involved in
      dissemination of LAM cells, potential inhibition of angiogenesis by nintedanib may contribute
      to prevent disease progression in LAM.

      Therefore, a non-randomized, efficacy, safety, and tolerability trial of nintedanib in
      sporadic and TSC-associated LAM is proposed.

      The objective of the trial is to assess the efficacy and a favorable benefit-risk ratio for
      nintedanib in the treatment of LAM at the dose of 150 mg bid.
    
  