
    
      Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHA-PPQ) Cambodia s frontline artemisinin (ART) combination
      therapy (ACT) for Plasmodium falciparum malaria is failing to cure nearly half of patients in
      its western provinces. These treatment failures are caused by parasite strains that are
      resistant to both ART and PPQ, yet sensitive to mefloquine (MQ) in vitro and in vivo. These
      findings, and previous studies showing that PPQ treats MQ-resistant infections in patients,
      led us to hypothesize that parasites have not developed cross-resistance to both PPQ and MQ.
      Given that DHA-PPQ and AS+MQ have both failed rapidly to resistance when used alone, we
      propose to treat patients with triple ACT (TACT) containing DHA-PPQ + MQ. We believe that
      this TACT will more effectively cure patients than either ACT alone, and will continue to
      achieve acceptably high cure rates and help to eliminate malaria in Cambodia until new drugs
      are developed and deployed. This protocol thus aims to measure the efficacy, safety, and
      tolerability of DHA-PPQ + MQ versus DHA-PPQ or AS-MQ alone in a multi-site, open-label,
      randomized clinical trial. In each of three Cambodian provinces (Pursat, Preah Vihear, and
      Ratanakiri) where DHA-PPQ is failing, we will recruit subjects aged 2 to 65 years with
      uncomplicated falciparum malaria (randomized 1:1), In Pursat and Preah Vihear we will treat
      them with either DHA-PPQ + MQ or AS-MQ alone and in Ratanakiri we will treat them with either
      DHA-PPQ + MQ or DHA-PPQ alone for three days, and follow them for 42 days to assess for
      recrudescent parasitemia an indicator of treatment failure. The main safety concern of this
      study is that DHA-PPQ + MQ may cause electrocardiographic (ECG) changes that could predispose
      a patient to develop clinically significant arrhythmias. This is because PPQ is known to
      cause prolongation of the ECG corrected QT (QTc) interval, and MQ may further increase PPQ
      levels (and thus the risk of further QTc prolongation) through pharmacokinetic interactions
      involving CYP3A4, a liver enzyme that metabolizes both drugs. To monitor for such an event,
      we will obtain ECG recordings before and after each drug dose. The safety and tolerability of
      TACT versus ACT will also be assessed through periodic tests of hematopoietic, hepatic, and
      renal function, and frequent symptom questionnaires. We will also administer a single low
      dose of primaquine, which kills P. falciparum gametocytes, on Day 2 to interrupt the
      transmission of parasites to mosquitoes and promote the elimination of malaria in Cambodia.
      During hospitalization and followup, we will obtain a series of research blood samples to
      estimate the prevalence of genetic markers for ART, PPQ, and MQ resistance; to develop a
      genotyping platform for rapidly surveying known drug resistance-associated mutations;
      investigate the genomic and transcriptomic basis of drug-resistance mechanisms; confirm the
      elimination of parasites and gametocytes from the bloodstream using sensitive molecular
      methods; measure the ex-vivo susceptibility of parasites to antimalarial drugs, and
      cryopreserve parasites for future studies to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of drug
      resistance.
    
  