
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is common, with a Canadian prevalence of 5%, and associated with
      significant morbidity having a health state utility value equivalent to end-stage renal
      disease. Understandably, CRS impairs workplace productivity but that productivity
      substantially increases following surgical treatment.

      However, the wait time to receive surgical treatment (ESS) maybe up to 8 months or longer,
      with a cost to the Government of $3500/ESS procedure. The annual direct cost of CRS is
      estimated at $860 million with an overall financial impact of 1.3 billion dollars per year
      for Canada. Endoscopic polypectomy in clinic (EPIC), a potential disruptive innovation, is a
      drastically deescalated form of ESS performed in clinic instead of the operating room. EPIC
      appears to provide quality of life (QofL) improvement equivalent to that reported for ESS.
      EPIC has a shorter wait time and lower cost to a government, i.e. nearly one-tenth of ESS or
      about $450. A pilot economic evaluation study demonstrated that EPIC was cost-effective
      compared to ESS. This has created a controversy about which treatment should be employed for
      these patients. Further, a recent Cochrane review identified the need for high-quality
      randomised controlled trials to determine if ESS has additional benefit over polypectomy as
      there is currently insufficient evidence to draw conclusions about the superiority of
      polypectomy or ESS for the management of CRS with polyps.

      The proposed national multicenter randomised controlled trial will determine whether EPIC is
      non-inferior to the current treatment standard, ESS, in QofL improvement for patients with
      CRS with polyps. It will also assess the cost-effectiveness of performing EPIC in place of
      ESS. The investigators hypothesize that EPIC will be non-inferior to ESS for QofL improvement
      while reducing health care cost. This would imply that EPIC is a dominant strategy and that
      the ESS strategy represents over-treatment in this patient population. The study findings
      would position EPIC into the current CRS treatment paradigm thereby transforming care and
      reducing costs both nationally and internationally.
    
  