
    
      Spectral analysis of heart rate variability (HRV) is a widely used, noninvasive technique to
      assess autonomic indexes of neural cardiac control. The presence of low-frequency (LF) and
      high-frequency (HF) oscillatory rhythms in the variability of the R-R interval (RRI) is well
      established. To date, it is believed that LF is mediated by the parasympathetic and
      sympathetic systems, whereas HF is mediated primarily by the parasympathetic system. The
      current study used HRV in order to characterize autonomic nerve system (ANS) activity in
      patients before and during stable hypnosis, nociceptive surgical stimulation and (adequate)
      or light (inadequate) analgesia. These effects may vary with the anesthetic technique used.
      Despite these previous studies, attempts to derive the relation between anesthetic
      concentrations and HRV have so far remained inconclusive. Such characterization would provide
      additional information on the behavior of the ANS during different anesthesic drug level and
      may lay the basis for the development of new clinical application.

      Propofol is now widely used in clinical practice because of its favorable recovery profile
      and low incidence of side effects. However, induction of anesthesia with propofol is often
      associated with a significant decrease in arterial blood pressure and heart rate (HR). The
      hypotensive effect of propofol has been attributed to a decrease in systemic vascular
      resistance or in cardiac output caused by a combination of venous and arterial vasodilation,
      impaired baroreflex mechanisms and depression of myocardial contractility. Besides, there are
      some conflicting data regarding the effects of propofol on cardiac sympathetic or
      parasympathetic tone.

      The investigators hypothesis was that at different propofol anesthetic drug level would have
      reproducible effects on HRV. In addition, these results should be reliably characterized in
      anesthetized patients provided that HRV uses analysis that can assess transient and rapid
      changes in ANS activity. Therefore, the first goal of this study was to test the hypothesis
      that propofol anesthesia would affect HRV depending on the concentrations, and so do opioid
      and midazolam. Second, the investigators will evaluate the effect of anesthetic combination
      of autonomic system.
    
  