
    
      Overnutrition and sedentary lifestyle are the leading factors associated with the development
      of obesity. Obese adults usually are advised to make lifestyle modifications which include
      dietary restriction and physical activity recommendation. In addition, dietary supplements
      and medication such as anti-hypertensive, lipid lowering drugs are used to achieved targeted
      body weight of obese adult. Therefore, the confounding factors in this study namely dietary
      intake, physical activity, medication, supplements were controlled throughout the study.
      These factors including smoking were also controlled as it will affect the metabolites.

      Imbalance between energy intake and expenditure results in adipose tissue expansion due to
      excessive lipogenesis in adipose tissues. Generally, it is well accepted that adipose tissue
      expansion in an obese state is accompanied by elevated inflammation. Oxidative stress and
      pro-inflammatory processes are strongly related. Increased abdominal adipose tissue
      accelerates the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines which promote increased generation
      of ROS, both inflammation and oxidative stress play a significant role in the development of
      insulin resistant thus further are associated with the degree of metabolic dysfunction.

      It was hypothesized that cocoa flavanol with the properties of anti-inflammation,
      anti-oxidative and antiobesity properties may reduce the oxidative stress and inflammation,
      subsequently reduce the insulin resistance and thus improved the outcome measurements in
      obese adult. In order to measures the altered metabolite in the urine and blood serum
      following cocoa rich flavanol consumption in dark chocolate in obese adult, a metabolomics
      based approach is used in this study.

      This study is a randomized, open-labelled, parallel controlled trial where the intervention
      group will receive 20 grams of dark chocolate, daily for 12 weeks while the control group
      will receive 20 grams of white chocolate daily for 12 weeks. Measurement will be taken
      including sociodemographic, anthropometric measurement, diet and physical activity
      questionnaire, blood and urine samples at baseline and 12 weeks of intervention. Obese male
      adult aged 18-45 years old will be recruited
    
  