
    
      1.0 PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS

      Approximately 100 eligible adult patients with physician-diagnosed asthma will either be
      randomized to 12-week treatment with azithromycin or an identical placebo, or join an
      observational open-label azithromycin cohort. Azithromycin is a widely marketed azalide
      antibiotic with an excellent safety profile. Azithromycin or placebo will be adjunctive
      therapy for usual asthma care. The following patient-reported data will be collected via
      Zoomerang™ (a commercially-available data collection tool) periodically until one year after
      randomization: (1) study medication adherence and side effects weekly until 12 weeks, (2)
      asthma control and exacerbations every 6 weeks until 12 months, and (3) asthma quality of
      life and asthma controller medication changes every 3 months until 12 months. The primary
      hypothesis is that azithromycin will significantly improve asthma control (decrease symptoms
      and medication use) by 3 months (end treatment) and the improvement will continue to 12
      months (end study). The primary outcome variable is overall asthma symptoms. Secondary
      outcomes are asthma medication use, quality of life and exacerbations. We will examine the
      predictive value of baseline patient characteristics including age, sex, smoking, co-morbid
      respiratory diagnoses and degree of airflow limitation. We will also examine for any
      imbalances between study groups in controller medication use, other antibiotic prescriptions
      and acute respiratory illnesses during the one-year study period.

      We will enroll subjects from the practices of Wisconsin Research and Education Network (WREN)
      members, UW Department of Family Medicine physicians, Dean Medical Center primary care
      physicians, and from other practice-based research networks (PBRNs), medical group practices
      and individual primary care practices throughout North America.

      Patients with physician-diagnosed asthma aged 18 and older will be identified at
      point-of-service (office, urgent care, emergency room or hospital), by administrative data
      base review, or by physician recall. Most subjects will be the patients of study physicians.
      Other physicians in the group practice may refer subjects. Subjects also may be self-referred
      after responding to posters placed in the clinics. Some sites may elect to identify cases by
      medical record or database review, in which case only the personal physician may initiate
      patient contacts.

      Treatment is azithromycin tablets, 600 milligrams orally once daily for 3 days, then 600
      milligrams once weekly for an additional 11 weeks (total dose 8400 milligrams) or identical
      placebo, in addition to usual care for asthma.
    
  