
    
      Several randomized controlled trials comparing appendectomy to antibiotics alone in adults
      with acute appendicitis have been reported from non-U.S. countries. These studies reveal that
      non-operative management of appendicitis is a safe treatment for appendicitis and is
      associated with a significantly lower risk of complications than appendectomy. We have
      recently completed the first study in the U.S. examining the feasibility of non-operative
      management of uncomplicated appendicitis in children. In our pilot study, patients and their
      families chose between urgent appendectomy or antibiotics alone for treatment of
      uncomplicated appendicitis. The success rate of non-operative management was 90% at 30 days
      and 80% at a median follow-up of 8 months. In addition, patients in the non-operative group
      demonstrated a significantly faster return to normal activity and reported higher quality of
      life scores. The current proposal seeks to further investigate the effectiveness of
      non-operative management with antibiotics alone as a treatment option for children with
      uncomplicated appendicitis. When randomized trials are not feasible due to strong treatment
      preferences or when only a small proportion of patients will accept randomization, a parallel
      group non-randomized study where participants are allocated to their preferred treatment is a
      valuable alternative. Based on feedback from a multi-disciplinary stakeholder group that was
      convened to assess the potential impact of family preferences on study outcomes, recruitment,
      and generalizability, we propose a multi-institutional trial in which patients and their
      families choose between antibiotics alone (Non-operative group) or appendectomy (Surgery
      group). We hypothesize that non-operative management will be successful in 75% of patients at
      1 year follow-up and will be associated with fewer disability days, higher quality of life
      scores, and lower costs than appendectomy. This study will enroll 795 patients, age 8-17
      years, with uncomplicated appendicitis at 10 children's hospitals. The primary outcomes are:
      1) differences in treatment-related disability between non-operative management and surgery
      in children with uncomplicated appendicitis across 10 children's hospitals; and 2) the
      success rate of non-operative management of uncomplicated appendicitis at 10 children's
      hospitals, defined as the percent of patients treated non-operatively who do not undergo an
      appendectomy. Secondary outcomes include differences between the groups in rates of
      complicated appendicitis, post-treatment related complications, disability days of the
      parent, quality of life and healthcare satisfaction measures, and total costs and the
      incremental cost-effectiveness of non-operative management relative to appendectomy. The
      proposed study will expand upon our previous pilot study by including patients from both
      freestanding and non-freestanding children's hospitals with both urban and rural demographies
      to determine the success rate and morbidity associated with non-operative management in a
      population that better represents the overall population of children in the U.S. Successful
      completion of this study may provide evidence for the effectiveness of non-operative
      management of uncomplicated appendicitis as an alternative first line therapy in children.
    
  