
    
      The overarching goal of this proposal is to address limitations inherent in current remedial
      approaches utilized in reading disability (RD). Specifically, the experimenters aim to
      evaluate the effectiveness of a technology-based intervention for children with RD, using a
      randomized controlled trial. Nature of the Problem. Reading Disability (RD) is the most
      common learning disability, affecting 10 - 15% of school age children. It incurs major
      functional impairments at all stages of life. A wealth of data documents lifelong
      disadvantages in educational and occupational attainment. Problematically, current
      evidence-based reading interventions largely rely on services by trained specialists, either
      in well-resourced classrooms or clinical settings. As such, under-resourced schools (or
      countries) often are unable to provide reading interventions for their students. This
      potentially tragic situation has fostered the proposed project that aims to evaluate an
      affordable, promising, technology-based, treatment, which has twofold advantages, that of
      being home-based and, also, to be implemented without direct expert supervision, thereby
      minimizing resource demands. Recent studies have supported the efficacy of technology-based
      reading interventions, particularly GraphoLearn, which focuses on teaching phonological
      skills and letter sound correspondence, though with notable variation in effect sizes. As
      highlighted in a recent meta-analysis, sample sizes tend to be small, and there is marked
      variation in key methodological components across studies, particularly gameplay dosage
      (which is well below expert recommendations in most studies), control group (e.g., active
      versus passive), and level of adult involvement in administration. Most relevant, the utility
      of GraphoLearn has not been adequately examined outside the confines of controlled
      school-settings, thus failing to inform on the value of home administration - the major
      positive feature of the GraphoLearn. Similarly, possible predictors of negative outcomes for
      home administration are unexplored (e.g., compliance with prescribed gameplay dosage, which,
      as noted in our preliminary data, can vary).

      Overview for Aim 1. The proposed project addresses limitations inherent in remedial
      interventions by implementing a large-scale, randomized controlled trial (RCT) of
      home-administered GraphoLearn in 450 RD children (boys and girls, ages 6.0-10.0). To
      accomplish this goal rapidly and with minimal cost, the experimenters will recruit
      participants enrolled in the Healthy Brain Network [HBN], an ongoing study of mental health
      and learning disorders in children, ages 5.0-21.0, whose family have concerns about behavior
      and/or learning (target n = 10,000; current n = 3000+). The HBN includes comprehensive
      psychiatric, cognitive, EEG and multimodal MRI characterizations for all participants,
      providing the proposed study with rich descriptive data. Reading disabilities will be
      identified using the TOWRE (standard score < 85). Children will be assigned to a
      12-week/20-hour program of GraphoLearn or an "active" control condition, group matched for IQ
      and reading-level. The control will consist of a math game, similar in style to GraphoLearn,
      to control for non-specific effects of the intervention, such as time spent on the program,
      attention, and other factors. Children randomized to the control group will be offered
      GraphoLearn following the study due to ethical considerations. Consistent with real-world
      conditions, non-study related interventions during the course of the study period will be
      permitted. They will be documented for comprehensive sample description, and for analyzing
      predictors of response (Aim 2).

      Aim 1: Evaluate the effectiveness of GraphoLearn in a large sample of children with RD.
      Children's reading level will be assessed before, during (week 6), and at the end of, the
      active study (week 12). Extended effects will be evaluated 12 weeks post treatment (week 24).
      The experimenters hypothesize statistically significant differences in reading level in favor
      of the GraphoLearn group over the control group at weeks 12 and 24. Should the hypothesis be
      supported, it will have important public health implications for children with RD (there is
      no claim that the program will be substitute for individualized, and expert-supervised,
      reading remediation).

      Overview for Aim 2. The identification of participant-level and environment-level factors
      that predict treatment response is an important topical goal but has not been considered for
      GraphoLearn. For specialist-based interventions, a consistent finding is that older children,
      and children with language or cognitive impairments, are less likely to benefit. Here, the
      experimenters leverage the diversity of co-morbid clinical presentations among poor readers
      in HBN to identify putative predictors of treatment response. In line with recent studies
      suggesting the added value of brain-based features for prediction of intervention outcomes,
      the experimenters also leverage the availability of anatomical MRI data in the development of
      predictive models.

      Aim 2. Identify participant-related and environment-level factors that are significantly
      associated with GraphoLearn outcomes. The extensive phenotypic and imaging characterizations
      included in the HBN sample are uniquely suited for exploring an extensive set of participant
      and environmental factors that may predict treatment outcomes. Random Forest Regression
      models will be used to predict differences in intervention response to GraphoLearn, based on
      an a priori set of baseline demographic, cognitive, emotional, brain and home environment
      variables. Assuming that compliance (i.e., actual time spent playing GraphoLearn relative to
      prescribed) is found to be a strong predictor of response, exploratory analyses will also
      look at predictors of compliance to further increase real world value of the proposed work.
    
  