
    
      During surgery for rectal cancer, there is considerable controversy regarding the optimal
      level of ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery.There has been a differentiation between
      a high versus low ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery related to whether or not the
      ligation is above (high ligation) or below (low ligation) the left colic artery. Several
      studies have demonstrated the benefit of high ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery for
      the rectal cancer in order to achieve block dissection of lymph node metastases along the
      root of the inferior mesenteric artery. Excision of the apical lymph node at the root of the
      inferior mesenteric artery is thought to be necessary for radical resection of rectal cancer
      because apical lymph node resection contributes to improve lymph node retrieval rates and the
      accuracy of tumour staging. In contrast, other studies have shown a significant decrease in
      blood flow after inferior mesenteric artery clamping that may increase the risk of
      anastomotic ischemia. Patients with high ligation of inferior mesenteric artery had a 3.8
      times higher chance of leaking than those with low ligation. Several studies confirmed that
      the long-term outcomes were not significantly different between high ligation of the inferior
      mesenteric artery and low ligation. So, a modified procedure was suggested to dissect fatty
      tissues and nodes in the angle between the inferior mesenteric artery and left colic artery
      and the artery was ligated below the left colic artery, which represented a compromise
      between the high and low ligation. Recently, several studies have described laparoscopic
      lymph node dissection around the inferior mesenteric artery with preservation of the left
      colic artery for rectosigmoid colon cancer. However, there are a few reports that describe
      the clinical outcomes associated with this management strategy. Furthermore, the long-term
      outcomes for laparoscopic lymphadenectomy around the inferior mesenteric artery with rectal
      cancer have seldom been reported. In the present clinical trial, the investigators perform
      laparoscopic surgery with this management strategy in rectal cancer. Thus, the goal of this
      study is to investigate the short-term and oncologic long-term outcomes associated with
      laparoscopic lymph node dissection around the inferior mesenteric artery with preservation of
      the left colic artery for rectal cancer.
    
  