
    
      Composite resins have been widely used in the last years to restore teeth due to increases in
      patients' esthetic expectations. Therefore optical and mechanical properties of composite
      resins were being developed day by day. Composite resin restorations have the main advantages
      such as conservative cavity preparation, preserving healthy dental tissue, and strengthening
      the remaining tooth structure. Furthermore, according to clinical studies, high clinical
      performance and good longevity have been reported. Traditionally, the composite resins are
      placed in increments of 2 mm that are cured separately (incremental technique. The
      incremental technique provides sufficient light penetration and monomer conversion. However,
      there are many disadvantages to the incremental technique. For instance, bonding failure,
      blood, or saliva contamination of between layers, the difficulty of application in limited
      access in small cavities, and to be time-consuming. Because of these, manufacturers have
      presented a "bulk-fill composites", which could be polymerized in a single layer up to 4-5 mm
      thick to the market. Bulk-fill composites can be described as composites that are
      sufficiently polymerizable in a single layer up to 4 mm thick. Bulk-fill composites that were
      introduced in recent years can be manipulated faster and more convenient in the cavity
      compared to conventional hybrid composites. In addition, these materials present good
      mechanical properties such as marginal adaptation, sealing properties, fracture strength,
      wear-resistance, and long-term clinical success. Clinical studies are required to clearly
      describe the clinical behavior of the materials. Although there have been many in vitro
      studies about bulk-fill composite in the literature, the number of clinical trials is
      insufficient. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical performance of
      bulk-fill composite about placement technique (bulk-filling and incremental techniques) in
      Class II carious lesions using the criteria of the World Dental Federation (FDI) and the
      United States Public Health Service (USPHS)
    
  