
    
      There are many ways to manage stress and mood, including exercise, diet, and relaxation
      practices. Cognitive-based techniques are also extremely powerful. Simply changing how you
      think about stressful situations can dramatically affect the way you feel. Individuals who
      routinely use strategies like cognitive reappraisal exhibit an enviable affective profile:
      studies suggest these individuals generally have less stress, lower incidence of depression,
      and better social functioning than those who rely on less adaptive emotion regulatory
      techniques. Techniques like cognitive reappraisal are also integral to many evidence-based
      psychotherapeutic traditions, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy and rational-emotive
      therapy.

      Unfortunately, cognitive techniques can be hard to learn. Thinking flexibly about stressful
      thoughts and situations requires creativity and poise, faculties that often elude us when we
      need them the most. In this study, the investigators evaluate a web-based technology that
      uses crowdsourcing and peer-to-peer interactions to help people learn cognitive-based
      techniques and apply them throughout their daily lives.

      The goal of the proposed study is to see whether the investigators' technology is more
      engaging and more effective at reducing depression symptoms than a web-based expressive
      writing platform. While the investigators are most interested in how this intervention
      affects depression symptoms, the investigators will also assess other psychological variables
      and the investigators will open the study to the general population.

      Participation in this study will last three weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either a crowdsourcing reappraisal platform or an expressive writing platform. All
      study procedures (subject recruitment, baseline and follow-up assessments, interventions)
      will be conducted online.
    
  