
    
      Obesity and metabolic disorders (type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance) are tightly linked
      to inflammation. Obesity, a pandemic affecting 30-50% of the adult population, is mediated by
      a variety of genetic and environmental factors. It is well described that cytokines cause
      insulin resistance which causes hyperinsulinemia and excessive fat storage in adipose tissue
      and the liver. However, the triggering factor, linking inflammation to metabolic syndrome has
      not been fully elucidated yet.

      Recently it has been hypothesized that the gut flora is an important factor in this vicious
      cycle of obesity, metabolic disease and inflammation. Firstly, metabolic activities of the
      gut microbiota facilitates the extraction of calories from ingested dietary substances and
      helps to store these calories in host adipose tissue for later use. Second, the gut bacterial
      flora of obese mice and humans include fewer Bacteroidetes and correspondingly more
      Firmicutes than that of their lean counterparts, suggesting that differences in caloric
      extraction of ingested food substances may be due to the composition of the gut microbiota.
      Furthermore, bacterial lipopolysaccharide derived from the intestinal microbiota may trigger
      inflammation, linking it to high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome. High-fat diet induces
      insulin resistance and oxidative stress in mice and is associated with increased gut
      permeability. high fat diet induces a low-grade endotoxemia in mice ("metabolic endotoxemia)
      and infusing endotoxin causes weight gain and insulin resistance. This has also been shown in
      humans, where patients with fatty liver had a susceptibility to higher gut permeability,
      possibly causing increased endotoxin levels.

      Endotoxin and Lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) is elevated in obese patients,
      patients with type 2 diabetes and patients with liver steatosis. Endotoxin causes a
      significant increase in proinflammatory cytokine production in adipocytes via a TLR mediated
      pathway, contribution to the proinflammatory state in obesity. Endotoxin levels correlate
      with adiponectin and insulin suggesting a pathophysiological link between obesity,
      inflammation and metabolic disease.

      As described above, endotoxin is related to increased inflammation and oxidative stress,
      causing insulin resistance. Adipocytes have been shown to play a dynamic role in regulation
      of inflammation by producing cytokines via a Toll-like receptor (TLR)/Nuclear Factor kappa B
      (NFkB) mediated pathway.But not only adipocytes are in a proinflammatory state - also
      circulating mononuclear cells have been described to be activated. Clinical evidence suggests
      immune dysfunction in obesity, since obese patients are more prone to infections after
      surgery, higher incidence of lower respiratory infection which is also underlined by
      impairment of cell-mediated immune responses in vivo and in vitro and a reduced intracellular
      killing by neutrophils.

      A similar situation has been recently described in alcoholic cirrhosis and alcoholic
      hepatitis, which is also a proinflammatory condition with impaired innate immunity, leading
      to infection. Endotoxin has been described as a key mediator and inadequate activation of
      neutrophils leading to high oxidative burst and energy depletion of the cells with
      consecutive impaired phagocytic capacity has been described.

      The most effective therapy of obesity - weight loss - leads to significant improvement of
      mononuclear cell activation. However, there is no data available on the effect of weight loss
      on gut flora, gut permeability and endotoxin.

      Since weight loss is usually very hard to achieve, other therapeutic strategies have been
      tested. Since gut flora seems to be crucial in the development of the vicious cycle of
      obesity, inflammation and metabolic disease, several studies tried to modify the composition
      of gut microbiota. In mice treatment with antibiotics improved glucose tolerance by altering
      expression of genes involved in inflammation and metabolism. A similar result was found in
      mice treated with a probiotic that increases the number of Bifidobacterium spp., which leads
      to improved glucose tolerance, insulin secretion and a decrease in inflammatory tone. Finally
      treatment of mice with a probiotic decreased hepatic insulin resistance via a C-Jun
      N-terminal Kinase (JNK) and NFkB pathway, supporting the concept that intestinal bacteria
      induce endogenous signals that play a pathogenic role in hepatic insulin resistance.

      Among the vast amount of bacteria described to alter gut flora and exert positive effects on
      the host, we have chosen to study Lactobacillus casei Shirota several reasons: Firstly this
      commercially available preparation delivers a high bacterial number in a relatively small
      volume and is available as a palatable milk drink. Furthermore Lactobacillus casei Shirota
      has been proven to survive the passage through the stomach and is present in the lower
      intestinal tract. It has also been shown that this bacterial strain can increases the amount
      of Lactobacilli and decreases the number of gram-negative organisms in the bacterial flora.
      This bacterial strain has been shown to be effective in modulating natural killer cell
      function and neutrophil function.

      We hypothesize that Lactobacillus casei Shirota is able to decrease metabolic endotoxemia by
      altering gut flora composition and gut permeability which leads to an improvement in
      neutrophil function and insulin resistance in obesity

      Specific Aims:

        1. To investigate the effect of Lactobacillus casei Shirota supplementation over 12 weeks
           on neutrophil function (phagocytosis, oxidative burst and TLR expression) in patients
           with metabolic syndrome.

        2. To investigate the effect of Lactobacillus casei Shirota supplementation over 12 weeks
           on glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, inflammation, gut flora composition, gut
           permeability, and endotoxemia in metabolic syndrome

      Plan of investigations:

      Patients:

      30 Patients with metabolic syndrome and increased gut permeability will be randomized to
      either receive food supplementation with a milk drink containing Lactobacillus casei Shirota
      (3 bottles a day, 65 ml each, containing Lactobacillus casei Shirota at a concentration of
      10^8 colony forming units/ml) for twelve weeks or standard medical therapy.
    
  