
    
      The open-label study aims to enroll up to 75 participants into the conventional guidance arm
      followed by 75 participants into the stereotactic guidance arm, in sequence.

      Detailed observational data will be collected during the surgical procedures, and
      participating patients will be evaluated at prescribed intervals (pre-operatively, and 2,4,6,
      and 12 months post-operatively) using survey instruments, clinical indicators, and routine
      radiologic outcomes. Radiologic outcomes will be assessed using standard x-rays that are
      obtained in the course of normal care for all patients who undergo total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA). A subset of the first 30 patients enrolled into each treatment arm will, in addition,
      be asked to voluntarily undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan of the lower extremity (hip,
      knee, and ankle joints) 8-12 weeks after surgery to measure 3-dimensional accuracy of
      prosthesis placement and limb alignment.

      Data collection will include:

        1. Demographic and background information (age, sex, height, weight, social
           (occupation/employment), major comorbidity (broadly classified), smoking)

        2. Patient reported outcome measures (Veteran's Rand 12-item Health Survey; 2011 Knee
           Society Score)

        3. Physical Examination (knee range of motion, knee stability)

        4. Details of the surgical operation

        5. Operating room workflow details, including skin-to-skin surgical time

        6. Post-operative disposition

        7. Radiologic outcomes

             1. Routine pre- and post-operative radiographs will be reviewed for limb alignment and
                evidence of prosthesis fixation

             2. Post-operative CT scans (hip, knee, ankle) will be used to evaluate accuracy of
                placement of the TKA prosthesis (femoral and tibial components) and accuracy of
                limb alignment in the coronal, sagittal, and axial planes. The values measured from
                the post-operative CT scan will be compared to those of the final intra-operative
                plan; lack of difference between the two will constitute 'accuracy'.

        8. Adverse events

        9. Patients may optionally participate in an additional clinical follow-up visit at 2 years
           post-operatively, which will include the patient reported outcome measures, physical,
           examination, and radiographic examination.
    
  