
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Long QT Syndrome (LQTS) is an infrequently occurring disorder of unknown cause in which
      affected individuals have an unusual electrocardiographic repolarization abnormality and a
      propensity to syncope and fatal ventricular tachyarrhythmias. The first family with LQTS was
      described by Jervell and Lange-Nielsen in 1957. Three sudden deaths occurred in four deaf
      children with QT prolongation; two other children and the parents were healthy with normal
      hearing and normal electrocardiograms. The findings were interpreted as a pattern of
      autosomal recessive inheritance. Subsequent reports identified LQTS families with normal
      hearing (Romano-Ward Syndrome) having a pattern of occurrence suggesting autosomal dominant
      inheritance.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Beginning in 1985, patients and their unaffected relatives were longitudinally followed in
      this multicenter study to develop and validate widely applicable clinical criteria for
      stratifying the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias. A population of genetically deaf
      students was surveyed to identify additional families with the unique association of Long QT
      Syndrome and congenital deafness in order to expand the data base for genetic studies in the
      recessive form of the disorder, the Jervell and Lange-Nielsen Syndrome. Pedigrees of selected
      Long QT Syndrome families were recorded to better understand the inheritance of the dominant
      form of the disorder, the Romano-Ward Syndrome. Genetic studies were conducted using human
      leukocyte antigen and other protein markers in order to investigate the gene locus for the
      autosomal dominant form of the syndrome. A select group of 30 patients and 30 unaffected
      relatives had 24-hour Holter monitoring, treadmill exercise, Valsalva maneuver and handgrip
      stress tests to determine if the patients had a unique cardiovascular response to autonomic
      dysfunction.

      The study was renewed in 1993. The renewal had six aims. The first examined genetic
      heterogeneity in LQTS by testing for Harvey-ras-1 gene linkage in the existing
      well-characterized LQTS families with evidence of a major gene by segregation analysis; in
      LQTS families that did not show Harvey-ras- 1 linkage, a search for other closely linked
      genetic markers was initiated. The second aim explored by segregation analysis the likelihood
      that a second gene coexisted with the Harvey-ras-1 gene to explain a more malignant disease
      process in some LQTS families than in others. The third established normal standards for six
      quantitative repolarization parameters on a healthy population (n=4,000) using digitized ECG
      recordings, and biomedical and statistical techniques with adjustment for age, gender, race,
      and heart rate. The fourth aim continued the existing LQTS registry with ongoing enrollment
      of new families and follow-up of new and existing LQTS pedigrees (n=370 families) in order to
      provide a central repository for this disorder, especially as it related to the natural
      history of this disorder and ongoing genetic analyses. The fifth aim investigated the static
      (12-lead ECG) and dynamic (24-hour Holter ECG) aspects of ventricular repolarization in LQTS
      families showing Harvey-ras gene linkage to upgrade the ECG categorization of delayed
      repolarization using the Harvey-ras- 1 marker as the gold standard to identify affected and
      unaffected individuals. The sixth aim continued the prospective longitudinal follow-up study
      of LQTS families to better understand the long-term clinical course of this disorder;
      time-dependent survivorship analyses were performed to evaluate the effects of various
      clinical features, repolarization severity (QTc length), Harvey-ras-I gene linkage, and
      therapeutic efficacy with antiadrenergic therapy (if data permits) on outcome event rates
      (syncope and sudden death) in the LQTS probands.

      The study has been renewed several times to: expand the pedigrees of LQTS families and family
      members enrolled in the registry; identify new LQTS gene mutations and expand the number of
      gene-identified affected and unaffected members in LQTS families with known gene mutations;
      investigate phenotype-genotype relationships in 200 genotyped families involving 1,200
      affected and unaffected family members regarding the clinical course of LQTS, T-wave
      repolarization, triggering factors for cardiac events, and co-morbidity associations, all by
      genotype. The study remains a multicenter project with six clinical centers, a genetic
      component involving four molecular genetic labs, a statistical genetic component, a
      biostatistical component, and a coordinating center.
    
  