
    
      Patients with evidence of radiographic recurrence who expressed EGFRvIII on their original
      tumor diagnosis had autologous PBMCs harvested by leukapheresis. These autologous PBMCs were
      transduced with a retrovirus containing the sequences for the EGFRvIII CAR and sent to the
      Duke Radiopharmacy for radiolabeling with 111Indium (111In). Within 2-3 weeks of
      leukapheresis, on Day -4 to -2, patients had a BrainLab MRI to prepare for biopsy and
      catheter placement. On Day -1, the patient underwent standard of care (SOC) stereotactic
      biopsy under local anesthesia to confirm tumor recurrence. At the time of biopsy, prior to
      catheter insertion and administration of study drug, the presence of recurrent tumor was
      confirmed by histopathology. If tumor recurrence was confirmed, a catheter was placed
      intratumorally for delivery of EGFRvIII-CARs by Convection Enhanced Delivery (CED).

      SRS will took place on Day 0 (+1 day) and 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CARs were infused on the
      same day over a 6 to 6.5 hour period immediately after SRS.

      On days 1 and 2 after 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CAR infusion, whole planar imaging followed by
      Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) Computed Tomography (CT) imaging assessed
      the intracerebral and systemic localization of the 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CARs that described
      the distribution of EGFRvIII-CARs within the brain and systemically.

      This protocol was designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a novel,
      tumor-specific treatment with autologous EGFRvIII-CARs. The proposed starting dose was 2.5 x
      10^8 of 111In-labeled cells in 3 milliliters (mL). The infusion flow rate was fixed at 0.5
      mL/hr.

      Enrollment on this study was suspended in April 2020 while an amendment to reduce the
      anticipated number of participants was under review and approved. Upon approval of this
      amendment, the enrollment suspension remained due to a change in access to necessary
      equipment for CAR manufacturing. The decision to terminate the study was made in January,
      2021 to shift toward the next iteration of a related CAR T cell trial. The knowledge gained
      from this study experience is directing our next CAR T-cell platform and will be used to
      secure additional funding.
    
  