
    
      Introduction The novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), is a single-stranded RNA coronavirus. The
      virus was first isolated from patients presented with pneumonia in Wuhan in December 2019. It
      is believed that the virus first emerged from patients working in the Wuhan Seafood Market
      which also sold contaminated wild animals, consumed as a local delicacy. Sequences of the
      Wuhan betacoronavirus show similarities to betacoronaviruses found in bats, sharing a common
      ancestor with the 2003 SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and the bat coronavirus HKU, a virus found
      in fruit bats. Similar to SARS-CoV, it is a member of Beta-CoV lineage B. Five genomes of the
      novel coronavirus have been initially isolated and reported including
      BetaCoV/Wuhan/IVDC-HB-01/2019, BetaCoV/Wuhan/IVDC-HB-04/2020, BetaCoV/Wuhan/IVDC-HB-05/2019,
      BetaCoV/Wuhan/WIV04/2019, and BetaCoV/Wuhan/IPBCAMS-WH-01/2019 from the China CDC.

      The SARS-CoV-2 has since spread from China to the rest of the world. As of 20 November 2020,
      more than 50 million people been confirmed to have infected by SARS-CoV-2, resulting in more
      than 1,000,000 deaths. Remdesivir has been shown to clinically effective in severe Covid-19
      patients but virological data is lacking. FDA has approved the use of remdesivir for the
      treatment of severe Covid-19 infection. Apart from remdesivir, no specific antiviral
      treatment for the SARS-CoV-2 is currently available, but existing medication could be
      repurposed.

      Genetic sequencing demonstrated similarity of the SARS-CoV-2 to the SARS-CoV and MERS CoV. We
      expect patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 will also present similarly with initial upper
      respiratory tract symptoms including fever, cough, sputum, myalgia and shortness or breath.
      More severe cases might complicate with pneumonia and required ventilatory or ECMO support.
      According to our previous studies in 2003 on patients hospitalized for severe SARS-CoV, the
      viral load peaked between day 7 from symptoms onset and coincided with clinical deterioration
      of pneumonia and respiratory failure, with majority of the patients required intensive care
      support. Higher viral load isolated from different human system also correlated with worsened
      SARS manifestation and complications.

      Previously, the investigators have demonstrated that interferon-beta1b, commonly used in the
      treatment of multiple sclerosis and lopinavir/ ritonavir, also demonstrated to improve the
      outcome of MERS-CoV infection in a non-human primate model of common marmoset. A more recent
      open-label, randomized controlled trial by our team has proven that interferon beta-1b, in
      combination with lopinavir/ ritonavir and ribavirin reduced the SARS-CoV-2 viral load in the
      respiratory tract and resulted in faster alleviation of clinical symptoms when compared to
      lopinavir/ ritonavir alone or with ribavirin, suggesting that interferon beta-1b was likely
      to be the backbone of this triple therapy.

      Therefore, the investigators propose to conduct an open-label randomized controlled trial on
      interferon beta-1b and remdesivir combination versus remdesivir as treatment for patients
      hospitalized for COVID-19 infection

      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups: Group A: a 5-day course of
      subcutaneous injection of interferon β-1b 2mL (16 million IU) consecutively and IV remdesivir
      200mg loading on day 1 followed by remdesivir 100mg daily on day 2 to day 5, or Group B: a
      5-day course of IV remdesivir 200mg loading on day 1 followed by remdesivir 100mg daily on
      day 2 to day 5 (1:1).
    
  