
    
      The uptake of health screening is low in Malaysia, particularly in men. There is a need to
      increase health screening uptake in men as this will not just save healthcare cost and
      increase national productivity in the long run but also improve the quality of life of men
      and their family.

      There were many interventions to increase health screening uptake in men which have been
      identified in the systematic review conducted in the earlier phase of this study. However,
      there is a lack of ICT-based intervention promoting health screening. The few existing ICT
      based interventions only focus on screening on a specific disease such as HIV or prostate
      cancer.(1-3) There was no ICT-based intervention which aimed to increase the uptake of
      comprehensive health screening.

      Studies have shown that ICT-based interventions are effective in improving health
      behaviour.(4) On top of that, there is a high number of internet accessibility and smartphone
      ownership in Malaysia, which provides a good platform to promote health screening in men.
      Thus, ScreenMen, a web-based intervention was developed based on theories, evidence and
      users' needs. It was tested with experts and users in terms of its utility and usability.
      (5-7)

      To the best of our knowledge, ScreenMen is the first mobile-responsive web-based intervention
      that promotes comprehensive evidence-based health screening in men. It aims to educate men
      about screening and empowers them to take charge of their health including undergoing regular
      health screening. Apart from encouraging health screening, ScreenMen provides advice to men
      about the recommended health screening they should undergo based on their health risks and
      educates them to avoid non-evidence-based screening.

      Before being launched to the public, a randomised controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted to
      evaluate the effectiveness of ScreenMen in improving knowledge on screening, intention to
      screen and the actual uptake of screening. Process evaluation will also be conducted to
      identify the components that work in improving health screening uptake and resolve any
      implementation issues of ScreenMen.
    
  