
    
      Scientific and clinical Background

      There is very good evidence that the hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis is disturbed
      in depression. There is some evidence that the stress system also plays a role in attention
      deficit disorder (ADHD ) (O'Connor, Heron et al. 2002).

      The investigators have shown that motor activity and attention deficit/concentration are core
      symptoms of depression (Kammerer, Marks et al. 2009; Kammerer 2010). These symptoms are also
      the core symptoms of attention deficit hyperkinetic disorder (ADHD). There is increasing
      evidence that the diurnal variation of markers of the stress system (e.g. salivary cortisol
      for the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis, salivary amylase for the sympathetic
      adrenomedullar (SAM) axis) reveal characteristics of different types of depression, e.g.
      atypical depression (Tops, Riese et al. 2008), post partum depression (Tops, Riese et al.
      2008; Taylor, Glover et al. 2009) and related states, e.g. posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) (Wessa, Rohleder et al. 2006) and chronic fatigue syndrome (Roberts, Wessely et al.
      2004).

      There is some evidence that the saliva cortisol levels and the cortisol awakening rise may be
      markers of treatment success (Roberts, Papadopoulos et al. 2009). Salivary cortisol and
      salivary amylase are easy to study as only saliva is needed. (Clow, Hucklebridge et al.;
      Kirschbaum and Hellhammer 1989; O'Donnell, Kammerer et al. 2009). The investigators have
      tested saliva amylase, found it to be robust and a useful marker for the function of the SAM
      system (O'Donnell, Kammerer et al. 2009).

      However there is still insufficient research into the diurnal profile of cortisol and amylase
      with children suffering from ADHD. This causes a serious lack of information for both
      clinical child and adolescent psychiatry and paediatrics as well as for the research
      community.

      Atomoxetine was originally developed to be used as an antidepressant and shows an excellent
      therapeutic effect on attention deficit and hyperactivity with children suffering from ADHD.
      It is a selective re-uptake inhibitor of noradrenaline from the synaptic cavity (NARI).

      Research into the possible effect of medication with Atomoxetine in children on their diurnal
      profile of cortisol and amylase has - to the investigators' best knowledge - not been carried
      out. The possible effect on the diurnal profile of cortisol and amylase could be linked to
      treatment success in general and to improvement of individual symptoms of ADHD. It may also
      contribute to a better understanding of possible side effects.

      The investigators propose a study - with a within subjects design - with five times daily
      saliva collection on two consecutive weekdays before medication commences. Measurements will
      be repeated in weeks one, four and twelve of medication of Atomoxetine. Additional
      questionnaire data collection (Conners, CBCL) and, if feasible, testing (KI TAP) will be
      carried out.

      The study will provide insight into possible effects of the compound (Atomoxetine) on the
      stress system. It may identify easily measurable biological markers of treatment success, and
      provide research into possible markers of respondents and non respondents. The investigators
      control for motor activity by using actometers.

      Hypotheses to be tested

        1. The cortisol awakening reaction (CAR) will be significantly different before,
           immediately after and four and twelve weeks after begin of the mediation of Atomoxetine
           with boys aged seven to ten.

        2. The overall cortisol level will be different at the three measurement time points from
           each other.

        3. The diurnal profile of salivary amylase and the overall amylase level will be
           significantly different from each other at the three measurement time points.

        4. There will be a group effect regarding the diurnal profile distinguishing responders to
           Atomoxetine (response=50%reduction of symptoms) from non responders.

      Plan of Research

      Ethical approval

      The protocol has obtained approval by the relevant ethical committees prior to begin of the
      study.

      Location

      A network of paediatrician's n Switzerland.

      Subjects and tests

      Eligibility criteria:

      Boys are eligible, age seven to ten, without comorbid psychiatric and/or somatic condition
      for whom the responsible paediatrician and/or child psychiatrist gives the indication for
      treatment with Atomoxetine and parents follow this advice. In order to exclude effects of
      prior psycho pharmacotherapy psychotropic drug naive boys only will be chosen. The diurnal
      variation seems to change as children grow older (unpublished observations of our group).
      Therefore, we want to try to get a sample that is as homogenous as possible.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Suicidal risk, depression, history of epileptic seizures, co morbid psychiatric or somatic
      conditions, history of psychotropic medication.

      Power:

      With an n=50 the investigators expect a power of 80% at 5 % significance and an SD of 0.6. In
      our study of postpartum depression (Taylor et al, 2009) we reached significant differences
      between the groups with an n= 30 and an n=21.

      Sample:

      • 50 boys, seven to ten yours of age, with clinical diagnosis of ADHD (ICD 10 or DSMV)

      Measurements

      Biological measures

      Method for measurement of saliva cortisol and saliva amylase:

      The same methodology will be applied as in (O'Donnell, Kammerer et al. 2009; Taylor, Glover
      et al. 2009) Actometer measurements using actometers provided by www.resmed.ch

      Psychological measures

      Assessment tools for quantifying ADHD symptoms will include the German version of the
      CPRS-R:L (Conners 1998; Conners, Sitarenios et al. 1998; Conners, Sitarenios et al. 1998),
      the CTRS-R:L (Conners, Sitarenios et al. 1998), the SDQ, parent and teacher version (Goodman
      1997), Achenbach, T.M., & Rescorla, L. A. (2001). Manual for the ASEBA School-Age Forms and
      Profiles. Burlington, VT: University of Vermont, Research Center for Children, Youth, and
      Families. ISBN 0-938565-73-7
    
  