
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if nivolumab + chemo-immunotherapy results in a superior long term
      progression-free survival (PFS) (events defined as disease progression confirmed by central
      review or death) when compared with chemo-immunotherapy alone in patients with newly
      diagnosed primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the rates of "efficacy-related event-free survival (EFS)" (eEFS) (events
      defined as progression, change in therapy due to finding that led to concern about efficacy,
      biopsy + disease after 6 cycles of therapy, or death) between chemo-immunotherapy alone and
      chemo-immunotherapy + nivolumab in patients with newly diagnosed PMBCL.

      II. To compare the rates of "therapy-related EFS" (tEFS) (events defined as
      relapse/progression, change in therapy for any reason, biopsy + disease after 6 cycles of
      therapy, secondary malignancy [SMN] or death) between chemo-immunotherapy alone and
      chemo-immunotherapy + nivolumab in patients with newly diagnosed PMBCL.

      III. To compare the rates of overall survival (OS) between chemo-immunotherapy alone and
      chemo-immunotherapy + nivolumab in patients with newly diagnosed PMBCL.

      IV. To establish the rate of a positive positron emission tomography (PET)-computed
      tomography (CT) (defined as Deauville score 4 or 5) at the completion of 6 cycles of
      nivolumab + rituximab (R)- cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone
      (CHOP)/dose-adjusted (DA)-etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and
      doxorubicin (EPOCH)-R and R-CHOP/DA-EPOCH-R in patients with newly diagnosed PMBCL and
      evaluate the prognostic significance of such a finding.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To bank radiology images for further studies. II. To bank specimens for future correlative
      studies. III. Characterize the immune profile of patients treated with nivolumab +
      chemo-immunotherapy to identify markers predictive of response.

      IV. Define the rate of complete response at the completion of initial planned therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 6 arms.

      ARM A (DA-EPOCH-R): Patients receive prednisone or prednisolone orally (PO) once daily (QD)
      on days 1-5 and rituximab intravenously (IV) or rituximab and hyaluronidase human
      subcutaneously (SC) over 5 minutes on day 1 or 5. Patients also receive etoposide phosphate,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride, and vincristine sulfate IV over 96 hours on days 1-4 and
      cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 5. Beginning 24-72 hours after completing
      cyclophosphamide, patients receive filgrastim or pegylated filgrastim SC daily until absolute
      neutrophil count (ANC) is >= 500/uL after the expected nadir. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (DA-EPOCH-R + NIVOLUMAB): Patients receive treatment as in Arm A. Patients also receive
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C (R-CHOP): Patients receive prednisone or prednisolone PO QD on days 1-5 and rituximab
      IV or rituximab and hyaluronidase human SC over 5 minutes on day 1 or 5. Patients also
      receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15
      minutes or up to 60 minutes, and vincristine sulfate IV over 1 or up to 60 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D (R-CHOP + NIVOLUMAB): Patients receive treatment as in Arm C. Patients also receive
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM E (R-CHOP + RADIOTHERAPY): Patients receive treatment as in Arm C. Within 6-8 weeks after
      completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo radiation therapy over 25 fractions.

      ARM F (R-CHOP + RADIOTHERAPY + NIVOLUMAB): Patients receive treatment as in Arm D. Within 6-8
      weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo radiation therapy over 25 fractions.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for year 1,
      every 6 months for years 2-3, and annually thereafter.
    
  