
    
      Currently, there are no effective treatment approaches for CMT other than treating symptoms
      with medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that provide relief of lower
      back or leg pain. Except for the most severe cases in which orthopedic surgery is recommended
      to correct pes cavus and/or spine deformities, rehabilitative management of patients with CMT
      has shown that physical activity can provide a moderate increase in muscle strength and
      musculoskeletal function, improving activities of daily living. Benefits of exercise on the
      musculoskeletal system are widely recognized as primary non-pharmacologic intervention for
      several diseases. The positive outcome of physical activity is achieved not only by the
      mechanical load applied on the musculoskeletal system, but also via biochemical signals, the
      myokines, secreted during contraction that act locally or systemically on several body
      districts. Among these, Irisin is a hormone-peptide synthesized from skeletal muscle
      performing key actions on the whole-body metabolism. In humans, the investigators have
      documented with several studies an existing positive association between circulating levels
      of Irisin and bone mineral density. Very recently, in muscle biopsies of older adult
      subjects, the investigators also observed that the expression of the Irisin precursor, the
      fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 (FNDC5), was positively associated with
      Irisin serum levels and osteocalcin mRNA expression in bone biopsies, indicating a strong
      correlation between healthy muscle and bone tissues. In humans, low levels of circulating
      Irisin have been found to be predictive of muscle weakness and atrophy, and Irisin has been
      identified as a sensitive molecular biomarker for sarcopenia in postmenopausal women. In
      addition, women older than 65 years undergoing a 12-week exercise program showed an increase
      in circulating Irisin and an improvement in isokinetic leg strength and grip strength
      compared with control women. Moreover, there was a positive correlation between Irisin levels
      with grip strength and leg strength in the exercise group, suggesting a causal relationship
      between improved muscle strength and increased Irisin concentration. Although numerous
      reports recommend increasing muscle strength in CMT patients to prevent progressive distal
      weakness and muscle atrophy, few studies have investigated the possible key determinants of
      muscle quality in these patients. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate
      circulating Irisin levels in a population of 20 CMT patients as well the association of
      Irisin with biochemical parameters and muscle quality. In addition, the investigators
      compared these data with unpublished data previously obtained in healthy subjects.
    
  