
    
      Optune® is a medical device that has been approved for the treatment of recurrent and newly
      diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States.
      Optune® has obtained a CE mark in Europe for recurrent and newly diagnosed GBM.

      TTFields intensity has been shown to be positively correlated with patient outcome. The new
      transducer array design is expected to reduce skin heating and thus enable delivery of higher
      TTFields intensities while keeping the safety profile of the treatment unchanged.

      The purpose of the study is to test if delivering TTFields using high intensity transducer
      arrays for recurrent GBM significantly improves the clinical outcome of patients, compared to
      using the standard transducer arrays.

      The study will enroll 25 patients.

      All patients included in this clinical investigation are patients with histologically
      confirmed diagnosis of GBM with first or second radiological disease progression per RANO
      criteria.

      In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility criteria.

      Baseline assessments will be performed to confirm patient eligibility in the study.

      Enrolled patients will be treated continuously with the device until disease progression per
      RANO criteria or 18 months (the earlier of the two) unless any of the treatment
      discontinuation conditions described under criteria for patient withdrawal or termination are
      met.

      Concurrent brain directed antitumor therapy or procedures beyond TTFields is prohibited.

      TTFields treatment will start within 28 days following signing the informed consent.

      After the initial visit, subjects will continue treatment at home, while pursuing normal
      daily routines. Subjects are required to use the device for at least 18 hours a day. Short
      breaks in treatment for personal hygiene and other personal needs is allowed. Total usage
      time will be recorded and provided to the sponsor.

      Subjects will be required to return to the clinic every 4 weeks and every 8 weeks after first
      12 visits, until disease progression. At each study visit an examination by a physician and a
      routine laboratory examination will be performed.

      A contrast enhanced MRI of the head will be performed at baseline and every 4 weeks for the
      first 24 weeks and then at least every 12 weeks, until disease progression.

      A post-treatment termination visit will be performed approximately 30 days after
      discontinuation of TTfields treatment or disease progression (the latter of the two).

      Following disease progression, subjects will be contacted once per month by telephone to
      answer basic questions about their health status.

      Pathological analysis of GBM tumor samples, which may be obtained prior and during the study
      period, will be performed based on subjects' consent to have an experimental pathological
      examination of their tumors.
    
  