
    
      Rationale: Bone metastases are a frequent distant manifestation of solid tumours, and many
      bone metastases are located in the spine. These patients mostly present with severe (back)
      pain which reduces quality of life. The primary treatment for pain management is a
      single-fraction low dose external beam radiation therapy (EBRT), effective in achieving pain
      reduction in around 60% of patients, of whom 0-23% experience complete pain response.
      Recently, there is growing evidence that Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) achieves a
      much higher pain response due to the higher dose administered. In retrospective and a few
      prospective case series, SBRT for spinal, and also non-spinal metastases has been
      demonstrated to be safe, and efficacious. However, no randomized controlled trials have been
      performed.

      Objective: To study whether the pain response after three months in patients with osseous
      metastatic disease increases after SBRT in comparison to low dose EBRT.

      Study design: Randomized controlled trial, the VERTICAL study, nested within the PRESENT
      cohort.

      Study population: Eligible patients are MRI-compatible patients with radiographic evidence of
      bone metastases at the radiotherapy department. Fifty-five patients are recruited in both
      control and intervention arm.

      Intervention: Patients will undergo MRI-based, cone beam CT-guided SBRT and will receive a
      single dose of 18 Gray (Gy) on the visible metastasis, and 8 Gy on the bony compartment
      containing the metastasis (e.g. the affected vertebra or pedicle).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is pain control at three months after
      radiotherapy. Secondary outcomes are, among others, the occurrence of vertebral compression
      fracture (VCF) and radiation-induced myelopathy, local tumour control and evaluation of
      quality of life.
    
  