
    
      This will be a randomized, controlled, double-blind, parallel design, comparative,
      non-inferiority study on a total of 440 healthy adult participants (18-75 years of age).
      Participants who will be eligible for the study, will be invited to participate in the study.
      The study will be conducted in four groups. In One Comparator group, 110 participants will
      receive Rabipur through Intramuscular Route, in Test group, 110 participants will receive
      Rabix VC through Intramuscular Route. In another Comparator group, 110 participants will
      receive Rabipur through Intradermal Route and Test group, 110 participants will receive Rabix
      VC through Intradermal Route. Total 220 participants will receive Rabix VC (Test Group) and
      220 participants will receive Rabipur (Comparator Group), 1.0 ml through Intramuscular Route
      and 0.2 ml through Intradermal Route, (0.1 ml each arm) respectively.

      Informed consent will be obtained from the participants. Only participants who give voluntary
      consent will be enrolled in the study. The potential risk and the procedures to be carried
      out are mentioned in the consent form. Compensation will include transportation costs for the
      participants. Participants only can decide whether they will participate in the study. They
      will also be able to withdraw their name from the study at any time, without giving any
      explanation, and will be able to refuse collection of any or all laboratory samples for the
      study.

      Participants may not directly benefit from participating in the study; however, results
      obtained from this study will be useful in understanding of potential antigenic components
      for designing an effective Shigella vaccine and may thus benefit the society. The whole study
      period for each individual will be 90 days. Specimen collection and interview will be carried
      out 9-10 (maximum) times including enrollment and it will take around 30 minutes per visit.

      After taking consent from participants, they will be asked to do the following: Blood (10-12
      ml for adults) specimens will be collected at screening (day -7 to -2), day 14 and day 30 or
      day 44. For Intramuscular group vaccination schedule will be on day 0, day 7, day 21 and day
      0, day 3, day 7, day 28 for intradermal group. Also, there will be additional follow up on
      day 60 and final visit on day 90.
    
  