
    
      Fatigue is highly prevalent in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD, i.e. Crohn's
      disease and ulcerative colitis), and may negatively impact patients' illness management,
      treatment adherence, and quality of life. Given this burden, effective treatment for reducing
      fatigue in IBD patients is warranted. A promising psychological treatment is
      Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT). MBCT is a standardized, highly structured
      eight-week group program for reducing stress, depression, fatigue and/or pain. Several
      meta-analyses have demonstrated the effectiveness of MBCT in reducing psychological
      complaints and improving quality of life. Moreover, in patients with cancer or chronic
      fatigue syndrome, there is preliminary evidence that MBCT can be effective in reducing
      fatigue. Given this lack of evidence for the efficacy of MBCT in reducing fatigue in general
      and the specific and strongly illness-related nature of fatigue in patients with IBD and
      characteristics of the illness, including its lifelong and relapsing nature, there is a need
      to verify whether MBCT is effective in reducing fatigue in IBD patients with severe fatigue.

      This randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to investigate the efficacy of Mindfulness-Based
      Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) in reducing fatigue in severely fatigued IBD patients. Additionally,
      the effects of MBCT on clinically relevant secondary outcomes will be examined: fatigue
      interference, mood, IBD-specific quality of life, sleep quality, labor participation. Also
      patients' satisfaction will be assessed. Moreover, mediators and moderators will be examined
      to increase the understanding of why and for whom MBCT is particularly effective.

      A randomized controlled trial will be performed, including two conditions: MBCT and a
      waitlist control group (who will receive MBCT after a waiting period of three months). The
      study sample will consist of 128 adult patients with IBD in remission and experiencing severe
      fatigue.
    
  