
    
      Background The first national PU prevalence study in Sweden conducted in 2011 showed a
      prevalence of 16.6% (n=16 466) in hospital settings. High age and reduced mobility/activity
      are main risk factors. International evidence-based guidelines for prevention of PU are
      available. Pressure relief (e.g repositioning, mattresses, chair cushions, heel cushions) is
      the main stay of preventive measures. Recent research shows that PU prevention is not a high
      priority. For example, the corner stone of prevention, repositioning, is not conducted for
      risk patients.

      Aim To evaluate the effect of the CBPM-system on the prevalence and incidence of PU in
      hospital setting

      Method Design: A randomised controlled trial will be conducted Sample: All patients admitted
      to the geriatric unit. Intervention: The CBPM-system will be used from admittance to
      discharge (not more than 14 days). Standard PU prevention (PU reducing mattress, floating
      heels, repositioning) Control group: Standard PU prevention (PU reducing mattress, floating
      heels, repositioning) Randomisation: Sealed envelopes will be used. Procedure: Two study
      nurses are responsible for inclusion of patients and data collection on day 1,3,7 and
      discharge. A photo will be taken of any PU. A PU expert will assess the photos after
      completed data collection (PU category 1-4). She will be blinded to group allocation.

      Power calculation: The primary outcome of interest is the PU prevalence. Previous point
      prevalence studies in this geriatric unit shows a prevalence of 45%. The investigators goal
      is that the CBPM-system results in 20% decrease in the PU prevalence. In order to have 80%
      power to detect such a decrease with a two-sided two-sample proportions test at the 5% level,
      89 patients per treatment group is needed. Intention-to-treat principals will be used.

      Discussion The prevalence of PU, as well as prevention to risk patients are quality
      indicators in health care. National studies reveal an urgent need for quality improvement,
      New nursing methods and equipment must be systematically and scientifically evaluated.The
      results of this study will be valuable for nursing education and in international and
      national patient safety work to prevent PU. The results will also be valuable for other
      health professionals (physicians, physical and occupational therapists).
    
  