
    
      This study will be conducted in the department of Anesthesiology of the first affiliated
      hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei city, Anhui province, China. In our part 1, we
      are plan to observe 30 patients with ESRD who underwent PD catheter placement using left
      lateral transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block combined with rectus sheath (RS) block from
      our center. The TAP and RS blocks will be respectively conducted with 15 ml of 0.5%
      ropivacaine and 10 ml of 0.5% ropivacaine. Pain intensity will be evaluated by verbal rating
      scale (VRS), and the degree of patient and surgeon satisfaction will be qualified by a
      categorical scale. In part 2, the sample size was calculated based on the previous data in
      our hospital using sulfentanyl and flurbiprofen axetil as the opioid analgesic. The rate of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting(PONV) after surgery was 35%. Keeping the power of the study
      as 80% and 5% alpha error with the number of pairwise comparisons as 6, a total sample size
      of 124 was needed to identify a difference of 0.25 in the rate of PONV. Each group would
      require at least 31 patients. To allow for dropouts, the investigator decided to include 40
      patients in each group. Elderly patients who were over 65 years old, undergoing open
      gastrointestinal surgeries were included in the study. Patients were divided into four
      groups, that is group S, group N1, group N2 and group N3, based on the drawing of an opaque
      sealed envelop.The anesthesiologists managing the intraoperative and postoperative courses as
      well as patients were blinded to the group which they belonged.The drug solution to be used
      intraoperatively and postoperatively as PCA (patient-controlled analgesia) was prepared by an
      assistant. Patients were interviewed before surgery and informed written consent was taken
      form each patient. Patients were shown a VAS (visual analogue score) of 0-10 for pain with 0
      being no pain and 10 being worst pain ever felt, and instructed upon the use of PCA
      (patient-controlled analgesia) before surgery. Patients were subjected to monitoring of ECG,
      pulse oximetry and invasive blood pressure. 20ml combination of 0.5% ropivacaine and 10mg
      dexamethasone was injected bilaterally between the internal oblique and transverse abdominis
      muscles using sonography. All groups received standard general anesthesia.
    
  