
    
      Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) are a major cause of mortality and
      disability in later life and cost the US healthcare system more than cancer or heart disease.
      The National Alzheimer's Plan Act and the National Institutes of Health have identified ADRD
      disparities among ethnic minorities as a public health priority. Latinos with ADRD experience
      substantial disparities with reduced rates of early diagnosis and lower quality care compared
      to their non-Latino white peers, which put them at an increased risk for steeper cognitive
      decline, morbidity, mortality and higher caregiver burden. A number of barriers conspire to
      create these disparities including a lack of an evidence-based strategy to address ADRD in
      clinics, patient and primary care provider (PCP) reduced ADRD knowledge, negative attitudes
      regarding ADRD, PCP's lack of time, cultural and language barriers and health insurance
      status. To improve healthcare delivery to Latinos with ADRD, researchers need to redesign
      current ADRD detection and care systems to follow evidence-based recommendations for early
      detection and culturally appropriate chronic care.

      The overall aim of this proposal is to enhance the delivery of ADRD services to Latinos in
      primary care through a scalable systems approach that includes evidence-based
      recommendations. Primary care clinics are the ideal setting to provide ADRD services, as 93%
      of older Latinos have a usual source of healthcare. The novel systems approach (Alianza
      Latina/Latino Alliance) will enhance timely ADRD diagnosis and optimal care to minimize
      behavioral symptoms and cognitive decline among Latinos in a linguistically and
      culturally-appropriate way. Alianza Latina will use the Collaborative Care Framework that
      capitalizes on PCPs and Health Navigators. 1) PCPs will undergo evidence-based training to
      enhance timely and culturally appropriate diagnosis and implement it in their work routine.
      2) PCPs will detect, treat and refer Latino ADRD patients to a bilingual Health Navigator to
      provide chronic care management, which will reduce PCP time burden.

      Aim 2: Test the feasibility and acceptability of Alianza Latina. Aim 2.a: The research team
      will train PCPs from Kansas City clinics to enhance skills in cultural competence, ADRD
      detection, treatment and referral to a Health Navigator among Latinos 65 and older with ADRD.
      Aim 2.b. The Health Navigator will provide patients/caregiver dyads referred by Alianza
      Latina PCPs with care management, psychosocial support and links to relevant community
      resources. The research team will assess the feasibility and acceptability of 1) PCP training
      and 2) patient and caregiver ADRD care.
    
  