
    
      Peritoneal carcinomatosis can be caused by primary peritoneal cancers and secondary
      peritoneal spread from stomach, colorectal, appendiceal, and/or gynecological cancers.
      Combined presentation of patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis make up about 67,000 new
      cancer diagnoses each year. Of these cases, about 25,000 patients are estimated to be
      candidates for cytoreductive surgery combined with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy
      (HIPEC); however, in 2009 only five percent of these patients received such treatment.

      Alternative therapies to cytoreductive surgery and HIPEC are few. They include surgical
      treatments with cytoreduction alone which are palliative in nature and inadequate to manage
      the disease, radiation which is limited in regard to tumors disseminated throughout abdominal
      cavity, systemic chemotherapy which has poor penetration into the peritoneum. Intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy via indwelling peritoneal catheter is limited due to port infections, toxicity,
      and unequal distribution in the abdominal cavity.

      For patients whose disease is limited to the peritoneal cavity, multi-modality treatment with
      cytoreductive surgery followed by intraoperative HIPEC can deliver chemotherapy directly to
      microscopic tumors at a higher concentration than is tolerated systemically. It causes
      disruption of cell membranes and induces apoptosis. Moreover when intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy is given at a higher temperature, it has a selective lethal effect on cancer
      cells secondary to improved tissue absorption. The typical side effects of systemic
      chemotherapy are also minimized with HIPEC.

      HIPEC is given intraoperatively in one treatment setting after all visible disease has been
      resected (i.e., cytoreductive surgery). The goal of cytoreductive surgery is to leave behind
      only microscopic disease and may require removal of adjacent organs. HIPEC is then delivered
      via tubings with temperature probes that are placed in the intraperitoneal cavity. The skin
      is then temporarily closed and the tubings are connected to a intraperitoneal hyperthermia
      and perfusion device that delivers sterile solution with chemotherapy into the abdomen. The
      device heats and circulates the chemotherapy for 90 minutes. After HIPEC is completed,
      abdomen is reopened and copiously irrigated. Surgical reconstruction with any removed organs
      (such as bowel) and fascial/skin closure are the final steps.

      Previous studies have shown conflicting results on survival benefit for patients with some of
      the aforementioned secondary peritoneal cancers who have undergone cytoreductive surgery and
      HIPEC. This study is an outcomes based study that seeks to look at the impact of HIPEC on
      overall survival and recurrence-free survival.
    
  