
    
      Severe pneumonia is a serious infection in children which requires timely intervention.
      Management of severe pneumonia is done by appropriate antibiotics and supportive care. WHO
      recommendation is to use injection ampicillin four times a day for 3-5 days and injection
      gentamicin once a day for 3-5 days in children with severe pneumonia. In our study we want to
      compare the response of injection ampicillin with another similar and equally effective
      antibiotic (amoxicillin). The reason of choosing amoxicillin is that the dose is two times a
      day and it is cost effective and reduces chances of nosocomial infection.The response of the
      drugs will be compared by time difference of clinical improvement of the patients or time
      difference of disappearance of the sign and symptoms on admission. The investigators are
      interested to compare the recovery time from the illness as well as treatment failure in both
      group. In that way the investigators will be able to develop a better treatment for pneumonia
      in children in low-cost setting.

      The study will be an open label, randomized, controlled intervention in children between two
      months to 59 months admitted to Dhaka Hospital of icddr,b. Investigators will use sealed
      envelopes to randomly assign the children to either treatment arms. In first arm children
      will receive 2 daily doses of parenteral Amoxicillin and single daily dose of parenteral
      Gentamicin; and in 2nd arm, children will receive 4 daily doses of parenteral Ampicillin and
      single daily dose of parenteral Gentamicin. After 72 hours of treatment, injection
      Amoxicillin and injection Ampicillin will be replaced with oral Amoxicillin but injection
      gentamicin will be continued for total 5 days in once daily dose. During this time patient
      will be suggested to discharge from hospital and attain to Ambulatory care unit for getting
      once daily dose of injection Gentamicin. Both the treatment arm will continue for 5 days.

      During the study period, children in both study arms will also receive standardized hospital
      management for other co-morbidities-such as diarrhoea, malnutrition and any other
      complications. Hypoxia will be managed by B-CPAP through nasal cannula.

      Any participants will be declare "Treatment failure" who show persistence of danger signs
      after 48 hours or develop new danger sign within 24 hours of initiation of antibiotic
      treatment. If child needs mechanical ventilation, dies at any time during hospital stay or
      left the hospital against medical advice will be also declared as treatment failure.

      Participants from either study group who develops the features of "treatment failure" should
      be rescued with second line antibiotic regimen, which is injection ceftriaxone and injection
      levofloxacin.

      Monitoring of the children with severe pneumonia The following parameters should be routinely
      monitored in every child with severe pneumonia. Special attention should be given to child
      receiving I/V fluid therapy and those with SAM. Such as: Heart rate, respiratory rate,
      temperature, respiratory pattern including chest recession, lower chest wall in drawing, use
      of accessory muscles, establishment of oral feeding, liver size, oxygen saturation level,
      chest auscultation: (rales, rhonchi, bilateral basal crepitation, pleural rub), fluid and
      calorie intake.

      Children on oxygen therapy should have at least 3-4 hourly observations of all the above
      parameters and children without getting oxygen should be observed at least 2 hourly by the
      study nurses. All the patients should be evaluated by the physicians at least 12 hourly by
      the physicians.

      Signs of Improvement:

      In absence of complications, within 2 days of initiation of treatment there should be signs
      of improvement i ) breathing rate within normal limit; ii) absence of the lower chest wall
      in-drawing; iii) less to no fever; iv) improved ability to eat and drink; and v) better
      oxygen saturation without assistance.

      Discharge criteria

        -  Respiratory distress has resolved

        -  Oxygen saturation > 90%

        -  Feeding well

        -  Able to take oral medication or have completed a course of parenteral antibiotics

        -  The parents understand the signs of pneumonia, risk factors and when to return

      Study objective is to compare the efficacy of two doses of injectable Amoxicillin plus single
      dose injectable Gentamicin compared to four doses of injectable Ampicillin plus single dose
      injectable Gentamicin in management of children hospitalized with WHO pneumonia.

      Secondary objectives are to compare time to resolution of danger signs of pneumonia, length
      of hospital stay, mortality rate, rate of complication requiring mechanical ventilation, and
      rate of multiorgan or renal or cardiac failure between the two treatment groups.

      Children more than 2 months to less than 59 months will be enrolled in the study, if
      participants have a history of cough or difficulty in breathing and WHO classified severe
      pneumonia plus at least two of the following:

      i) Central cyanosis or oxygen saturation <90% on pulse oxymetry ii) Severe respiratory
      distress (e.g. grunting, very severe chest indrawing) iii) Signs of pneumonia with a general
      danger sign: inability to breastfeed or drink; lethargy or reduced level of consciousness;
      convulsion iv) In addition, some or all of the other signs of pneumonia may be present, such
      as:

        -  Signs of pneumonia [age specific fast breathing( Annex 1)]

        -  Chest indrawing: lower chest wall indrawing

        -  Chest auscultation signs: (any one)

             1. Decreased breath sounds

             2. Bronchial breath sounds

             3. Crackles

             4. Abnormal vocal resonance (decreased over a pleural effusion or empyema, increased
                over lobar consolidation)

             5. Pleural rub

      Children with life threatening condition that required immediate assisted ventilation of
      refer to outside hospital (such as septic shock, cardiac arrest, apnea, respiratory failure
      etc.) will be excluded from the study. Children with uncorrected cyanotic CHD, hypercapnoea
      (PCO2 > 60mm of Hg), status asthmaticus and upper-airway obstruction, preterm baby (but not
      ex-preterm) and those for who inform consent can't be secured from their parents/
      care-givers. Care giver presented with any drug container of antibiotics or prescription
      showing getting antibiotics will be excluded.

      Sample size calculation:

      [For two-sample comparison of proportion (non-inferiority)]

      Null hypothesis: p2-p1≤ δ (inferior), where: pi (entered in command) is the overall
      proportion of participants expect to experience the outcome if the treatments are
      non-inferior, and delta is the smallest change in proportions between groups (p2 - p1) which
      would still be clinically important.

      Assumptions:

      power = 0.8; alpha = 0.025 (one-sided); pi = 0.50; delta = 0.16 Estimated required sample
      size (per group) = 154,

      Total sample is 308

      This study will be conducted at the Dhaka Hospital of icddr,b, Dhaka, Bangladesh. This
      hospital is located in Dhaka city, the capital of Bangladesh. It provides care and treatment
      to around 110,000 diarrheal patients with or without associated complications and with or
      without other health problems each year. The vast majority of the patients come from poor
      socio-economic backgrounds from urban and peri-urban Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh.

      Patients attending this hospital are first assessed by an experienced triage nurse, which
      include assessment of the type of diarrhoea and degree of dehydration, and presence of other
      health problems including ALRI/ pneumonia, severe malnutrition, impaired mental status
      (convulsion), and sepsis. The non-diarrhoeal patients have redirected to other appropriate
      hospitals in the city. Based on assessment of diarrhoeal patients, those with uncomplicated
      illness without signs of dehydration are referred to the Out Patient department (OPD) for 4-5
      hours of observation, maintenance of hydration using ORS solution, and for provision of
      health education to the mothers/caregivers. Those with some and severe dehydration but
      without any associated health problems are admitted to Short Stay Ward (SSW) for correction
      of dehydration and maintenance of hydration using ORS and/or intravenous fluids, provision of
      antimicrobial therapy as appropriate, with an average stay of 24 hours. Those with associated
      complications of diarrhoea and/or associated health problems are referred to a physician for
      assessing the need for admission to either the Longer Stay Ward (LSW) or Acute Respiratory
      Ward (ARI) or to the Intensive Care Word (ICU) depending on the clinical severity. The usual
      associated conditions include difficult respiration, cyanosis, apnoea, hypothermia or
      hyperthermia, marked lethargy or comatose condition, poor peripheral perfusion not
      attributable to severe dehydration. Participants hospitalized in SSW are assessed by hospital
      clinicians for possible admission to LSW and further workup and management. After admission
      to the LSW/ARI/SCU the attending physician will obtain medical history, performs thorough
      clinical examination, makes a problem list including differential diagnoses for each of them,
      arranges for required laboratory workups, and develops the treatment plan following standard
      guidelines of the hospital. Investigators will also perform bedside procedures such as
      sampling blood, performing lumber puncture etc. Oxygen saturation is determined by pulse
      oxymeter when necessary, and blood glucose estimated by bedside Gluco Check machine in nearly
      all patients admitted to the LSW/ARI /SCU.
    
  