
    
      Alcohol use disorder (AUD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) frequently co-occur and
      are associated with significant morbidity, mortality, and health care expenditures. Military
      Veterans are at increased risk for co-occurring AUD and PTSD, with prevalence rates 2-4 times
      higher than the general population. Our group developed an integrated intervention entitled
      Concurrent Treatment of PTSD and Substance Use Disorders using Prolonged Exposure (COPE).
      COPE incorporates empirically validated cognitive-behavioral techniques for AUD with
      Prolonged Exposure (PE) therapy for PTSD. Several randomized controlled trials among Veterans
      and civilians demonstrate efficacy of COPE in significantly reducing AUD and PTSD symptoms.
      Despite the positive findings, there remains substantial room for improving treatment
      outcomes and enhancing retention. Accumulating data suggest that the neuropeptide oxytocin
      (OT) is a promising candidate to enhance psychosocial interventions for co-occurring AUD and
      PTSD, as OT targets neurobiological and behavioral dysregulation common to both disorders.
      Preclinical and clinical studies demonstrate the ability of OT to ameliorate a variety of
      alcohol-related behaviors (e.g., craving, withdrawal symptoms, tolerance, ethanol
      self-administration), enhance fear extinction, and promote prosocial behaviors associated
      with successful psychosocial treatment outcomes. In a randomized controlled pilot study, our
      group found that OT administration prior to weekly Prolonged Exposure (PE) therapy sessions
      was safe, well-tolerated, and resulted in accelerated reduction in PTSD symptoms as compared
      to placebo. Although the empirical and theoretical support for augmenting psychosocial
      interventions such as COPE with OT is robust, no studies to date have examined this combined
      approach. The primary objective of the proposed Stage II study is to examine the efficacy of
      OT as compared to placebo in reducing (1) AUD symptoms, and (2) PTSD symptoms among Veterans
      (50% women) receiving COPE therapy. To accomplish this, we will employ a manualized,
      evidence-based, cognitive-behavioral intervention (COPE); a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study design; and standardized, repeated dependent measures of clinical
      outcomes at multiple time points. In addition, to investigate neurobiological mechanisms of
      change, we will employ functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at pre-and post-treatment
      .
    
  