
    
      The early transition period post coronary artery bypass graft surgery is one associated with
      intense physiological and psychosocial adjustment that requires patients make sustainable
      long-term lifestyle changes. Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is an evidence-based risk reduction
      program that has been shown to improve overall fitness and quality of life as well as lower
      morbidity and mortality in patients with coronary artery disease. Therefore, the development
      of supportive strategies to bridge the gap from acute care in to CR through early
      intervention for cardiac surgery patients is essential. MyCardiacRecovery (MyCaRe) is an
      interactive platform that includes a standardized educational format and interactive tracking
      (wound healing and activity progression using photo capabilities and Fitbit flex
      accelerometer) support during the first 6 to 8 weeks post hospital discharge. This
      application will help patients and family navigate their way through the continuum of care by
      providing an: a) integrated link between acute care and outpatient cardiac rehab for
      efficient coordination of information and reduction in duplication of services; b) patient
      care and education materials designed to address salient recovery questions; c) improved
      communication between the patient and care providers and, d) ensure streamlined systematic
      referral to CR. This innovative strategy has the potential to positively impact patient
      satisfaction, improve patient outcomes and possibly minimize financial constraints placed on
      the health care system. Phase 1 (preliminary usability testing) of prototype 1.0 is complete.
      Phase 2 will focus on testing MyCaRe 2.0 in a sample of post cardiac surgery patients using a
      pilot randomized controlled trial design.

      Protocol Summary: App Study Phase 2 - Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial N= 40 (20 usual care
      + intervention; 20 usual care) Study Population: Post cardiac surgery patient population at 1
      acute care cardiac centre in Toronto Study Design Pilot Randomized controlled trial Study
      Duration May 2016 - Dec 2017 Study Agent/ Intervention MyCaRe prototype (mobile application)
      Primary Objectives: 1) To examine the effect of MyCaRe application on enrolment in CR post
      cardiac surgery in comparison to usual care (assessing effectiveness of intervention);

      Secondary Objectives:

      2) To examine the impact of MyCaRe application on patient recovery and satisfaction (i.e.
      knowledge level, perceptions of recovery outcomes such as activity progression, quality of
      life, anxiety and depression) 3) To examine the effect of MyCaRe application on health
      services use. 4) To examine patient and clinician satisfaction, specifically user ease,
      usability and comfort with MyCaRe application.
    
  