
    
      Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a heterogeneous group of disorders presenting with
      hyperandrogenism in adolescents and young women. The etiology of this condition remains
      unknown, despite its many identified links to insulin resistance, hypertension and metabolic
      syndrome, as well as its potential connection to the various forms of congenital adrenal
      hyperplasia (CAH).

      The adrenal glands are the only source in the body of adrenocortical steroids. In normal
      physiology, the pituitary hormone ACTH regulates the secretion of glucocorticoids, while the
      secretion of mineralocorticoids is controlled by the renin-angiotensin system. In addition to
      these two steroids, the adrenal gland secretes lesser amounts of intermediate metabolites of
      these steroids, as well as the sex-steroids DHEA, DHEAS, androstenedione, testosterone,
      estrogen, and estrone. Dysregulated secretion of any of these hormones can be caused by the
      development of hyperplasia of the adrenocortical tissue, which may be mild and lead to
      specific clinical syndromes depending on the identity of the secreted hormones. Bilateral
      adrenocortical hyperplasia (BAH) is now an increasingly diagnosed cause of adrenal
      dysfunction.

      We propose that there is a subgroup of patients with PCOS who actually have non-CAH primary
      forms of BAH. To investigate this possibility, we propose to study the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPAA) over the next 2 years in 120 young girls and women
      (ages 16 to 25 years) that we will compare to 30 age- and race-matched normal females.
      Patients will be recruited primarily (although not exclusively) from a busy New York City
      clinic run by the Pediatric Endocrine Division at the Infants and Children's Hospital of
      Brooklyn at Maimonides and SUNY Downstate. All patients will undergo standard testing of the
      HPAA including oral low- and high-dose dexamethasone (DEX)-suppression testing (Liddle s
      test). Paradoxical rise of cortisol and/or other steroid metabolites in response to DEX is
      considered a sensitive test for the diagnosis of BAH. Patients with such responses will be
      molecularly investigated for the known causes of BAH (GNAS, PRKAR1A, PDE11A, PDE8B and other
      mutations).

      The first goal of this study is to identify any possible contributions of the BAH phenotypes
      and genotypes to the pathophysiology of PCOS, a yet unknown factor in the etiology of this
      multifaceted disorder. The second goal is to perform a comparative analysis of the expression
      of large sets of genes in cells of these patients using gene arrays and other genetic
      analyses. This study will generate important information about the molecular pathways that
      are affected in this subgroup of patients with PCOS. Thirdly, this study will also allow for
      the collection of DNA from affected and non-affected relatives of the patients to perform
      genetic studies and identify causative genetic defects. Finally, the study is expected to
      lead to new diagnostic and therapeutic methods for at least certain forms of PCOS.
    
  