
    
      In appropriately selected patients an orthotopic neobladder (ONB) permits the elimination of
      an external stoma and preservation of body image without compromising cancer control after
      radical cystectomy. Voiding dysfunction (VD) following ONB can be divided into failure to
      empty bladder or failure to store urine. Failure to empty bladder by angulation of urethra is
      the most common cause. Failure to store urine can occur during daytime, night-time or both.
      VD that persists beyond 6 to 12 months warrants urodynamics evaluation to determine the cause
      and suggest plane of therapy. Voiding dysfunction has a detrimental impact on quality of
      life.

      Among the various bowel segments studied, the ileum is ideal for ONB creation. A spherical
      reservoir, reconfigured from a de-tubularized ileal segment, offers the most desirable
      attributes like, adequate capacity, low intraluminal pressure, and good compliance. The
      patient of ONB reported 4-25% rate of clean intermittent self-catheterisation (CISC) for
      incomplete emptying. Daytime incontinence was present in 13% of patients. The rate of
      nocturnal incontinence is usually higher in the range of 15-40% in recent metanalysis. The
      success of ONB rely on detubularization of intestinal segment, sufficient capacity and proper
      configuration and position in the pelvis. Adequate capacity is achieved by using sufficient
      length, folding, and creation an ellipsoid or spherical configuration. The ONB should hold
      approximately 500 cc of urine at low pressure (at < 15 cm H2O), empty completely (< 100 cc
      urine), four to five times daily and allow the patient to sleep without awakening, while
      maintain normal body image

      loss of the vesico-urethral reflex 'guarding reflex' in which increased urethral sphincter
      tone parallel to bladder distension, decreased patient vigilance during sleep resulting in
      reduced muscle tone and urethral closing pressure, decreased sensitivity of the membranous
      urethra after radical cystectomy, involuntary high-amplitude contractions of the reservoir
      secondary to bowel peristalsis and shifting of free water from the reservoir wall into the
      hyperosmolar urine are the main factor causing global and nocturnal polyuria in patient with
      ONB. Final, there is also evidence suggesting an increase in bowel activity during sleep.
      Maximum urethral closing pressure (MUCP) is the primary component responsible for daytime
      continence in patients with an ONB. However, Koraitim et al. suggest that nocturnal
      incontinence depends on three reservoir parameters: maximal contraction amplitude, baseline
      reservoir pressure at mid capacity, and MUCP.

      Mebeverine is a derivative of reserpine, which has relatively specific effects on smooth
      muscle cells without atropine-like side effects in humans. It directly blocks
      voltage-operated sodium channels and inhibits intracellular calcium accumulation. It is three
      times more potent than papaverine in inhibiting the peristaltic reflex of the ileum.
    
  