
    
      Study Design: Subjects will be ten patients with MDD identified via the Structured Clinical
      Interview for DSM-IV, manifesting a current major depressive episode of disabling severity,
      refractory to prolonged treatment trials with conventional medication, electro-convulsive
      therapy (ECT) and psychotherapy. A marked impact of depression on their health and functional
      status will be evidenced by major impairment in functioning or potentially severe medical
      outcomes (repeated hospitalizations, serious suicidal or other self-injurious behavior). They
      will be recruited from individuals currently seen at our facility or referred by
      psychiatrists in the community. Patients will be initially screened by a comprehensive review
      of their psychiatric history, obtained by interview of the patient, family and treating
      psychiatrist and/or psychologist, as well as by obtaining and reviewing all available records
      of previous psychiatric treatment. The available generally-accepted alternative treatments
      for depression are pharmacologic therapy, psychotherapy, and ECT. Failed trials of multiple
      proven pharmacologic treatments, an adequate course of psychotherapy, and an adequate course
      of bilateral ECT (or inability to tolerate an adequate ECT trial) are inclusion criteria for
      all candidates who are considered for this study. However, as alternatives to participation
      in this study, candidates may undertake additional trials of potentially beneficial novel
      combinations of medication and psychotherapy, or they may undertake trials of novel
      interventions lacking definitive evidence of efficacy in severe depression (e.g., light
      therapy, herbal therapy, transcranial magnetic stimulation, vagal nerve stimulation). The
      protocol was designed to include four phases. All patients will enter these phases in the
      same sequence. The experimental design is illustrated in the timeline in Figure 1. Surgical
      implantation will be followed by: 1) Baseline Phase (a 1 month period with no stimulation);
      2) Variable Staggered Phase (blinded stimulation onset starting from 1 month to 3 months post
      implant, with optimal parameter determination during this time ; 3) Initial Chronic Phase
      (blinded bilateral stimulation, lasting at least three months) (see below); 4) Continuation
      Phase (unblinded active bilateral or unilateral stimulation to maximize clinical response)
      Protocol overview and design: We propose a clinical study of medial forebrain bundle DBS as a
      treatment in 10 patients with treatment refractory depression (TRD). Data from the University
      of Bonn indicates that surgical lesions of the medical forebrain bundle can produce
      therapeutic benefits in patients with depressive disorders, and suggest that DBS at the same
      site may also reduce symptomatology in these TRD patients (Schaepfer, 2013). Depression
      affects up to 10% of the US population and of those at least 10-15% do not benefit from
      therapies hence why we must explore new treatments. The Activa® systems manufactured by
      Medtronic Neurological will be used in this study. Those identified as TRD patients will then
      be enrolled in a clinical pilot study investigating DBS, targeting the MFB.
    
  