
    
      Bracing with a rigid TLSO is gold-standard treatment in terms of halting progression of
      idiopathic scoliosis in skeletally immature adolescents and children. The treatment is
      cumbersome and demanding for adolescents during a vulnerable stage in life, and may be
      associated with poor compliance. Furthermore, the treatment lasts in many cases for several
      years and has shown to have a negative psychological effect for patients. Since time in brace
      is of utmost importance for best possible outcome, the braces need to be tolerated by the
      patients. As of today, 3D designed braces have received much attention and are thought to
      increase comfortability and ultimately increase wearing time, leading to better outcomes.

      In a multicenter randomized controlled trial, we seek to compare standard Boston brace to a
      newly developed 3D designed Boston brace. Skeletally immature patients with idiopathic
      scoliosis will be randomized to receive either standard Boston brace or Boston 3D brace. All
      patients will be encouraged to be physically active for 60 minutes per day. Patients, outcome
      assessors and clinician in charge during follow-ups will be blinded for the type of brace the
      patients are being treated with. Thermal sensors will be installed in all braces to monitor
      compliance. Outcome include change in curve severity, quality of life and surgical rates.
      Patients will be evaluated with clinical and radiological follow-ups every six months until
      skeletal maturity and thereafter at 2, 5 and 10 years. Curve progression will not lead to
      change of brace. A total of 85 individuals are required in each group based on the hypothesis
      of a 2% failure rate in the 3D-brace group and 15% in the standard brace group with 5%
      significance level and 80% power and consideration for dropout of up to 20%.

      For individuals who are not willing to be randomized and participate in the study, standard
      Boston brace will be offered and these individuals will serve as an observational group with
      similar follow-ups and will be asked to answer same survey as the study populations will do.
    
  