
    
      The investigators hypothesized that the molecular aging of matrix proteins may participate in
      the formation of aortic aneurysm. Indeed, it is well known that the aneurysm wall is
      subjected to important structural changes including variations in extracellular matrix
      composition. However, few studies have looked for a link between the molecular aging of
      matrix proteins and the formation of aneurysm. So, the aim of this study is to understand the
      role of protein molecular aging in this context.

      For that purpose, several approaches will be used to reach this aim: (1) To evaluate the
      degree of modification of matrix components at the aneurysmal wall by biological and
      histological studies (concentrations of PTMDPs (homocitrulline, carboxymethyllysine,
      pentosidine and MG-H1) and expression of RAGE) ; (2) To determine if there is a link between
      tissue concentrations of PTMDPs and the severity of the aneurysmal pathology ; (3) To compare
      concentrations of PTMDPs obtained at the aneurysmal wall with those obtained in skin and
      serum ; (4) To establish a link between concentrations of PTMDPs (in serum, skin and vascular
      wall), fragmentation of elastin and different haematological parameters potentially involved
      in the development of the pathology aneurysmal.

      Design of the study: single-center cross-sectional study. Population: 40 patients with
      aneurysm of the infra-renal abdominal aorta requiring surgical treatment by open surgery.
      Patients will be divided into 2 groups based on the size of the aneurysm (Group 1: 20
      patients with aneurysm diameter of below 75 mm; Group 2: 20 patients with aneurysm diameter
      above 75 mm; patients a ruptured aneurysm can be included in both groups).

      Investigation scheme: after obtaining the inform consent of the patient, several samples or
      investigations will be done: blood (PTMDPs and hematological paramaters), measurement of skin
      autofluorescence (AGE-Reader), skin biopsy collection (2 to 3 mm wide and a few centimeters
      during the laparotomy), a biopsy of both aneurysmal and not aneurysmal aortic wall (from the
      abdominal aorta fragment usually resected part of the surgery and therefore being surgical
      waste) and collection of intra-aneurysmal and peri-thrombotic liquid (if available).

      Statistical analyses: (1) Description of data using mean and standard deviation for
      quantitative variables and percentage for qualitative variables. (2) Comparison of PTMDP
      concentrations between patient groups and between tissue locations (healthy or aortic
      aneurysms) using the Mann-Whitney test. (3) Search for links between concentrations of tissue
      PTMDPs, serum, skin autofluorescence, and hematologic markers using the Spearman correlation
      tests.
    
  