
    
      The FARAD MI will be a randomized, multicenter prospective study will be conducted. Patients
      with the diagnosis of ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction treated at the Sancta
      Maggiore Emergency Departments who have been thrombolyzed and aged up to 80 years will be
      included. After thrombolysis, patients will be immediately transferred to the Sancta Maggiore
      Hospital Itaim Unit and should arrive less than 3 hours after thrombolytic completion. When
      they arrive at the Interventional Cardiology Department, they will be explained about the
      study and offered to participate in the trial with consequent signature of the informed
      consent form. Thereafter, electrocardiogram and blood collection will be performed for
      laboratory tests, including hemoglobin, and patients will be randomized (1:1) to fast
      pharmaco-invasive strategy (within 3 hours of thrombolytic completion) and standard
      pharmaco-invasive strategy (3-24 hours). They will stay in the Interventional Cardiology
      Department until the procedure is performed and then the in-hospital care will be continued.
      Twenty-four hours after admission to the Interventional Cardiology Department, a new
      hemoglobin collection will be performed. Patients who refuse to participate in the trial will
      not have any harm in the treatment of acute coronary syndrome. Patients will receive standard
      clinical therapy, including dual antiplatelet therapy. Stent implantation will be performed
      in the culprit vessel by AMI. The treatment of residual coronary artery disease (coronary
      lesions with obstruction greater than 70% or with evidence of ischemia) will be discussed
      with the Clinical Cardiology team during hospitalization.

      The following data will be collected: gender, age, ST-segment elevation location on the
      electrocardiogram (ECG), symptoms duration, time from first evaluation to ECG (door-to-ECG),
      time from first evaluation until thrombolytic administration (door-to-needle), thrombolytic
      used, medications administered at the origin unit, time between the end of thrombolytic and
      the beginning of cardiac catheterization, type of procedure (diagnosis and / or
      intervention), date and time of procedure, access site, radiation dose, contrast volume,
      associated comorbidities, laboratory, weight, height, BMI, coronary artery disease pattern
      (Syntax Score), vessel culprit for AMI, type and size of stent used, successful intervention,
      coronary flow at the end of the procedure (TIMI), angioplasty technique, residual coronary
      artery disease approach, bleeding (BARC), major cardiovascular adverse events (MACE), any
      cause and cardiovascular death. The hemoglobin of the patient's admission to the
      Interventional Cardiology Department and its variation after 24 hours will be evaluated. If
      red blood cell transfusion is required, pre-transfusion hemoglobin will be considered for
      evaluation.

      Data from each patient will be registered in the REDCap platform in a electronic case report
      form (CRF) and will be submitted to statistical analysis using the Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (SPSS) 24 program. The REDCap has some important characteristics such as
      role-based authentication and security; real-time data validation and integrity checking;
      data assignment and audit capability; storage and sharing of protocols; central storage and
      backup of data and data export in formats compatible with known analysis programs as Excel,
      SPSS, Statistical Analysis System (SAS), Stata, R software, among others. Data will be
      audited by an independent team from Prevent Senior's Institute of Education and Research.

      Patients who have the following characteristics will not be included in this trial:
      contraindications to fibrinolytic therapy, such as active internal bleeding, clinical signs
      of acute aortic dissection, traumatic or prolonged cardiopulmonary resuscitation (> 10
      minutes), head trauma in the last four weeks, history of intracranial neoplasia, ischemic
      stroke in the past year or previous haemorrhagic stroke, pregnancy, sustained severe
      hypertension (≥180 mmHg systolic pressure and / or ≥110 mmHg diastolic pressure), trauma or
      major surgery in the last four weeks, use of oral anticoagulants, history of liver or kidney
      failure; did not meet reperfusion criteria upon arrival at the Interventional Cardiology
      Service of the Sancta Maggiore Hospital Itaim Unit (no improvement in chest pain or reduction
      in ST-segment elevation below 50% after thrombolytic administration); having femoral access
      as the first choice for invasive stratification; bleeding complications prior to cardiac
      catheterization, such as important hematoma and stroke; acute pulmonary edema (dyspnea of
      cardiac etiology with increased respiratory effort, hypoxemia and / or desaturation);
      cardiogenic shock (systolic blood pressure below 90 mmHg associated with signs of tissue
      hypoperfusion, such as oliguria, altered level of consciousness, cyanosis, cold and wet
      extremities, or vasopressor drug use); do not accept to sign the consent form.

      Patients will be studied according to the precepts of the Helsinki Declaration and the
      Nuremberg Code, respecting the Research Norms Involving Human Beings (National Health Council
      resolution: 466/12) of the National Health Council. The study will be explained to patients
      when they are admitted to the Interventional Cardiology Department of the Sancta Maggiore
      Itaim Hospital and will be required to sign the Informed Consent Form (ICF) before any
      invasive procedure is performed. Randomization will be performed through a specific site
      after signing the consent form. The project was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of
      the Prevent Senior Research Institute.

      To perform the sample calculation, the study of Bertrand OF et al (2010) was used to evaluate
      the variation of hemoglobin (Hb) in 24 hours after coronary angioplasty by radial approach.
      The control group had a mean hemoglobin drop of 0.6 ± 1g / dL and there were worse outcomes
      in patients with a hemoglobin drop greater than 3g / dL. (22) Therefore, considering in the
      control group a mean Hb fall of 0.6 ± 1g / dl and a fall greater than 3 g/dL of Hb is related
      to an unfavorable clinical outcome, using a two-tailed alpha of 0.05 and a power of 90% to
      test the non-inferiority of the fast strategy over the standard strategy, each group will
      require 60 patients, totaling 120 individuals to be included. However, if the Hb drop in the
      fast strategy is greater than 3 g/dL and this result does not reproduce in the standard
      strategy, the study will allow us to show the superiority of the strategy between 3 and 24
      hours.

      An intention-to-treat assessment will be performed. Categorical variables will be presented
      as absolute numbers and percentages. Continuous variables will be presented as mean ±
      standard deviation or median (interquartile range) according to their distribution. The
      distribution evaluation of continuous variables will be tested with Shapiro-Wilk. For
      continuous variables, the Student's t-test (normal distribution) or Wilcoxon-rank (non-normal
      distribution) will be used according to their distribution. For categorical variables the
      Chi-square test will be used.
    
  