
    
      Primarily the investigators seek to observe and interview participants over a three-week
      period of time to assess their ongoing interest and the perceived effects of regular play
      segments each day (10-20 minutes each). Data will be collected in pre/post interviews,
      teacher journals, and observation of pre/post play sessions.

      These new hands-on digitized cubes are motion sensitive blocks that are capable of
      interactively reacting to each other and motion applied to them. The game GroundKeeper makes
      use of these cubes to use auditory and visual stimuli to provide distractors during play
      apart from the goal of the game. The investigators expect that play will encourage attention
      in players and are interested to see what players and their teachers/parents perceive the
      effects to be.

      The investigator's goal is not to measure actual attention rates and times of the students,
      but the subjective observations of players' engagement with the devices, motivation to play
      the game, interest initially and over time, and perceived effect of the game on attention.
      This type study is commonly known as 'play-testing' a software product with the target
      audience; a process refined as "design-based research" in academia (Laurel, 2003) and used
      for assessing the quality of digital designs for learning (Barab & Squire, 2004) and using
      data to improve them. This study will be a qualitative counter-balance to the quantitative
      work being done separately by the University of Minnesota (Under Dr. Srivastava), using
      clinical and computer based diagnostics and data mining respectively on the same product.

      Digital tools are facilitating both traditional and '21st century skills' via new information
      and communication technologies for knowledge work, thinking, learning, and leading digital
      lifestyles (p. 23) (Trilling & Fadel, 2009). Further there is growing evidence these skills,
      along with traditional literacies are being learned by using digital applications (Gee, 2007;
      Squire & Barab, 2004; Steinkuehler & Duncan, 2008). Early evidence that digital tools can
      'amplify' learning activity shows potential for digital technology to beneficial even if
      'played' or used 'in the wild' (Squire & Dikkers, 2012). This study seeks to further explore
      learning attributes of a digitally mediated learning experience designed for a particular
      learning goal.

      Additionally, current diagnostic aids, used in treating attention capacity for Attention
      Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Autism, are currently expensive, time intensive,
      and provide little information about accessory movements in response to a stimulus. One in
      ten children, ages 5 to 17, has been diagnosed with ADHD; and the number of kids with autism
      has increased 78% in the last ten years http://www.cnn.com/2012/03/29/
      health/autism/index.html). This study will seek to assess the accessibility and usability of
      software that seeks to help shape attention strategies through play and 'fun' learning for
      both ADHD and Autistic children that struggle with attention. If effective this could be a
      valuable and affordable option for educational institutions to serve these learners.

      This study seeks to aid CogCubed in improved design for their game that will improve its'
      ability to engage, motivate, and retain player interest over time.
    
  