
    
      Gonadotropin-releasing hormone, also called luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, is a
      neuropeptide hormone released from the hypothalamus. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone binds to
      specific gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors in the cell membrane of pituitary gland
      cells, inducing the cells to produce and release the gonadotropins: luteinizing hormone and
      follicle-stimulating hormone. Luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone are
      released into the general circulation and stimulate the gonads to produce and release the sex
      steroids: testosterone and estrogen. Follicle-stimulating hormone also controls
      gametogenesis.

      Suppression of gonadotropin secretion is an effective treatment for conditions such as
      prostate cancer, endometriosis and central precocious puberty, because these conditions
      respond to manipulation of the sex steroids. Suppression of gonadotropin secretion can be
      achieved by administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists that, after an initial
      transient stimulation of gonadotropin release, reversibly desensitize pituitary
      gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors. Desensitization is thought to occur by
      down-regulation of the numbers of gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors and uncoupling of
      the receptors from the biochemical pathway that leads to gonadotropin release. Termination of
      gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist administration reverses the desensitization, and
      gonadotropin and sex hormone levels return to normal.

      There are several marketed gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists, one of which is TAP-144
      (leuprorelin), an active synthetic nonapeptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue. In
      the present study, the existing leuprorelin 1- month sustained release formulation will be
      compared with a new gelatin-free 1-month sustained release formulation.
    
  