
    
      This study will be a randomized, open-label, 3-period, 3-treatment, single dose,
      single-center, crossover study. Eighteen healthy male and female subjects will be randomized
      in this study to ensure that at least 12 subjects are evaluable. A subject will be considered
      to be evaluable if the subject completes all 3 Treatment Periods with no important protocol
      deviations. Subjects will be randomized to 1 of 6 treatment sequences and will receive each
      of the 3 single dose treatments of AZD1402 listed below.

        -  Treatment A: Dose A estimated delivered dose of AZD1402 nebuliser solution administered
           via a nebuliser.

        -  Treatment B: Dose B estimated delivered dose of AZD1402 inhalation powder administered
           via an inhaler.

        -  Treatment C: Dose C estimated delivered dose of AZD1402 inhalation powder administered
           via an inhaler.

      The study will comprise of:

        -  A Screening Period of up to 28 days before the first administration of AZD1402.

        -  Three Treatment Periods during which subjects will be resident at the Clinical Unit from
           the day before dosing with AZD1402 (Day -1) until at least 48 hours after dosing and
           discharged on Day 3.

        -  A Follow-up Visit 10 to 12 days after the last administration of AZD1402 in Treatment
           Period 3.

      Each Treatment Period will be separated by a minimum washout period of 5 days between doses.

      All subjects will sign an Informed Consent Form before they participate in any specific study
      related procedures. Subjects will attend a Screening Visit within 28 days before receiving
      their first dose of AZD1402. If they are eligible, they will return for Treatment Period 1
      when they will have baseline assessments and receive 1 of 3 treatments in a randomized order.
      For each Treatment Period, the subjects will receive a single dose of Investigational
      Medicinal Product (IMP) in the morning of Day 1 and have further assessments for 48 hours
      after dosing.
    
  