
    
      The proposed multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) will investigate a novel
      intervention, systematic light exposure (sLE), to treat cancer-related fatigue (CRF) among
      Multiple Myeloma (MM) and Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) following autologous stem
      cell transplantation (ASCT). Cancer related fatigue (CRF) is persistent exhaustion related to
      cancer and/or its treatment. CRF is the most common cancer side effect and can severely
      interfere with activities of daily living long after completion of all medical treatment.
      Pharmacologic agents to treat CRF have been studied but there is insufficient evidence to
      recommend their use. Non-pharmacological interventions for CRF (including yoga, cognitive
      behavior therapy, hypnosis, and exercise) have also been studied; however, such interventions
      are costly to implement and involve significant patient burden. sLE is a low-cost, low-
      burden intervention that we have found to have beneficial effects for patients post-ASCT. The
      investigators initial randomized trial for CRF found that certain light exposure was
      associated with clinically significant reductions in fatigue (effect size d=0.98) More
      relevant to the proposed research is the preliminary investigation with sLE to treat CRF in
      MM and DLBCL which found that patients receiving certain sLE reported significantly less
      fatigue ( p=0.052). The proposed RCT will test the efficacy of sLE on CRF. It will also
      assess the effect of sLE on sleep, depressive symptoms, and both activity and cortisol
      circadian rhythms as these related processes have been hypothesized as possible mechanisms of

      sLE's effects on CRF. Two hundred survivors of multiple myeloma and Diffuse Large B-cell
      Lymphoma between 1 month and 5 years post-autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will be
      recruited from two medical centers.

      The light will be administered by light glasses for 4 weeks. Outcomes will be assessed at
      five separate time points including baseline and follow-ups.

      The researchers' preliminary research has established the feasibility of this proposal.
      Moreover, in the preliminary research, 75% of participants completed the preliminary trial
      and data from the light box compliance meters showed that participants used the light boxes
      80% of the days that treatment was scheduled. A large sample of fatigued MM and DLBCL ASCT
      survivors has been identified. The study will specifically address recommendations made for
      interventions for CRF from the NCI Clinical Trials Planning meeting (JNCI, 2013). It will: 1)
      be the first large multisite study with a carefully delineated comparison condition to
      investigate the effects of light on CRF among cancer survivors treated with ASCT; 2) focus on
      a distinct, homogenous patient population (MM and DLBCL ASCT survivors); 3) include only
      survivors who experience clinical levels of CRF; and 4) address possible mechanisms. This RCT
      will have major public health relevance as it will determine if an easy-to-deliver,
      inexpensive, and low patient burden intervention reduces CRF.
    
  