
    
      Hypertension is indeed a significant public health concern in Pakistan. Hypertension
      drastically affects 18.9% of adolescents of age greater than 15 and 33% of adults of age
      above 45. Uncontrolled blood pressure (BP) is a leading risk factor for major hypertensive
      complications. In Pakistan, suboptimal adherence to medication remains a stumbling block to
      the success of antihypertensive treatment. A majority of the population in Pakistan on
      treatment is found to be non-adherent. mHealth is quite an apt tool positioned to counter
      these challenges of poor adherence in resource limit settings like Pakistan. What is
      available is too little to establish any causal relationship. The aim of this study is to
      assess the effectiveness of mHealth intervention by using a reminder module in improving
      patient medication adherence in hypertensive patients. The intervention was designed to
      improve the hypertension-related adherence in participants in the intervention group. The
      module will be developed and undergone via the process of consultations from a group of
      experts. These will include professors of epidemiology, one expert in behavioral
      intervention, two professors of health education, and one cardiologist specialist in
      hypertension management. For the intervention group, a "multifaceted educational reminder
      module" will be developed and delivered through "WhatsApp" (written message, voice message,
      and Graphic-based Reminder (GBR)) by an Information and Technology (IT) facilitator. This
      will be included thrice-weekly notes for medication reminders, voice messages,s and
      Graphic-based Reminder (GBR), Lifestyle changing video, hypertension at a glance, and doctor
      support in addition to the standard care (as per being practiced routinely in the hospitals).
      WhatsApp is used in this study because of its feature of ticks, which turns out to blue after
      seeing the message and it is an indication to the sender if the receiver has seen the
      message, so, the participants no longer need to respond to calls or messages. If the
      intervention is found effective, it can help in developing educational guidelines for
      patients to improve their medication adherence and reduce related complications at the same
      time. This study will give a new line of research for coming researchers in the long run.
      Moreover, its cost-effectiveness will be assessed to predict one dollar bring about
      improvement per mmHg.
    
  