
    
      Stroke is a common cause of disability, but not all subjects who survive a stroke are left
      with debilitating sequelae. The human brain is able to self-repair and adapt after injury
      through neuroplasticity, which is crucial for stroke recovery. At present, recovery cannot be
      completely predicted from clinical stroke variables. A promising theory suggests that the
      health status of the stroke host is as important as stroke severity for recovery. Within the
      neurological system, health is reflected by the integrity of the brain tissue and its
      neuronal environment, which provide the neuroplastic potential that is necessary for
      recovery. The potential for neuroplasticity is likely variable across individuals and
      possibly accounts for some of the differences in outcome that cannot be explained by other
      clinical factors.

      A better understanding of the relationship between stroke outcomes, host brain tissue
      integrity and recovery environment would have immense potential to address stroke related
      disabilities. The investigators are experts in research involving brain tissue integrity
      using neuroimaging and recovery environment using community based participation approaches
      involving nurse-guided community health workers (CHWs).

      This research project will evaluate the relationship between cardiovascular risk factors,
      degrees of physical and mental activity prior to the stroke, brain tissue integrity,
      post-stroke community participation and neurological recovery after the stroke. The
      investigators will recruit and study a biracial cohort, gaining insight into the possible
      mechanisms that explain why the adverse risk profile, which is more commonly present in
      African-Americans than non-Hispanic Whites in the stroke belt, is translated into a less
      favorable recovery post stroke. If a better understanding of the underlying reasons for this
      observation can be defined, an important first step toward eliminating this disparity can be
      achieved.
    
  