
    
      A total of 20 subjects will be recruited from The UCLA Center for Human Nutrition/Clinical
      Trials Unit database, print and/or radio advertisements, UCLA campus wide e-mail, the
      clinicaltrials.gov website, and flyers posted on campus and in the community.

      Interested persons will call a telephone number dedicated to the study where they will be
      instructed to leave their name and phone number. These individuals will be contacted by a
      study staff member, who will briefly describe the study and answer any questions to ascertain
      interest. If the individual is interested they will be asked to complete a brief pre-screen
      form over the telephone to establish eligibility. Individuals who remain interested will be
      invited for a screening visit. Pre-screen surveys for those not eligible will be shredded.

      At screening, informed consent and HIPAA authorization will be reviewed and signed prior to
      any procedures being done, a medical history will be obtained. If subjects are healthy by
      medical history the following procedures will be conducted:

        -  a fasting blood sample will be collected for routine safety labs (CBC and Chemistry
           Panel)

        -  complete medical and medication history

        -  brief physical examination (including vital signs, height and weight)

        -  Dietary instruction to limit consumption of <3 servings of fruit and vegetables,
           vitamins and antibiotics

        -  Dispense materials to collect fecal sample

      Results will be reviewed by the study physician for compliance to inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and the subject will be collected and instructed whether or not they are eligible
      and should proceed with the stool collection after 2 weeks of dietary compliance. Once the
      collection is obtained subjects will be asked to return to the clinic in 24 hours.

      Baseline, days 4 and 17

      During the study visits, the following assessments will be conducted:

        -  Vital signs, body weight

        -  Collect fecal sample

        -  Fasting blood sample

        -  24 hour urine

        -  Dispense materials to collect fecal sample

        -  Dispense study supplement (Baseline and Day 17 only)

        -  Assess for compliance of study supplement

        -  Instructions on symptom diary

        -  General well-being questionnaire

        -  Subjects who are compliant will be given a 3-day supply of fruit/vegetable juice at the
           end of the study

      Subjects will be instructed to start with their first juice upon waking or when the normally
      eat breakfast at intervals of approximately two hours throughout the day. Five (5) 16oz.
      juices and one (1) 16oz almond milk drink will be numbered and subjects will be asked to
      consume the product in the numbered sequence. Subjects will be instructed to avoid alcohol,
      caffeine, and nicotine and hydrate by drinking 8 glasses of water per day for the duration of
      the study. If needed, subjects will be allowed to drink a cup of herbal tea, water with
      lemon, almonds, cucumber or an apple during the fruit/juice supplementation.
    
  