
    
      Employers have the incentive and the means to play a key role in chronic disease prevention.
      The incentive - employers need to control the costly and growing burden of chronic diseases
      among their employees. The means - employers purchase 94% of private health insurance, and
      employees spend one third of their lives in the workplace, where they often eat, move,
      socialize, and smoke. Over the past 5 years, the CDC and the Task Force on Community
      Preventive Services have recommended a number of chronic disease prevention practices. Among
      these, we have identified 17 practices that employers should adopt. These practices include
      health insurance benefits, workplace policies, and workplace programs, and aim at increasing
      employees' disease screening, healthy eating, influenza immunization, physical activity and
      tobacco cessation. Unfortunately, employer surveys reveal low adoption of these practices.

      Working with the American Cancer Society, our research team from the University of Washington
      has developed and pilot-tested an innovative consulting intervention to increase adoption of
      these practices. Our two-stage intervention is comprehensive yet tailored by employer
      feedback.

      The intervention:

        -  markets the "business case" that employers can help control health-care costs and
           productivity losses through adoption of these practices

        -  enables implementation by providing tools for each practice.

      In this proposal, our primary aim is to test this intervention in a randomized, controlled
      trial among 48 medium-sized employers with a high proportion of socioeconomically
      disadvantaged employees in the Puget Sound area. Our primary outcome is change in employer
      practices as measured by survey and validated by audit and contract and policy review.

      Our secondary aims include:

        -  development and pilot-testing of an employee-level health risk behavior survey

        -  cost analysis and assessment of feasibility of our intervention

        -  assessment of employees' preference for different message sources and message appeals.

      Our multidisciplinary research team includes business, communication, and public health
      faculty and has more than 10 years of experience in both chronic disease prevention and
      working with business. If successful, our team's approach has broad applicability to other
      public health problems.
    
  