
    
      Functional Dyspepsia means a pain or discomfort of epigastrium originated from the stomach or
      duodenum without any causative organic or metabolic disease. For its standard criteria, "Rome
      IV diagnosis criteria" was used, where more than on symptoms including bothersome
      postprandial fullness, early satiation, epigastric pain, and epigastric soreness should have
      been elicited at least 6 months before and continued for at least 3 months in total.

      Refractory Functional Dyspepsia means a state that no symptom was improved in spite of
      appropriate treatment for the functional dyspepsia.

      The pathogenesis of Functional Dyspepsia has not been fully identified yet. Its standard
      therapies include prokinetics, analgesics, H2-receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors,
      antacids, serotonin receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors, antacids, serotonin
      receptor antagonists, and antidepressants. As these therapies has lower efficacy and drug
      related adverse reactions, the RFD patients who do not respond to medication need another
      therapeutic option.

      It may be challenging to discriminate the symptoms of FD from the symptoms of bile dyspepsia
      resulting from the biliary system. As the bile dyspepsia may induce epigastralgia as with
      functional dyspepsia and both imaging medical tests and blood tests show normal findings, it
      is difficult to discriminate it from the FD with only these tests.

      Therefore even though the epigastralgia or upper abdominal discomfort met the Rome IV
      criteria for the FD, the possibility that it, in part was actually resulted from the bile
      dyspepsia cannot be eliminated.

      The CNU capsule is a choleretic used for bile dyspepsia as a complex agent of trihydrated
      magnesium salt of kenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid, which are being marketed.

      Thus this study intends to perform a therapeutic use clinical study for efficacy and safety
      on symptom improvement by administrating CNU capsule to the patients with RFD.
    
  