
    
      The research was conducted as a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study to
      examine the effect of massage with frankincense and myrrh essential oils on pain and
      disability in individuals with chronic low back pain. In this research, 3x2 (experiment,
      control and placebo group x pre-test post-test) split plot design was used. The measurements
      and evaluations of the patients were conducted by an independent surveyor (assessor-blind) to
      ensure that the study was double-blind. Massage application, the main intervention of the
      study, was carried out by another nurse who was trained on this subject.

      Individuals presenting with chronic low back pain, who were admitted to the physical medicine
      and rehabilitation outpatient clinic of a training and research hospital and who were
      prescribed a physical therapy session constituted the target population of the study.

      For the sample size, 30-31-30 patients were included in the experimental, placebo and control
      groups, between June and October 2019, respectively, and power analysis was performed with
      the obtained data. As a result of power analysis, the effect size for Roland-Morris
      Disability Scale (RMDS) was 0.44 and statistical power was 100%; the effect size for Aberdeen
      Low Back Pain Scale (ALBPS) was 0.53 and the statistical power was 100%; and the effect size
      for Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) was 0.29 and statistical power was 100%, and the research was
      completed.

      Individuals who meet the inclusion criteria were included in the randomization pool and then
      assigned to one of the following groups:

        1. Aromatherapy Group which had classical massage with essential oil,

        2. Placebo Group which had classical massage with a fixed oil,

        3. Control Group. Pre-application was made to 5 individuals to check the functionality of
           the forms and application. In the pre-application, it was decided that only effleurage
           and friction should be performed, since the individuals were disturbed by petrissage
           during massage. After pre-application, the study was finalized. Individuals who
           participated in pre-application were not included in the study.

      Informed consent of the individuals randomly assigned to the groups was obtained. There was
      no intervention in the standard treatment applied in the clinic. At the beginning of the
      study, VAS, ALBPS, RMDS were applied to all three groups prior to the intervention by
      face-to-face interview method. Then, all three groups received standard treatment for three
      weeks, every weekday. In addition to the standard treatment, aromatherapy group was applied 2
      sessions of 15 min lumbar massage per week (2nd and 5th day) with frankincense and myrrh
      essential oils, and the placebo group was applied lumbar massage with jojoba fixed oil in the
      same frequency. Massage was not applied to the control group. After three weeks, VAS, ALBPS,
      RMDS were applied to all 3 groups after the intervention Massage Application: Although there
      are many massage techniques, the most widely used technique is Swedish massage technique
      applied with light pressure. Swedish massage is a superficial massage and has a stimulating
      effect on soft tissues and blood circulation. The main maneuvers of classical massage are
      effleurage, petrissage, friction, tapotement and vibration. In this study, effleurage and
      friction were applied from these maneuvers.

      Effleurage is a stroking movement applied on the skin with one hand or both hands. In the
      stroking technique, palms, fingers, thumb and back of hand is applied with one or two hands.
      The aim is to accelerate blood flow in superficial veins and excretion of metabolites from
      the body. Friction is the pressing, scrubbing and sliding movements with small circular
      movements using fingertips, thumbs, four fingers and palms. The purpose of friction is to
      remove adhesions in skin and subcutaneous tissue, to relax stiffness and thickening, to
      reduce fluid in tissues around joints and to remove metabolites.

      Essential oils from plants are used topically for massaging, often by adding them into
      carrier oil The use of essential oils in massage is called aromatherapy massage. In this
      study, frankincense and myrrh essential oils were used as essential oil and jojoba oil was
      used as carrier oil.

      Intervention: The standard physical therapy session of the clinic lasts for three weeks
      (3x5=15 sessions in total, 30 minutes on average per session) on a weekday basis. During the
      session, hot pack, ultrasound therapy and TENS (trans electrical nerve stimulation) were
      applied. The lumbar massage performed as a research intervention was performed immediately
      after the physical therapy session to increase the effectiveness of the intervention.

      Intervention applied to the aromatherapy group: In addition to the standard physical therapy
      session, 30 patients in this group received a total of six sessions of lumbar massage for
      three weeks with frankincense and myrrh essential oils, two sessions per week (2nd and 5th
      days of each week), each lasting 15 minutes. During the massage, an average of 3ml mixture
      prepared by adding 2% frankincense oil and 2% myrrh essential oil to jojoba carrier oil was
      used as an oil mixture.

      Intervention applied to the placebo group: In addition to the standard physical therapy
      session, 31 patients in this group received a total of six sessions of lumbar massage for
      three weeks with jojoba oil, two sessions per week (2nd and 5th days of each week), each
      lasting 15 minutes.

      Intervention applied to the control group: 30 patients in this group received standard
      physical therapy sessions, and no massage was applied.
    
  