
    
      Aim 1:

      Each enrolled participant will be asked to wear the sensor on a daily basis. Duration of the
      participation varies based on the symptom severity. With the currently available information,
      recovery times are ranging from 7 days to 56 days. The duration of the study participation
      can begin at the early detection to all the way until complete recovery or discharge.
      Participants may be asked to use the sensors anywhere from 7 days to 60 days. Duration of
      study will be based on the participant's self-reported symptoms or as appropriate determined
      by the PI. This will allow the research team to collect a comprehensive data set that can
      characterize both COVID-like and non-COVID-like signs and symptoms.

      Aim 2:

      Data collected from Aim#1 will aid in generating machine learning algorithms to characterize
      the signs and symptoms. Further algorithm development will be carried out to develop signs
      and symptoms progression and regression models for early warning or warning to prevent return
      to work of health-care staff or civilians

      Wearable sensors are compact battery powered miniature electronic devices that are attached
      to a user's body to record physiological, biochemical and physical activity information.
      Different types of sensors can be used to monitor these digital biomarkers. Inertial
      measurement units (IMUs), including accelerometers, gyroscopes, magnetometers are typically
      used to measure physical activity, movement signatures. Miniature temperature, galvanic skin
      response (GSR), photoplethysmogram (PPG), oxygen saturation (SPO2) sensors are increasingly
      embedded in wearable devices for vital sign monitoring. Non-invasive monitoring is very ideal
      in the current pandemic situation. These sensors can be potentially deployed in large scale
      to monitor cases of suspected infection and patients recovering from COVID-19.

      This project is planning to develop a sensor system that is capable of gathering data on
      COVID-19 like symptoms such as cough, body temperature, respiratory parameters. Machine
      algorithms will be developed to handle data analysis and derive useful clinical and monitor
      signs and symptoms in cases of suspected infection and individuals actively recovering from
      COVID-19 like symptoms
    
  