
    
      Preoperative data will be collected as the baseline information through chart review and
      patient interview before the surgery as follows: patient demographics, co-morbidities,
      medication, preoperative laboratory results, and preoperative vital signs.

      Intraoperative data will be collected by chart review or monitor review as follows: type of
      implant device, concomitant procedures, length of surgery, duration of cardiopulmonary bypass
      and aortic cross clamp, blood products administered hemodynamic variables, and NIRS signals.

      Postoperative data will be collected by chart review or monitor review as follows:
      medications, blood products administered, postoperative laboratory results, adverse events
      and operative mortality*, length of mechanical ventilation, length of inotrope administered,
      hemodynamic variables, length of intensive care unit and hospital stay, mortality, and NIRS
      signals.

      Participants will receive routine standard institutional perioperative care that included
      invasive radial artery blood pressure monitoring. Participants will be connected to the NIRS
      monitor using sensor probes placed on the right and left sides of the forehead per routine
      clinical application. NIRS signal monitoring will be initiated before induction of general
      anesthesia in the operation room for collecting baseline data, and continued during LVAD
      implantation procedure. After implantation of LVAD, continuous NIRS monitoring will be
      carried out in the ICU until termination of the invasive arterial blood pressure monitoring.

      For all participants enrolled in this study, all medical treatment which is provided will not
      deviate from the standard of clinical care, including surgery and other procedures as well as
      blood sample collection. The data will be reviewed routinely to seek trends. When needed to
      examine specific clinical issues, such as risk factors for a given complication, additional
      clinical data will be retrieved from the medical records. All data sets analyzed and used for
      presentations or publication will be anonymized to protect patient confidentiality. This
      study will be conducted indefinitely.
    
  