
    
      Background and Significance:

      Mental illness is an extraordinary and highly burdensome public health problem.
      Unfortunately, even for individuals who access mental health care (MHC), the care is too
      often substandard. Research has consistently demonstrated that approximately 10-15% of
      patients will deteriorate or experience harm during treatment. Further, when these rates are
      combined with no-change rates, only 40% or less of patients meaningfully recover.
      Importantly, treatment research has illuminated substantial variability in providers'
      outcomes. Simply put, the MHC provider impacts treatment outcomes, and stakeholders lack
      systematic access to valid and actionable information to optimize effective patient-provider
      matches. Without collecting and disseminating performance data, stakeholders lack vital
      information on which to base health care choices and personalize treatment. Conversely, there
      potentially is immense advantage to matching patients to providers based on scientific
      outcome data. Patients, stakeholders, researchers, and clinicians have all endorsed such
      applied knowledge transfer as a high priority. In response, the investigators have developed
      and piloted a technology to test this match concept and patient-centered health model.

      Prominent health care agencies have placed outcome/performance measurement at the center of
      core initiatives. The Institute of Medicine specifically recommends integrating provider
      performance data in treatment decision-making. Despite this rhetoric, 2 Cochrane Reviews
      combined could only identify 4 studies that addressed this question with minimal methodology
      standards; the results were mixed. Importantly, none involved a targeted dissemination
      intervention, and none involved MHC. Previous research, including our own, has empirically
      demonstrated substantial differences in projected treatment effect sizes depending on to
      which therapist a patient is referred. The key evidence gap is the need for a rigorous test
      of the effectiveness of a targeted MHC provider-performance dissemination intervention
      compared to standard/pragmatic referral and case assignment. Relatedly, the Patient-Centered
      Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) has called for increased "precision" or "personalized"
      treatment, with a focus on tailoring. The match algorithm responds directly to this high
      priority call to customize care in a personal and evidence-based way.

      Specific Aims:

      The aim of this comparative effectiveness research (CER) is to test an innovative,
      scientifically informed patient-therapist referral match algorithm based on MHC provider
      outcome data. The investigators will employ a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to compare
      the match algorithm with the commonplace pragmatic referral matching (based on provider
      availability, convenience, or self-reported specialty). Psychosocial treatment itself will
      remain naturalistically administered by varied providers (e.g., psychologists, social
      workers) to patients with complex mental health concerns within a partner clinic network,
      Psychological and Behavioral Consultants (PsychBC). The investigators hypothesize that the
      scientific match group will outperform the pragmatic match group in decreasing patient
      symptoms and treatment dropout, and in promoting patient functional outcomes, outcome
      expectations, and care satisfaction, as well as patient-therapist alliance quality. Doing so
      will establish the match algorithm as a mechanism of effective patient-centered MHC.

      Methods:

      The investigators will compare the effectiveness of naturalistic MHC either with or without
      the scientific matching aid with a double blind, individual level RCT. The investigators will
      first conduct a baseline assessment of PsychBC therapists' (target enrollment N=44)
      performance (across at least 15 cases) to determine their strengths in treating 12 behavioral
      health domains measured by the primary outcome tool on which our match algorithm is based --
      the Treatment Outcome Package (TOP). The TOP is already administered routinely in our partner
      network. Based on years of predictive analytic research, this tool classifies therapists as
      "effective," "neutral," or "ineffective/harmful" for each TOP domain. The blinded therapists
      will be crossed over conditions.

      Next, for the trial, new adult outpatients (target enrollment N=281) will be randomly
      assigned to the Match condition or case assignment as usual (typically based on pragmatic
      considerations, such as provider availability, convenience, or self-reported specialty). The
      only patient exclusion criterion will be people who are not the primary decision-maker for
      their care. Thus, patients will present with a multitude of problems across a spectrum of
      diagnoses. With therapist assignment as the only manipulation, participating therapists will
      treat patients fully naturalistically. Treatment outcomes will be assessed regularly through
      mutual termination or up to 16 weeks. Primary analyses will involve hierarchical linear
      modeling to examine comparative rates and patterns of change on the outcomes.
    
  