
    
      Objective 1, Development of the expanded STROKE web program applicable to individuals with
      stroke in the USA.

      This is a necessary objective to achieve before the investigators can start the trial; but it
      has no associated hypothesis. One rationale is to expand the target population in terms of
      impairment severity based both on feedback from therapists and on the need to add more
      bilateral activities that are important for everyday use. The second rationale is to check
      that material is readable and applicable to individuals with stroke in the USA.

      Objective 2: To determine the immediate and durable motor function changes from a six-week
      web-based stroke rehab program vs. usual written exercise care in individuals discharged from
      outpatient therapy after a stroke.

      H1: Six weeks of web-based stroke training compared to six weeks of a written home upper limb
      exercise program will result in clinically meaningful and statistically significant
      improvement in upper extremity function immediately after the intervention and 4.5 months
      later.

      This primary hypothesis is justified based on the combination of two theoretical constructs
      as described earlier. First, there is evidence that web-based programs, based on Self
      Determination Theory principles, will show an increase in motivation to exercise vs. a
      control with no intervention in non-disabled individuals. Second, since the web-based program
      is also based on neuroplasticity and motor learning principles known to improve functional
      recovery, and not just physiological improvements, the participants should also improve their
      functional recovery rather than merely gain physical activity benefits while maintaining or
      even losing their functional level. Third, the pilot feasibility study supports this
      hypothesis for the immediate effect and, after the power analysis, for the follow up testing.

      Objective 3: To determine the immediate and durable behavioral benefits of a six-week
      web-based stroke program vs. standard care in individuals discharged from outpatient therapy
      after a stroke.

      H2: Six weeks of web-based stroke training compared to six weeks of a written home upper limb
      exercise program will result in statistically significant gains in motivation to exercise,
      self-efficacy and amount of practice time immediately after the intervention and 4.5 months
      later.

      This secondary hypothesis explores whether the STRONG program will improve the patients
      motivation to exercise and their self-efficacy, while the written exercise program has the
      opposite effect, by the end of the intervention. There is evidence from the non-disabled
      population that behavioral improvements such as increasing exercise time will occur when
      individuals are intrinsically motivated but this has not been shown in the stroke population
      using a LifeGuide platform web-based system27. Conceptually, the investigators predict that
      individuals with stroke will also become intrinsically motivated, because the program
      incorporates design details that enhance feelings of autonomy, competence and relatedness.
      Therefore, based on SDT, participants will not only have a better functional level but an
      increase in self-efficacy, motivation and independence. Specifically, during the 4.5 months
      after training, participants in the STRONG web program will demonstrate this by maintaining
      an increased amount of practice even though the investigators will have withdrawn our
      external support from the therapist (but not the participants ability to communicate with
      friends).

      Embedded Qualitative Component. Qualitative work is based on inductive reasoning and is
      hypothesis generating rather than hypothesis testing 49. Therefore, the investigators do not
      offer specific hypotheses but outline some of the questions that will be asked to give
      meaning and a context to the use of the web-based program.

      Objective 4: To determine the perceptions of patients/caregivers to the use of a web-based
      stroke training program.

      Qualitative methods will be used to explore patient and caregiver experiences and perceptions
      of using the Web-based system as part of stroke recovery to answer questions such as - In
      what ways did the STRONG web program help or hinder their rehabilitation? What did
      participants like and dislike about it? How did participants use it and why? What
      difficulties did participants have with using it? How could it be better? What did
      participants perceive to be the 'added value' of using the STRONG web program over routine
      practice alone?

      Objective 5: To determine the perceptions of therapists to the use of a web-based stroke
      training program.

      Qualitative methods will be used to explore therapists' experiences and perceptions of the
      STRONG web program in order to answer questions such as - What are the most important/useful
      aspects of the STRONG web program. What are the most difficult/problematic aspects of the
      STRONG? When would therapists use it and why? Who is it most successful for and why? What
      does it add to routine practice? In what ways does it detract from or complicate routine
      practice?
    
  