
    
      Background Hypovolemia can cause postoperative complications, circulatory collapse and death,
      regardless if the cause is blood loss or loss of other fluids. Therefore, doctors are giving
      fluid intravenously to patients undergoing surgery, and often in an amount larger than the
      measured losses. Recent studies, however, have shown that also fluid overload plays a part in
      complication development after surgery (1-3). It is therefore important to find the optimal
      fluid treatment for surgical patients.

      In Denmark, approximately 3500 patients are undergoing surgery every year for colorectal
      cancer, and in addition, operations are performed for benign diseases. However, the
      complication rate after colorectal surgery remains high (approximately 30%).

      Disagreement about which fluid treatment is optimal exist between three "schools for fluid
      therapy":

        1. "Standard fluid therapy" which in addition to replacing external fluid loss (blood loss,
           urine and evaporation) include fluid to replace a "third space loss" and fluid to
           counteract low blood pressure (4-5). Standard therapy is poorly defined and differ
           between hospitals. It cause a bodyweight increase by 3-6 kilo (6-7).

        2. "Goal-directed fluid therapy", where volume is given in a bolus injection of a colloid
           (typically hydroxyethyl starch (HES)) in order to keep the patient's stroke volume (SV)
           at a near maximum level (1). The heart is brought close to maximum performance. In
           theory, hypovolemia is prevented and oxygen supply to the tissues increased. In the
           studies available, HES is given on top of "standard therapy" and "Goal-directed fluid
           therapy" therefore result in a weight gain not measured in the available studies.

        3. "Restrictive fluid therapy", replace only measurable fluid losses and strive to maintain
           the patient's normal (preoperative) body weight. The hypothesis is that excess fluid
           cause interstitial edema which may be harmful to the healing of tissue and function.
           (2,3,8).

           "Standard fluid therapy" is meaningful if a benefit exists in giving fluid to a possible
           third space loss and treat the vasodilatation caused by epidural analgesia by volume.
           However, a recent critical review of the literature poses serious doubts about the
           existence of a third space loss (9), and no beneficial effect of volume treatment of the
           vasodilatation caused by epidural analgesia been shown.

           "Goal-directed fluid therapy" tests the hypothesis that a near maximal stroke volume
           (SV) during surgery improves tissue oxygen supply, thus preventing the harmful effects
           of hypovolemia. Unfortunately, all studies that have tested "goal-directed fluid
           therapy" with esophageal Doppler monitoring have chosen to use a not well-defined
           "standard fluid regime" as their control group, and in the intervention groups they have
           chosen to first provide "standard fluid therapy" and then give a further HES to maximum
           stroke volume (10-16). In addition, length of hospital stay (LOS) were the primary
           endpoint not morbidity or mortality, and patients were not followed after discharge. The
           results of these studies differ. Most studies have shown shorter LOS in the intervention
           group, but only 3 of the studies have been blinded (11, 13, 16). Some studies have shown
           a lower complication rate in the intervention groups (12, 13, 16) some studies have not
           shown a difference in complication rate (10, 14, 15, 17) and some have raised suspicions
           that the intervention has been harmful, with increased mortality (15, 18).

           "Restrictive fluid treatment" is based on the following logic: If there is no third
           space loss, it is pointless to give saline to replace it, and if epidural vasodilatation
           is not corrected with volume, it is pointless to give fluid to increase BP.

           The hypothesis is that fluid overload might result in interstitial edema, harmful to
           tissue healing and cardiovascular function.

           Only a few studies have tested the effect of "restrictive fluid treatment" on the
           development of complications following major surgical procedures, but the results have
           been consistent: "Restrictive fluid treatment" has reduced the complication rate after
           elective abdominal surgery (2, 3).

           Purpose To investigate whether perioperative fluid therapy controlled by esophageal
           Doppler monitoring reduces postoperative complications compared to perioperative fluid
           therapy controlled by measuring external fluid loss and body weight.

           In addition, to investigate whether patients receiving "restrictive fluid therapy"
           develop hypovolemia with reduced SV during surgery.

           Design Clinical randomized double-blinded multicenter study, stratified for each center,
           and for laparoscopic and open surgery. This will result in a simultaneous stratification
           of combined epidural and general anesthesia (used in open surgery) and general
           anesthesia alone (as used in laparoscopic surgery).

           The patients are block randomized with a number of patients in each block unknown to the
           doctors performing the randomization. Several centers are participating to complete the
           trial within a reasonable time.

           The patients are following an enhanced recovery program in both arms.

           Material 150 patients undergoing elective colorectal resection will be included. The
           number was determined using data from complication databases, which shows a
           postoperative complication rate of approximately 30%. 2α is set at 5% and β is set at
           15%, increasing the credibility of a possible negative result.

           A number of n > 67.5 patients in each group was calculated, and inclusion of 75 patients
           in each group (total 150 patients) was decided.

           Outcome The composite endpoint of mortality and postoperative complications is the
           primary endpoint.

           An event is accepted as a complication if it demands clinical treatment and fulfills
           given diagnostic criteria.

           Based on the following hypotheses; subgroup analysis are planned:

           Both hypovolemia and hypervolemia may be harmful to the cardiac function (low oxygen
           supply and congestion) and cause cardiovascular complications such as:

           • Newly developed arrhythmias, AMI, pneumonia, pulmonary congestion, newly developed
           pleural exudation, pulmonary edema or ARDS.

           Both hypovolemia and hypervolemia may be harmful to tissue healing (low oxygen supply
           and interstitial edema) and cause complications related to tissue healing and infection:

           • Infections of the wound, bursting of the wound (superficial and deep), leakage from
           the anastomosis and separation of a stoma.

           In addition, data for physiological changes in HR, BP, SV, Hemoglobin concentration,
           diuresis etc. will be analyzed.

           Method:

           A trial profile will account for all patients undergoing elective colorectal resections
           in the inclusion period. I.e. all patients undergoing elective colorectal resections
           must be consecutively screened for inclusion and asked to participate if no exclusion
           criteria is met.

           The information will take place the day before surgery. The information will be based on
           the written information (see appendix), and will be given in an easily understandable
           language and in an appropriate manner adapted to the individual.

           Patients are randomized to either "restrictive fluid treatment" (R group) or "fluid
           treatment to maximum SV" (SV group).

           Preoperative fluid treatment: All patients may drink until 2 hours before anesthesia. If
           supplemental intravenous fluids are needed, it is given in accordance with the loss,
           i.e.: Glucose isotonic (5%) replaces insensible perspiration (if diabetes insulin and if
           needed potassium is added). Registration of fluid intake begins at midnight on the day
           of the operation.

           Perioperative monitoring: Standard anesthesia monitoring as recommended by the Danish
           Anesthesiological Society is used. A catheter in the radial artery monitor the BP and is
           used for blood sampling. BP and HR are measured at least 3 times before induction of
           anesthesia and every five minutes during anesthesia.

           Immediately after the induction of anesthesia, all patients have a Doppler placed in the
           esophagus to measure the flow rate in the aorta, thereby calculating the stroke volume
           (SV). The SV is measured before surgery is started, and every 15 minutes throughout the
           operation.

           In the "Restrictive Group", the Doppler measurements are recorded to a black box (see
           later).

           Anesthesia: Routine premedication is given.

           In open surgery, combined epidural and general anesthesia are used:

           The Epidural catheter is inserted at the Th8-Th10 level, tested, and a continuous
           infusion of Bupivacaine 0.5% is running until sufficient blockade.

           General anesthesia is induced with Thiopental / Propofol, Fentanyl and Rocuronium
           (Esmerone®) for a neuromuscular blockade.

           Anesthesia is maintained with Sevoflurane / Fentanyl or Propofol / Remifentanil
           (Ultiva®).

           For laparoscopic surgery, only general anesthesia is used. In case of conversion from
           laparoscopic to open surgery, an epidural catheter is placed postoperatively.

           Perioperative fluid treatment: If the preoperative fluid intake <500 ml. it is
           supplemented to 500 ml. with saline in both groups. In addition, saline is given with
           the medicine.

           Lost blood is replaced volume by volume with HES (Voluven ®) with an allowance of 500 ml
           extra.

           In the SV group, a bolus injection of 200 ml Voluven® is given until the increase in SV
           is <10%.

           Blinding: Only the anesthesiologist know the randomization group and perioperative fluid
           treatment. It is unknown to the patient and to the project surgeon.

           As all patients in the study will receive NaCl 0.9%, Voluven ®, and other IV fluids, and
           as all patients are monitored with a Doppler in the esophagus, effective blinding of the
           surgeons can be achieved.

           In order to avoid bias of the anesthesiologist, the SV measurements are recorded to a
           black box in the restrictive group.

           Postoperative fluid treatment: Throughout the rest of the day of the operation, fluid is
           given to meet the basic needs, i.e. approx. 1000 ml K-Na-glucose, K-glucose or glucose
           5%. The patient is encouraged to drink and eat as soon as it is safe to swallow.

           Nutrition is started as soon as possible (preferably in recovery) with protein drinks.

           In the surgical department, fluid charts and weight changes, allowing a body weight
           increase of two kilograms without treatment, monitor fluid treatment.

           If the weight increases more than two kilogram, furosemide is given to increase the
           diuresis.

           The patient's body weight is measured in the morning before surgery, and then every
           morning until discharge or the seventh post-operative day. The same set of scales are
           used throughout the course.

           Blood tests: Venous blood is taken in the morning on the day of the operation and every
           morning the following 5 days or until the patient is discharged.

           Surgery: Patients are operated with either open or laparoscopic technique. Antibiotic
           prophylaxis follows the department's routine. The bowel is not cleansed except for an
           enema before rectal surgery.

           Postoperative analgesia: In open surgical procedures, continuous, patient-controlled,
           epidural analgesia is given for a maximum of 4 days.

           In addition 1 g Paracetamol is given x 3-4, and / or Ibuprofen 400 mg x 3-4 if there are
           no contraindications. Supplemental Morphine p.n. is allowed.

           Nausea is treated with Ondansetron, Metoclopramide or DHB, depending on the cause of the
           patient's nausea. In case of suspicion of ventricular retention, a ventricular tube is
           applied for suction.

           Data collection The project doctor or surgeon see the patient every day and evaluates
           the patient's condition, prescribes fluid treatment, and assesses the presence and
           treatment of any complications.

           In addition, the patient is visiting the outpatient clinic approximately 30 days
           postoperatively. Any complications after discharge is recorded.

           Analysis

           The following analysis are planned:

             -  "Intention-to-treat analysis" analyses all included patients for the primary
                endpoint.

             -  "Per-protocol analysis" analyses those patients who have not been excluded
                following randomization (to be completed at > 10 exclusions only)

             -  Analyzes of the above subgroups.

             -  Analysis of the physiological data
    
  