
    
      The project focuses on the progranulin (PGRN) gene mutation, one of the most frequent genetic
      forms of frontotemporal dementias (FTD, or frontotemporal lobar degeneration, FTLD). FTD is
      the second commonest cause of degenerative dementia in presenium after Alzheimer's disease.
      Behavioral and cognitive impairments progressively lead to dementia. Two major pathological
      subtypes are now defined in FTD, FTD-TDP and FTD-TAU.

      FTD is difficult to detect at an early stage, and no clinical, biological or imaging features
      can predict the underlying pathology in living patients. Therapeutic perspectives have
      emerged against tau aggregation, PGRN deficit and C9orf72 expansion. Presymptomatic carriers
      of genetic FTD would benefit, before onset of symptoms, from these therapeutics that would
      delay or prevent the disease. At this step, it becomes crucial to develop markers to know how
      many years before symptoms, the pathological process begins, to treat the patients at the
      earliest stage of the disease. Markers are also needed to predict the pathology
      (FTD-TDP/FTD-tau) in patients that will be eligible for trials targeting specific
      pathological lesion. The main objectives of the project are to identify novel cognitive,
      brain imaging markers and peripheral biomarkers for early diagnosis of FTLD, and to follow
      disease progression. Ninety participants including 8 patients and 82 'at-risk' individuals
      will be recruited and evaluated by clinical partners of the project (Paris, Lille, Rouen,
      Toulouse, Saint-Etienne, Marseille, Nantes). 'At-risk individuals' are the first- degree
      relatives of PGRN patients, who have a high a risk (50%) to carry the mutation.

      Brain structural changes will be evaluated by voxel-based morphometry (SPM12 software) to
      assess global brain atrophy in one with the evaluation of atypical shape patterns such as
      cortical thickness (Freesurfer software) and the study of the cortical sulci
      (BrainVISA/Morphologist software).

      Fluoro Deoxy DGlucose-Positron Emission Tomography (FDG-PET) will allow the identification of
      brain metabolic markers. Then voxel-based methods using Statistical Parametric Mapping
      software will be applied to compare different groups or analyze correlations between brain
      metabolism and cognitive deficits.

      The identification of peripheral biomarkers of disease onset and disease progression will
      take advantage from RNA sequencing, in order to study gene expression and RNA splicing
      alterations in lymphocytes of patients and 'at risk individuals'.
    
  