
    
      Clinical, epidemiological, and molecular studies provide compelling evidence that most
      colorectal cancers arise from adenomas. The epidemiology of adenomas closely resembles that
      of colorectal cancer itself, and prevention of adenomas will most likely prevent colorectal
      cancer. Insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes are emerging as significant risk factors for
      colorectal (CRC) cancer and adenomas. Insulin resistance is defined as impaired biological
      response to the action of insulin. It is characterized by compensatory hyperinsulinemia and
      is associated with increased risk for Type 2 diabetes. C-peptide, a marker of insulin
      production, is elevated in IR and is also a risk factor for CRC. Both insulin resistance and
      colorectal cancer are increasingly recognized as chronic, low-level, inflammatory states.
      C-reactive protein (CRP), an acute phase protein and a sensitive marker of sub-clinical
      inflammation, is a risk factor for both IR and CRC.

      Analysis from the Polyp Prevention Trial (PPT), a multi-center, randomized trial of 1905
      participants who had a colorectal adenoma, showed that legume consumption was significantly
      associated with reduction of both adenoma recurrence and advanced adenoma recurrence. Legumes
      are a rich source of dietary fibers and anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer phytochemicals.

      We are evaluating the effects of a legume enriched, low glycemic index, high fermentable
      fiber diet, on CRP, (a measure of inflammation) and C-peptide (a measure of insulin
      resistance) in participants with four possible combinations of the risk factors insulin
      resistance and history of adenomatous polyps. In a randomized crossover design controlled
      feeding study each participant consumed the above experimental diet and a control diet for
      four weeks with a two week washout period between diets. 65 male participants were recruited
      and randomized into four groups. A secondary objective is to assess whether these endpoints
      change by IR status or a history of adenomas. In addition, potential fecal markers of CRC
      risk are being measured to assess changes in gastrointestinal inflammation, including mRNA
      from exfoliated fecal colonocytes. To our knowledge this is the first controlled feeding
      study: 1. to examine the effects of legumes or a low GI diet on markers of inflammation; 2.
      to compare the effects of a dietary intervention on patients with a history of colon adenomas
      with or without IR; and 3. to measure the effects of dietary changes in human intestinal gene
      expression profiles using exfoliated colonocytes.
    
  