
    
      Study Objectives:

      The specific objectives of CoumaGen-II to be tested are:

        1. To apply routine pharmacogenetic (PG)-guided dosing of warfarin in clinical practice at
           Intermountain Healthcare facilities in the Urban Central Region (i.e., Intermountain
           Medical Center [IMC], LDS Hospital, Alta View Hospital [AVH]), and selected physician
           offices that are frequent initiators of warfarin) in a major new quality improvement and
           clinical research initiative.

        2. To compare the percentage out-of-range (%OOR) international normalized prothrombin time
           ratios (INRs) during the first month (and secondarily, 3 months) of warfarin therapy
           using PG-guided dosing with parallel or historical standard (STD), empiric dosed
           controls.

        3. To compare a modified PG-guided dosing algorithm (modified-International Warfarin
           Pharmacogenetics Consortium [IWPC]) with a previously generated and validated,
           multicenter PG-guided algorithm (IWPC).

      Study Design:

      Qualifying patients being initiated on warfarin therapy with a target INR of 1.5-2.5, 2-3, or
      2.5-3.5 will be invited to participate and sign informed consent. Enrolled patients will
      receive DNA sampling by buccal swab, and samples will be processed and a PG-guided initial
      dose calculated with a goal of <6 hours (maximum, 24 hours). Dosing and dose adjustments will
      be managed through the Urban Central Region (IMC/LDSH) anticoagulation management service
      (AMS). Dose adjustments through day 8 will use a PG-modified algorithm, after which
      modification will revert to the standard IHC algorithm. AMS pharmacists and study
      coordinators will ascertain warfarin doses, INRs, dose changes, and adverse events, and
      record information on case report forms.

      Study Duration:

      Each patient will participate for approximately 3 months (90 days ± 10 days). The anticipated
      enrollment period is 24 months or until 1000 patients are enrolled. The length of the
      enrollment period is subject to revision as it is dependent on the availability of a robust
      patient pool.

      Further study details on dosing algorithm and genotyping methodology may be provided by
      Intermountain Healthcare Inc.
    
  