
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic is causing many deaths around the world, putting a strain on health
      services. Patients with pre-existing chronic diseases are most affected by SARS-COV2
      infection. Italy is one of the countries most involved. Thalassaemia, drepanocytosis, other
      hemoglobinopathies and inherited anemias are widespread in italy and the mediterranean area.
      Thalassaemia syndromes are characterized by different clinical forms with mutations in globin
      genes that cause the reduction or complete absence of synthesis of the globin chain.
      Transfusion therapy remains the basis of thalassaemia management. Based on the extent of the
      severity of anemia and clinical presentation, thalassaemia was classified as
      transfusion-dependent (TDT) and non-transfusion-dependent (NTDT). Transfusion inevitably
      contributes to iron overload, which is associated with secondary morbidity, including organ
      damage, especially heart, liver, bone tissue, and endocrine glands. In ntdt, comorbility is
      mainly related to chronic anemia and increased gastrointestinal iron adsorption.

      Other inherited anaemias include a large group of pathologies such as: hyporegenerative
      anaemias, such as congenital diseritropoietic anaemia and diamond-blackfan anemia; anaemies
      from deficiency of red blood cell membrane proteins due to altered membrane structure, such
      as hereditary spherocytosis and hereditary ellipsocytosis, and impaired membrane transport
      function, such as hereditary stomatocytosis; anaemies due to enzymatic deficiency, the most
      frequent of which are pyruvate deficiency kinase and glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase;
      sideroblastic anaemias and all other hereditary microcytic anaemies such as irida. All these
      anemias are characterized by high phenotypic heterogeneity but in most cases chronic
      hemolytic anemia, iron overload and addiction transfusion are found (as a percentage of a
      variable of cases). Transfusion therapy remains the basis of the management of these anaemias
      along with splenectomy (not practicable in all these classes of anemia). As with thalassaemia
      syndromes, in such anaemias, we find secondary morbidity, such as heart, liver, and endocrine
      damage resulting from both chronic anemia and iron overload.

      Infectious complications are a common cause of mortality and one of the main causes of
      morbidity in all these pathologies. The greater quantitative and functional quantities, the
      involve t and b lymphocytes, production of immunoglobulins, neutrophils and macrophages,
      chemotaxis and phagocytosis, as well as the complement system. Excess iron can alter the
      immune balance in favour of the growth of infectious organisms. Other factors include
      multiple transfusions, associated with constant allo-antigenic stimulation. A large
      percentage of adult patients are splenectomized and risk complications related to splenectomy
      such as capsuled bacterial infections and immune system changes; low levels of zinc, another
      immune regulator; iron chelation therapy, which predisposes to serious yersinia-like
      infections. The circulation of abnormal erythrocytes is the cause of another permanent immune
      stimulus. In addition, particularly in elderly patients, the coexistence of adrenal
      hypofunction makes the response to sepsis less effective.

      However, we have no information on the vulnerability of patients with thalassaemia,
      drepanocytosis, other hemoglobinopathies and hereditary anemias to SARS-COV2 infection. In
      order to obtain more information useful to increase our knowledge, a retrospective survey has
      been planned.

      The main objective of this project is the evaluation of patients with thalassaemia,
      drepanocytosis, other hereditary hemoglobinopathies and anaemias affected by SARS-COV2 to:

        1. obtain clinical and epidemiological data that may dare information on a possible
           increased vulnerability of these patients to SARS-COV2;

        2. share therapeutic approaches considering the lack of information about treatment.

      This is an italian study of observational, pharmacological, non-interventional,
      retrospective, prospective and multicenter, non-profit cohort. Patients diagnosed with
      thalassaemia, drepanocytosis, other hemoglobinopathies and hereditary anaemia positive to the
      SARS-COV2 virus will be enlisted. Patient data from reference centers will be introduced into
      the card via a web service.

      The scientific committee of the project has discussed and approved a set of data that will be
      collected by local centers and that will feed the data collection database.

      The study will be launched in every Italian center that requires participation. The Italian
      Society of Thalassaemia and Hemoglobinopathies (SITE) in its role as a scientific reporting
      company for pathology and the Foranemia Foundation, a non-profit organization, makes
      available to the center of microcitemie, coordinator of the study, a special web space for
      online data collection assuming the costs.
    
  