
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second-most neurodegenerative disease in Taiwan. It is
      characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars
      compacta (SNpc). The estimated incidence of PD ranging from 10-18 per 100,000 person-years
      with a tread of increasing number over past decades. Although the exact mechanisms of PD have
      not yet fully clear, many pathological process have shown to be involved in the pathogenesis
      like abnormal alpha-synuclein, activation of microglia and astrocyte, mitochondrial
      dysfunction, oxidative stress, and so on.

      Several characteristics have been considered to increase the risk of having PD. Epidemiologic
      studies have suggested that patients with HCV infection might have higher risk of PD. It is
      common that patients with chronic HCV infection manifest with central nervous system
      manifestations, such as depression, fatigue, and cognitive dysfunction. A previous
      epidemiologic study in Taiwan with a total of 62,276 subjects showed that there is
      significant correlation between PD and hepatitic C virus (HCV) infection. In the study, the
      crude odds ratio for having PD was 1.94 for HCV patients.

      HCV is positive-stranded RNA virus of Flaviviridae family. Flaviviridae family has many
      viruses demonstrating neurotropic character and may be associated with encephalopathy.
      Decreased monoamine transporter binding activity had also been found in HCV infected patients
      who had symptoms of chronic fatigue and cognitive impairment. HCV can cross blood-brain
      barrier and has the ability to replicate in the central nervous system. Animal study has
      shown that HCV infection may up-regulate the inflammatory cytokines, such as sICAM-1, LIX,
      and RANTES, in the rat midbrain neuron-glia coculture and induced dopaminergic neuronal
      toxicity. The elevation of choline/creatine ratio on proton magnetic-resonance spectroscopy
      is also indicative of inflammatory status of brain in patients with chronic HCV infection. it
      is possible that the direct infection of HCV into the brain induce inflammatory status by
      microglia/macrophages and contribute to subsequent neurodegeneration. Chronic HCV infection
      is also associated with systemic cytokine activation including interferon-α and tumor
      necrosis factor α, which may also affect the neuronal function. It has been reported that the
      viral eradication on the patients infected by HCV had change of neurocognitive function.

      6-[18F]Fluoro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (18F-FDOPA) is an analog of
      L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), which is the precursor of dopamine. L-DOPA is carried into
      the brain through neutral amino acid transport system and converted to domapine by aromatic
      L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) in dopaminergic neurons. Use 18F-FDOPA as a tracer of
      positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, the dopamine synthesis rate and presynaptic
      dopaminergic neuronal function can be reflected by the uptake of 18F-FDOPA in dopaminergic
      neurons. The decline of 18F-FDOPA is indicative of dopaminergic neurons dysfunction and can
      be used as imaging marker of the severity of PD. The posterior putamen receives the
      dopaminergic projections from the ventrolateral part of the substantia nigra and is affected
      earliest in the disease course of PD. 18F-FDOPA has been shown its capacity in
      differentiating early PD and healthy controls in previous study with lower metabolism in the
      dorsal putamen even in the early course of PD.

      In this project, 18F-FDOPA PET is used as an imaging marker of striatal dopaminergic
      dysfunction in patients with HCV infection. We will try to detect the subclinical and
      preclinical stages of parkinsonism for these patients.
    
  