
    
      CRC PATIENTS AND THEIR FDRS:

      You will be asked to complete a questionnaire by telephone interview. The study researcher
      who calls you will ask for your permission to audiotape the interview. The questionnaire asks
      about your awareness of screening tests for colorectal cancer, your family's past use of
      these screening tests, your attitudes toward colorectal cancer screening, and how you discuss
      colorectal cancer risk and screening with your family and health care providers. Some
      demographic information also will be collected (such as your age or marital status). The
      questionnaire will take between 30 and 45 minutes to complete.

      Your answers to the questions and your personal information will be kept strictly
      confidential. Your questionnaire answers will be identified with a code number, rather than a
      name, so that you cannot be identified. Audiotaped recordings will be destroyed after all the
      data have been collected and studied (no longer than 5 years).

      This is an investigational study. Up to 60 colorectal cancer patients and their close
      relatives may be enrolled in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      KEY INFORMANT:

      You will be asked to complete a psychosocial interview either in person or by telephone. The
      study staff member interviewing you will ask you for permission to audiotape the interview.
      You will be asked to review the interview guides for colorectal cancer patients and their
      first degree relatives (FDRs), and provide feedback about them. The interviewer will ask for
      your opinions about Hispanics' awareness and understanding of colorectal cancer screening.
      You will also be asked for your opinion about cultural beliefs and practices that may
      influence participation in colorectal cancer screening. The interview will take between 30
      and 45 minutes to complete.

      Your answers to the questions and your personal information will be kept strictly
      confidential. Your questionnaire answers will be identified with a code number, rather than a
      name, so that you cannot be identified. Audiotaped recordings will be destroyed after all the
      data have been collected and studied (no longer than 5 years).

      This is an investigational study. Up to 15 key informants may be enrolled in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  