
    
      Introduction Droxidopa (L-DOPS) is an orally administered, synthetic catecholamine that is
      converted to the sympathetic neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) through a single step of
      decarboxylation by the endogenous enzyme 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) decarboxylase.
      Droxidopa was originally developed by Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., and has been
      marketed in Japan since 1989 for the indications listed below.

        -  Improvement of frozen gait and dizziness on standing up in patients with Parkinson's
           Disease.

        -  Improvement of orthostatic hypotension, syncope, and dizziness on standing up in
           patients with Shy-Drager syndrome and familial amyloid polyneuropathy.

        -  Improvement of the following symptoms of orthostatic hypotension in patients undergoing
           hemodialysis: dizziness, light-headed feeling, dizziness on standing up, malaise, and
           weakness.

      Chelsea hypothesizes that these indications have an deficiency or lack of activity of the
      adrenergic neurotransmitter NE which can be affected by the use of a NE prodrug.

      In Phase 1 clinical studies conducted in Japanese and Caucasian subjects, droxidopa was well
      tolerated and no differences were noted in oral absorption between the two groups. Apart from
      a moderate increase in heart rate in one Caucasian subject (receiving 600 mg droxidopa),
      which was considered to be possibly related to study medication, there were no other adverse
      events (AEs) that were considered to be related to droxidopa treatment. The maximum plasma
      concentration (Cmax) was reached between 2 and 3 hours after single, oral doses of droxidopa
      (100 to 900 mg). The plasma elimination half-life (t½) of droxidopa was 1.4 - 1.5 hours and
      approximately 15% of the drug was recovered unchanged in the urine. No drug accumulation was
      observed after multiple oral dosing with droxidopa (300 mg twice daily for 5 days).

      Although the therapeutic effects of droxidopa are believed to be due to the conversion of
      droxidopa to NE, the major metabolite of droxidopa is methylated droxidopa (3-OM-DOPS).

      After administration of single 100 mg and 300 mg doses to healthy volunteers, droxidopa,
      3-OM-DOPS, and NE were observed in the urine. The 24-hour excretions of droxidopa and
      3-OM-DOPS accounted for approximately 15% and 8% of the administered dose (3-OM-DOPS
      uncorrected for molecular weight), suggesting that renal function may impact the clearance of
      droxidopa and 3-OM-DOPS.1,2 A population PK study conducted in patients with Primary
      Autonomic Failure indicated that increasing age was associated with decreased clearance of
      both droxidopa and 3 OM DOPS (Apparent clearance decreased 0.8% per year of age [referenced
      to age 65 years]). Further it was identified that patient's concurrently taking L-Dopa or
      dopamine derivatives had approximately 50% of the clearance seen with patients not taking
      droxidopa. 6 From a safety perspective, droxidopa has been generally very well-tolerated
      across a large variety of patient populations.

      As a precursor of NE that can be administered orally, droxidopa is expected to provide a
      therapy for NOH in patients with autonomic failure associated with neurodegenerative
      diseases.

      The Investigator's Brochure3 should be reviewed for a complete description of the non
      clinical and clinical experience with droxidopa.

      2.0 Objectives 2.1 Primary Objective The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the
      pharmacokinetics (PK) of droxidopa in subjects with mild, moderate, and severe renal
      dysfunction and ESRD after a single oral dose compared to matched healthy subjects with
      normal renal function.

      The PK parameters Cmax, Tmax, AUC(inf), CL/F, Vz/F, t½, and CLr are considered the primary
      parameters for evaluation.

      2.2 Secondary Objective The secondary objective of this study is to assess the safety and
      tolerability of Droxidopa in matched healthy subjects and those with mild to severe renal
      dysfunction and ESRD through participant AEs and laboratory measures.

      3.0 Investigational Plan 3.1 Study Description This study will be an open-label,
      single-treatment, single-dose, parallel group study to evaluate the PK of droxidopa in
      subjects with mild, moderate, and severe renal dysfunction and ESRD after a single dose
      compared to matched healthy subjects with normal renal function.
    
  