
    
      Increasing evidence suggests that high quality palliative care in older patients improves
      quality of care, patient and family satisfaction, and costs of care. However, while some
      specific palliative care interventions have been investigated, exactly how we should provide
      this care remains unclear. One important component of high quality provider-patient
      communication is discussing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) within the context of the
      patient's values and goals of care. Unfortunately, these conversations are often rushed,
      focused only on the procedure rather than the patient's goals and values, and CPR is often
      offered as if a choice on a menu. Elderly hospitalized patients are unlikely to have made
      decisions about CPR prior to hospitalization, and these discussions often leave patients and
      families feeling burdened, stressed, and concerned. Outcomes after in-hospital CPR in
      chronically ill older patients continue to be very poor, despite decades of efforts toward
      improvement.

      The investigators aim to change the paradigm of CPR discussions with older adults unlikely to
      benefit from CPR. This study is a randomized controlled trial comparing an innovative
      "informed assent" approach to discussing CPR versus usual care with attention control for
      older hospitalized adults with life-limiting illness or severe functional impairment,
      enrolling patients and family members at three different study sites. Informed assent
      includes: 1) eliciting values and goals, 2) explaining CPR in the context of illness, and 3)
      a caring statement that the patient should not receive CPR if values include avoiding
      burdensome therapies unlikely to provide benefit. Thus, the provider can elicit values,
      convey information, and state an assessment, while allowing the patient or family to
      disagree. The investigators hypothesize that informed assent will improve quality of and
      satisfaction with communication about CPR; reduce the burden of potentially harmful CPR
      discussions, including reduced patient and family symptoms of depression and anxiety; and
      reduce intensity of care and health care utilization. The intervention builds on prior work
      investigating CPR outcomes in older adults and performing pilot studies of the informed
      assent intervention in both inpatients and outpatients.
    
  