
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A major component of the prevention and treatment of coronary heart disease is the
      attenuation of its major underlying process, atherosclerosis, which brings about myocardial
      ischemia. In exploring the determinants of atherosclerosis, a diet-heart hypothesis has
      emerged. Simply stated, the hypothesis is that the excessive ingestion of dietary fat,
      notably total fat, saturated fat and cholesterol and lowered intakes of other nutrients
      including unsaturated fatty acids and possibly soluble fiber lead to the elevation of serum
      LDL-cholesterol which causes atherosclerosis. Support of the diet-heart hypothesis is
      available from epidemiologic, laboratory, and clinical research.

      In spite of a broad range of data supporting the diet-heart hypothesis, the importance of
      diet is often challenged. Cited in this controversy are population-based, cross-sectional
      studies which have provided conflicting data. Several studies including an early report from
      Framingham and the Tecumseh Study have failed on cross-sectional analysis to link dietary
      variables to serum cholesterol, lipoproteins or coronary heart disease rates. The genetic and
      possible dietary homogeneity in these populations and methodological weaknesses inherent in
      singe serum cholesterol and dietary assessments have been posed as possible explanations for
      these differing results.

      Difficulties in confirming the diet-heart hypothesis across existing literature may arise for
      several reasons: methodological problems inherent in estimating nutrient intake; difficulties
      associated with characterizing a behavior as complex as food purchasing; wide intraindividual
      variation in nutrient intake that make single day estimates of nutrient intake difficult to
      interpret; dissimilarities among dietary data collection techniques; varying lengths of
      followup for the observation of outcome variables in longitudinal epidemiologic studies;
      differing methods of lipid measurement or the lack of lipoprotein subfractionation. The
      Framingham data provide a unique opportunity to test the diet-heart hypothesis both
      cross-sectionally and longitudinally, to develop models for studying diet and heart disease
      relationships, and to establish the importance of dietary variables in atherogenesis and the
      morbidity and mortality of heart disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The associations between nutritional variables and major atherogenic risk factors including
      dyslipidemia, elevated blood pressure, impaired glucose tolerance, and overweight were
      investigated cross-sectionally in the total Framingham Offspring Study cohort of 3,800. The
      independent, quantitative effects of dietary factors on the prediction of cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality were explored longitudinally in two samples of the original
      Framingham cohort at 20 and 30 years of follow-up. Six major steps were followed in each set
      of analyses: dimension reduction using cluster and factor analysis; zero order independent
      nutrition variable analyses; stepwise multiple regression of independent variables;
      specification of overall regression models; stability and validity testing; the addition of
      intervening variables using multiple regression techniques. Multivariate analyses of the
      dependent variables were conducted to determine associations and interactions among these
      variables.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  