
    
      Study design: Randomly assigning the intervention can eliminate the influence of unknown or
      immeasurable confounding variables that may otherwise lead to biased and incorrect estimate
      of treatment effect. Also, randomization eliminates confounding by baseline variables and
      blinding eliminates confounding by co-interventions, thus eliminating the possibility that
      the observed effects of intervention are due to differential use of other treatments. The
      best comparison is placebo control that allows participants, investigators and study staff to
      be blinded. The advantage of trial over an observational study is the ability to demonstrate
      causality.

      Background: Genitourinary syndrome of Menopause is a condition of postmenopausal women due to
      estrogen deprivation which results in progressive worsening of the vaginal and vulvar anatomy
      with symptoms of vulvar itching or pain during intercourse, vaginal dryness, urinary urgency
      and frequency and frequent bladder infections. It could ultimately lead to vaginal bleeding,
      petechial hemorrhages, vaginal narrowing or stenosis and hypertonicity of the pelvic muscles
      due to anticipation of coital pain. The hypertonicity by itself can cause pelvic pressure or
      pain.

      Thus, GSM is a chronic progressive disease state that if left untreated could have dire
      vaginal and urogynecological consequences.

      MonaLisa Touch is a fractional CO2 laser that has been specially designed with the DEKA pulse
      to stimulate vaginal tissue. It is delivered in a very precise manner and results in the
      synthesis of collagen and stratification of the vaginal epithelium with improvement of the
      vaginal pH and moisturization of the vaginal tissue due to increased blood flow and turgidity
      of the ground substance from the synthesis of the proteoglycans, hyaluronic acid and
      collagen.

      Initial trials on MonaLisa Touch have shown promising results with significant improvement in
      vaginal exams and patient satisfaction scores.
    
  