
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the event-free survival of rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, prednisone (R-CHOP) versus dose-adjusted (DA-) etoposide,
      prednisone, vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab
      (EPOCH-R) chemotherapy in untreated cluster of differentiation (CD)20 positive (+) diffuse
      large B-cell lymphomas.

      II. To develop a molecular predictor of outcome of R-CHOP and DA-EPOCH-R chemotherapy using
      molecular profiling.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the response rates, overall survival and toxicity of R-CHOP versus DA-EPOCH-R.

      II. To define the pharmacogenomics of untreated diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and
      correlate clinical parameters (toxicity, response, survival outcomes and laboratory results)
      with molecular profiling.

      III. To assess the use of molecular profiling for pathological diagnosis. IV. To identify new
      therapeutic targets using molecular profiling. V. To perform a comprehensive analysis of
      somatic alterations to the tumor genome and to understand which genomic alterations are
      somatically acquired by the tumor and which are encoded in the germ line of the patient.

      VI. To identify biomarkers of response to chemotherapy by fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron
      emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) imaging that are predictive of
      histopathologic remissions and survival in patients with stage I (mediastinal), II, III, or
      IV untreated DLBCL.

      VII. To evaluate the use of semiquantitative measurements of FDG uptake in defining
      FDG-PET/CT based biomarkers of response to chemotherapy in patients with DLBCL.

      VIII. To determine whether FDG-PET/CT measurements of tumor response after the second cycle
      of chemotherapy can predict clinical response.

      IX. To establish a standardized protocol for FDG-PET/CT image acquisition. X. To determine
      additional FDG-PET/CT parameters (e.g., the ratio of tumor maximum standard uptake value
      [SUVmax] to liver SUVmean; SUVs corrected for body surface area and lean body mass; nuclear
      medicine physician's assessment) and evaluate their utility in refining FDG-PET/CT based
      biomarkers of response to therapy.

      XI. To evaluate inter-institutional reproducibility of FDG-PET/CT measurements for this
      indication.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.
    
  