
    
      Study Procedures

      If the participant takes part in this study, they will be asked to:

        -  Arrive at the Rehabilitation Robotics & Prosthetics Testbed (RRT) building at the times
           agreed to between the participant, the job coach and the key research personnel.

        -  Use a virtual reality system that is like a large video game with the job coach.

        -  Complete some skill tasks in the virtual world video game:

             -  Cleaning skills such as vacuum cleaning, mopping and litter collection.

             -  Loading virtual boxes into back of a virtual truck.

             -  Fulfilling orders and deliveries with tangible boxes in a virtual warehouse.

             -  Navigating to different checkpoints in an outdoor virtual environment.

             -  Money management skills such as recognizing coin and bill amounts, counting money
                and giving correct amount of change to virtual customers.

             -  Communicating with virtual characters.

        -  These tasks will take place in non-real virtual environments such as: warehouse,
           grocery, parking lot, and outside.

        -  The job coach or counselor will be with the participant just as they would in a
           traditional job training.

        -  The researchers will ask the participant questions about what they liked and disliked
           about the virtual reality system video game. These questions can be asked directly or
           via a form.

        -  There will be 15 minutes break times every hour and the total time will be equal to the
           participant's normal job coach interactions.

        -  The participant will be asked to participate no more than 5 hours each day, up to 15
           days. Number of training days will be decided by the participant, the job coach, and the
           research staff.

        -  Data related to the time and the performance from the start to the end of each task will
           be recorded at the background automatically.

        -  Audio/visual and/or video documentation of the study may be recorded. Video and
           photographic recordings will be used only to aid in presenting the study for academic
           purposes. All information will be kept anonymous.

        -  Subjects' screening will be performed by the subjects' therapists beforehand, who will
           decide whether the subject is eligible for this study or not, based on the
           investigators' inclusion/exclusion requirements.

        -  Total Number of Participants: Up to 100 people (Up to 50 individuals with disabilities
           and Up to 50 healthy individuals) will take part in this study.

      A $50 gift card will be given to each participant on their first training session as a thank
      you gift and an incentive to participate in the study.
    
  