
    
      Women with a history of preeclampsia (high blood pressure/protein in the urine during
      pregnancy) are at increased risk of developing high blood pressure and heart problems in the
      10-15 years after their baby is born. At present we do not know how to reduce this risk.
      Lowering blood pressure and blood lipid (fats) levels are common strategies for primary
      prevention of cardiovascular problems. However, most women with a history of preeclampsia in
      the 5-10 years after pregnancy, will have normal blood pressure readings, blood sugar and
      cholesterol levels.

      Atorvastatin, a type of "statin", is widely used in lowering lipids and preventing
      cardiovascular disease. This drug has beneficial actions other than lipid-lowering, that may
      also help prevent cardiovascular problems, including improving function in the lining of
      blood vessels. We know that impairment in blood vessel function is evident in women in the
      years after a preeclamptic pregnancy and may contribute to the risk of women after
      preeclampsia going on to develop cardiovascular disease.

      We would like to know if giving a short course of atorvastatin to women with a history of
      preeclampsia improves their blood vessel function. To do this, ex-preeclamptic women will be
      invited to take either a atorvastatin or placebo ("dummy") tablet daily for 4 weeks, then no
      tablets for 4 weeks, then "crossover" to receive the alternative tablet (placebo or
      atorvastatin) daily for 4 weeks. Blood vessel function would be measured using specialised
      noninvasive scans and taking a blood test at the beginning and end of each treatment period.
      The study will be jointly run by the Departments of Cardiovascular Medicine and Obstetrics &
      Gynaecology at the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford.

      We anticipate this study will provide valuable data to support larger clinical trials to
      determine whether improving blood vessel function ultimately reduces the risk of developing
      early-onset cardiovascular disease after preeclampsia.
    
  