
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the weekly paclitaxel regimen increases the time until first progression
      or death (progression-free survival [PFS]) compared to the every-3-week paclitaxel regimen in
      women with primary stage II, III or IV epithelial ovarian, peritoneal or fallopian tube
      cancer who are receiving carboplatin with or without bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the weekly paclitaxel increases the duration of overall survival compared
      to the every-3-week paclitaxel when combined with carboplatin with or without bevacizumab.

      II. To compare the weekly paclitaxel to the every-3-week paclitaxel with respect to the
      incidence of severe or serious adverse events when it is combined with carboplatin with or
      without bevacizumab.

      III. To compare the weekly paclitaxel to the every-3-week paclitaxel with respect to
      patients' self-reported quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Functional Assessment of
      Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O)-Trial Outcome Index (TOI), when paclitaxel is combined with
      carboplatin with or without bevacizumab. (As of 02/08/2012, the QOL portion of this study is
      complete; patients enrolled after this date will not have QOL assessments)

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with progression-free
      survival and toxicity in advanced stage epithelial ovarian, peritoneal and fallopian tube
      cancer using genome wide association studies (GWAS).* II. To evaluate genomic signatures in
      tumor tissues which are predictive for patient survival in advanced stage epithelial ovarian,
      peritoneal and fallopian tube cancer.* III. To evaluate the association between serum and
      plasma biomarkers and response to anti-angiogenesis therapy in advanced stage epithelial
      ovarian, peritoneal, and fallopian tube cancer.*

      NOTE: *As of 02/08/2012, the translational research (TR) portion of this study is complete;
      patients enrolled after this date will not have TR specimens collected.

      IMAGING PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether larger changes in the tumor perfusion parameters from baseline
      timepoint (T0) to early-therapy T2 are prognostic of higher progression-free survival (PFS)
      rate at 6 months (PFS-6) from enrollment in patients treated with weekly or every-3-week
      paclitaxel regimens, who are receiving carboplatin with or without bevacizumab.***

      IMAGING SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether larger changes in tumor perfusion parameters from baseline T0 to
      intermediate T1 and from T1 to T2 are prognostic of higher PFS-6 in patients treated with
      weekly or every-3-week paclitaxel regimens, who are receiving carboplatin with or without
      bevacizumab.*** II. To determine whether larger changes in tumor perfusion parameters values
      from T0 to T1, T0 to T2, and T1 to T2 are prognostic of better overall survival in all
      treatment arms.*** III. To assess the association between changes in tumor perfusion
      parameters before and after chemotherapy initiation (T0 to T1) and subsequent best tumor
      response according to standard anatomic Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST).*** IV. To assess the association between tumor perfusion parameters before
      chemotherapy and subsequent best tumor response according to RECIST, PFS-6, and overall
      survival.*** V. To test the assumption that tumor perfusion parameters are reliable,
      user-independent, and reproducible parameters of tumor microvascular characteristics; a
      subgroup of 15 patients will have repeat computed tomography (CT) perfusion studies at the
      intermediate T1 time point.***

      NOTE: ***Patients enrolled after February 8, 2012 must participate in the ACRIN 6695
      component at ACRIN-qualified institutions.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (beginning on 04-30-2012, the trial
      is no longer randomized and the chemotherapy regimen is selected and declared prior to
      enrolling in the study).

      ARM I (adjuvant chemotherapy suboptimally debulked): Patients receive paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 6 courses.

      ARM II (neoadjuvant chemotherapy with interval cytoreductive surgery): Patients receive
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Patients undergo interval cytoreductive
      surgery between courses 3 and 4.

      Patients in both arms may receive optional** bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1
      beginning in course 2. Courses of bevacizumab repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients in Arm II receive bevacizumab during courses
      2, 5, and 6 only.

      NOTE: **Before enrolling onto this study, each patient chooses whether the study treatment
      will include concurrent and maintenance bevacizumab.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  