
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Conduct research for same use of stored human samples, specimens, and data collected
           from patients previously enrolled in a terminated National Cancer
           Institute-Institutional Review Board clinical trial.

        -  Correlate plasma levels and pharmacokinetics with disease burden and presence of
           antibodies.

        -  Correlate tumor markers with disease burden.

        -  Determine the utility of tumor markers for following patients after treatment.

      OUTLINE: Stored human samples, specimens, and data collected from patients previously
      enrolled in a terminated National Cancer Institute-Institutional Review Board clinical trial
      are analyzed for research studies*. Antibodies are neutralized to allow for correlation of
      ELISA assays for immunogenicity with neutralization assays, which require cytotoxicity
      assays. In cytotoxicity assays, fresh malignant cells are isolated from blood, bone marrow,
      lymph nodes, or other tissues and incubated with recombinant immunotoxins to determine their
      sensitivity. Soluble CD25 assays are used to analyze known marker for B-cell malignancies,
      particularly those that are CD25-positive. Other candidate tumor markers include soluble
      IRTA2, soluble CD22, and soluble mesothelin. Skin biopsies retained by the Clinical Pathology
      Lab are used to study capillary leak syndrome. Other research studies include HLA typing to
      correlate immunological parameters with response and the PAX-gene tube to obtain RNA for
      quantitative PCR, evaluate monoclonal immunoglobulin expression, study minimal residual
      disease, and characterize immunoglobulin gene usage and somatic mutation. RNA microarrays are
      used to study resistance to immunotoxins. Samples of blood are used to study mechanisms of
      hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) from anti-CD22 immunotoxins. DNA samples are analyzed for
      complement and/or Factor H mutations that would make a patient more susceptible to HUS.
      Samples are also analyzed for levels of immunotoxin in blood, urine, and other tissues and
      for quantification of tumor markers on malignant cells using flow cytometry assays.

      NOTE: *Assays that have significant risk to the patient or to the patient's family, including
      genetic cancer susceptibility studies, will not be performed.
    
  