
    
      Parkinson's disease leads to quality of life degradation, especially at level of motor
      complications. Second line treatment can be proposed to patients. There are deep brain
      stimulation and two treatments by continuous perfusion: subcutaneous apomorphine infusion and
      intrajejunal infusion of levodopa-carbidopa. These treatments allow improvement of
      end-of-dose akinesia, dyskinesia, and a diminution of treatments per os. Nonetheless, they
      also lead to some side effects and complications. Currently, there are no scientific data to
      compare the efficacy of these two techniques on motor and non-motor symptoms. Choice is made
      according to the profile of the patient mainly based on side effects risks, and
      practitioner's habits. There are still no predictive factors clearly defined to judge of the
      best efficacy of these treatments according to the patients. Moreover, in an additional study
      named PSYCHO-STIM, the investigator have discovered that personality can be a predictive
      factor of quality of life amelioration 1 year after deep brain stimulation. It's why the
      investigator would like to test personality as a predictive factor of therapeutic response
      after both continuous perfusions that are available for the patients. Thus, patients
      beginning a treatment by subcutaneous apomorphine infusion or intrajejunal infusion of
      levodopa-carbidopa will be included. The investigator will evaluate their personality with
      the questionnaire "TCI" (Temperament and Character Inventory) and the investigator will
      assess their quality of life (PDQ-39), looking for the percentage of amelioration 6 months
      after the treatment by continuous infusion started. As secondary criteria, depression (HAMD),
      anxiety (HAMA), apathy (LARS), motility (MDS-UPDRS) and clinic severity (CGIS) will also be
      accessed before the treatment change and six months later.
    
  