
    
      Supervised exercise training programs (such as pulmonary rehabilitation) are an integral
      component of the clinical management of COPD or ILD; a proven intervention for improving
      symptom burden, quality of life, emotional function, exercise capacity, and risk of
      hospitalization and death. While both low and high intensity exercise training benefits
      adults with COPD or ILD, evidence supports that higher intensity exercise training produces
      relatively greater physiological and symptomatic improvements. High intensity exercise of
      adequate duration is, however, difficult and unpleasant for people with COPD or ILD due to
      heightened exertional symptoms, particularly breathlessness.These symptoms persist despite
      the patient's underlying disease being optimally managed according to evidence-based clinical
      practice guideline standards.

      Low-dose immediate-release oral morphine has recently shown promise as a novel adjunct
      therapy to reduce exertional breathlessness and increase exercise endurance time in people
      with advanced chronic lung disease (COPD). The purpose of this randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, two-arm pilot study is to further explore the role of low-dose
      immediate-release oral morphine as an adjunct pharmacotherapy to enable symptomatic adults
      with advanced COPD or ILD to exercise at higher intensities for longer durations and maximize
      the psycho-physiological benefits of a 5-week supervised exercise training program.

      Adults with a clinical diagnosis of COPD or ILD and chronic breathlessness syndrome will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to exercise training with oral morphine (ExT+MOR) (n=20; 10 COPD
      and 10 ILD) or exercise training with placebo (diluted simple syrup) (ExT+PLA) (n=20; 10 COPD
      and 10 ILD). All eligible participants will complete four assessment visits (Visits 1, 2, 3
      and 4) and 15 exercise training (T1-15) sessions. Assessment Visits 1 and 3 will include
      post-bronchodilator (400 mg Salbutamol) pulmonary function testing and a symptom-limited
      incremental cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) to determine peak power output (PPO). Visits
      2 and 4 will include a symptom-limited constant-load CPET at 75% of the PPO determined at
      Visit 1 and a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan to assess body composition.
      Supervised exercise training will be performed three times per week for five weeks on an
      electronically braked cycle ergometer, supervised by a trained exercise specialist. Exercise
      sessions will be individualized based on participants' pre-defined PPO (initial intensity of
      60% PPO), and progressed to ensure the participant is exercising at an intensity
      corresponding to a breathlessness intensity rating of between 3-5 Borg 0-10 category ratio
      scale (CR10) units and can complete at least 20-min of continuous cycling. Exercise duration
      will be increased in 5-min intervals up to 40-min. Thereafter, exercise intensity will be
      increased by 5-15% of baseline PPO.
    
  