
    
      In its Bioastronautics Critical Path Roadmap Baseline Document, NASA has outlined the most
      urgent threats to life and health in manned spaceflight currently in need of countermeasures
      development. This proposal specifically addresses one of four critical risks directly, that
      being the risk of trauma and acute medical problems, ID# 43 in the Clinical Capabilities
      discipline area. Critical for the provision of acute and chronic medical services in space is
      the availability of high quality diagnostic imaging, with either ground-based or autonomous
      interpretation. While development of novel sensor technology is actively pursued within the
      NSBRI, it is clear that for the foreseeable future, the principal diagnostic imaging modality
      for crew use in space will be ultrasound. For the past six years, the Cleveland Clinic has
      worked with NASA and NSBRI in a comprehensive program to develop ultrasonographic
      capabilities for use in manned space flight. Recent work has focused on enhancement of these
      capabilities, including 3D imaging and novel compression and registration techniques for
      assessing change over time in ultrasonic images. We now propose to extend these capabilities
      in very significant ways, capitalizing on dramatic recent advances in telecommunications and
      computerization to better address the critical countermeasures identified. Among the
      convergent trends in ultrasound that we seek to capitalize on are the following: most
      commonly applied diagnostic imaging test; Miniaturization; file storage; telemedicine;
      wireless telemetry; therapeutic use; real-time 3D.

      We propose to extend our work with the following Specific Aims:

        1. Extension of our longstanding research in 3D ultrasound with a recently developed third
           generation machine small enough to fit on the ISS, allowing more comprehensive imaging
           to be done with less operator expertise.

        2. Utilization of a ultrafast 3D CT scanner to acquire full body 3D images for segmentation
           and registration with subsequently acquired 3D ultrasound images, modelling future
           missions for ground-based 3D CT or MRI could provide a template to judge physiologic or
           pathologic changes observed in space with 3D ultrasound.
    
  