
    
      This is a Phase 4, open label, single arm, multi-center, prospective clinical trial of
      dacomitinib that will be performed in India. This study will enroll a sufficient number of
      participants to ensure that 100 participants are treated with dacomitinib. The primary
      objective of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of dacomitinib. The
      secondary objective is to evaluate antitumor activity of dacomitinib by objective response
      rate and duration of response. Drug administration: Dacomitinib will be supplied by Pfizer
      and administered in accordance with the India Local Product Document (LPD). The recommended
      dosage of dacomitinib is 45 mg taken orally once a day at approximately the same time each
      day, until disease progression, participant refusal/lost to follow-up, or unacceptable
      toxicity occurs.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      Screening: Participants will be screened within 28 days prior to first dosing of dacomitinib
      to confirm that they meet the eligibility criteria for the study.

      Follow-up Visit: All participants will return to the study site up to 28 days after the last
      dose of study drug administration for assessment of potential AEs, recording of concomitant
      treatment use and to confirm appropriate contraception usage.

      ASSESSMENTS Tumor Assessments: Tumor assessments will include all known or suspected disease
      sites. Computerized tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of Chest
      Abdomen and Pelvis and MRI of the brain will be performed at Screening and repeated every 12
      weeks ±1 week until the end of treatment. For all tumor assessments, the method of assessment
      that was used at Screening will be used throughout the study. Tumor assessment will be
      repeated at the end of treatment if more than 6 weeks have passed since the last evaluation.
      Assessment of response will be made using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) version 1.1. Confirmation of response will be required ≥4 weeks after initial
      response is observed.

      Safety Assessments: The following parameters will be assessed - Physical examination, vital
      signs, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance score (ECOG PS), safety lab data, 12
      lead electrocardiogram (ECG). Unscheduled clinical laboratory measurements may be obtained at
      any time during the study to assess any perceived safety concerns.

      Adverse event reporting: All observed or volunteered AEs regardless of treatment group or
      suspected causal relationship to the investigational product(s) will be reported as per
      regulatory requirements.

      End of Study: The end of study is defined as 1 year after the last participant first visit
      (LPFV) date in the study. At the end of study, participants who are on treatment and
      benefiting from dacomitinib treatment will be switched to commercially available dacomitinib
      if considered appropriate by the investigator, as soon as feasible.
    
  