
    
      This is a Phase 3, randomized (study drug assigned by chance), open-label (participants and
      researchers are aware about the treatment, participants are receiving), active-controlled
      (study in which the experimental treatment or procedure is compared to a standard treatment
      or procedure), parallel-group (each group of participants will be treated at the same time),
      and multicenter (when more than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical
      research study) study in participants with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and who are not
      candidates for high dose chemotherapy and ASCT. All the eligible participants will be
      randomly assigned to receive either lenalidomide and dexamethasone (Rd) (Arm A) or
      daratumumab in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone (DRd) (Arm B). Daratumumab (16
      milligram per kilogram [mg/kg]) will be administered weekly for first 8 weeks (Cycles 1 to 2)
      of treatment and then every other week for 16 weeks (Cycles 3 to 6), then every 4 weeks (from
      Cycle 7 and beyond) until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity. Lenalidomide will
      be administered at a dose of 25 mg orally on Days 1 through 21 of each 28-day cycle, and
      dexamethasone will be administered at a dose of 40 mg once a week for both treatment arms.
      Participants in both treatment arms will continue lenalidomide and dexamethasone until
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All participants randomized to Treatment Arm B
      (DRd) in this study initially received daratumumab IV formulation; however, following
      implementation of protocol amendment 8, participants still receiving treatment with
      daratumumab IV will have the option to switch to daratumumab SC on Day 1 of any cycle, at the
      discretion of the investigator. Daratumumab subcutaneous (SC) will be administered by SC
      injection at a fixed dose of 1800 mg once every 4 weeks until documented progression,
      unacceptable toxicity, or study completion. Participants in Arm A who have sponsor-confirmed
      disease progression may have the option to receive daratumumab provided by the sponsor (in
      any subsequent line of therapy) in the Follow-up phase. The study consists of 3 phases:
      Screening Phase (within 21 days prior to the first dose administration on Day 1), Treatment
      Phase (Day 1 up to discontinuation of all study treatment), and Follow-up Phase (from
      discontinuation of all study treatment up to death, lost to follow up, consent withdrawal, or
      study end, whichever occurs first). The maximum duration of study will be 7 years after last
      participant is randomized. Efficacy will primarily be evaluated by PFS. Participants' safety
      will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  