
    
      The main objective of this work was to test the impact of adding black tea or lemon juice to
      a starch-rich meal on postprandial plasma glucose concentrations and on energy intake in
      healthy humans. This study was divided into two parts.

      The objective of part 1 was to determine the effect of pairing a starch-rich food with water,
      black tea or lemon juice on postprandial plasma glucose and energy intake in healthy humans.
      This study was conducted in semi-controlled conditions. The three test meals (equal portions
      of bread (100 g) and 250 mL of either water, black tea or lemon juice) were consumed as
      breakfast (after a 10-h fast) on independent days and in a randomised order. Capillary blood
      glucose concentrations were self-monitored using the finger-prick method at pre-defined
      time-points during 180 min. Ad libitum energy intake was assessed 3 hours later.

      The main objective of part 2 was to investigate whether the gastric emptying patterns remain,
      or not, the same when a bread meal is paired with water, tea, and lemon juice. Blood glucose
      response and satiety perceptions were also monitored. The test meals were similar to those in
      branch 1, except that the meals were supplemented with 20 peas, which the subjects were asked
      to swallow at the end (with half of the beverage provided) without chewing. These peas
      conferred a distinct contrast in MRI scans and could be used as stomach motility and gastric
      mixing tracers in MRI images. Capillary blood glucose concentrations were determined using
      the finger-prick method at pre-defined time-points during 180 min. Visual analogue scales
      were used to assess satiety-related perceptions.

      Volunteer recruitment was conducted independently for each part of the study and volunteers
      were allowed to participate in one part of the study only. Data collected in each part of the
      study was analysed independently.
    
  