
    
      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to Mirasol-treated platelets (test platelets) or to
      conventional, untreated platelets (control platelets). The blood centers will collect the
      apheresis donor platelets and supply the test platelets to the hospital sites for transfusion
      into patients. Hospital sites will order control platelets as per their normal process, from
      their standard vendor.

      The target population for the MIPLATE study are patients with hematologic malignancies with
      hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia who are expected to have platelet (PLT) count(s) of ≤
      10,000/μL requiring ≥ 2 PLT transfusions.

      The primary objective of MIPLATE is to determine if the hemostatic efficacy of
      Mirasol-treated plasma stored Trima Accel® Aph PLTs are non-inferior to Conventional plasma
      stored Aph PLTs in subjects with hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia requiring PLT
      transfusions. The secondary objectives include comparing other efficacy and safety endpoints
      between the treatment groups.

      Subjects with hematologic malignancies with hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia are
      anticipated to experience a "transfusion episode" where they will require PLT transfusion
      support until bone marrow recovery. During this period all PLT transfusions required for a
      study subject will be given according to the subject's treatment allocation for 28 days after
      the initial PLT transfusion OR until transfusion independence (10 days without PLT
      transfusion) prior to Day 28.

      Additionally, serum samples for HLA antibody testing will be collected on Days 14, 28 and 56.

      At a minimum, the initial post-randomization prophylactic PLT transfusion will be initiated
      for a PLT count ≤ 10,000/µL. Thereafter, indications for PLT transfusions may be PLT
      count-related prophylaxis, intervention-related prophylaxis, or therapeutic (treatment of
      active bleeding) as determined by the treating physician(s). The indication(s) for the
      transfusion(s) will be captured.
    
  