
    
      Ventral hernia repair

        1. Laparoscopic: In laparoscopic intraperitoneal onlay mesh or IPOM repair, the mesh is
           inserted intra-abdominally and fixed to the peritoneum / abdominal wall. The general
           steps include safe entry into the peritoneum, insufflation and placement of the trocars
           to gain access and visibility (via laparoscope) of the defect. Careful adhesiolysis is
           performed, which is the removal of scar tissue connecting tissues and organs. The
           content of the hernia, which may include intestine and fatty tissue, is returned into
           the abdominal cavity. After closure of the hernia defect, a wide intraperitoneal mesh is
           fixed over the defect. Desufflation releases the gas from the abdomen. The trocars will
           be removed and the incisions are closed.

        2. Open: An open retromuscular ventral hernia repair involves an incision through the
           abdominal wall. Adhesiolysis is performed and the content of the hernia is returned into
           the abdominal cavity. The posterior rectus sheath is separated from the rectus muscle
           and closed, which closes the abdominal cavity. The mesh is then placed behind the muscle
           and anterior to the re-approximated posterior rectus sheath. Preperitoneal mesh
           extension is allowed via transversus abdominis release (TAR). The anterior rectus sheath
           is closed over the mesh, which closes the hernia.

        3. Robotic: A robotic retromuscular ventral hernia repair involves a similar separation of
           the layers of the abdominal wall, similar closure of the hernia defect and similar
           retromuscular mesh placement as for the open approach. Preperitoneal mesh extension is
           allowed via TAR. The da Vinci System is a robotic-assisted surgical device that allows
           the surgeon to place long, narrow instruments through small incisions in order to
           perform surgery from the inside of the abdominal cavity. Rather than one long incision
           with open repair, four to six small incisions are made along the outer part of the
           abdomen between the rib cage and the hip.

      Classifications and questionnaires

        1. European Hernia Society (EHS) classification: The EHS classification is a simple and
           reproducible system, developed to allow comparison of publications and future studies on
           primary and incisional abdominal wall hernias. The classification includes the
           localization of the hernia as well as the size of the hernia defect as decisive for the
           outcome. The EHS classification is to be filled in by the participating investigator
           following the patients CT scan.

        2. Post-Anaesthetic Discharge Scoring System (PADSS): The Modified PADSS has proven to be
           an efficient system that guarantees safe discharge. PADSS is based on the assessment of
           6 criteria: vital signs (including blood pressure, pulse, temperature and respiratory
           rate), ambulation, nausea / vomiting, pain, surgical bleeding and fluid intake / output.
           Each criterion is given a score from 0 to 2. Patients scoring ≥ 9 are considered fit for
           discharge, provided that the score for vital signs is not lower than 2 and that none of
           the other five criteria is 0, even if the total score reaches 9. PADSS scoring will be
           performed twice a day, in the morning and in the afternoon with minimally 9 hours in
           between. Same day discharge (on the day of hernia repair) is allowed as long as the
           required PADSS score is reached.

        3. American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Classification: The ASA physical status
           classification system was developed to offer clinicians a simple categorization of a
           patient's physiological status that can be helpful in predicting operative risk.

        4. Visual Analog Scale (VAS): The VAS scoring system is frequently used as a reliable and
           valid measure of pain. It contains a 0 - 100 grading scale with 0 equaling no pain and
           100 equaling the worst conceivable pain. The patient is asked to select the number on
           the scale that corresponds to the worst level of pain he / she experiences in rest and
           activity. The patient will be asked to bend over to score pain during activity. Pain is
           classified into mild (1 - 30 mm), moderate (31 - 60 mm) and severe (61 - 100 mm).
           Absence of pain is defined as VAS = 0.

        5. Carolinas Comfort Scale (CSS): The CCS is a disease-specific, quality of life
           questionnaire developed for patients undergoing hernia repair with mesh. It is a 23-item
           questionnaire that measures the severity of pain, sensation and movement limitations
           from the mesh in eight categories. The CCS score is derived by adding the scores from
           each of the 23 items. The best possible score is 0 and the worst possible score is 115.

        6. Body Image Questionnaire (BIQ): The BIQ is an ten-item questionnaire incorporating body
           image and cosmetic subscales. The body image scale measures patients' perception and
           satisfaction with their bodies after surgery, and it is calculated by reverse scoring
           and summing the responses to questions 1 through 5. It ranges from 5 to 20 with a higher
           number representing greater body image perception. The cosmetic scale assesses
           satisfaction with surgical scars and is calculated by simply summing responses to
           questions 6 through 8, for a score range of 3 to 24, with a higher score indicating
           greater cosmetic satisfaction. The last two items (9, 10) score self-confidence before
           and after surgery. The Baseline BIQ was generated to score body image perception and
           satisfaction at baseline and consists of 9 questions.

        7. Seroma classification: Seroma is one of the most common complications after hernia
           repair. The seroma classification is used to describe the incidence of seroma after
           ventral hernia repair and was developed in order to unify criteria among surgeons when
           describing their experience. Originally developed for seroma classification after
           laparoscopic ventral hernia repair, it can also be used to describe the incidence of
           seroma after open ventral hernia repair.
    
  