
    
      This project will evaluate an HBV vaccination program as a model for future HIV vaccine
      efficacy trials in a community-based study of drug users. Two components will be analyzed in
      an effort to increase vaccine acceptance/adherence - behavioral intervention & an accelerated
      vaccine schedule. The study also will examine the effect of these variables on risk behaviors
      and incidence of HIV, HBV, & HCV infections. To accomplish these objectives, we propose a
      randomized behavioral intervention field trial. We will enroll 1600 current cocaine or heroin
      users negative for HBV & HIV markers from two closely matched, low-income, high drug endemic
      communities in Houston. All participants will be offered HBV vaccination and follow-up viral
      testing. One community will be randomly assigned to receive an outreach behavioral
      intervention designed to increase vaccine awareness and vaccine compliance. The other
      community will receive standard care. Participants electing to be vaccinated will be
      randomized to either a 0,1,6 month or a 0,1,2, month vaccine schedule. Groups will be
      followed for two years to determine rates of HBV vaccine acceptance/adherence to the 3-dose
      protocol. We also will measure any changes in risk behaviors & incidence of HIV/HBV/HCV
      infections as well as HBV vaccine immune response, if vaccinated. Drug users are the largest
      group of newly diagnosed HIV cases and so creating a model for an HIV vaccine's acceptance
      and adherence in this population is an important public health goal. This study will serve as
      a model for future HIV vaccine trials and will provide information on the effectiveness of
      outreach programs for increasing immunization among drug users. Unless an effective model
      based upon empirical experience is developed, any attempt to implement a HIV vaccination
      program among drug users is likely to be frustrated. If HBV vaccination coupled with outreach
      intervention can reduce risk behaviors and decrease the incidence of HIV/HCV infection, then
      this study will have a tremendous impact on the current HBV/HIV/HCV prevention strategy.
    
  