
    
      Preeclampsia (PE) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide during pregnancy.
      Fluid therapy for PE women during cesarean section is a controversial issue among medical
      specialists.

      The replacement with crystalloid fluids tool is traditionally used by anesthesiologists
      during cesarean section under spinal anesthesia for combat hypotension and hypovolemia
      manifested by oliguria. However, as crystalloid infusion has antagonistic effects on
      cardiopulmonary and renal systems, there is controversy regarding benefits over conventional
      and restrictive fluid therapy. Therefore, due to cardiovascular changes in severe PE,
      restrictive fluid therapy could possibly be beneficial, avoiding complications such as acute
      pulmonary edema.

      Currently, volume replacement during cesarean section in these patients is performed with
      volumes of about 1500 ml of crystalloid to decrease the chance of developing kidney injury or
      aggravating previous injury. However, it is not known in the literature whether the renal
      lesions that appear after birth in patients with PE are just due to the course of the disease
      itself or can be modified by fluid restriction during the conduct of anesthesia cesarean.

      Moreover, intraoperative fluid restriction (250 ml crystalloid) appears as an alternative to
      handling the patient with PEG, as already safely used in cardiac patients, such as patients
      with mitral valve stenosis. The security of fluid restriction in patients with PE comes from
      the fact that pre-eclamptic suffer fewer episodes of hypotension during cesarean section
      under spinal anesthesia, requiring less fluid input for this purpose. In addition, the
      pathophysiology of this disease points to a relative hypovolemia, once the delivery
      performed, with removal of the placenta, fluids kidnapped in excess to third space (tissue
      edema) will be redirected to the intravascular compartment, restoring homeostasis.

      Cystatin C and NGAL (Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin) arise as valid tools to
      predict the degree of renal injury. These molecules arise before the onset of renal injury,
      providing diagnostic and therapeutic actions that can reduce morbidity and mortality related
      to kidney failure, since some studies have shown that women in first pregnancy with PE are
      more likely to develop chronic kidney disease that pregnant women without PE.
    
  