
    
      The intrinsic foot muscles collaborate in maintain the media longitudinal arch and in the
      postural control of the body.1 The plantar intrinsic foot muscles play a crucial role
      providing the foot stability and flexibility. 2 There are few studies about the relationship
      between hyperpronation and the training of the intrinsic muscles.

      A specific training program as a "short foot exercise" (SFE) may improve pathological
      conditions involving the foot and the lower extremity including plantar fasciitis,
      tendinopathies and foot hiperpronation.3 Several balance training techniques have been
      applied for improving postural stability, and the SFE have been widely accepted by
      physiotherapists to improve the longitudinal arch foot and the body segments.4 In this study,
      the foot posture will be evaluated with the foot posture index (FPI) and the navicular drop
      test (NDT). The foot posture index is a validated and useful method like a complementary tool
      for evaluating foot disorders. 5. The foot posture quantify the foot posture as normal,
      pronated or supinated. The foot posture index indicates a pronated foot position in a support
      relaxed position when IPP is equal to or superior to a +6 value. 5 The Navicular Drop Test
      quantifies, in millimeters, the descent of the navicular tuberosity. It was developed to
      evaluate the pronation of the foot and, consequently, the drop of the medial longitudinal
      arch, a excessively pronated foot (NDT≥10mm).6.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to examine the effects of the SFE compared to a placebo
      exercise in the foot posture index after a daily period of 4 weeks.

      There is a lack of evidence of the effect of training intrinsic muscles in foot posture.

      The hypothesis of the researches is that the SFE may contribute to improving the pronated
      foot posture. This treatment may allow normalizing the foot posture and the kinematic
      interaction of the lower extremity joints during walking.
    
  