
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      To develop a comprehensive, conceptually relevant and psychometrically sound PRO measure to
      assess recovery after abdominal surgery.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Phase 1(Conceptual framework and item generation): Semi-structured interviews focusing
           on patient lived experiences after abdominal surgery are currently being conducted to
           derive the "final conceptual framework of recovery after abdominal surgery". The
           interviews are guided by the "hypothesized conceptual framework" which is based on
           previous literature and expert input. This phase has a minimal targeted sample of 30
           patients. To account for potential cross-cultural differences in recovery experiences,
           the study is enrolling patients from 5 international sites: McGill University Health
           Centre (Montreal, Canada), Hospital Sao Paulo (Sao Paulo, Brazil), Vita-Salute San
           Raffaele Hospital (Milan, Italy, Hokkaido University Hospital (Sapporo, Japan) and
           Hospital (TBE, USA). Interview audio recordings are transcribed, translated if required,
           and coded according to ICF (International Classification of Functioning, Disability and
           Health) domains. Codes for which saturation is reached will comprise the final
           conceptual framework of recovery. Items reflecting the essence of each domain will be
           generated and patient understanding of the items will be assessed through cognitive
           interviews. Items for which no problems have been identified and those successfully
           revised will be compiled into an item pool to be 'calibrated' in subsequent stages of
           PRO development.

        -  Phase 2: (Rasch Analysis): Estimate the extent to which the pool of items generated in
           Phase 1 fit the Rasch model and, based on this analysis, modify or eliminate items to
           ensure that the novel PRO measure fits a linear continuum and produces meaningful
           scores. Phase 2 targets a sample of 300 patients and the preliminary item pool will be
           administered at one time point either in pen-and-paper format or using an online survey,
           depending on the patient's preference. Based on the analysis, a computer adaptive
           testing (CAT) system will be developed to allow accurate measurement of PRO scores using
           a minimal number of items.

        -  Phase 3: (Validation using traditional psychometric methods ): Use traditional
           psychometric methods to contribute further evidence regarding the measurement properties
           of the novel PRO measure of recovery after abdominal surgery. To do so, the final PRO
           measure in CAT format will be administered to a consecutive cohort of patients
           undergoing abdominal surgery (target sample size of 200) in two institutions (MUHC and
           Florida Hospital) preoperatively and at postoperative days 3, 7, 15, 30 and 90.
    
  