
    
      Kidney transplantation is one of the major advances in medicine in the past 60 years.
      Currently, is considered the best treatment for terminal chronic kidney disease in the medium
      and long term, and the least costly. To obtain these successful outcomes, the immune response
      to the graft must be properly controlled and monitored since its implantation. T and B
      lymphocytes are crucial in the alloimmune response by mediating cellular and
      antibody-mediated rejections, respectively, and along with anti-HLA antibodies are the main
      effectors of acute and chronic rejections.

      Anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) has a key role in the immunosuppressive induction regimens used
      in kidney transplants as well as in the treatment of acute rejections. It is a purified
      solution that contains a variety of T cell-specific immunoglobulins, including CD2, CD3, CD4,
      CD8, CD11a, CD18, CD25, HLA-DR, and class I HLA (human leukocyte antigen). This solution is
      produced by immunizing rabbits with human thymocytes. The use of these agents is particularly
      important in inducing patients who are more predisposed to the nephrotoxic effects of
      calcineurin inhibitors (CI), allowing the delayed introduction of the CI. Induction with
      antibodies is also of great value in patients with higher immunological risk, such as
      pediatric, Afro-descendants, re-transplanted, and previously sensitized to HLA antigens
      recipients.

      Polyclonal antibodies have definite benefits in kidney transplantation, but their use is
      associated with hematological, infectious, and neoplastic complications. The use of reduced
      doses of ATG has been the subject of recent studies, but still with inconclusive results.

      The concept of monitoring T cells in patients receiving ATG was first proposed in 1975 to
      improve efficacy in preventing acute rejection and avoiding excessive immunosuppression. The
      dose regimen is guided by a daily count of peripheral blood TCD3+ lymphocytes. Monitoring the
      dose of thymoglobulin through its biological effects on T cells is a rational and safe method
      of titrating the dose of that antibody. This way, it is possible to reduce the total amount
      of drug administered to the patient and, consequently, reduce undesirable complications, as
      well as the cost of treatment, hopefully without losing effect on the benefit of
      immunosuppression.

      A 60% reduction in the total dose of ATG and 58% reduction in therapy cost was observed in
      patients who were monitored using TCD3+ cell counts. Currently, the usual total dose of ATG
      for induction in kidney transplant patients is 6mg/kg, divided into 4 doses, which can be
      administered from day zero until day 14 (maximum) of transplantation. However, the ideal dose
      and duration of therapy are still the subject of investigation, with protocols between
      centers varying from total doses of 3 to 6 mg/kg, fractionated or single, to attempt to
      achieve the lowest dose with fewer undesirable effects, and with reduced length of inpatient
      stay. The use of ATG in a single dose of 3 mg/kg was successfully assessed for risks of
      infection and rejection in patients with low immunological risk.

      Considering that the adverse effects associated with the use of ATG are relevant in the
      clinical context of kidney transplantation, the use of a lower dose, keeping its
      immunomodulatory effect, with a safer profile, is desirable.

      The study evaluates the efficacy and safety of a single dose of 3mg/kg ATG for patients with
      low and standard immune risk, with TCD3+ lymphocyte monitoring, to assess the clinical
      efficacy and the modulation of the T cell response.
    
  