
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The hypothesis that procoagulant and inflammatory mechanisms may have a dual role in tissue
      injury was tested in the phase III clinical trial of recombinant Xigris for severe sepsis
      (Bernard, 2001). There was a significant reduction in mortality from 30% to 24% in patients
      treated with Xigris. However, there is no information on the effect of Xigris on patients
      with sepsis and co-existing ALI. Because Xigris is known to have both anti-coagulant and
      anti-inflammatory properties, it is plausible that it may be effective at treating patients
      with ALI from pulmonary and non-pulmonary infectious causes. There is also a good rationale
      for the hypothesis that Xigris may be effective at treating ALI from non-infectious causes.
      In experimental lung injury, from a non-infectious cause, such as hyperoxia or a like
      acid-lung injury, pro-coagulant mechanisms play a role in the pathogenesis of the ALI
      (Eitzman, 1996; Barazzone, 1996). Furthermore, research has shown that plasma-protein C
      deficiency occurs in almost all patients with ALI, and reduced Protein C levels are
      associated with a higher mortality and more non-pulmonary organ system dysfunction, even in
      patients with non-septic causes of ALI (Ware, 2003). Elevated levels of thrombomodulin, a
      product of endothelial injury, were measured in the plasma of all patients with ALI
      regardless of the clinical disorder associated with lung injury. The elevations of
      thrombomodulin were much higher in edema fluid than in plasma, suggesting that local
      activation and release of thrombomodulin had occurred, probably from both epithelial and
      endothelial sources from the lung, again supporting the hypothesis that a common pathway to
      lung injury may occur in both septic and non-septic causes of ALI. In addition, there is
      considerable evidence that the normal fibrinolytic mechanisms are impaired in the alveolar
      compartment in patients with ALI. Elevated levels of plasminogen-activator-inhbitor-1 (PAI-1)
      in the plasma of pulmonary edema fluid have a predictive value for identifying patients with
      ALI who are more likely to die than survive, regardless of the clinical risk factors that
      predisposes the development of ALI (Prabhakaran, 2003). Thus, this supports the rationale for
      testing Xigris as a treatment for patients with ALI, regardless of the clinical disorder
      associated with the cause of the lung injury. Since Xigris has both anti-coagulant and
      anti-inflammatory properties (Esmon, 2000; Grey, 1994), this treatment could reverse both the
      intravascular and the extravascular lung injuries and allow the lung epithelial and
      endothelial barriers to recover from a functional breakdown of both barriers. This study will
      evaluate the effects of the treatment of biochemical markers on alveolar epithelial injury.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either Xigris or saline placebo, to be
      administered continuously for 96 hours. Participants will be followed for 28 days, regardless
      of whether the drug is stopped for an adverse event, if the participant or physician decides
      to stop the drug, if the participant is discharged from the hospital with unassisted
      breathing, or until death.
    
  