
    
      A resurgence of new HIV cases among young men who have sex with men (YMSM; ages 18--24) has
      underscored the importance of developing culturally- and developmentally- informed HIV
      programs for YMSM. The investigators are developing and pilot testing a tailored, web- based
      intervention called myDEx that focuses on delivering HIV prevention messages based on single
      YMSM's relationship expectations and partner--seeking behaviors. To maximize intervention
      appeal and appropriateness, the investigators have convened a youth advisory board (YAB) to
      provide insight and feedback during the 3--stage intervention development process. Using an
      iterative design and development process, they have developed tailored messages that align
      YMSM's relationship experiences and desires with HIV prevention strategies. The investigators
      designed and developed the myDEx tailored online prevention intervention, as well as an
      attention- control non--tailored HIV/AIDS prevention (NTHP) comparison intervention. After
      developing both interventions, the investigators used usability testing procedures to collect
      preliminary data from 16 YMSM on the proposed intervention's design and acceptability.
      Recommended changes were added to the intervention prior to launching a small pilot
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). The pilot RCT will compare myDEx (N=120) to NTHP (N=60) to
      assess intervention feasibility and acceptability, and gather preliminary behavioral data to
      inform a subsequent application. Assessments will be collected at 30, 60, and 90 days
      follow--up.

      Specific Aims include:

        1. To develop a tailored (myDEx) and non-tailored (NTHP) HIV prevention intervention
           focused on addressing HIV risk behaviors among single YMSM;

        2. To collect preliminary data on the feasibility, acceptability, and intervention content
           of the myDEx (N=16) in preparation for a small pilot RCT; and,

        3. To implement a small pilot RCT of the refined myDEx (N=120) as compared to the NTHP
           (N=60) intervention, in order to evaluate its feasibility and acceptability and gather
           preliminary efficacy results in reducing sexual risk behaviors.
    
  