
    
      This project will allow to test the hypothesis that a novel brief psychotherapeutic
      intervention, personal construct therapy with virtual reality (PCT-VR) will be more
      efficacious in the treatment of mild-to-moderate depression of young adults than current
      treatments such as the well-established Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), and the
      promissory personal construct therapy (PCT). It is expected that the enhancement of a current
      psychotherapy with VR, based on the immersive exploration of the patient's self-identity,
      will increase the positive effects of existing psychological therapies (at least the other
      therapies included in the study) in terms of symptom reduction of depressive symptoms
      (primary outcome), and bettering of psychological functioning, wellbeing and satisfaction. It
      is assumed that the use of the VR device created for this study, will make the treatment more
      attractive for young adults, this increasing their engagement in the therapy process. It is
      hypothesized that an immersive exploration of the personal constructs used to perceive self
      and others will facilitate self-understanding and change. As a secondary hypothesis, it is
      expected that PCT, thanks to its personalized and non-prescriptive nature, will be more
      efficacious than CBT. Also, as reflected in the literature, it is expected that the quality
      of the therapeutic alliance will be associated to outcome, but whether this association
      varies in its intensity across therapy modalities will be also explored.

      General objectives With this project, it is pursued the goal of increasing the efficacy of
      psychological therapies for mild-to-moderate depression in young adults. It is expected to
      obtain better clinical results with the promissory and novel treatment modalities (PCT and
      PCT-VR) than with the current most prestigious CBT. By obtaining supporting evidence for
      these therapies, the range of psychotherapeutic alternatives for depression will be increased
      and this will benefit the potential for adapting the interventions to the personal styles,
      characteristics and preferences of each patient. An optimal personalization of the treatment
      favors the patient engagement in therapy and strengthens the therapeutic alliance which, in
      turn, should be reflected in a facilitation of the change process.

      Specific objectives

      1. To assess the efficacy of an innovative VR-enhanced treatment modality of psychotherapy
      (PCT-VR) which has never been tested before. Differential outcomes will be considered not
      only in terms of statistical but also clinical significance and remission rates. In addition
      to the reduction of depressive symptoms our study is aimed also to better psychological
      functioning, wellbeing and satisfaction with the services provided.

      2- To evaluate the efficacy for mild-to-moderate depression in young adults of PCT, a
      psychotherapeutic approach with some supporting evidence for a variety of disorders and
      conditions but still insufficient to be considered efficacious for depression.

      3- To verify the good levels of efficacy shown by CBT in the treatment of depression, mostly
      in international studies.

      4- To identify baseline variables predicting differential outcome such as symptom severity
      (also comparing mild with moderate depression), and characteristics of the personal construct
      system such as the level of cognitive conflict.

      5- To gauge the significance of the therapeutic alliance in the different treatment
      modalities of the study and its influence in the therapeutic outcomes measured.

      6- To explore the personal views of patients with respect to the therapy process that they
      will have experienced as a way to advance our knowledge of the therapy process (including
      potential adverse effects) of each treatment. To compare this knowledge with the quantitative
      results of the study might be helpful for a better understanding of the entire process.
    
  