
    
      Stroke is one of the leading causes for death and disability in the industrialized world.
      Intracerebral hemorrhage [ICH] represents one sub-type with a rather poor prognosis. As
      randomized trials of recent years failed to establish an effective treatment strategy in ICH,
      identification of therapeutic strategies is urgently needed. Furthermore, evidence on
      commonly carried out management approaches is limited and remains to be specifically
      established. Roughly, one third of patients experience hematoma enlargement strongly
      impacting functional outcome, yet hemostatic treatments have not shown to be safe and
      aggressive blood pressure reductions are safe but not significantly effective. Therefore,
      improved risk-stratification for patients at high-risk for hematoma growth may increase the
      effect size of possible interventions. Intraventricular hemorrhage initially present or
      occurring during hematoma growth may represent another therapeutic target as a potentially
      treatable outcome predictor, recently studied in the CLEAR-IVH trial. Again, functional
      outcome was not improved in favour of the intervention emphasizing the need to identify
      patients who may benefit the most. Furthermore, several management issues remain to be
      elucidated in critically ill ICH patients, i.e. how to prevent venous thrombosis or systemic
      thromboembolism, what is the impact of invasive intracranial pressure monitoring, how to
      prevent or treat peri-hemorrhagic edema and what is the role of surgical approaches?

      This observational cohort study will try to strengthen the therapeutic evidence for ICH
      treatment by generating a large (n>1000) cohort of consecutive ICH patients treated a
      tertiary care hospital in Germany. Further, collaborative efforts will be undertaken to
      integrate and compare data from the present study to existing cohorts to validate specific
      findings. Patients will be identified from an institutional prospective stroke registry by
      the diagnosis of spontaneous primary ICH during a time period from 2006-2015. Only patients
      with spontaneous primary ICH will be included, other secondary etiologies will be excluded:
      i.e. tumors, trauma, vascular malformations, anticoagulation at presentation etc. will be
      excluded. Clinical data on demographics, medical history, pre-ICH medication exposures and
      laboratory results will be obtained by medical charts, institutional databases or prospective
      registries, supplemented by structured interviews or by review of all available medical
      records. Patient-derived follow-up information will be corroborated by review of pertinent
      medical records. An estimated total number of greater 1000 patients will be reviewed for this
      investigation. In detail the following parameters will be evaluated: - prior medical history
      (including CHADS-VASC-Score, HAS-Bled Score, vascular risk factors), - functional status
      prior admission (mRS), - neurological admission status (NIHSS, GCS), - imaging
      characteristics, - time intervals: symptom onset until admission, imaging, therapy
      initiation, - acute blood pressure management, - complications (hemorrhagic- or
      ischemic-events, infectious) and treatment (surgical treatment, mode of antithrombotic
      treatment or prophylaxis of systemic thromboembolism, intraventricular fibrinolysis, etc.), -
      mortality rates, - functional outcome (mRS);
    
  