
    
      Study Goals To investigate whether IBSR intervention is efficacious in alleviating stress and
      rate of burnout and improving quality of life among health care professionals.

      Study methodology The proposed study is pilot/feasibility intervention study with pre and
      post measures. 30 participants will receive Inquiry-based stress reduction (IBSR) group
      intervention.

      Population The pilot intervention group will consist 30 nurses at the Geriatric
      Rehabilitation Department in the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center (TASMC) who are willing to
      participate in this study.

      Data collection procedures

        1. Assessments will be taken at an initial baseline orientation and at the end of the
           12-week intervention.

        2. One week before IBSR classes will start, a baseline orientation will be held at this
           session, informed consent will be obtained, baseline data will be collected, and a brief
           overview of the IBSR program will be provided, which will highlight the 12-week class
           schedule.

      Intervention

        1. Subjects will receive weekly 3.5 hour sessions conducted by two facilitators trained in
           IBSR and certified by BKI to conduct this intervention.

        2. Class size will range from 12-16 participants.

        3. All the sessions will be standardized and follow the training manual developed to
           maintain consistency in the program.

        4. Subjects will receive a training manual and CD's to support home practice of various
           forms of inquiry practices.

        5. The training manual will include weekly exercises, and program content related to the
           content identified below. In addition, the manual will include a weekly diary for
           recording homework practice activities.

      The IBSR-BC program is a 12-week program adapted for consideration of health professionals
      well-being. During the process, participants will be encouraged to identify and inquire about
      their stressful thoughts: regarding health and illness, relationships with others, Beliefs
      that prevent them to promote their health, self judgments, perception of death and suffering.
      This intervention provides for management of specific emotional/psychological symptoms
      (stress, anxiety, depression) and physical symptoms, such as fatigue and sleeps disorders and
      enables the participants to inquire and be relieved of their stressful thoughts, and emotions
      caused by these thoughts. Through the use of self-inquiry practices subjects are taught to
      increase awareness of their thoughts and feelings, to observe their emotional and physical
      responses during situations perceived by them as stressful, and allow their mind to return to
      its true, peaceful, creative nature. Through the process of self inquiry, subjects take an
      active role in investigating their stressful thoughts, and by this regulating their stress
      and managing symptoms and emotions, thus enabling them to cope better with with emotional
      stress and burnout.

      Throughout the 12-week IBSR (HCP - health care professionals) program, all subjects will be
      requested to formally meditate and perform self inquiry exercises alone or with a partner for
      a minimum of 15 min per day.
    
  