
    
      Brain injury after cardiac surgery is a chief source of patient mortality and healthcare
      costs and can significantly impair quality of life. Reducing the burden of this complication
      has wide public health implications. The broad manifestations of perioperative brain injury
      include stroke, delirium, and cognitive decline.5 All forms of injury are believed to result
      primarily from cerebral embolism and/or reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF). The risk for
      cerebral hypoperfusion is likely the highest during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), when mean
      arterial pressure (MAP) is kept low (~60 mmHg), particularly for patients who are aged and
      who have cerebral vascular disease. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is used increasingly to
      monitor regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rScO2) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery,
      although limited data show that it improves patient outcomes. Regardless, clinical evidence
      supporting the efficacy of NIRS-based monitoring is needed urgently because the cost of NIRS
      sensors (~$220/patient) could add $132 million annually to hospital costs for cardiac
      surgery. We must address this issue quickly because the rising prevalence of NIRS use and
      advocacy by experts and industry will likely soon result in NIRS becoming a standard of care.
      We are in the process of submitting a multicenter, prospectively randomized comparative
      effectiveness trial to assess the efficacy of NIRS monitoring in patients who are undergoing
      coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery with CPB, and/or valve surgery, and who are at
      risk for brain injury. The goal of the planned proposal is to determine whether interventions
      to correct rScO2 desaturations (value <50% or 20% reduction from room air baseline) reduce
      the frequency of neurologic and other complications compared with standard care (no clinical
      monitoring). In order to demonstrate feasibility of our proposal we need to demonstrate the
      ability of the team to collect rScO2 data from multiple centers and to show the ability of
      the team to properly follow an algorithm for treating rScO2 desaturations that occur during
      surgery. Thus, the aim of the current study is to collect preliminary data to support our
      larger comparative effectiveness trial.
    
  