
    
      Translational approach with direct application to humans, to test specific imaging MRI
      sequences in obese patients.

      Obesity and metabolic syndrome are a well-known risk factor of pancreatic cancer. Obesity is
      associated with about 30% increased risk in all studies, but the proportion of obese people
      varies considerably from one country to another. Therefore, the proportion of cancer
      attributable to obesity could range from 3% to 16%. Numerous epidemiological studies
      confirmed that obesity is a risk factor of pancreatic cancer in obese men and women (BMI,
      kg/m2≥30.0), with a relative risk estimated to 1.76 (95% CI, 0.90-3.45) and 1.70 (95% CI,
      1.09-2.64), respectively. As previously demonstrated by partners 9 and 10, obesity is
      associated with fat pancreatic infiltration and precancerous lesions, such as PanIN lesions
      in humans. Pancreatic lesions such as adipose infiltration, iron deposits, extent of
      fibrosis, acino-ductal metaplasia and Pan-IN are involved in pancreatic oncogenesis.

      The goal of this study is to be able to diagnose early precancerous states in patients, such
      as acino-ductal metaplasia (and also PanIN lesions which are more frequently observed in
      humans,) inflammatory process (iron deposits, fibrosis lesions) and adipose involvement in
      the context of obesity and metabolic syndrome. Investigators hypothesis is that specific MR
      imaging sequences, adapted from previous studies in rodents, could be a relevant tool to
      diagnose early pancreatic lesions and follow their evolution in the context of obesity and
      metabolic syndrome.

      To this aim, the investigators will conduct a study to assess the relevance of MR imaging
      sequences to diagnose specific pancreatic lesions in obese patients, validated at the
      microscopic level. The investigators will analyze MR imaging of obese patients (BMI>30)/non
      obese patients (BMI<25) with a planned pancreatic surgery. It will be possible to compare
      imaging with histology performed on resected parenchyma. The investigators propose a
      proof-of-concept study aiming at assessing the relevance of specific MR imaging to diagnose
      early pancreatic lesions in humans and in obese patients especially. MR imaging will be
      performed in both obese and non obese patients with a planned pancreatic surgery in hospital
      to resect a benign lesion (such as neuroendocrine tumour or IPMN...). MRI are performed in
      the normal course of care; their sequences will be adapted for this study. It will be
      possible to compare imaging with histology of the resected parenchyma.
    
  