
    
      Justification:

      The biologic and clinical activity and tolerability of BAY 43-9006, the therapeutic needs of
      the proposed patient population, and the experimental evidence in support of targeting the
      VEGF/VEGFR and MAPK pathways in combination with androgen receptor blockade in prostate
      cancer, provides a strong rationale for the proposed phase II trial to evaluate the
      tolerability and anti-cancer activity of combined treatment with the non-steroidal
      anti-androgen bicalutamide with the multi-targeted kinase inhibitor BAY 43-9006 in patients
      with prostate cancer that is progressing after castration therapy.

      Objectives:

      The primary study objective is to define the efficacy (i.e. post treatment decrement in PSA
      (PSA response)) of BAY 43-9006 in combination with bicalutamide in patients with chemo-naïve
      hormone-refractory prostate cancer.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of BAY 43-9006 given in combination with
           bicalutamide in patients with HRPC.

        -  To determine the time to treatment failure, PSA progression and disease progression in
           HRPC patients treated with BAY 43-9006 in combination with bicalutamide.

        -  To determine objective response rates in HRPC patients with measurable disease treated
           with BAY 43-9006 in combination with bicalutamide.

      Research Method:

      This is a phase II clinical trial in patients with androgen independent prostate cancer which
      will evaluate the therapeutic activity and safety profile of BAY 43-9006 given orally at the
      recommended phase II dose of 400 mg PO BID continuously in combination with bicalutamide 50
      mg PO daily continuously. Each 4 week period will be considered 1 cycle. Doses will be
      adjusted for toxicity.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint for this study will be the rate of PSA-response of the
      combination for patients with rising PSA post castration therapy.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Secondary endpoints will include time to treatment failure, time to PSA progression, duration
      of PSA response, median survival time, 1 year survival rate, objective tumor response rate
      and stable disease rate as defined by the RECIST criteria, response duration, and incidence
      of toxicities by NCI CTCAE.
    
  