
    
      Interstitial, obstructive, and rare lung diseases are pulmonary disorders that comprise more
      than 300 disease entities that are poorly understood, diagnosed, and treated. X-ray computed
      tomography (CT) is the imaging gold standard and the current clinical practice for imaging
      lung structure and function of patients. Recent advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      pulse sequences and hardware with ultra short echo times (UTE) have enabled MRI of lung
      anatomy nearly comparable to CT without the risk of ionizing radiation.

      The overreaching goals of this study are:

        1. to allow for technical development and validation of UTE MRI sequences as an imaging
           alternative to CT as well as a future diagnostic tool, and

        2. to allow for preliminary UTE data generation for healthy and various disease
           populations. We anticipate this as being particularly important for data on children
           where variability is greater due to normal variations in size, age and maturity as well
           as distinctive differences in expression of lung diseases in pediatrics versus adult
           populations.

      This is a prospective, controlled study for technical development and validation of UTE MRI
      techniques with normal and disease cohorts. This study will use the standard MRI hardware
      (FDA approved coils and magnet) but will be developing and refining techniques used in the
      MRI sequences to obtain UTE images. This refinement includes varying the MRI settings to
      maximize image signal, to control image contrast, and to develop the software needed to
      acquire more specialized images for the purpose of improved imaging of the lungs. The data
      will also be used to collect normative data for comparison with lung pathologies.

      Subjects may enroll more than once (with separate consent). For these subjects the MRI
      information may be used to generate data for in-subject temporal variability in both healthy
      controls and disease groups.
    
  