
    
      Methods and Procedures

      This is a single center, eight-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel
      group, flexible-dose study in 40 outpatients with bipolar disorder types I, II, or NOS by
      DSM-IV-TR criteria who also have moderate-to-severe hypomanic symptoms or mild manic symptoms
      (defined as a score of > 3 but <5 on the Clinical Global Impressions Scale Modified for
      Bipolar Disorder [CGI-BP]). Subjects may have concurrent depressive or anxiety symptoms or
      syndromes, but they may not have psychotic features (as defined in DSM-IV) or substance
      dependence. The primary outcome measure will be change in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS)
      scores. Secondary outcome measures will include the total of the YMRS and the Inventory for
      Depressive Symptoms (IDS), the IDS alone, the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), the
      CGI-BP, the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), the Life Functioning Questionnaire (LFQ),
      and the Sheehan Disability Scale (DSD). Of note, the YMRS-IDS total reflects a novel means of
      assessing total affective burden. Also, IDS will be used to assess depressive symptoms
      because of our experience in the Stanley Foundation Bipolar Network indicating that this
      scale better assesses the signs and symptoms of bipolar depression as compared to both the
      Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Scale
      (MADRAS). The LFQ is a validated gender neutral scale specifically designed to assess
      functional outcome in bipolar disorder. The Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS),
      Simpson Angus Scale (SAS), and Barnes Akathisia Scale (BARS), will be used to assess for
      degree and severity of extrapyramidal side effects experienced.

      Data Analysis and Data Monitoring

      All subjects with observations available from the baseline and at least one post-baseline
      visit will be included in analyses. The primary outcome measure will be the change in YMRS
      scale scores from baseline to last observation. The difference in YMRS change between
      treatment groups will be tested for significance (alpha=0.05, two-tailed) using an
      independent-samples t-test. Measures of change in total affective burden, depressive and
      anxiety symptoms, global improvement, use of adjunctive anxiolytic and hypnotic medication,
      adherence to study medication, frequency and severity of side effects, and reasons for early
      termination will also be analyzed. The final dose achieved by each subject will be correlated
      with scale score change. Tolerability will be assessed based on adverse experiences, clinical
      laboratory tests, vital signs (blood pressure and pulse), weight, and discontinuation rates.
    
  