
    
      Fall prevention is the most important issue for the elderly. Due to the low cost and
      convenience of wearable devices, numerous techniques have been developed to detect falls in
      clinical environment. However, such effects with large populations have not been established
      for the elderly. Another, existing systems mainly focus on detecting a fall with little
      emphasis on fall prediction and prevention. There is an urgent need for developing monitoring
      systems that can detect near-falls and alert persons who suffer from subsequently falls.
      Therefore, investigators propose a project to study the clinical application of a fall
      detection and prevention system for reducing falls in the elderly.

      The main objectives of the project are to develop the fall detection and prevention system
      and to investigate its effectiveness in preventing falls for the elderly. Eighty elderly will
      be recruited and randomly allocated into either the experimental or sham groups (n=40 for
      each group). Subjects in the experimental group will wear the fall detection and prevention
      system on the lower back. The system records near-fall and fall events; meanwhile, it alarms
      subjects while detecting near-fall events and alarms caregivers while detecting fall events.
      In the sham group, subjects wear a sham system with record but no alert function. Both groups
      will receive the same treadmill walking training for 30 minutes per session, 3 sessions per
      week for 6 weeks. The outcome measures including falls, balance function, gait ability,
      physical activity, and quality of life will be assessed before intervention, after
      intervention, and at 6-months follow-up.

      Fall-induced physiological and psychological consequences limit daily activities and reduce
      quality of life in the elderly. The proposed study innovates a system that not only detects
      but also alarms users to prevent falls. Moreover, quantitative measurement of such fall
      detection and prevention system will be investigated for the elderly in this project. This
      study provides practical and efficacy solutions to prevent falls for home and community
      settings.
    
  