
    
      Background To evaluate the role of the Clinical Informatics Consult Service(CICS), an
      informationist service at the Eskind Biomedical Library (EBL) at Vanderbilt University
      Medical Center (VUMC, in clinical decision-making, the EBL has been awarded a 3-year grant
      from the National Library of Medicine (5 R01 LM07849-02). The CICS is a well-established
      program that facilitates evidence-based practice by delivering targeted information in answer
      to complex, patient-specific questions. The CICS places librarians with specialized training
      in medical subject areas and in information retrieval ("clinical informationists") on
      clinical teams in intensive care settings. Acting as expert consultants, they analyze the
      biomedical literature to identify, filter, and present the best examples of each clinical
      viewpoint expressed about key problems.

      Evaluation Project Working in cooperation with the Center for Evaluation and Program
      Improvement (CEPI) at Peabody College of Vanderbilt, the investigators will evaluate formally
      the role of CICS in clinical decision-making and evidence-seeking behavior. While past
      studies have evaluated clinical medical librarians' roles, few if any studies have examined
      the effectiveness and utility of the new clinical informationist approach in sites where
      informationists are well-established.

      The project will also create reusable evaluation tools transferable across environments.
      Through a combination of observation and interviews, investigators will examine librarian
      involvement in three existing Vanderbilt CICS intensive care units. The project will collect
      detailed information about the ways in which clinicians incorporate CICS-provided information
      into their workflows. Next, investigators will conduct a randomized trial to evaluate the
      effect of CICS on decision-making. Investigators will compare clinicians' intended course of
      care vs. actual care when CICS results are provided and when clinicians seek information
      themselves.

      Finally, "virtual cases" developed from actual patient CICS-related scenarios in each
      clinical unit will be incorporated into training tools that can be used to export elements of
      the CICS model to other locations. Demonstration of the utility of the clinical
      informationist approach can foster widespread adoption nationally, and increase the degree to
      which clinical practice becomes evidence-based.
    
  