
    
      The Kidney Precision Medicine Project (KPMP) is a prospective cohort study, whose goal is to
      use deep molecular phenotypes of kidney biopsies, along with longitudinally collected
      clinical phenotypic data, in order to develop new disease ontologies, classification systems,
      and treatments for acute kidney injury (AKI) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). Since its
      inception, the KPMP has sought out and included substantive patient-representative feedback
      regarding disease experience, lack of innovation in new kidney disease therapies and patient
      tolerance for risk levels in balance with potential benefits both to the individual and
      society.

      The KPMP Has publicly and operationally committed itself to always put participants and their
      best interests first and this foundational principle informs and undergirds every facet of
      the study. Both AKI and CKD are conditions that impose a significant global health burden.
      Yet, no effective therapies currently exist for AKI, and only a few are available for CKD.
      The network will utilize state-of-the-art methods to perform molecular interrogation of the
      tissue and to link the molecular data to kidney structure and clinical information in the
      form of a kidney tissue atlas.

      Molecular and imaging data derived from kidney tissue will be integrated with
      clinico-pathologic and genetic information, as well as other data derived from analyses of
      fluid biospecimens, including peripheral blood, urine, and stool. Using advanced analytics to
      integrate the data, KPMP will aim to define kidney disease subgroups in molecular terms by
      identifying critical cells, pathways and targets for novel therapies.

      Patients with AKI or CKD will be recruited from clinical care encounters (e.g., clinic visits
      for CKD patients, hospitalization or emergency room visits for AKI patients) and from
      electronic resources (e.g., existing registries, electronic health records). All study
      procedures are designed to optimize participant safety and will be ethically conducted,
      ensuring subjects fully understand the scope of the study and any possible risks.

      For each participant, kidney tissue will be obtained for molecular phenotyping and clinical
      diagnosis. The diagnostic interpretation will be returned to the participant's primary
      caregiver to inform clinical care, but no treatment interventions will be prescribed by the
      KPMP. In addition to kidney biopsy, the study will involve collection of baseline (time of
      biopsy) and longitudinal biospecimens (including urine, plasma, serum, DNA and stool) and
      demographic, clinical, and laboratory data. Participants will be followed through scheduled
      in-person and remote (telephone) study visits, as well as through periodic review of
      electronic health records.
    
  