
    
      The gingival recessions have been successfully treated by several periodontal plastic surgery
      procedures. Among the different types of procedures used, Coronally Advanced Flap (CAF) was
      the most frequent approach, and when combined with a connective tissue graft is accepted as a
      gold standard therapy. Recently, investigators reported the use of CGF in the reconstruction
      of bone defects. They concluded that bone formation had significantly increased by using CGF
      It has been used to accelerate new bone formation associated with guided bone regeneration in
      sinus augmentation.They stated that CGF may have a better regenerative capacity and high
      versatility. Therefore, this study hypothesized that CGFs' placement together with CAF may
      enhance the healing of soft tissues. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the
      clinical effect of CGF combination with CAF compared to CAF alone in the treatment of
      adjacent multiple gingival recessions.

      The patients of this randomized, split mouth and controlled clinical trial study protocol
      were selected from individuals referred to the Department of Periodontology, at Faculty of
      Dentistry, Bülent Ecevit University, for either dentin hypersensitivity or aesthetic
      complaints between April 2013 and April 2014.

      All the subjects received oral hygiene instructions and full-mouth scaling were performed 1
      month before surgery. They were instructed to perform a non-traumatic brushing technique
      (Roll) using an ultra soft toothbrush. In twenty subjects (mean age 37.10 ±1.03, 20-45years,
      13 females, 7 males), one side of the jaw received CAF (control sites)( 59 defects), the
      opposite site received CAF+CGF (test sites) (60 defects).

      Full-mouth Plaque index and Gingival index were evaluated before surgery. Custom acrylic
      guides were fabricated to measure the clinical parameters at the mid-buccal aspect of the
      treated teeth.Probing depth (PD), Clinical Attachment Loss (CAL),Recession Depth
      (RD),Keratinized Gingiva Width (KGW) were recorded at the mid-buccal aspect of the treated
      teeth. Gingival Thickness (GT) was evaluated mid-facially, 2mm apical to the gingival margin
      at the attached gingiva or the alveolar mucosa, using a 20 endodontic reamer attached to a
      rubber stopper under the local anesthesia. After carefully removing the reamer, GT was
      measured with a digital caliper with 0.05 resolution PD, CAL, RD, KGW and GT were assessed at
      baseline and 6th months. Complete root coverage (CRC)and Percentage Root Coverage(PRC) were
      calculated at 6th months.

      Intravenous blood was collected and placed into two different a 10mL glass-coated plastic
      tube without anticoagulant solutions. These tubes were then immediately centrifuged with a
      CGF centrifuge machine. The CGF clot was removed from the tube and separated from the Red
      Blood Cell by using microsurgical scissors. The CGF was squeezed in a special box that
      produces membranes at a constant thickness of 1mm.CGF membrane was immediately placed over
      the recession area.

      All surgeries were performed by the same expert periodontist during a single surgical session
      Gingival recession sites were randomly determined as either test or control site by tossing a
      coin immediately before the surgical procedure.

      Sutures were removed after 10 days and plaque control was maintained by CHX for additional 2
      weeks. The patients started brush the tooth at the end of the 3rd week and they were again
      instructed in mechanical tooth cleaning of the treated tooth using an ultra soft toothbrush
      and roll technique. Oral hygiene instructions were provided at each postoperative visit.
    
  