
    
      ICU data suggests that benzodiazepines are linked to delirium, and minimizing their use has
      been incorporated into ICU practice guidelines. Cardiac surgery patients are at elevated risk
      of delirium. However, benzodiazepine administration still constitutes a common part of
      cardiac anesthesia practice, related to the previous absence of alternate medications and
      techniques to ensure hemodynamic stability and prevent intraoperative awareness. However,
      with the advent of new medications and processed EEG monitoring, benzodiazepine use is no
      longer ubiquitous, with both utilization and dose varying among practitioners. These multiple
      approaches to cardiac anesthesia care are haphazard, which speaks to the clinical equipoise
      between them. As such, the investigators have decided to standardize our approach to cardiac
      anesthesia care, and to evaluate the impact of changes in approach on postoperative delirium,
      a serious problem for both individual patients and health care systems.

      Studying strategies of care and their impact on delirium: There is a great need to understand
      if a strategy of limitation of intraoperative benzodiazepine use during cardiac surgery can
      reduce postoperative delirium. Cardiac surgery is done in specialized institutions performing
      high volumes of surgery in order to reduce complications, increase efficiency, and obtain
      superior outcomes. The surgical care of patients in these high volume cardiac surgery centres
      is undertaken using standardized procedures that optimize outcomes. The investigators would
      like to determine if a policy limiting the use of intra-operative benzodiazepine will reduce
      postoperative delirium, a question which is asked from the perspective of clinical
      effectiveness. The only way to answer this question is to randomize between two institutional
      approaches to benzodiazepine use: a policy of standard use in all patients compared to a
      policy of limited benzodiazepine use in select patients only. The cluster randomized trial is
      a methodologic approach designed to test different institutional policies. In the cluster
      crossover trial, each institution is randomized to use one policy or the other and then,
      after a treatment and suitable wash-out period, the institution crosses over to the other
      policy. This approach is methodologically rigorous and tests the effects of the change in
      practice as it would actually be used in the clinical setting. Therefore, the optimal
      approach to answer the question of intraoperative benzodiazepine strategy is a cluster
      crossover trial, which randomizes cardiac surgery centres to each of two standard approaches
      to intraoperative benzodiazepine use, with crossover within each site.

      An institutional policy of limiting intraoperative benzodiazepine use during adult cardiac
      surgery, compared to a policy of 'ad libitum' intraoperative benzodiazepine use, will reduce
      the rate of post-operative delirium.

      Our goal is to undertake a randomized cluster crossover trial, with randomization at the
      level of the hospital. Before such a trial can be conducted, we need to establish
      feasibility. We therefore propose to undertake a pilot study at two hospitals, to establish
      the feasibility of the trial protocol. This pilot trial will be conducted over approximately
      6 months, in 4 study periods. Because of variation in the number of procedures performed
      within a given month, the duration of each period will be determined by the amount of time
      required to manage 120 patients according to the selected policy. There will be a 1-week
      washout period between each study period to enable staff transitions between institutional
      policies of cardiac anesthesia care. At the outset of the study, we will randomize the pilot
      site to any of 2 possible alternating sequences of benzodiazepine-minimized (A) or routine
      benzodiazepine administration (B) (i.e. ABAB or BABA). We call this study the B-free Pilot
      Trial. We will use data from this pilot in the larger study unless substantial protocol
      modifications are needed.

      Rationale: At least 1 CAM assessment will be required to assess the primary outcome of the
      large trial, with one CAM per ICU ideal to assess delirium (as it has a fluctuating course).

      Protocol compliance by individual practitioners such that 80% of patients are not
      administered any intraoperative benzodiazepines during the benzodiazepine minimization
      period, and 80% of patients receive intraoperative benzodiazepines during the ad libitum
      benzodiazepine period. This corresponds to 192/240 patients treated per protocol within each
      treatment arm.

      Rationale: In this trial we are comparing two different institutional policies. However, in
      reality, anesthesiologists are individuals who may make individual patient management
      decisions. In addition, there are concrete reasons why some patients should not be treated
      according to one or the other policy. We will thus use the pilot study to evaluate the
      proportion of patients managed according to the policy being used during a given crossover
      period in order to be certain that, in the large trial, there will be significant differences
      in benzodiazepine administration between the two periods.

      Incidence of intraoperative awareness of no more than 2% during the benzodiazepine
      minimization period (i.e. 5/240 patients) at one of the two pilot sites (HGH). This is
      defined as the recall of intraoperative events, and will be ascertained through the use of a
      standardized questionnaire widely used in research and clinical practice to ascertain patient
      awareness (see Appendix I: Procedure for Assessment of Intraoperative Awareness).

      Rationale: There is a historical belief that benzodiazepines decrease the risk of
      intraoperative awareness, even though there is no evidence to support this belief.2,4,5 Given
      that (1) there is no evidence to support the preventative effect of benzodiazepines on
      intraoperative awareness and (2) the assessment of awareness is not a routine part of
      clinical practice in all sites in Canada, we would like to establish a rate of intraoperative
      awareness in patients treated during the benzodiazepine minimization period that is not
      higher than upper boundary of the 95th percent confidence interval for the pooled incidence
      reported in three large, recent studies (i.e. 2%). Achievement of this objective during the
      pilot study will justify not formally assessing for intraoperative awareness at all sites
      during the multi-centre trial.

      Relationship between the incidence of postoperative delirium in hospital-collected,
      administrative data and Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI) data of ≥ 85%. This
      will be defined as the incidence of postoperative delirium in the CIHI discharge abstracts
      database divided by the incidence of postoperative delirium reported in hospital
      administrative data.

      Rationale: We believe that the incidence of postoperative delirium is most reliably and
      accurately recorded in hospital-collected administrative data, using the CAM. However,
      collecting the outcome of delirium using this data source will be more work-intensive and
      costly than collecting the outcome of delirium using the CIHI discharge abstracts database,
      which we believe will underrepresent the true incidence of postoperative delirium. As such,
      we will collect data from both of these sources during the pilot trial. If the reported
      incidence of postoperative delirium in the CIHI discharge abstract database is at least 85%
      of that reported in hospital administrative data, we will use this as the primary data source
      in the large trial (and will modify the secondary outcomes of duration of delirium, ICU LOS,
      and hospital LOS to ensure they reflect data fields collected by CIHI). If this threshold is
      not exceeded, we will obtain the extra funding and human resources required for local data
      collection in the large trial.
    
  