
    
      With the aging population, the needs for total joint replacement are increasing. On the basis
      of 2000-to-2014 data from National Inpatient Sample (NIS), primary total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA) is projected to grow by 85% to 1.26 million procedures in the United States by 2030. In
      a 2012 report of Orthopaedic Industry, and the global sales of joint replacement products
      exceeded $49.3 billion, with knees taking about half of them. The high financial burden of
      joint replacement surgery on health care system highlights the importance of cost containment
      without compromising the quality of patient care.

      Clinical pathways for total joint arthroplasty can reduce care variability and improve the
      quality of care. Taiwan's Bureau of National Health Insurance (BNHI) has initiated a
      prospective payment system for TKA under diagnosis-related group (DRG) since 1997. It was
      found the length of hospital stay, and the medical expenditure could be reduced because
      standard clinical pathways were implemented in most hospitals. However, to optimize the
      results and meet with patients' expectation are more challenging currently than before
      because the length of hospitalization is markedly reduced and the standard care processes are
      accelerated. The accelerated programs for total joint arthroplasty are revolutionizing the
      standard clinical pathways. Patients can even be discharged from the hospital within one day
      after the surgery. While a successful joint replacement surgery depends on well-practiced
      clinical pathways delivered in a timely manner, patient's medical literacy should also have a
      significant impact for his or her recovery. Unfortunately, patients may acquire incorrect
      information from the internet or have unrealistic expectations before or during the
      hospitalization that may compromise the decision making and clinical results.

      Recently, the emerging technologies of the electronic medical record and medical informatics
      have made challenges to the traditional healthcare models such as the clinical pathways. The
      integration of informatics technology also provides an opportunity to modernize the clinical
      pathways. But the effect of an interactive infotainment system on TKA is unknown. The purpose
      of this study was to analyze whether the implementation of an interactive infotainment system
      into a standard clinical pathway of TKA could influence the hospital course and the medical
      quality in an arthroplasty specialty ward.
    
  