
    
      Cognitive impairment preceding dementia is called mild cognitive impairment (MCI) . Patients
      with MCI are at high risk for progression to Alzheimer's disease (AD), at a rate of about 12%
      per year. The amnestic form of MCI is the most common form, and most of the literature on the
      topic refers to this form of the disorder. Clinical criteria for MCI include:

        1. Memory complaint, preferably corroborated by an informant.

        2. Objective memory impairment for age and education.

        3. Largely intact general cognitive function.

        4. Essentially preserved activities of daily living.

        5. Not demented

      Currently, there is no known cure for MCI or means of stopping or reversing its progression.
      Patients with Alzheimer's disease were also included in this study , as they are considered
      by many researchers to be on the same continuum of cognitive decline as patients with MCI
      which indeed, carry an increased risk for developing Alzheimer's disease.

      This study relies the data from a preliminary study conducted in the investigators' lab on
      patients with MCI, and is meant to further validate our results. In the aforementioned study,
      participants managed to improve their memory score after 10 training sessions. In addition, a
      negative correlation between initial memory score and ability to improve was found. It is
      therefore hypothesized that subjects with AD may benefit as much as subjects with MCI and
      perhaps even to a larger extent.

      Neurofeedback (NFB) is a treatment method based on learning with operant conditioning, in
      which a feedback (or a reward) is given in proportion with the desired physiological activity
      in order to improve cognition and/or behavior. This research will focus on using electrical
      activity measured with EEG as physiological activity to be influenced.

      EEG-NFB has been successfully used as a clinical tool for over 40 years treating various
      disorders from epilepsy, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), stroke to PTSD

      Electroencephalography (EEG) equipment is used to measure the electrical activity
      representing the neuronal activity of different parts of the brain. During the treatment,
      electrode(s) are placed in predetermined location. Audio and visual rewards are given when
      the activity is measured to be within the desired frequency range.

      Since NFB has been shown to be able to induce changes in the brain plasticity, it appears to
      be a promising approach to treat MCI. Few studies have shown improvement in cognition of
      normal elderly with subjective complains of memory decline. To the best of our knowledge,
      this study is the first to address memory decline in MCI using EEG-based neurofeedback
      protocol, enhancing the individual upper alpha and peak alpha frequency.

      This study will include 30 participants which will be randomly assigned into experimental or
      sham groups. The former will include training the individual upper alpha, while the latter
      will include feedback over static electrical activity of a disconnected electrode.

      each participant will be trained for a total of 10 sessions over a period of 5 weeks (2
      training sessions per week), lasting approx. 1 hour. Cognitive evaluations will take place at
      baseline, after the training sessions have ended and at 30 days after the last session.
    
  