
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a metabolic disorder, characterized by hyperglycemia and metabolic
      disorders, resulting in changes in insulin secretion and / or action. Physical function is
      critical for functional independence, and chronic diseases such as diabetes can lead to
      functional decline, and diabetes mellitus is a major contributor to the progression of
      sarcopenia and physical disability. DM is also known to have a strong associated with the
      development of peripheral arterial disease. Peripheral arterial disease is characterized by
      obstruction of the arteries of the lower limbs, leading to a low oxygenation of the muscles
      of the lower extremities. Among the physiotherapeutic resources that can be used,
      phototherapy involves the use of light for the treatment of muscular injuries, by modulating
      the physiological processes associated with the repair process. Clinical trials show that LED
      is a technique that interferes with muscle strength, generating an increase in maximal
      voluntary contraction and peak torque. It is hypothesized that the LED application is capable
      of improving the muscular strength, fatigue, functional performance and blood flow
      capabilities in individuals with diabetes. It is also expected that the results of this study
      may contribute to and increase the resources used by physiotherapists within the clinical
      scope, contributing to the care of diabetic patients. A randomized and blinded clinical trial
      will be carried out at the Physiotherapeutic Resources Laboratory (LARF) of the University of
      São Paulo Medical School of Ribeirão Preto (FMRP-USP). The study procedures will be performed
      in 5 days. On the first day (pre-treatment), the volunteers will be evaluated for
      functionality (Time Up and Go), cardiopulmonary capacity (6-minute walk test), evaluation of
      muscle function (isokinetic dynamometer), neuromuscular recruitment (electromyography)
      gastrocnemius and evaluation of blood flow (Doppler) of the tibial and popliteal arteries. On
      the second, third and fourth day volunteers of GLED-V, GLED-IV, GM e GP will return to the
      application of LED intervention according to the group in which they are allocated. On the
      fifth day (reevaluation) the volunteers will perform the same tests of the first day.
    
  