
    
      Pneumonia is still associated with high morbi-mortality, and rapid treatment with suitable
      antibiotics is required, i.e. with a broad enough spectrum to cover the activity of all the
      potentially-incriminated pathogens. These antibiotics must be administered at efficient doses
      and diffused in sufficient quantity at the infection site.

      Unlike other beta-lactams, ceftobiprole is a new-generation broad-spectrum cephalosporin
      which is active on the majority of pathogens encountered in acute, community-acquired
      pneumonia (CAP) and also on methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and
      non-fermenting Gram-negative bacilli (GNB) like pseudomonas aeruginosa. It is indicated for
      the treatment of CAP and also healthcare-associated pneumonia, other than that acquired under
      mechanical ventilation.

      For any antibiotic administered to critically ill patients it is necessary to ensure that the
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) targets correlated with clinical efficacy can be
      reached with the recommended doses. The DALI study published in 2014 was the first study to
      alert on the risk of plasma under-dosing when the standard doses of beta lactams were
      administered in severely ill patients.

      Since then, several PK studies performed in the intensive care unit have confirmed the
      significant risk of non-optimal doses in this population, linked to physiopathological
      alterations caused by sepsis. So far there have been no studies specifically aimed at the
      pharmacokinetics of ceftobiprole in those patients with CAP requiring mechanical ventilation.
      Furthermore, although there is increasing use in the pharmaceutical industry and in the
      post-developmental phases of medicines, a population PK analysis to help describe the factors
      influencing the PK of a molecule and establish new dose regimens optimised for a given
      population (in this case an ICU population) using Monte Carlo simulations, has never been
      developed for ceftobiprole given by continuous infusion.

      The ultimate aim of so-called adequate antibiotic therapy is to obtain the right therapeutic
      concentrations at the infection site. During a pulmonary infection, the targeted
      concentrations of antibiotics in the alveolar liquid must be above the minimal inhibitory
      concentration value at the end of the dose interval for so-called " time-dependent "
      antibiotics like cephalosporins. Obtaining these efficient concentrations is often made
      difficult by the beta-lactams' mediocre pulmonary diffusion and can require an increase in
      doses in order to reach the PK/PD target at the infection site and/or the use of continuous
      administration of beta-lactamines. Indeed, this way of administrating is being privileged
      more and more in order to optimise the time spent above the minimal inhibitory concentration.

      This pharmacokinetic study is the first to be carried out among a population of ICU patients
      and one that focuses on pulmonary diffusion of ceftobiprole for the treatment of severe CAP.
      The main benefits expected are to determine the most suitable doses of ceftobiprole when this
      molecule is used to treat ICU patients suffering from CAP. With the help of this population
      analysis, the main aim of the study is therefore to describe the pharmacokinetics (PK) of the
      plasma and pulmonary diffusion of ceftobiprole administered at high-dosage (500 mg loading
      dose followed by 2.5 g under continuous infusion for 24h) for severe community-acquired
      pneumonia under mechanical ventilation.

      The secondary aims are :

      A- Determine whether the pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) targets can be achieved in
      the plasma and epithelial lining fluid with the recommended doses of ceftobiprole.

      B- Define the optimal dose regimen for ceftobiprole in this population. C- Evaluate the
      clinical recovery (at Day 3 and Day 8) and microbiological recovery (at Day 3).

      D- Evaluate the clinical evolution. E- Evaluate the clinical and biological tolerance.
    
  