
    
      We propose a 3-year study to develop and pilot test a social network substance use and
      HIV-risk intervention for permanent supportive housing program residents in the Skid Row area
      of Los Angeles. The intervention will be developed for residents at the Skid Row Housing
      Trust (SRHT), one of the largest Housing First providers in Los Angeles. Housing First
      residents are not required to abstain from alcohol and drugs as a requirement of their
      residency. There is some evidence that providing housing rapidly to chronically homeless
      persons--along with support--helps to reduce substance use and HIV risk behaviors in the
      short term because homelessness is the primary cause of high-risk behavior. However, the
      evidence thus far is limited. One aspect that has not received much research attention is the
      needs of Housing First residents for support to transition their social networks while
      transitioning out of homeless into residency in a Housing First program. New residents are
      exposed to a wide range of potentially negative social influences while also having greater
      potential to reconnect with lost positive ties. This project will develop a social network
      intervention to residents of SRHT in order to increase their knowledge about their social
      networks and enhance their motivation to make necessary changes to improve their ability to
      reduce or continue to abstain from high-risk behavior. The intervention sessions will enhance
      the weekly support meetings that SRHT case workers already conduct with new residents during
      their first 6 months of residency. Case workers will be trained to deliver the 30-minute
      intervention sessions using a motivational interviewing style. The intervention will be
      developed so that case managers can deliver it with the aid of an electronic tablet device.
      The tablet will guide them in collecting information about the residents' social networks and
      then display several diagrams highlighting various aspects of the residents' networks. They
      will then use motivational interviewing techniques to guide residents to think about how
      their network currently functions, how they would like it to function, and what steps they
      can take to make changes necessary to achieve goals related to reducing their substance use
      and sexual risk behaviors. The intervention will be delivered by case managers across four
      sessions (at baseline and at two-week intervals). We anticipate that residents who
      participate in this intervention will develop new strategies in their interactions with their
      social networks that will facilitate a reduction in their high-risk behavior.
    
  