
    
      Patients with normal airway, 21-60 years, ASA grade I-III with mallampati class I or II were
      scheduled for elective oral FOI. Patients who refused to undergo the procedure, presence of
      an absolute contraindication to nasal intubation like head trauma, a nasal mass, and deviated
      nasal septum were excluded from the study.

      Patients were randomly divided into two equal groups; Group I: FOI was carried without NPA,
      and Group II: FOI was performed using NPA (NPA group). Williams's oral airway was used in
      both groups. Patients were optimized for surgery and fasting for 8 hours. While the patients
      in the preoperative holding area, they were premedicated with glycopyrrolate 0.2 mg
      intravenously 30 min prior to the procedure. At the same time, patients have been treated
      with xylometazoline 0.1% nasal drops in both nostrils followed by lignocaine jelly 2%.

      All staff in the pre, intra, and postoperative area are licensed with ACLS according to the
      standard and guidelines of patient safety. The patient file and vital signs will be monitored
      during the stay in the holding area to discover any abnormalities. And each patient will sign
      a written consent form after explaining and informing about the procedure of the study. Vital
      signs (pulse, blood pressure, respiratory rate, and body temperature) and oxygen saturation
      will be checked before receiving any medication and frequently every 5 minutes till the end
      of the procedure to detect early concerns (hemodynamics instability, bleeding, neurocognitive
      dysfunction, and failed technique) The procedure was stopped if any patient feels abnormality
      or observed by a physician.

      ENT consultant must be informed before the procedure to be around. Consultant Anesthesia will
      be closely included during the procedure for maintaining the accurate and optimum procedure.

      In the operating room, patients were connected to standard monitors including pulse oximetry,
      ECG, non-invasive blood pressure, and temperature monitoring prior to administering
      premedication drugs. Then, 2 mg of midazolam and 50 μg fentanyl were injected intravenously 3
      min prior to the procedure. In a group, II (NPA group), when the patient sedated with
      midazolam and fentanyl, a well-lubricated uncuffed tube (Portex®) 7.0 for male and 6.5 for
      female) was inserted nasally and advanced until the tip stands just above the opening of the
      larynx and then connected to a source of oxygen. After a period of 2-3 min of preoxygenation,
      the patient was anesthetized with total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) using propofol and
      remifentanil infusion. The anesthesia resident trainee was asked to use a fiberoptic
      bronchoscope (Karl Storz® Intubation fiberscope 11301 BN1) to pass it through a cuffed
      endotracheal tube (ETT), visualize the vocal cords, pass through the glottic aperture and
      then pass the ETT over the fiberoptic bronchoscope. The correct ETT placement was confirmed
      by visualization of the carina and tracheal rings and bilateral equal air entry. The same
      scenario was done by the resident trainee in group I but without using the NPA.

      The time of fiberscope insertion and intubation and the number of attempts were recorded.
      Hemodynamic and respiratory changes (HR, MAP, SpO2, and ETCo2) were recorded at 3 points; at
      the baseline before induction of anesthesia, during insertion of the scope (two minutes after
      induction of anesthesia), and after FOI (two minutes after securing ETT). Any adverse events
      were also recorded as sore throat, PONV, dental trauma,...etc. If necessary, facilitating
      techniques like jaw thrusts were used.
    
  