
    
      1. Based on the patient database analysis, by the method of continuous sampling of the
           cardiac surgery patients to the intensive care unit for the period 2006-2018, to
           determine the clinical risk factors for the development of a persistent MOF (MOF +
           persistent MOF, which lasts more than 7 days and is determined primarily by based on
           indicators of objective assessment of the patient's condition - the SOFA scale is more
           than 8 points on the 7th day of the critical care). To form a prognostic model.

        2. By means of biochemical analysis of blood serum and cells, identify biological markers
           MES specific for distant organs and supplement the prognostic model of persistent MOF.
           It is planned to detect serum concentrations (1) of surfactant protein A (organ-specific
           lung marker for the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome as manifestations
           of MOF), (2) intestinal fatty acid binding protein (organ-specific marker of acute
           intestinal distress (3) S100 protein - a marker of brain damage) with an assessment of
           prognostic and diagnostic significance with respect to the MOF.

        3. To assess the prognostic and diagnostic significance of serum mitochondrial DNA as one
           of the variants of the danger-associated molecular pattern.

        4. To characterize the presence of an immunosuppressive phenotype of a critical patient
           with MOF by examining the expression and serum concentration of: (a) myeloid suppressor
           cells; (b) T-reg cells expressing CD39; (c) CD62 and CD11b expression on neutrophils on
           monocytes; (d) soluble sTREM-1, (e) HLA-DR on monocytes. In addition, it will be planned
           to study the "classic" serum cytokines (tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin
           1,6,8,10, HMGB-1).

        5. On the basis of the diagnostic panel obtained, to try to conduct an individualized
           choice of methods of preventive therapy for MOF. It is proposed to use: (1) cytokine
           modulation of the systemic inflammatory response by sorption of cytokines on selective
           sorbents, (2) cytokine modulation by sorption of cytokines on polymethylmethacrylate
           membranes. It is assumed that in order for these methods to be preventative, they should
           be used not only in conditions of treatment in the intensive care unit, but also in the
           operating room at the time of extracorporeal perfusion.
    
  