
    
      HIV infection is associated with a substantially increased risk of CVD that is not fully
      accounted for by traditional risk factors. Several lines of evidence suggest that chronic
      immune cell activation may be complicit. In support of this concept, we recently used
      18F-FDG-PET/CT to demonstrate that HIV-infected individuals have increased arterial
      inflammation compared to non-HIV, FRS-matched controls and that the degree of arterial
      inflammation is related to markers of monocyte activation. Further, we and others have shown
      that increased arterial FDG uptake predicts future CVD events in non-HIV cohorts. Together,
      these observations support the concept that targeting arterial inflammation may provide
      benefit for HIV infected individuals.

      The NHLBI recently provided funding for a clinical trial targeting the excess inflammation in
      HIV. The "Parent Study" is being performed as a collaboration with the National Institute of
      Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) AIDS Clinical Trials Group and the NHLBI. That
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial will assess whether 24-week treatment with
      very low-dose methotrexate (LDMTX): i) is safe, ii) reduces levels of circulating
      inflammatory biomarkers and activated immune cells and iii) improves brachial artery
      reactivity (BART). However, neither the biomarkers nor the BART studies measured as part of
      Parent Study will report on atherosclerotic inflammation, (the desired pathobiological target
      of LDMTX therapy in HIV). As such, the direct evaluation of arterial inflammation would
      substantially enhance the scientific value of the Parent Study.

      Atherosclerotic inflammation can be non-invasively and reproducibly measured with FDG-PET/CT
      imaging, a well-validated quantitative technique that can sensitively detect changes in
      atherosclerotic inflammation. FDG-PET/CT imaging has been employed in several multi-center
      trials to measure changes in arterial inflammation in response to anti-inflammatory
      treatments. Accordingly, we propose a time sensitive ancillary imaging study to determine if
      treating virologically suppressed, HIV-infected individuals with LDMTX reduces
      atherosclerotic inflammation, assessed by FDG-PET/CT. Our central hypothesis is that
      persistent immune cell activation results in chronic arterial inflammation, which
      subsequently contributes to the CVD risk observed in HIV. This fully integrated ancillary
      study would, in a subset of patients enrolled in the parent trial: (i) assess the impact of
      LDMTX on arterial inflammation, and (ii) identify the immune cell subtypes whose changes
      (with LDMTX) are associated with changes in arterial inflammation. Accordingly, the proposed
      ancillary study would provide unique and highly complementary information that would greatly
      increase the knowledge and mechanistic insights gained from the Parent Study. The ancillary
      study has two specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To determine the impact of anti-inflammatory treatment with LDMTX on arterial
      inflammation, as assessed by FDG-PET/CT imaging, in virally suppressed HIV-infected
      individuals. [Primary and secondary outcomes]

      Knowledge Gap/Need: The parent study does not provide for assessment of the target pathology
      (arterial inflammation) hence insights regarding effects of LDMTX treatment on arterial
      inflammation are needed.

      Hypothesis 1: LDMTX therapy will reduce arterial inflammation (to a greater extent than
      placebo).

      To test hypothesis 1: We will determine in 91 patients (a subset of the parent study) if
      arterial inflammation (measured with PET/CT at 0 and 24 weeks) is reduced by LDMTX (relative
      to placebo).

      Specific Aim 2: To evaluate the cellular and biochemical mediators associated with arterial
      inflammation in HIV and to explore the potential mechanism of the effect of LDMTX therapy on
      arterial inflammation in HIV. [Exploratory outcomes]

      Knowledge Gap/Need: The parent study, on its own, does not provide the tools to directly
      evaluate arterial inflammation in HIV. Evaluation of the relationships between circulating
      inflammatory mediators and arterial inflammation in the context of this study would yeild
      mechanistic insights regarding atherosclerotic disease in HIV and provide a greater
      understanding of the effect of LDMTX on arterial inflammation in HIV.

      Hypothesis 2.1:At baseline, arterial inflammation is closely associated with measures of
      activated immune cells (CD14+/CD16+ monocytes). Additional relationships might be seen
      between arterial inflammation and other cellular subsets (e.g. T-cells), inflammatory
      cytokines, and endothelial function.

      Hypothesis 2.2: Post-treatment changes in arterial inflammation are positively correlated
      with changes in measures of activated immune cells (especially activated monocytes).

      To test these hypotheses: We will evaluate if arterial inflammation (by PET) correlates with
      inflammatory cell activation and other measured biomarkers separately. We will then compare
      the strength of the associations and test their independence. The evaluation of associations
      will be performed: comparing baseline measurements (SA 2.1), and comparing post-randomization
      changes (SA2.2).

      We expect that LDMTX therapy will improve arterial inflammation and that this mechanistic,
      proof-of-concept study will demonstrate the importance of inflammation and immune activation
      in HIV. This would thus form the basis for event-driven trials to evaluate whether
      anti-inflammatory strategies reduce CVD risk in individuals with treated HIV infection.
      Accordingly, the study has the potential to shift the paradigm in the approach to treating
      atherosclerosis in HIV-infected individuals, and potentially in other populations as well.
    
  