
    
      This is a randomized (individuals assigned to study treatment by chance), open - label
      (identity of assigned study drug will be known), active - controlled study in adult female
      patients with platinum-sensitive advanced - relapsed epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal,
      or fallopian tube cancer who received 2 previous lines of platinum - based chemotherapy.
      Approximately 670 participants will be enrolled. Patients will be stratified by 4 criteria
      defined in the protocol and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the trabectedin+DOXIL
      combination therapy group (Arm A) or to the DOXIL (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin)
      monotherapy group (Arm B). During the treatment phase, patients will receive study drug
      infusions according to 21 - day cycles in Arm A and 28 - day cycles in Arm B. Treatment will
      continue until the occurrence of disease progression or unacceptable treatment toxicity, or
      until 2 cycles after assessment of a complete response (CR). Efficacy assessments will be
      evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors. Disease assessments, including
      assessments for patients who discontinue treatment for reasons other than disease
      progression, will be performed until disease progression, the start of subsequent anticancer
      therapy, withdrawal of consent, or the clinical cutoff date. Collection of survival status
      will continue until at least 514 deaths have been observed or until the clinical data cutoff
      date. Serial pharmacokinetic (PK) samples will be collected in a subset of patients who
      voluntarily consent to the PK portion of the study. Safety will be monitored throughout the
      study. An interim analysis of overall survival (OS) will be performed after approximately 308
      participants have died. The final analysis of OS will occur when approximately 514 deaths
      have been observed or until the clinical cutoff date. As of Amendment 6, no new participants
      will be randomized to study treatment, and treatment with trabectedin should be immediately
      discontinued for participants assigned to Arm A (trabectedin+DOXIL). All study participants
      (Arm A or Arm B) currently on study who, in the opinion of the investigator, are deriving
      clinical benefit may continue treatment with single-agent DOXIL as per the local standard of
      care.
    
  