
    
      Evidence shows that family planning is a cost-effective public health intervention with the
      potential to reduce both maternal and child mortality. However, around 222 million women have
      an unmet need for family planning, with the majority of these women living in low- and
      middle-income countries. There were 213 million pregnancies in 2012, most of which ended in
      birth. This number will certainly increase as the global population continues to grow, and a
      large proportion of youth enter their childbearing years. Regardless of whether the growing
      number of births are intended or unintended, they indicate an immense opportunity to reach
      postpartum women with family planning for spacing subsequent pregnancies. Citing the
      prospective definition of unmet need for family planning, which uses a postpartum woman's
      fertility preferences looking forward at the time of the survey, as many as 50%-90% of women
      from 17 low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) report an unmet need for postpartum family
      planning (PPFP).

      Women frequently return to fertility and sex before initiating contraception after delivery
      and do not necessarily understand the risk of pregnancy before the return of menses. For
      instance, a report on Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) data showing that in Bangladesh,
      33% of women resumed sexual activity within 3 months postpartum, but only 7.2% were using
      contraception. In Rwanda, these proportions are 73.6% and 1.7%, respectively. In all 17
      countries analyzed, women were more likely to use contraception after menses returned than it
      was before. Therefore, family planning is critical for saving the lives of women and children
      in the developing world.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends postpartum family planning as a critical
      component of health care that has the potential to meet women's desire for contraception and
      save millions of maternal and infant lives in low- and middle-income countries.

      This review aims to answer the research question: what recent interventions in LMIC have led
      to improvements in postpartum family planning outcomes? Therefore, the purpose of this review
      is to add to the existing body of evidence by casting a wide net in an attempt to capture the
      recent intervention strategies that present the most promise for decreasing the unmet need
      for contraception among postpartum women living in low- and middle-income countries (those
      defined as "developing" by the World Bank). The postpartum period is defined here as the 12
      months after delivery. The study will assess the effectiveness of postpartum family planning
      (PPFP) interventions on clients' contraceptive knowledge, intention, and postpartum family
      planning use.

      The rationale for the promotion of family planning to delay conception after a recent birth
      is a best practice that can lead to optimal maternal and child health outcomes. Despite the
      above fact uptake of postpartum family planning remains low in sub-Saharan Africa.

      Therefore, the study through the use of an intervention having thorough counseling
      supplemented by pamphlets that will improve the awareness of women on modern use of family
      planning methods will improve their unmet need for family planning during postpartum time as
      a potential to contribute to achieving the Ethiopian Health Sector Transformation Plan and
      the Sustainable Development Goals. This study will help to understand the potential barriers
      and facilitators of PPFP uptake and the findings will be useful in modifying practice among
      the health care workers providing care at the maternal, neonatal, and child health (MNCH)
      clinics. This will create as an opportunity for the health providers and policymakers to
      learn to address the health needs of a community (they are working in) through a scholarly
      activity which is one of the family planning competencies and could be directly involved in
      the intervention plan to improve the gaps identified by working closer to the community.
    
  