
    
      Introduction Adipose tissue is no longer considered a triglycerides-storage depot, but it has
      been recognized as an endocrine organ that regulates sugar and fat metabolism and energy
      homeostasis and implicates in cardiovascular (CV) function through the release of bioactive
      factors, the so-called adipokines. Several adipokines including adiponectin, omentin-1,
      apelin and visfatin have been identified as well as their link with CV diseases and,
      particularly, coronary artery disease (CAD) (1-3).

      However, the potential impact of adipokines in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) has not
      still elucidated. Although, there is evidence that apelin (4,5) and omentin-1 (6) are
      inversely correlated with AF, available data in regard to adiponectin and visfatin are
      inconclusive (7-9).

      Objectives The principal aim of the present study is to calculate adiponectin, omentin-1,
      apelin and visfatin plasma levels in patients with AF and controls matched for age and gender
      in an effort to identify their potential role in the development of AF.

      Methods Study population. Overall, 40 patients with AF and 40 controls will be studied.
      Patients with CAD, heart failure, cardiomyopathy, cancer, significant valvular disease,
      rheumatic heart disease or stroke will be excluded. The present study is conducted in
      accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and has been approved by the Ethics Committee of
      our Hospital. A written informed consent will be obtained from each participant.

      A detailed profile including demographic characteristics (age, gender) and traditional CV
      risk factors (smoking, hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus) will be obtained from
      every patient. Body mass index was (BMI) will be calculated as bodyweight in kilograms
      divided by height in meters squared and will be estimated for all subjects. All participants
      will undergo either electrocardiogram or 24-hour Holter monitoring. AF patients will be
      divided into the following three groups: paroxysmal AF, persistent AF and permanent AF.

      Definitions. Paroxysmal AF is defined as a history of one or more episodes of AF that were
      treated with pharmacological or electrical cardioversion within seven days. Persistent AF is
      defined a history of one or more episodes of AF over seven days that required pharmacological
      or electrical cardioversion) and permanent AF is defined as continuous AF for more than a
      year.

      Echocardiography. Transthoracic echocardiography will be performed in every patient. Left
      atrial dimension, interventricular septal dimension, left ventricular (LV) end diastolic
      dimension and ejection fraction (EF) will be measured.

      Laboratory analysis. Blood samples will be collected after 12-hour overnight fasting. Plasma
      adiponectin (RD195023100,Human Adiponectin, Elisa Bio Vendor Laboratory, Medicine Inc., Brno,
      Czech Republic), omentin-1, apelin (Phoenix Pharmaceuticals Inc, Burlingame, CA) and visfatin
      (Phoenix Pharmaceuticals, California, CA, USA) levels will be measured by the Elisa method.
      Natriuretic peptide, C-reactive protein (CRP) and parameters concerning lipid profile (total
      cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density cholesterol, high-density cholesterol), glycemic
      profile (plasma glucose, hemoglobin A1c) and renal function (urea, creatinine) will be
      measured by standardized enzymatic methods as well.

      Statistical analysis. Continuous variables will be expressed as mean values ± standard
      deviation (SD). Comparisons of continuous variables will be performed by one-way analysis of
      variance (ANOVA). Categorical data will be expressed as absolute and relative frequencies.
      All data will be analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version
      18.0 and all tests will be 2-tailed with the 5% indicating level of significance.
    
  