
    
      Study Design It is a prospective, longitudinal, multicenter and community study, with a
      2-year follow-up period (from 01.01.2017 to 31.12.2018) of patients who suffered stroke in
      the Community of Catalonia, Terres De l'Ebre County from the population-based register
      through specific ICD-9 diagnostic and procedure codes.

      Data collection methods Probabilistic sample: all consecutive stroke cases up to reaching the
      previously calculated sample size. Study will be carried out according the common clinical
      practice.

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome was dependence occurring within the 2-year follow-up
      after the stroke episode. Assessment of the patients' degree of dependency is essential in
      determining nursing care needs, planning nursing intervention, helping increase patients'
      abilities, and creating proper discharge plans. The European Council [12,13] defines
      dependence as the state in which people, due to causes linked to the lack or loss of
      physical, psychological, or intellectual autonomy, are in need of assistance and/or
      significant help to carry out common activities of daily life. In primary care, the nurses in
      charge are trained of data collection. This situation needs of formal care provided by health
      or/and social workers, private or public.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Propose a suitable instrument with predictive power propose for identifying patients in
           higher risk for needing formal care from health and/or social care providers.

        2. Measure the time elapsed from the hospital discharge to first contact with health
           primary care services, with social services, application for recognition of dependence
           degree, and get effective certification.

        3. Know the newly diagnosed cases of dependence after stroke.

      Statistical analysis All statistical tests will be performed as intention-to-treat.
      Prognostic factors' estimates will be adjusted by mixed-effects regression models. Possible
      confounding or effect-modifying factors will be taken into account. Predictions of dependence
      risk were based on Cox proportional-hazard regression models. Data analysis information
      extracted included the adjusted risk estimates and 95% confidence intervals (CI) and all
      statistical tests were two sided at the 5% significance level.

      All potential predictors were considered in a multivariate logistic regression, and a
      backward step selection procedure was carried out to pick the variables that composed the
      best model. Subsequently, design of a predictive model of multivariate Cox regression
      analysis was utilized to define the weight of each of the pathologies in the dependence. To
      assign the weight according to the hazard ratio (HR) value, we took into account only those
      with a HR ≥1.2 in the multivariate model approximating the value of HR to the nearest whole
      number:

        -  HR between 1.20 and 1.49 scored a 1.

        -  HR between 1.50 and 2.49 was a 2.

        -  HR between 2.50 and 3.49 received 3, and so on. The final score for each patient will be
           made up of the sum of their scores. We will use ROC curves and the AUC to assess the
           ability of this tool to stratify patients and predict dependence. To ensure internal
           validity, we will perform a ten-fold cross-validated multivariate regularized logistic
           regression to predict dependence status based on all other variables. We will plot the
           receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and compute the area under curve (AUC) to
           assess the prediction power of the models. In a next phase, there will be a prospective
           study of validation in the cohort of patients with an episode of stroke along 2018 year.
    
  