
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a potentially lethal disease capable of wide clinical variation.
      Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) is devastating, with a mortality rate ranging from 10% to as
      high as 85%. So it's important to identify severe patients which require aggressive early
      treatment and prolonged specialist care. There are a lot of multifactorial scorings and
      specific laboratory tests in predicting AP severity, such as Ranson's, Acute Physiology and
      Chronic Health Examination (APACHE)-II, serum Interleukin-6 (IL-6), and C-reactive protein
      (CRP) level. However, they have limitations in predicting outcomes of AP patients. The
      biochemical markers are not accurate enough. Ranson's scores were calculated after 48 hours
      of admission. Their practical utilization as predictors of severity is tough. Novel
      prognostic biomarker is needed to further develop for prognosis in AP patients.

      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) refers to fat deposition and oxidative stress of
      free radicals in hepatocytes. NAFLD is the most common chronic liver disease worldwide. The
      prevalence averages 30% in developed countries, and estimated to be 10% in developing
      countries. Its presentation ranges from asymptomatic steatosis to fibrosis, and cirrhosis
      with 3-5%. It is evident clinically with increased risk of developing obesity, cardiovascular
      diseases (CVD), hyperlipidaemia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Acting as an endocrine
      organ, the liver is the source of adipokines and inflammatory cytokines. Alterations in the
      production and secretion are increased in patients with NAFLD. It is strongly related to
      insulin resistance (IR) and metabolic disorders. Previous studies noted that NAFLD is closely
      related to severity of AP. CT scans are usually performed at admission to diagnose AP
      severity, which are also helpful to assess NAFLD. It could act as a valuable prognostic
      factor in AP patients and help to recognize potential severe patients.

      However, no clear pathways could explain the association between NAFLD and AP at present.
      Besides, the data is scarce. More research will pay more attention to this topic. In this
      study, the investigators investigated the association between NAFLD and AP.
    
  