
    
      Military deployment is associated with exposure to novel particulate matter (PM), such as
      from burn pits, aeroallergens, and increased cigarette consumption. War fighters exposed to
      these inhalational exposures exhibit immediate and chronic respiratory morbidity. For
      example, military service personnel surveyed in both the Republic of Korea (ROK) and Kabul,
      Afghanistan reported a general increase in respiratory morbidity, including asthma and
      chronic bronchitis, associated with their deployment. Air contaminants in the ROK were
      characterized by elevated levels of both PM 0.5-2.5 and PM 2.5-10. Similarly, exposures in
      Kabul were characterized by multiple airborne PM exposures, including those from burn pits.
      Burn pit PM includes metals, bioaerosols, organic by-products, and biomass combustion
      particles. These findings indicate that inhaled PM is a likely cause of respiratory morbidity
      in the field.

      Inflammation is a key initial response to inhaled particulates. Wood smoke particles (WSP)
      serve as a model agent to study PM-induced bronchitis. WSP inhalation generates reactive
      oxidant (and nitrosative) species which cause local injury of airway epithelial cells and
      release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) that activate toll-like receptors
      (TLR) and interleukin 1 (IL-1)-mediated innate immune responses by resident airway
      macrophages. Contamination of PM with bioaerosols, which contain lipopolysaccharide (LPS),
      also activates innate immune responses through toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation of
      resident airway macrophages. These complementary processes result in recruitment of
      neutrophils (PMN), which mediate luminal airway inflammation with release of toxic mediators
      such as neutrophil elastase and myeloperoxidase that promote acute and chronic bronchitis.

      Therefore, mitigation of PM-induced airway neutrophilic inflammation should be a key focus in
      order to reduce the respiratory morbidity of military personnel. The investigators have
      studied a number of pro-inflammatory inhaled agents, such as nebulized LPS, ozone (O3), and
      WSP, as models of acute neutrophilic bronchitis against which to test a number of therapeutic
      agents. To this effect, the investigators have reported that inhaled fluticasone inhibits
      O3-induced and LPS-induced neutrophilic inflammation, and that parenteral anakinra and oral
      gamma-tocopherol inhibit neutrophilic responses to inhaled LPS. In addition to agents with
      inherent anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties, rapid clearance of inhaled particles
      from airway surfaces is a complementary approach to reduce PM-induced airway inflammation.
      This can be assessed through the measurement of mucociliary clearance (MCC).

      MCC is dependent on airway secretory cells and submucosal glands that produce a mucin-rich
      fluid layer on the airway surface and ciliated cells that hydrate and propel mucus out of the
      lung and into the upper airway. Rates of MCC are dependent on ciliary beat frequency,
      hydration, and the rheologic properties of mucus. In vitro studies have demonstrated that HS,
      through an osmotic effect on airway surfaces, improved hydration and mucus rheologic
      properties, and accelerated mucus transport rates. In addition, the data over the last 30
      years has shown that inhaled hypertonic saline (HS) plus cough is the most effective method
      for acutely clearing the bronchial airways of inhaled, deposited particles. The combined
      effect is greater than either HS or cough alone. In the studies of asthmatics, the
      investigators examined the ability of a single HS treatment with a coached cough maneuver to
      acutely clear radiolabeled Tc99m sulfur colloid particles from airways following LPS
      exposure. Following HS inhalation and cough clearance maneuvers developed to recover sputum
      samples for analysis, the investigators observed a rapid clearance of >50% of the inhaled
      radiolabelled particles. The investigators hypothesize that if other pro-inflammatory
      particles (PMs, burn pit particles) were cleared similarly via HS-induced acceleration of MCC
      shortly after exposure, there would be reductions in acute PM-induced inflammation. Thus, in
      this study, the investigators will assess the effectiveness of inhaled 5% HS, a dose well
      tolerated by asthmatics at baseline and after inhaled LPS/allergen challenges for sputum
      induction, in mitigating WSP-induced airway neutrophilic inflammation in healthy volunteers.
      Normal saline 0.9% (NS) is not going to be used as a placebo treatment in this study, as
      inhalation of NS itself impacts the rheologic properties of mucus and MCC and thus would not
      be a suitable placebo. The investigators will, therefore, compare treatment with 5% HS to no
      receiving no treatment following WSP exposure.
    
  