
    
      Despite converging evidence that music interventions are beneficial in a number of pain
      domains, additional research is needed to understand the impact of a music intervention on
      the debilitating nature of migraine headaches. Interestingly, a recently developed smartphone
      application called Music Care has been introduced as a music-intervention tool; however music
      type is controlled by the individual. A patient-controlled music intervention administered by
      Music Care has shown to alleviate negative psychological (e.g., depression) and physiological
      (e.g., pain and discomfort) outcomes associated with general chronic pain. However, no study
      has examined how music interventions administered via Music Care may be beneficial for
      individuals who experience migraines, thus potentially highlighting the effects of receptive
      music techniques in music therapy.

      Therefore, the present investigation sought to examine the potential benefits of a
      patient-controlled, 3-month music intervention in individuals diagnosed with migraine
      headaches using the Music Care application. Patients from the university hospital center Sud
      Reunion (Saint Pierre, Reunion Island, France) within the Chronic Pain Consultation Group
      will be evaluated for inclusion in the study and will complete the 3-month music
      intervention. Participants will complete 1-2 sessions of listening to music per day, with a
      minimum of 15 sessions per month.

      The following measures will be collected: the frequency of migraine attacks, the average
      duration of migraine attacks and the average intensity of migraine attacks. Patients will
      also rate levels of anxiety and depression associated with migraine headaches via the
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD). The impact migraines have on everyday level of
      functioning will be evaluated using the Headache Impact Test (HIT-6).

      This is a pilot study, non-randomized, single arm and single center study.
    
  