
    
      Objective: The aim of this project is to investigate whether continuous reaction time
      measurements (CRT) are suitable as a screening and monitoring tool for covert hepatic
      encephalopathy (c/mHE).

      Method:

      Sub-protocol 1: As a part of this PhD protocol 100 healthy individuals and 50 with chronic
      disease (not liver cirrhosis) will be tested using the CRT and PSE tests. This is to
      determine the normal range for the PSE test in the Danish population.

      Sub-protocol 2: A total of 120 (aprox. 145 to adjust for drop outs) patients with liver
      cirrhosis from two Danish hospitals will be examined with both CRT and with the test that is
      the closest we get to a gold standard, namely portosystemic encephalopathy test (PSE). We
      wish to examine if the CRT test agrees with the PSE test, which may be to time consuming to
      perform in everyday clinical practice, and with quality of life scores (SF-36 and Sickness
      Impact Profile). The relationship between the CRT and PSE test and various blood tests and
      the Charlston co-morbidity score will also be examined.

      Sub-protocol 3: Forty-four of the 120 included patients will, regardless of CRT test result,
      be randomized to treatment with lactulose, rifaximin and branched chain amino acids (BCAA) or
      placebo lactulose, rifaximin and BCAA. This is to evaluate whether the CRT method is able to
      detect a response to treatment, and see if changes in psychometric tests (PSE and CRT) are in
      accordance with quality of life scores and predicts subsequent development of overt hepatic
      encephalopathy.

      Perspective: CRT method should, if it proves good enough, continue to be the Danish test of
      choice and hopefully be more widely used in our country. The validation of tests for the
      diagnosis of covert hepatic encephalopathy will give cirrhotic patients with covert hepatic
      encephalopathy and reduced quality of life the best opportunity to be diagnosed and offered
      appropriate treatment. If the CRT method is not able to identify a population that benefits
      from anti-encephalopathy treatment other screening and monitoring tests should be used.
    
  