
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Recurrence free survival (RFS) in patients with mucosal melanoma (MM) treated with
      neoadjuvant ipilimumab plus nivolumab and surgery followed by adjuvant nivolumab and
      expectant observation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Pathologic complete response with neoadjuvant ipilimumab plus nivolumab. II. Distant
      recurrence-free survival (DRFS) with adjuvant nivolumab and expectant observation.

      III. Overall survival (OS) with adjuvant nivolumab and expectant observation. IV.
      Safety/toxicity as measured by maximum grade adverse event in (a) the neoadjuvant setting,
      (b) the adjuvant nivolumab cohort after randomization, and (c) the observation cohort after
      randomization.

      V. Rate of delayed primary surgery.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Demonstrate that baseline tumors harboring a higher neoepitope burden have superior median
      RFS than those who have a lower neoepitope burden in the arm receiving adjuvant nivolumab.

      II. Demonstrate that tumors with higher CD8+ infiltration at the tumor invasive margin at
      surgical resection have superior median RFS than those with lower CD8+ infiltration.

      III. Demonstrate that tumors harboring a "T cell inflamed" ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression
      signature at surgical resection following neoadjuvant nivolumab plus ipilimumab have a
      superior distant RFS than those harboring a "non-T cell inflamed" signature, both in the
      overall group and within those who receive adjuvant nivolumab.

      IV. Identify recurrent genetic alterations at baseline that are associated with higher
      CD8+/PD1+ infiltration at baseline and following 1 dose of neoadjuvant nivolumab plus
      ipilimumab.

      V. Tumor response rate will be estimated based on patients whose imaging are captured and
      submitted during the neo-adjuvant portion of the study (imaging is not required).

      OUTLINE:

      PART I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over
      30 minutes on day 1. Within 3-6 weeks after receiving nivolumab and ipilimumab, patients
      undergo surgery per standard of care. Within 84 days of last surgical resection, patients may
      also undergo adjuvant radiation therapy (RT), if clinically appropriate.

      PART II: Within 84 days of last surgical resection, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo active surveillance for 1 year.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes once every 2 weeks for 4 doses.
      Patients then continue to receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes once every 4 weeks for up to
      11 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 90 days for 2 years,
      every 180 days for 3 years or until disease progression, whichever is first, and every 6
      months thereafter until a maximum of 5 years following registration.
    
  