
    
      The aim

      To evaluate the impact of combined oral contraceptives on women's psychosexual, metabolic,
      blood coagulation, hormonal and genetic measures.

      The objectives

        1. To asses the relation of AR polymorphisms to metabolic, androgen, blood coagulation
           parameters and sexual function in hormonal contraceptive users.

        2. To compare the changes of metabolic, coagulation and endocrine parameters between
           hormonal and non-hormonal contraceptive users.

        3. To assess the impact of COCs on the quality of woman's sexual life and her psychological
           state.

        4. To assess the correlation between sex hormones and women's metabolic, endocrine,
           psychological, sexual function.

        5. To evaluate the influence of COCs on the blood coagulation parameters.

        6. To determine the importance of androgen parameters in diagnosis of hyperandrogenism.

      Materials and Methods Setting׃ The study will be conducted in Lithuanian University of Health
      Sciences during the period from 2013 to 2016 years.

      4 visits will be proceeded during the study: the screening visit and 3 additional visits - an
      inclusion in the study visit, a visit after 3 months and a visit after 6 months.

      The screening visit (0 visit)

      During the screening visit women will be questioned during the routine life and medical
      history. They will undergo a routine general clinical and gynecological examination:

        1. height/weight (for BMI calculation) and hip/waist measurements;

        2. blood pressure (BP) measurement ant a cardiac auscultation (for heart rate (HR)
           testing);

        3. auscultation of lungs and palpation of the abdomen;

        4. assessment of possible veins varicose in the legs;

        5. bimanual gynecological examination;

        6. breasts palpation;

        7. genital ultrasound examination to assess possible anatomical anomalies;

        8. thyroid ultrasound examination. Women meeting the assessment criteria will be introduced
           with The Informed Consent Form. Women who signed The Informed Consent Form will be
           invited to come for the 1 visit.

             1. visit

      Women will repeatedly undergo a routine general examination (BP, HR). Genital and thyroid
      ultrasound will be performed.

      Visual methods to determine the degree of hirsutism, as originally described by Ferriman and
      Gallwey (F-G), will be performed. The density of terminal hairs at 9 different body sites
      will be scored from 0 to 4, and total score will be calculated. In addition to the F-G
      scoring, the height/weight & hip/waist measurements, will be recorded. Hirsutism will be
      diagnosed in case of F-G≥8 scores.

        -  The women, presenting for hormonal contraception use and with no contraindications for
           hormonal therapy, one of the two medicines registered in Lithuania will be administered׃
           Daylette (20 micrograms of Ethinylestradiol and 3 mg of Drospirenone) or Lindynette (20
           micrograms of Ethinylestradiol and 75 micrograms of Gestoden).

        -  The women, presenting for non-hormonal contraception use, will be recommended barrier
           copntraception use(BCM),or Natural family planing methods (NFPM).

      Women will be given to fill in six questionnaires׃

        1. General questionnaire, developed by the authors to find out sociodemographic status;

        2. Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD)- to determine the level of anxiety and depression;

        3. WHO-Five Wellbeing Index (WHO- 5)- to evaluate woman's well being;

        4. Big Five- to assess personality traits;

        5. Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI)- to find out the details of their sexual life;

        6. Dyadic Adjustment Scale (DAD)- to assess the compatibility of the sexual partners.

      Following blood tests will be performed׃

        1. Lipogram, glycemia;

        2. Hormonal analyses by radioimmunoassay method ׃ total testosterone (T), free testosterone
           (FT), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAs),
           thyrotropin hormone (TSH), free thyroxine (FT4);

        3. Blood coagulation test׃ clotting time according to Ovran, fibrinogen,activated partial
           thromboplastin time (aPTT).

        4. Total blood picture test;

        5. Androgen receptor (AR) polymorphism test. Patients will be invited to come for another
           visit after 3 months. 2 visit

      Women, arriving after 3 months, will be interwied about the changes in well-being and the
      potential side effects caused by the COCs. Women will undergo a routine general examination
      BP, HR, height/weight & hip/waist measurements). Genital and thyroid ultrasound will be
      performed. The signs of hyperandrogenism will be assessed using F-G scoring system.

      Women will be given to fill in six questionnaires׃

        1. Anxiety and Depression Scale;

        2. WHO-Five Wellbeing Index;

        3. Big Five;

        4. Female Sexual Function Index;

        5. Dyadic Adjustment Scale;

        6. Satisfaction Questionnaire- to assess side effects, caused by used contraceptive method.

      Patients will be invited to come for another visit after 6 months. 3 visit Women, arriving
      after 6 months, will be interwied about the changes in well-being and the potential side
      effects caused by the COCs. Women will undergo a routine general examination BP, HR,
      height/weight & hip/waist measurements). The signs of hyperandrogenism will be assessed using
      F-G scoring system.

      Women will be given to fill in six questionnaires׃

        1. Anxiety and Depression Scale;

        2. WHO-Five Wellbeing Index;

        3. Big Five;

        4. Female Sexual Function Index;

        5. Dyadic Adjustment Scale;

        6. Satisfaction Questionnaire. Following blood tests will be performed׃

      1. Lipogram, glycemia; 2. Hormonal analyses by radioimmunoassay method ׃ T, FT, SHBG, DHEAs,
      TSH, FT4; 3. Blood coagulation tests׃ clotting time according to Ovran, fibrinogen, aPTT; 4.
      Total blood picture test.

      For further use of COCs patients will consult with the gynecologist performing the study.
    
  