
    
      The aim of this randomized controlled study is to evaluate the possible benefit of a
      regenerative treatment protocol (placing a bone substitute covered by a bioresorbable
      collagen membrane) compared to surgical treatment alone, for peri-implantitis therapy.

      The hypothesis is that there will be a greater number of patients with successful treatment
      of peri-implantitis following the use of a bone substitute/collagen membrane compared to
      surgical peri-implantitis therapy without the bone substitute/collagen membrane.

      The project will be conducted as a two-armed randomized controlled clinical trial of 1-year
      duration. Forty systemically healthy patients with ≥1 implant diagnosed with peri-implantitis
      requiring surgical therapy will be enrolled.

      Baseline measurements will be performed after non-surgical therapy (removal supramucosal
      biofilm/calculus, oral hygiene instruction and correction of prosthetic factors) and
      treatment of periodontitis.

      Baseline measurements will include probing depth, position of mucosal margin, presence of
      plaque, presence of bleeding and/or suppuration on probing, PROMs and radiographs.
      Measurements will be recorded at 4 sites per implant.

      Following the baseline measurements participants will be randomly assigned to either Control
      Group (Group 1): access flap and implant cleaning or Test Group (Group 2): access flap,
      implant cleaning and addition of a bone substitute material covered by a collagen membrane.

      Participants in both treatment groups will be prescribed systemic antimicrobials (Amoxicillin
      500 mg tds and Metronidazole 400 mg tds) for 7 days starting from the day of surgery.

      In addition an antibacterial mouthrinse (chlorhexidine digluconate 0.2%) will be prescribed
      for a period of 4 weeks following surgery.

      Participants will be asked to attend follow-up visits for review of healing (week 1 and 4)
      and maintenance care (3, 6, 9, and 12 months).

      Clinical examinations will be performed by a calibrated blinded examiner at 6 and 12 months
      after therapy. Clinical measurements will be taken using a periodontal probe at 4 sites per
      implant to record presence of plaque, bleeding, probing depth and recession of the soft
      tissue.

      PROMS will be assessed at 1 week, 4 weeks and at 6 and 12 months. Radiographic assessments
      Intra-oral radiographs and cone beam CT scan will be obtained prior to surgery and at 12
      months. Oral-maxillofacial radiologists will. perform the radiographic analysis and will be
      blinded to the treatment procedure.

      Primary outcome variables include (1) resolution of peri-implantitis (probing depth reduction
      and absence of BoP, suppuration) (2) recurrence of disease (BoP, suppuration and increase in
      PPD and progression of bone loss.
    
  