
    
      Evidence supporting sweetness preference alterations via variations in dietary sweetness
      exposure is limited. Most studies investigating this focused only on specific sweet elements
      in the diet, (e.g. beverages; mono- and disaccharides; high-energy dense snacks) instead of
      sweetness in the diet as a whole. Furthermore, there is no clear evidence about the relation
      between dietary sweetness exposure and weight gain. Therefore, longer term,
      sufficiently-powered studies with a 'whole diet' approach are needed to address the question
      whether sweet preferences can be altered (suppressed or stimulated) by variations in
      sweetness exposure. It is important to answer this question so that dietary recommendations
      can be scientifically tailored accordingly. The present study will provide breakthrough
      evidence about the flexibility/adaptability of sweetness preferences, in terms of effect
      sizes and direction, duration of effects, and impact on dietary intake, glucose homeostasis
      and body weight. This information is particularly relevant for product development by food
      industries in the context of reformulation strategies, and for governments to base their
      dietary guidelines upon.

      The primary study objective is to assess the effect of a 6-month low, regular and high
      dietary sweetness exposure on sweetness preference in a series of familiar and unfamiliar
      foods. Preference will be assessed in both familiar and unfamiliar foods since, preferences
      in familiar, commonly eaten foods might by harder to change compared to those for unfamiliar
      foods, because there is no consumer-expected sweetness level associated with unfamiliar
      foods. The secondary objective is to assess the effect of a 6-month low, regular and high
      dietary sweetness exposure on sweetness perception, food choice and intake during a test
      meal, dietary taste patterns, taste preferences, food cravings, sweet-liker type, glucose
      homeostasis, biomarkers related to cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes, body weight and
      body composition. Participants will be matched on age, gender, BMI and sweet liker status and
      randomly allocated to one of the three intervention arms: (1) regular dietary sweetness
      exposure (25-30 percent daily energy from sweet foods) (control) (n=60); (2) low dietary
      sweetness exposure (10-15 percent daily energy from sweet foods) (n=60); and (3) high dietary
      sweetness exposure (40-45 percent daily energy from sweet foods) (n=60). The intervention is
      semi-controlled, meaning that 50 percent of the foods will be provided to participants. Foods
      are offered ad libitum, on a weekly basis and macronutrient composition of the offered foods
      is similar in energy and macronutrient composition, that is fat, protein, carbohydrates and
      fibres, but different in sweetness. New methodology of our group enables us to assess
      sweetness exposure within a diet, by profiling foods based on six taste clusters (neutral;
      salt, umami & fat; sweet and fat; sweet and sour; fat; bitter).

      Preference and perceived taste intensity will be assessed during hedonic and sensory
      evaluation of eight foods; three sweet familiar, three sweet unfamiliar and two salty
      familiar ones. Foods are solid, semi-solid and liquid. Furthermore, observed food choice and
      intake during test meals, reported food preferences, reported food cravings, sweet-liker
      type, glucose homeostasis, body weight, body composition and biomarkers related to diabetes
      and cardiovascular disease will be assessed. Outcomes will be assessed several times; at
      baseline (Month 0), during the intervention Month 1, Month 3, Month 6 and in the follow up
      period (Month 7, Month 10). Compliance will be assessed with 24-hour urine sample and dietary
      assessment methods (24-hour recalls).
    
  