
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS Tobacco use among women now approaches that of men, with approximately 27
      million women smokers in the United States alone. Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer
      death among women, and more than 180,000 women die of other illnesses linked to smoking
      annually. Women report greater difficulties quitting smoking and are more likely to relapse
      than men. In addition, tobacco use co-varies with poor dietary practices and lack of physical
      activity, with 92% of smokers reporting at least one other health risk factor. The presence
      of multiple behavioral risk factors greatly increases the risk of developing many acute and
      chronic conditions.

      Concerns about weight gain, negative body image, and lack of self-efficacy may be key factors
      affecting smoking, diet, and exercise behavior of women. Women smokers are less satisfied
      with their bodies, have lower self-esteem, and are more concerned about becoming overweight
      than non-smokers. Approximately 50% of women smokers report that concerns about body weight
      are reasons they do not quit. Research indicates that women report lower self-efficacy in
      quitting than men, especially women concerned about controlling their weight. These findings
      suggest that targeting weight concerns, body image, and self-efficacy to quit with
      weight-concerned women who smoke may be an effective intervention strategy. Recent studies
      suggest that a multi-behavioral approach, including diet and physical activity, may be more
      effective at helping weight-concerned smokers to quit.

      One cognitive approach, guided imagery, has been successfully employed in separate lines of
      inquiry to address body image concerns and self-efficacy in our three target
      behaviors-exercise, diet and smoking cessation. However, guided imagery has not been employed
      to target weight concerned women who smoke or to simultaneously target smoking, diet, and
      exercise behavior in a single intervention. The proposed study would be the first of its kind
      to create a theory-based, guided imagery intervention to assist weight-concerned women
      smokers to quit.

      While imagery is an effective therapeutic tool for behavior change, the mode of delivery has
      generally been in-person, limiting the dissemination of guided imagery-based interventions to
      large populations. Mobile health applications (mobile apps) delivered via smart phones offer
      a unique channel through which to distribute imagery-based interventions. Mobile apps may
      enhance the use of guided imagery through the use of audio files. The app may allow guided
      imagery scripts to be tailored by the user, and flexibly administered at varying times (e.g.,
      during nicotine cravings). This approach could be especially useful for women, who are more
      likely than men to use the Internet to obtain health information. The use of a mobile app
      offers an innovative approach to addressing the multiple behaviors involved in smoking
      cessation efforts of weight-concerned women, and has the potential to reach large numbers of
      women smokers. If successful, a mobile application for guided imagery could be used to
      address other health behaviors as well. The present project aims to develop and test the
      feasibility of a mobile health application using guided imagery in order to increase smoking
      cessation among weight-concerned women smokers.

      The Specific Aims for this study are to:

      Aim 1. Develop guided imagery content, user interface, and resources to reduce weight
      concern, and increase body image and self-efficacy for behavior change among weight-concerned
      women smokers. Scripts incorporating imagery across these domains will be developed
      specifically for smoking cessation, eating a healthy diet and engaging in physical activity.
      The investigators will develop initial content and user interface ideas based on experience
      in using guided imagery for increasing physical activity, and using technology to assist
      tobacco cessation and healthy eating. Ten focus group participants (weight-concerned women
      smokers who own a smart phone, representing various racial/ethnic groups) will provide
      feedback on content, potential tailoring of content by race/ethnicity, functions, and design,
      which will inform development of the mobile app.

      Aim 2. Program a prototype of the app that contains all the necessary elements of text,
      graphics, multimedia and interactive features. Users will be able to customize certain
      elements of the application, and be required to provide input in response to app prompts. The
      investigators will conduct usability testing, observing 10 participants using "think aloud"
      procedures as they interact with the app, to ensure that it is fully functional and easy to
      use.

      Aim 3. Evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of the app with 50
      weight-concerned women smokers. The primary outcome will be self-reported tobacco abstinence
      at 3 months post-enrollment. The investigators will also measure: dietary intake; level of
      physical activity; body image; self-efficacy; cravings; and participants' use of the app,
      including the imagery scripts, diary, and resource links.

      The potential impact of this proposed intervention is great, because it addresses behavioral
      risk factors that can be applied to populations beyond smokers. This proposal is significant
      because it intervenes with women smokers; innovative, in that it uses guided imagery to
      change lifestyle behaviors important for the prevention of chronic diseases, and, technology
      to maximize dissemination potential. The proposed investigation takes a theory-based
      approach, builds on the considerable track records of the investigators, and will be
      conducted in an environment highly suited for this study. Results of this study will be used
      to prepare for a future randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy and
      cost-effectiveness of a multi-behavioral, guided imagery mobile health application versus a
      single smoking cessation imagery mobile health application.
    
  