
    
      Across varied disciplines, the science is clear that early relationships and the quality of
      early care are central in achieving positive language, cognitive, and social development
      outcomes for young children and investments made in early childhood pay for themselves. Early
      childhood education is a critical context for fostering stimulating, responsive, and
      sensitive caregiving as a substantial number of children under the age of 5 years spend time
      in childcare settings, with 64% of children aged 3 to 5 years enrolled in non-relative care
      outside the home. While great efforts are made to improve the children's social emotional
      well-being in child care environments, less attention has been given to early childhood
      educators' (encompassing of early childhood teachers') own well-being. Research that has been
      conducted finds early childhood educators experience high levels of distress, including high
      levels of depression and burnout. Additionally, previous research finds school age teachers
      feeling overworked and overstressed show an altered hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis
      and higher levels of teacher burnout is related to elevated cortisol levels in elementary
      school students.

      The current study will test the efficacy of an 8-week compassion and mindfulness based stress
      reduction program for early childhood educators, as well as characterizing relations from
      early childhood educator wellbeing to child self-regulation. Teachers will be assigned at the
      center level to an intervention group or a wait-list comparison condition, with the wait-list
      group receiving the intervention after the 8-week study. Pre- intervention, teachers in both
      groups will complete survey measures of their wellbeing, mindfulness, and emotion regulation;
      emotion regulation tasks; and assessments of stress physiology in the classroom.
      Teacher-child interactions will be observed and children's self-regulation will be measured.
      Post-intervention, the same teacher measures will be collected.
    
  