
    
      Study category and Rationale: This study is without any use of medication or investigations
      products, therefore this is a category A clinical trail.

      Background and Rationale: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a chronic and progressive
      disease leading to right heart failure and ultimately death in untreated patients. A variety
      of systemic illnesses have been associated with PAH. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is not
      defined as a risk factor for PAH. However, compared to a control population higher pulmonary
      artery pressures are described in patients with HCV. Some case reports indicate association
      between HCV medication and PAH. Except of a few case reports, to date no clinical study about
      evidence of PAH in patients with direct-acting-antiviral (DAA) medication for HCV infection
      has been published.

      Objective: The purpose of this study is the evaluation of PAH in patients, who are treated
      with DAA medication for HCV infection.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome of this study is the evaluation of pulmonary artery pressure
      change using transthoracic doppler-echocardiography (TTE) in patients with a new diagnosis of
      HCV before and after treatment with DAA medication. The secondary outcomes are the change in
      left and right ventricular structure and function using TTE in patients with a new diagnosis
      of HCV before and after treatment with DAA medication.

      Study design: A single center prospective, observational cohort study. Inclusion / Exclusion
      criteria: Inclusion criteria are evidence of HCV infection and age 18-90 years. Patients will
      be excluded from the study, if there is an inability to provide informed consent and if there
      are known for existing PAH.

      Measurements and procedures: The patients will receive a TTE for the measurement of the
      pulmonary artery pressure before, during (8 weeks after starting the medication) and 8 weeks
      after completion of the HCV medication. The whole treatment period will take about 12 weeks.

      Study Product / Intervention: The study will use a TTE for measurement of pulmonary artery
      pressure. This non-invasive, fast investigation (total duration about 20 minutes) is used for
      years in Cardiology and does not constitute a specific study product.

      Number of Participants with Rationale:The study goal ist the înlusion of 50 participants with
      a newly started DAA medication for HCV infection. Due to the lack of data, a power
      calculation is not possible. However, if a higher number than 50 participants would be
      necessary to show a significant rise in pulmonary pressure, a clinical significance is not
      likely to be relevant.

      Study Duration: The study inclusion is planned for 2 year.
    
  