
    
      AIM 1: In anterior cervical decompression and fusion (ACDF) subjects, explore the association
      between prebiotics, anxiety, and pain.

      Studies have recently elucidated a link between certain prebiotics and lower perceived
      anxiety as well as biomarkers of stress. In this aim the investigators will explore the
      association between consumption of prebiotics and their relationship to perioperative anxiety
      / physiological stress response. The investigators hypothesize that subjects who receive
      prebiotics will have lower perioperative anxiety and stress versus control as measured by
      standardized surveys and biomarkers. Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize that lower
      anxiety will result in lower postoperative pain scores.

      AIM 2: In ACDF patients, explore the association between GOS and post-operative cognitive
      dysfunction.

      Stress and anxiety is known to impair cognitive function. In addition, in preclinical
      studies, the administration of distinct keystone bacterial strains improves cognitive
      function in an anxious mouse model. In humans, prebiotics and probiotics have been shown to
      ameliorate the stress response. In this aim the investigators seek to explore the association
      between prebiotics and perioperative cognitive outcomes in humans. The investigators will
      perform cognitive function testing using the same time-tested battery used in the department
      to study post-operative cognitive decline (POCD). Subjects will be tested for cognitive
      function preoperatively (T1) and at 1.5 months post-op (T4). The investigators hypothesize
      that patients receiving prebiotics during the perioperative period will show less
      post-operative cognitive dysfunction than controls.

      A total of 8 subjects will be recruited from the Neurosurgery Clinics of Duke University
      Health System. The target population will include subjects undergoing ACDF. Exclusion
      criteria will include: pregnant women, age<21 years, a diagnosis of depression, mental or
      behavioral disorder, recent anxiolytic use, long-term opiate use, oral contraceptive use, or
      recent antibiotic use.
    
  