
    
      The ergonomic design and setup of an operating/procedure room have long been a studied topic
      of interest. Back in 1999, an article (1) reviewed the ongoing research into the effects that
      operator posture, the operating room environment, and visualization of screens have on the
      ergonomics of surgery. They made the observation that 'future efforts to create a more user-
      friendly operating room environment will require the rethinking of traditional concepts of
      architecture, asepsis, and staffing (1). As technology rapidly advances, we are increasingly
      able to reassess and enhance the current ergonomic structure and setup of operating rooms and
      procedures.

      Interventional radiology (IR) refers to a variety of minimally invasive procedures using
      small- caliber catheters under fluoroscopic or ultrasound guidance for the treatment of
      vascular and urologic, gastrointestinal conditions without the need for open surgery (2).

      Interventional Radiology has the unique ergonomic consideration of the placement of the
      intraoperative viewing monitors (3). To perform any Interventional Radiology procedure,
      radiologists currently use a ceiling mounted or floor mounted image intensifier, a ceiling
      mounted screen and a small floor mounted monitor. In many procedures (usually those requiring
      downstream access into the vessel, arm or neck vascular access) the Radiologist has to move
      their own position to visualize all the screens, as it is impossible to rotate the screens
      adequately so that they are in a direct line with the Radiologists vision. Previous studies
      of office video terminal display (VDT) users demonstrate that the preferred viewing angle for
      VDTs is between 10° to 25° below the line of sight(4). The monitors are placed in such a way
      that the Interventional radiologist cannot possibly maintain the correct line of sight
      without some neck movement and craning. Inevitably, long periods of time standing in this
      awkward position can lead to musculoskeletal issues for the radiologist, as well as the
      stress of performing a procedure safely without the best line of vision.

      The Interventional Radiologist is also wearing a heavy lead apron during the procedure, which
      adds to the ergonomic challenges. The incidence of neck and back pain increases with hours of
      apron use and years of practice, and may be the result of a combination of axial load (ie,
      prolonged standing in protective garments), awkward or poor posture (necessitated by leaning
      or bending to accomplish procedures), and repetitive injury accumulated over years of
      practice. (5)

      In addition, there are multiple other screens monitoring patient parameters which are outside
      of the Interventional radiologist's field of view during the procedure, creating further
      safety concerns. Of note, other current concerns in the Interventional suite are costly
      screen breakage during manoeuvre of the screens during suite setup, and sterility issues that
      arise when the monitor is brought too close to the operating field.

      The intention is that the new device will project a hologram of all the screens which can be
      positioned exactly in front of the operator at all times, irrespective of the patient
      position. Because it is mixed reality, the operator can still see their surroundings and
      perform the procedure exactly as normal.

      With this technology, multiple screens of different modalities can be added, such as CT
      scans, MRI scans and 3D rendered holograms. Specific device instructions can also be
      visualized if necessary, without the requirement for the radiologist to leave the sterile
      procedure site.

      The device can also be used to stream fluoroscopic and 3D images to a remote hololens or
      computer screen. This can be utilized for remote assistance and mentoring purposes. It will
      also be especially useful in the context of COVID-19, where reducing the clinical exposure of
      health care workers is of vital importance.

      The main intention of the pilot study is to assess whether the hypothesis that the VSI
      streamer and HMD will indeed improve the ergonomics of the interventional suite sufficiently
      enough that the Interventional radiologist can perform the procedures more comfortably and
      safely. The practicalities of adding the VSI Streamer and HMD to the interventional suite
      setup will also be assessed.

      During this initial pilot study, a practical assessment will be performed of the usability of
      the VSI streamer during commonly performed elective angiographic procedures. This will
      identify which procedures are particularly suited to this technology.
    
  