
    
      rTMS has appeared a potential new non-invasive antidepressant method, which implies
      non-convulsive focal stimulation of the brain through a time varying magnetic field. ). RTMS
      is based on the principle of electromagnetism. An electromagnetic coil placed on the scalp
      produces a time-varying magnetic field that penetrates the scalp and skull unattenuated and
      gives rise to a current in the proximity of the cerebral cortex as well as functionally
      connected parts of the brain. Research on rTMS reports of minimal side effects of the method
      Previous research indicates that the antidepressant effect of rTMS is associated with
      specific stimulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The stimulus frequency has shown
      to play a key role in the mechanisms of action of rTMS. Previous animal studies have shown
      that low frequency rTMS is associated with long term inhibition of neuronal activity (long
      term depression), while high frequency stimulation is followed by prolonged activation (long
      term potentiation). To some extent, this differential effect of different frequencies is
      reflected in human studies (REF).

      The majority of clinically controlled studies have used high frequency stimulation of the
      left frontal cortex , which has been approved by the USA FDA (1) and later in EU for the
      treatment of depression.

      Fewer studies have used right prefrontal, which has less side effects, such as local
      discomfort and a lower risk of releasing epileptic seizures, than high frequency stimulation
      . In addition low frequency rTMS is generally less time-consuming. Both stimulus models has
      been shown to have a modest, statistically significant antidepressant effect and recent
      research clearly indicates that low frequency rTMS of the right prefrontal cortex i
      associated with an antidepressant effect at the same level as the high frequency model. The
      issue indicates that low frequency due to the more advantagous side effect profile should be
      the stimulus model of choice in a clinical setting.

      Therefore the investigators want to examine the antidepressant effect of a specific rTMS low
      frequency model in a clinical setting using a placebo controlled, randomized double blind
      design.
    
  