
    
      Beginning in 2006, Northwestern University Internal Medicine and Emergency Medicine residents
      completed simulation-based mastery learning in central venous catheter (CVC) insertion before
      clinical rotations in the Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU). This comprehensive program in
      central line training used repetitive practice and simulation technology to train residents
      to mastery standards. This study had important patient safety implications. This program
      resulted in improved trainee skill and reduced CVC insertion complications, including a
      significant decrease in the rate of central line associated bloodstream infections (CLABSI).
      In addition, the investigators showed that the in CVC insertion was highly cost-effective
      suggesting that investment in simulation training can produce significant medical care cost
      savings.

      This curriculum has now been successfully implemented at a few other sites. Due to the
      investigators' success, the VA has requested that Medical Error Reduction and Certification,
      Inc.(MERCI) along with Northwestern University, implements the curriculum at its sites across
      the county as a quality improvement project. Using a train the trainer course in CVC
      placement, the investigators are interested in analyzing the data that the VAMC will provide
      to MERCI and studying the outcomes.

      Four Northwestern faculty completed a CVC insertion Master trainer curriculum. One master
      trainer travels to each VA facility in the program to facilitate a two-day train-the-trainer
      course on CVC insertion SBML. Each VA facility selects one or two "faculty champions" who
      complete CVC insertion SBML course and learn how to teach the curriculum on day 1 and are
      observed training and assessing peer healthcare providers at their institution on day 2.
      Course materials include standardized videos and lectures, role-playing and practice with
      sample learners and CVC insertion assessments. In addition to the onsite master trainer, each
      VA facility receives necessary training materials (standardized video lectures, data
      collection forms, assessment tools) and equipment (CentralLineMan simulators, ultrasound) to
      implement the curriculum at their institution. All participants complete pre and post testing
      and a course evaluation questionnaire. Quantitative outcome data on learner skills and CVC
      insertion quality measures are collected to measure the overall success of the project.
    
  