
    
      The study is a randomized, single-blinded (blinded to volunteers) placebo-controlled Phase 1
      clinical trial in healthy adult volunteers designed to evaluate the safety and reactogenicity
      of a new malaria blood stage vaccine candidate, and to elucidate the immunogenicity of the
      antigen, AMA1-C1, formulated on Alhydrogel [R]. The trial will last 42 weeks. Volunteers will
      be recruited and screened, and those determined to be eligible will be enrolled in the study,
      based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria described in Section 4.0 in this protocol.
      After providing written informed consent the volunteers will be enrolled and randomly
      allocated to receive 80 microgram dose of AMA1-C1 formulated on Alhydrogel [R] (12
      volunteers) or Alhydrogel [R] alone (6 volunteers) at 0, 1 and 2 months. After each
      injection, volunteers will be observed for 60 minutes for immediate reactions. Volunteers
      will return to the clinic on study days 1, 3, 7, and 14 following each injection for clinical
      assessment and collection of blood samples for evaluation of immune responses. Leukaphereses
      will be performed 7 days after the third vaccination to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells for B and T cell studies. Safety data for the cohort up to and including follow up day
      14 after the first, second and third injection will be available for review by the Medical
      Monitor.

      Immunogenicity of the vaccine will be assessed by standardized assays for antibody levels
      against AMA1-3D7 and AMA1-FVO, and an in vitro growth inhibition assay (GIA). The cellular
      basis of the immune responses will be evaluated by enumeration of relevant B and T cell
      subpopulations, including total and antigen-specific naive, memory and effector
      subpopulations specific for the antigens. The frequencies of B and T cells specific for the
      vaccine antigens in the group that received AMA1-C1/ Alhydrogel [R] will be compared to those
      in the group receiving Alhydrogel [R] alone. The total and antigen-specific cell frequencies
      in pre-immune (day 0) samples will serve as additional negative controls for the
      immunization. The goal of the study is to augment previously collected safety data for the 80
      microgram antigen dose with a larger cohort, and to study the safety and immunogenicity of an
      accelerated vaccination schedule.
    
  