
    
      OBJECTIVE(S): The main goal of this study is to evaluate the utility of a Minute Ventilation
      Adaptive Servo-ventilation (MV-ASV) device in mitigating deterioration in renal function and
      prevent kidney injury in patients admitted with acute heart failure compared to those
      receiving usual care. We will be assessing the effects of MV-ASV on diuretic dose, urine
      output and new and exciting biomarkers of renal function and kidney injury. If our hypothesis
      proves correct, it strongly suggests that ASV lessens hypoxia to the kidney and could lead to
      a new paradigm for the treatment of AHF. When use of high dose of diuretics are anticipated
      or in whom CKD or AKI is present on arrival to the Emergency Department, use of MV-ASV might
      decrease the amount of diuretics needed, allow for continued use of ACE inhibitors, and
      ultimately mitigate rises in creatinine and decreases in effective glomerular filtration.
      Since kidney injury is a major factor in those patients with early 30-day readmission
      following discharge, this therapy could become quite popular.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: This is an interventional, principal investigator-initiated project with
      patient enrollment, cohort development and data analysis. We will recruit 66 patients with
      acute heart failure and evidence of volume overload and elevated BNP, since we anticipate a
      10% dropout. Half will be pre-selected to have CKD with eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2.
      Randomization will be attempted within first six hours of hospital presentation. The
      participants will be randomized one of the following two groups: 1) those receiving only
      standard therapy or 2) those receiving standard therapy and adaptive servo-ventilation (ASV)
      therapy.

      METHODOLOGY:

      Methods:

        1. Consenting of patient: every attempt will be made to consent within six hours of
           evaluation, as we feel there is a good window for ASV here. Maximum time to consent is
           24 hours.

        2. Sleep and breathing assessment: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Epworth
           Sleepiness Scale, Pulmonary Sleep Lab Questionnaire, Sleep Diary, Likert Scale

        3. Blood Sample Collections:

        4. Two 10cc (20cc total) blood samples in standard collection tubes will be obtained via
           venipuncture or a peripheral IV line from each enrolled patient at the time of
           enrollment.

        5. One sample will be collected in a lithium heparin tube and the other sample will be
           collected in an EDTA tube. Initial blood samples will be collected after the initiation
           of standard medical therapy and stabilization for acute heart failure.

        6. The blood samples will be analyzed for cardiac biomarkers such as BNP, high sensitivity
           troponins (hsTnI), endothelin-1 (ET-1), kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) by Singulex,
           and adrenomedullin (hADM) by Sphingotec.

           Remaining blood samples will be banked for future biomarker analysis. All samples will
           be held at the VASDHS in a clinical laboratory storage facility indefinitely for future
           analysis of biomarkers such as those of inflammation, fibrosis and cardiorenal syndrome.
           NO GENETIC TESTING will be done on the samples.

        7. As obligated, we will report any incidental findings of FDA approved biomarkers
           performed, as a part of further analysis of banked specimens, to the patient through
           their treating physicians.

        8. All specimens will be frozen at -80 degrees Celsius for storage.

        9. Specimens with evidence of hemolysis will not be analyzed.

       10. MV-ASV Treatment and Respiration Monitoring:

             -  Adaptive Servo-Ventilation (ASV) therapy will be placed on the patient by the
                respiratory therapy team as soon as the patient is enrolled in the study. The ASV
                device will be on ASV Auto mode, which has an automatic expiratory positive airway
                pressure (EPAP) adjustment based on the patient's breathing. The ASV Auto default
                EPAP range is 4-15cmH2O with a pressure support range of 3-15cmH2O. The backup rate
                of the ASV is adaptive based on the patient's respiratory rate. However, if the
                automatic ventilation setting is not suitable to maintain target ventilation, then
                a setting of 15 breaths per minute will be used.

             -  We will ask the patients to use the ASV therapy during all hours of sleeping during
                their stay in the hospital and during times when they are awake, if they feel
                comfortable using it.

             -  The patient will be closely monitored during the first few hours to make sure the
                patients are comfortable, have the right settings and are without mask leaks. The
                monitoring team will consist of members from Cardiology, Pulmonary Critical Care
                and Respiratory Therapy.

       11. Repeat following assessments in the hospital each day for up to five days

             -  Two tubes of 10cc each (20 cc total)

             -  Likert dyspnea assessment

             -  Sleep diary entry once each day for up to 5 days

             -  Urine outputs

             -  Daily weights

             -  Dose of diuretics

       12. Additional hospital data to be recorded:

             -  Presence of arrhythmias

             -  Need for inotropes

             -  Need for intubation

             -  Number of ICU days

             -  Total number of hospital days

             -  Need for renal consult

             -  Electrolytes

             -  BNP

             -  Troponins

       13. Once the subject is discharged from the hospital, the following will happen:

             -  They will be seen at 30 days for following:

             -  Evaluation for events

             -  Sleepiness scales: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Epworth Sleepiness Scale,
                Pulmonary Sleep Lab Questionnaire, Sleep Diary, Likert Scale

             -  Two tubes of blood (10cc each) will be drawn, as described above to assess renal
                function and AKI

             -  They will not be reimbursed for this visit

       14. Power analysis • The comparison of groups of size 30 and 30 has a power of 0.815 to
           detect an effect equal to a group difference of (0.75) standard deviations. This would
           apply to all variables in univariate tests at significance level of 0.05 with
           appropriate corrections for multiple comparisons.

      CLINICAL RELATIONSHIPS: The potential benefit of this study includes the validation of the
      use of an ASV device in the treatment of heart failure. ASV treatment might decrease the
      amount of diuretics needed, allow for continued use of ACE inhibitors, and ultimately
      mitigate rises in creatinine and decreases in effective glomerular filtration. ASV treatment
      may lessen hypoxia to the kidney and could lead to a new paradigm for the treatment of AHF.

      IMPACT/SIGNIFICANCE: Heart failure is a major cause of both death and healthcare spending in
      the United States. ASV is a cost effective, non-invasive treatment that can improve symptoms
      and cardiac outcomes in patients with heart failure. Validation of an MV-ASV device as an
      effective treatment could help improve prognosis and quality of life in patients with this
      often terminal condition.
    
  