
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the ability of tandutinib to achieve a target tumor/plasma ratio ≥ 0.33 in patients
      with recurrent glioblastoma undergoing resection. (Feasibility study) II. Detect potential
      biological effects of tandutinib by measuring platelet-derived growth factor receptor
      phosphorylation status and downstream activation of Akt and Erk. (Feasibility study) III.
      Determine the maximum tolerated dose of tandutinib in patients with recurrent or progressive
      glioblastoma. (Phase I) IV. Estimate the frequency of toxicities associated with tandutinib
      in patients with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma. (Phase I) V. Describe the
      pharmacokinetics of this route of administration in patients with recurrent or progressive
      glioblastoma. (Phase I) VI. Assess tumor response rate in patients with recurrent or
      progressive glioblastoma. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate overall survival of patients with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma. (Phase
      II) II. Estimate the 6-month progression-free survival rate in these patients. (Phase II)
      III. Assess the toxicities associated with tandutinib in these patients. (Phase II) IV.
      Assess the pharmacokinetic profile of this route of administration in these patients. (Phase
      II) V. Explore protein-expression patterns that distinguish patients who respond to therapy
      from those who do not. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, prospective, nonrandomized, feasibility study and phase I
      study (in parallel) followed by an open label phase II study.

      FEASIBILITY STUDY: Patients receive oral tandutinib twice daily for 7 days. Patients then
      undergo biopsy or surgery to remove the tumor. Within 2 weeks after biopsy or surgery,
      patients receive oral tandutinib twice daily* on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE I: Patients receive oral tandutinib twice daily* on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tandutinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

      [Note: *On day 1 of course 1, patients receive only 1 dose of tandutinib.]

      PHASE II: Patients receive tandutinib as in phase I at the MTD determined in phase I.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection for pharmacokinetic studies. Patients in the
      feasibility portion of the study also undergo blood and tissue sample collection for
      correlative studies by mass spectrometry for tandutinib concentration. Samples are also
      examined for circulating endothelial cells and plasma proteins (vascular endothelial growth
      factor [VEGF]-A, -B, -C, and -D, soluble VEGF receptors [sVEGFR's], placental growth factor
      [P1GF], platelet-derived growth factor [PDGF]-AA, PDGF-AB, PDGF-BB, angiopoietin-1 and -2,
      tumstatin, thrombospondin-1, and IL-8) as potential markers of the antiangiogenic effect of
      tandutinib.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months.
    
  