
    
      Background and aim. Children and adolescents with cerebral palsy (CP) are at high risk for
      pain and their pain is frequently underestimated and undermanaged. They often experience a
      substantial pain burden from the pain itself and its influence on all aspects of their life,
      for example ability to perform daily activities, participate socially, sleep, or on overall
      quality of life. The overarching aim of the CPPain-program is to reduce the pain burden in
      children and adolescents living with CP.

      Study design. The CPPain has a prospective cohort comparative design and will include before-
      and after measurements and process evaluation of a nested intervention. This registration
      concerns the CPPain baseline and includes a multinational survey (the CPPain survey) and
      qualitative interviews with children and adolescents with CP, their parents/caregivers and
      health care professionals. The nested intervention will later be developed based on findings
      from the baseline.

      Qualitative data collection (the CPPain survey). The study population for the CPPain survey
      will include children younger than 18 years with a CP diagnosis (=primary participants) and
      their siblings (12-17 years) as controls. Parents of all primary participants will provide
      proxy report. Children with CP > 8 years of age and cognitively able (approx. 50%) and
      siblings (12-17 years) will provide self-report. The survey will include a set of previously
      published and validated measures that assess aspects of pain (experience, interference and
      management), performance of daily activities, mental health, Health-Related Quality of Life
      (HRQoL), and participation. These measures include modified versions of Dalhousie Pain
      Interview (DPI) and Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), The
      Caregiver Priorities and Child Health Index of Life with Disabilities (CPCHILD), Revised
      Children's Anxiety and Depression Scale (RCADS-25), KidScreen, and Child and Adolescent Scale
      of Participation (CASP). We have also added a researcher-developed questionnaire on COVID-19
      and pain. We will have three versions of the survey: Parent proxy, Self-report - full
      (12-18), and self-report - abbreviated (8-12 and older children with cognitive limitations).
      In addition to self- and/or proxy-reported survey data, demographic and disability-related
      data already registered in either national registers or electronic medical charts will be
      collected. Survey data will primarily be collected using an electronic survey. The Clinical
      Data Management System (CDMS) used for the eCRF in this study is Viedoc. The setup of the
      study specific eCRF in Viedoc will be performed by Research Support Services CTU, Oslo
      University Hospital (OUS).

      Qualitative data collection. Potential participants for the child and parent interviews will
      be identified from the CPPain survey or clinicians in the child habilitation services.
      Inclusion criteria are school-aged children and adolescents (8-18 years) with cerebral palsy
      who have pain, determined from their or their parents' responses to the modified Dalhousie
      Pain Interview. If the child is unable to self-report or do not wish to participate only the
      parent/caregiver will be included.A purposeful sampling strategy will be used to ensure a
      diverse sample concerning child and parent age and gender, as well as the child's level of
      physical and cognitive disability and severity of pain burden. We estimate that we will
      include 15-20 child/parent dyads, but the final number will depend upon the richness of the
      material and data saturation.Both individual semi-structured interviews and focus groups will
      be used to answer the research objectives. Interview guides cover experiences with pain and
      its impact on life and living for children and parents respectively, parents' perception of
      their child's pain burden and its impact, as well as how pain is managed, including a
      detailed mapping of both the current and ideal help network. From the existing help network,
      identified by interview participants, health care professionals will be identified and
      recruited for a second round of interviews.

      Data analysis. Quantitative questionnaire and register data will be analyzed using
      appropriate statistical methods for comparing groups and analyzing time trends in close
      cooperation with the study's statistician. Stratification will be used to investigate sub
      groups. Analysis will be adjusted for appropriate sociodemographic variables. SPSS will be
      the main tool for statistical analysis, while some of the more complex analysis will require
      the use of R. Other specialized software will be applied as needed. Qualitative data from
      interviews and from unstructured responses to survey questions will be analyzed using
      appropriate qualitative methods; primarily content, thematic and/or network analysis. NVivo
      will be the main qualitative analysis tool. Qualitative and quantitative data will be
      combined and analyzed from either a quantitative or qualitative perspective to provide a more
      comprehensive understanding of the phenomenon.
    
  