
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The study objective is to investigate the safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of
      intravitreal injections of methotrexate as a possible treatment for chronic macular edema
      secondary to panuveitis, posterior or intermediate uveitis.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Five participants with chronic macular edema associated with panuveitis, posterior or
      intermediate uveitis will be initially enrolled. However, up to an additional two
      participants may be enrolled to account for participants who withdraw from the study prior to
      reaching Week 12. Eligibility criteria include macular edema in the study eye, which has not
      been responsive to conventional immunosuppressive therapy in the past three months, or the
      participant experienced a recurrence of macular edema while on conventional immunosuppressive
      therapy.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      In this single-center, prospective, uncontrolled, unmasked, Phase I/II clinical trial,
      intravitreal injections of methotrexate at a dose of 400 μg per 100 μL will be administered.
      There will be an induction phase and a pro re nata (PRN) phase. During the induction phase,
      participants will receive injections at baseline and Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20 in their study
      eye unless contraindicated. Additional safety visits will occur at Weeks 1 and 2. Beginning
      at Week 24, participants who agree to remain in the study will undergo evaluation for
      injection in the study eye PRN every 4-8 weeks. These participants will be followed for 4-8
      weeks after the last enrolled participant completes his/her Week 24 visit.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome is the number of participants who meet the definition of treatment
      success within 12 weeks from baseline. Treatment success is defined as achieving at least a
      1-step decrease in the LogScore scale for central macular thickness. Secondary outcomes
      include changes in Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) best-corrected visual
      acuity (BCVA), changes in excess retinal thickening, changes in macular thickness, changes in
      intraocular inflammation on clinical exam, changes in leakage as seen on fluorescein
      angiography (FA), changes in autofluorescence patterns seen on fundus autofluorescence (FAF)
      imaging and observation of dose reductions of systemic immunosuppression or steroids. Safety
      outcomes include the number and severity of adverse events, systemic and ocular toxicities,
      electrophysiologic changes assessed by full-field electroretinography (ERG) and number of
      withdrawals.
    
  