
    
      Background: Coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart failure (HF) are the leading causes of
      mortality and morbidity, particularly with the current context of an aging population.
      Subclinical hypothyroidism (SHypo), defined as elevated serum TSH levels with normal
      thyroxine values, is common in older adults (5-10%). Prospective cohort studies, as well as
      analyses of pooled individual participant data suggest up to a 60-90% increase in the risk of
      CHD or HF events among adults with severe SHypo. However, no large randomized controlled
      trials (RCT) have assessed the impact of thyroid replacement on cardiovascular (CV) imaging
      outcomes (largest trial to date: 45 participants). Imaging endpoints are especially
      well-suited for early trials with investigational therapies for HF treatment and prevention,
      as well as validated and strong surrogate markers of clinical outcomes.

      Specific Aims: The goals of this proposal are to address the impact of thyroid replacement on
      1) cardiac function as measured by echocardiography.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct a RCT in 185 patients with subclinical hypothyroidism
      who will be randomly assigned to thyroxine or placebo with an average follow-up of 24 months
      from baseline (4 death and 17 withdrawal). The main outcome will be CV imaging modalities
      measured by echocardiography at the close-out visit. Transthoracic echocardiography will be
      performed for the assessment of diastolic function (abnormalities of the pulsed wave mitral
      valve inflow pattern and mitral annulus tissue velocities, left atrial volume index, left
      ventricular [LV] mass index) and cardiac systolic function (LV ejection fraction and regional
      function). Ultrasound of carotid intima media thickness (CIMT) will be used to assess
      subclinical atherosclerosis and plaque burden. All images will be centralized at the core lab
      for a blinded and standardized interpretation.

      Expected value of the proposed project: Controversies persist regarding the indications for
      screening and treatment of SHypo due to the lack of an appropriately powered RCT addressing
      the impact of thyroid replacement on CV outcomes. Assessment of the impact of thyroid
      replacement on cardiac function and subclinical atherosclerosis within a trial will aid
      decisions and evidence-based guidelines development to treat a potential modifiable risk
      factor, such as SHypo. The strengths of this study include the combination of: 1) High
      feasibility of the project in collaboration with the largest RCT on SHypo making it possible
      to investigate the mechanisms of associations with CV disease; 2) Innovative project with
      combined CV imaging to assess cardiac function with thyroid replacement therapy vs. placebo;
      3) Excellent power given the large sample size and participants' older age. The sample size
      for this proposal will be 5-fold higher than previous small trials of thyroid replacement on
      CV outcomes. The collaboration of CV imaging modalities expertise with the ongoing largest
      trial on SHypo, is a unique opportunity to address the clinical and scientific issue of the
      impact of SHypo on the CV system.
    
  