
    
      Survival rates for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) now exceed 80%. With this
      growing population of long-term survivors comes recognition that a considerable proportion
      experience one or more significant late effects. For children undergoing central nervous
      system (CNS) treatment, common late effects include neurocognitive impairment and
      neurobehavioral problems. Although these problems first manifest as subtle difficulties with
      attention and processing speed, they can evolve into deficits in higher order brain functions
      that significantly impact functional skills in a subset of long-term survivors. There
      currently is no method to accurately identify patients at greatest risk for these long-term
      behavioral and neurocognitive problems. Through this proposal, this study plans to utilize
      existing data collected during acute treatment to identify predictors of long-term
      neurocognitive and brain maturation outcomes. The study also proposes to collect data on
      attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and associated comorbidities, higher order
      executive functions, and structural and functional brain imaging in survivors who are at
      least 8 years of age and greater than 5 years from diagnosis.

      All patients will undergo a single neurocognitive evaluation focused on assessment of higher
      order executive functions. Patients will be evaluated during their regularly scheduled annual
      follow-up visit, when health-related monitoring will also occur. Parents of participants will
      be asked to complete questionnaires designed to assess the family environment and the impact
      of cancer diagnosis on family functioning and parent stress.

      Brain Imaging: To better demonstrate untoward treatment effects upon cortical brain
      development, quantitative MR imaging of myelin integrity using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)
      and cortical thickness assessment using high resolution volumetric imaging will be utilized.
      All patients will also be evaluated using functional MRI (fMRI) procedures during resting
      state and participation in attention and working memory tasks. fMRI and DTI data will be
      de-identified then analyzed at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas.
    
  