
    
      300 patients with class II-IV heart failure (HF) due to systolic dysfunction (left
      ventricular ejection fraction <40%) and recent (within 6 months) destabilized HF will be
      randomized 1:1 to either 'standard of care' therapy for their HF versus 'standard of care
      plus NT-proBNP guided' care.

      At randomization, patients at MGH will undergo a 2-dimensional echocardiogram for cardiac
      structure and function.

      Patients randomized to the 'standard of care' arm of the study will receive aggressive
      therapy for their HF, including evidence-based addition/titration of therapeutic agents in
      the trial, such as carvedilol or metoprolol XL, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or
      angiotensin receptor blockers, spironolactone inhibitors (for those in class III or IV),
      digoxin (when applicable), loop diuretics, as well as nitrates with or without hydralazine.
      Biventricular pacing with/without ICD capability will be performed at the discretion of the
      investigator. Any changes in therapy will be accompanied by a 2 week follow up for
      re-assessment and further titration of medications, based on clinical judgment.

      At each interim visit, patients in the 'standard of care' arm will have a Minnesota Living
      with Heart Failure questionnaire taken. For all visits, including those triggered by med
      changes, laboratories will be checked including serum chemistries; a sample of blood for
      blinded NT-proBNP, troponin T, and high sensitivity CRP will be obtained for measurement
      after the trial is complete.

      Patients randomized to the 'standard of care plus NT-proBNP guided' arm will receive the same
      aggressive medical care as above, but will also have an unblinded measurement of NT-proBNP
      provided to the study investigator within an hour of first patient contact. Therapeutic
      decision-making will be first based on clinical acumen/judgment, but if the NT-proBNP is
      elevated, per protocol, the investigator will adjust therapies accordingly, including
      escalation of existing therapies with known effects on NT-proBNP levels, as well as possible
      addition of similar therapies not yet in use (such as spironolactone).

      Patients will be followed for events including destabilized HF (in or outpatient),
      cardiovascular events (including ischemic complications, ICD discharge, or development of
      non-fatal arrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation), or death.

      At the end of one year, event rates will be assessed and the outcomes in the two arms will be
      compared. As well, echocardiography will be performed on subjects at one year and differences
      from baseline in both groups will be assessed.
    
  