
    
      Study Aims Diabetes increases the risk of cognitive dysfunction. The incidence of dementia is
      1.5 to 2.5 times higher in persons with diabetes than the general population (1). There is
      evidence that cognitive decline significantly impacts the ability to self-manage diabetes
      (2). Strategies to prevent cognitive decline in persons with diabetes has not been well
      studied. A recent study reported that in persons who had vitamin D deficiency, the risk for
      all-cause dementia and Alzheimer's was doubled (3). Vitamin D receptors are located in the
      brain, and deficiency of vitamin D has been reported to negatively affect the development of
      brain and impact both growth factor signaling and neural activity (4, 5). Therefore,
      providing vitamin D supplementation to improve cognitive function in persons with diabetes
      who are at great risk for this comorbid condition is important. The investigators propose a
      small, randomized controlled trial to determine the effects of vitamin D3 supplementation in
      persons with type 2 diabetes who have symptoms of cognitive impairment. Persons will be
      randomized to receive either weekly vitamin D3 supplementation (50,000 IUs) or a matching
      comparator (5000 IUs) for a period of three months.

      Primary Aim: To determine the effect of vitamin D3 supplementation on cognitive function for
      persons with type 2 diabetes.

      Primary Hypothesis: Persons receiving weekly vitamin D3 supplementation (50,000 IUs) will
      have improved cognitive function compared to those receiving the comparator (5000 IUs) at
      three months.

      Secondary Aim: To determine the effect of vitamin D3 supplementation on diabetes
      self-management.

      Secondary Hypothesis: Persons receiving weekly vitamin D3 supplementation (50,000 IUs) will
      have improved self-management compared to those receiving the comparator (5000 IUs) at three
      months.

      The importance of this study is several fold. Vitamin D supplementation is a low cost
      intervention (6), it has minimal side effects (7), and it could have high impact for persons
      with type 2 diabetes who suffer from cognitive impairment which can significantly affect
      their diabetes self-management.
    
  