
    
      This study was designed as a double-blinded and randomized controlled trial.

      Children with spastic CP from the outpatient clinic of the Department of Physical Medicine
      and Rehabilitation at Rumah Sakit Umum Pusat Nasional Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo (RSCM)
      participated in the study. The patients were randomly allocated to four groups: 500 pulses,
      1,000 pulses, 1,500 pulses, and 2,000 pulses. All groups undergo routine rehabilitation,
      including physiotherapy. Ethical approval was obtained from the Ethical Committee of Faculty
      of Medicine, University of Indonesia - RSCM.

      Spasticity of hamstring was evaluated as the degree of resistance to passive movement using
      ASAS (0: no spasticity to 4: severe spasticity). Evaluations were done at four time points:
      1) pre-ESWT, 2) immediately post-ESWT, 3) 2 weeks post-ESWT, and 4) 4 weeks post-ESWT. All
      patients were examined by the same physiatrist with the patient lying on supine position on
      the stretcher.

      BTL-6000 SWT Topline (BTL, Czech Republic) was used to apply rESWT on hamstring muscles, with
      the subject lying on prone position. The energy flux density was constant at 0.1 mJ/mm2 and
      the repetition frequency was at 4 Hz, with a pressure of 1.5 bars. For double-blinded
      treatment, spastic hamstring muscles from CP patients were allocated into four groups - each
      group receiving a varying total number of pulses (group I: 500 pulses, group II: 1,000
      pulses, group III: 1.500 pulses, and group IV: 2,000 pulses). No anesthesia was given.
      Adverse events were closely monitored during and after therapy.

      Intra-group changes in ASAS were evaluated with Friedman analysis of variance from baseline
      immediately post ESWT, 2 weeks post ESWT, and 4 weeks post ESWT; followed by post-hoc
      Wilcoxon signed-ranked test. Inter-group differences in ASAS reduction were analyzed using
      Kruskal Wallis test. Statistical analysis was conducted using SPSS ver. 23.0 (IBM
      Corporation, Armonk, NY, USA). The level of significance was set at <0.05.
    
  