
    
      Pain after circumcision is moderate to high level. Inadequate pain control leads to severe
      agitation, swelling of the wound, neurobehavioral change, lower parental satisfaction. Pain
      control for circumcision including topical, Dorsal penile nerve block, Caudal block. Topical
      is inadequate to control post-circumcision pain. Dorsal penile nerve block is not completely
      cover every areas of penis and also has 4-6.7% failure rate. For Caudal block provides good
      pain control but it is not proper for ambulatory surgery because of common adverse effects
      such as motor weakness, urinary retension, moreover it has short duration only 6 hours after
      block.

      In the last 15 years, large-scale studies from many countries studied the safety of regional
      anesthesia in pediatric patients. It was found that the central neuraxial and peripheral
      nerve blockage can be done safely, especially using ultrasound-guided to increase safety.
      Therefore, regional anesthesia is extensive performed in pediatric patients with the main
      purpose of controlling postoperative pain after surgery, reducing the use of opioids
      analgesics which may cause respiratory depression, especially in young children.Pudendal
      nerve block for postoperative pain relief for circumcision, hypospadias has been shown to be
      effective.

      Pudendal nerve derives from anterior rami of spinal nerve root S2-S4 then runs into Alcock's
      canal and enters the ischiorectal fossa. In this area, pudendal nerve will separate to 3
      branches 1) Dorsal penile nerve 2) Perineal branch 3) Rectal branch, therefore pudendal nerve
      block can provide effective postoperative pain control for surgery around perineal area such
      as circumcision, hypospadias, anoplasty.

      There were several studies on the effectiveness of pudendal nerve block for treating pudendal
      neuralgia and to control pain after hemorrhoidectomy in adult patients. For pediatric
      patients, the effectiveness of pudendal nerve block in circumcision surgery compared to the
      dorsal nerve block was found that in the group receiving the pudendal nerve block, the pain
      score is lower, with less painkiller and longer pain control. In addition, the study of the
      pudendal nerve block in pediatric patients who underwent hypospadias in comparison to caudal
      block, the group that received the pudendal nerve block had a longer duration of pain
      relief.It can be concluded that the pudendal nerve block is more effective in pain control
      than the traditional dorsal penile nerve block for circumcision and more effective than
      caudal block for hypospadias. In addition, it can avoid side effects from caudal block, such
      as motor weakness, urinary retension, and can be a good alternative pain relief for patients
      who have contraindication to neuraxial block.

      However, the effectiveness of pain control by the pudendal nerve block method is also
      different, which may be the technical difference of the block. In principle, for the
      performing peripheral nerve block, the more injection of local anesthetics approach the
      nerve, the more efficacy will also be followed, and the duration of action will be longer.
      But the injection near the nerve will increase the chance of causing nerve damage.Therefore,
      the ideal method of the peripheral nerve block is to inject as close to the nerve as possible
      without causing injury to the nerves, which is currently a device that can be used to
      identify the position of the nerve. 1) Using Nerve Stimulator (NS), stimulator by looking at
      the response of muscles when electrically stimulated, the position used to identify the
      proximity of the needles to the nerve is the response of the muscle at 0.5 milliampere and no
      response when using electricity 0.2 milliampere,which indicates that the needle tip is in the
      right position, not too close or too far 2) Using an ultrasound-guided, which allows to see
      the position of nerves, blood vessels, and adjacent organs, which can be injected at the
      point without harm. 3) Using dual-guidance (both ultrasound together with nerve stimulator,
      which is expected to benefit both of these methods.

      The study conducted by Naja and Kendigelen supported that the use of the Nerve
      Stimulator-guided could provide 100% success rate with patients requiring extra painkillers
      within the first 24 hours only 7.5-20%. The performance time of block is 2-8 minutes. Later,
      the study by Gaudet-Ferrand that performed pudendal nerve block under U/S-guided only in
      pediatric patients who underwent perineum surgery, they reported the success rate only 88%
      and 60% of patients required opioids in recovery room. Which , compared to previous studies,
      there was no patient who wanted opioid in recovery room.That show the use of U/S guided
      pudendal nerve block only is less effective than performing by Nerve Stimulator-guided, which
      possible cause is U/S could not identify pudendal nerve in every patients.That makes the
      injection too far from nerve or can injure the nerve unintentionally.

      However, using only the Nerve Stimulator still has a risk of injury to important organs such
      as rectum or adjacent vessels, especially in small children or performing by less expertise.
      So using U/S will increase safety of block.

      This study will find out the effectiveness of performing transperineal pudendal nerve block
      by dual guidance which use both of NS and U/S guided compare with using U/S guided only.
      Assuming that the dual guidance technique should increase the effectiveness of the pudendal
      nerve block compare to the use of U/S guided alone. The primary outcome is the efficacy of
      postoperative pain control by evaluating the proportion of patients who need opioids during
      immediate postoperative period.
    
  