
    
      OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability
      of FP253 for prostate cancer. FP253 contains an ovine atadenovirus that expresses the E. coli
      enzyme purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) under the control of a prostate-directed
      promoter.

      SUBJECT POPULATION: Up to eighteen male subjects (6 groups of 3 subjects) who have a
      histological diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the prostate, still have their prostate in situ,
      have evidence of progressive disease despite continuous androgen deprivation therapy and who
      meet all eligibility criteria, will be enrolled into this study.

      STUDY DESIGN: This study is designed as an open-label, dose escalation trial in which each
      patient in a cohort will receive a single defined dose. Subjects will be enrolled
      consecutively into 6 escalating dose groups each of 3 subjects. Each subject will receive the
      treatment as outlined in the protocol and will be followed up for a further 2 years at
      regular intervals for life, as defined by current standard of care.

      TREATMENT: Subjects will be administered a single injection of FP253 followed by five doses
      of Fludarabine phosphate as outlined in the Intervention section.

      SAFETY PARAMETERS: Adverse events will be recorded and physical examinations, 12-lead ECG,
      vital sign monitoring, urinalysis and collection of blood samples for pathology laboratory
      tests will be performed at regular intervals during the study to monitor safety. The shedding
      of viral vector will be monitored as per regulatory requirement until negative.

      ADDITIONAL PARAMETERS: In order to assess any haematological or immunological effects of this
      novel agent or any effects on tumour response and survival, the following will be assessed:

        -  Biochemical and Haematological Markers: including Prostate-Specific Antigen,

        -  Immunopathological Markers: including haematological markers and indicators of
           cytotoxicity,

        -  ECOG assessment,

        -  Assessment of disease progression and survival.

      DATA ANALYSIS: Descriptive statistical methods will be used to summarize key data including
      demographics, vital sign measurements, ECG parameters, clinical laboratory parameters, immune
      response, tumour response, adverse events and concomitant medication. The general strategy of
      the safety analysis will be to examine the data summaries for any trends in safety parameters
      across the dose levels. No formal hypothesis will be tested.

      A formal data analysis will be performed after all subjects have completed the study period
      (28 days) and an interim analysis will be performed after the first 3 dose cohorts have been
      completed. For the first year, three monthly follow up reports will be produced followed by 6
      monthly reports for the second year and a final follow up report when all subjects have
      completed 2 years of follow up. Descriptive statistical methods will be used to summarise key
      data including demographics, vital sign measurements, ECG parameters, clinical laboratory
      parameters, immune response, tumour response, adverse events and concomitant medication. The
      general strategy of the safety analysis will be to examine the data summaries for any trends
      in safety parameters across the dose levels. No formal hypothesis will be tested.
    
  