
    
      A total of 60 bipolar and healthy comparison subjects (n=30 per group, 21-26 years of age,
      50% women, with no history of a moderate/severe AUD) will be recruited from the greater
      Austin area. Once recruited and enrolled, subjects will undergo detailed structured clinical
      evaluations to verify inclusion and exclusion criteria, comprehensive assessment of alcohol
      and other drug use history, and cognitive testing, followed by structural MRI assessments.
      Following standard beverage administration procedures, they will then complete measures of
      subjective response to alcohol and fMRI scans while under the influence of alcohol or a
      placebo condition (counter-balanced). For each participant the first beverage session
      assignment (whether the participant is given alcohol or the placebo beverage first) will be
      randomized. Alcohol and placebo sessions will occur within 3 days of each other. FMRI
      assessments will include a continuous performance task with emotional and neutral distractors
      (CPT-END) and a resting state scan.

      For both the alcohol and the placebo beverage conditions, the protocol will be the same. The
      beverage administration sessions will occur in a private room at the University of Texas at
      Austin in the Imaging Research Center. The table in the testing room will be wiped down with
      alcohol prior to the participant's arrival (olfactory cue). Study staff will use an algorithm
      to calculate individual alcohol doses based on the participants' age, sex, height, and
      weight. Participants fast from food for 4 hours prior to their session. Before beginning
      consumption of their beverages, they will eat a weight-adjusted, 1 calorie per pound snack of
      pretzels. While participants eat their pretzels, study staff will mix beverages in front of
      participants. Vodka and placebo (decarbonated tonic water) will be stored in absolute vodka
      bottles, measured out, and combined with mixer in front of participants. Mixed drinks will be
      poured into glasses that have been sitting face down with rims soaking in vodka. Prior to
      giving the beverage to the participant, all drinks will get an alcohol floater (squirt of
      absolute vodka on top of the drink). Participants will be given 20 minutes to orally consume
      two beverages (10 minutes per beverage).

      Following oral consumption and a 10 minute absorption period, breathalyzer tests will be
      conducted to identify a .06g% ascending limb breath alcohol concentration (BrAC). Self-report
      of subjective response to alcohol will be collected and participants will immediately enter
      the scanner and complete the fMRI scan (acquisition parameters are identical during alcohol
      and placebo conditions). BrAC will be tracked after the MRI scan and subjective response to
      alcohol collected again at peak BrAC and at descending BrAC of .06g%. Consistent with NIAAA
      guidelines for human alcohol studies, BrAC readings will continue every 30 minutes until
      participants are below 0.04% at which time they will be escorted home. During the placebo
      condition, participants will be given false BrAC readings. False BrAC readings given to
      participants during the placebo session will be based on the average BrACs we record during
      the alcohol sessions. The average time participants stay in the laboratory will be the same
      for the placebo and alcohol beverage conditions. Participants are debriefed after completing
      all sessions and the need for deception to ensure the placebo-controlled alcohol session will
      be explained.
    
  