
    
      Phase III study. Prospective, multicenter, non-inferiority, randomized, open-labelled and
      controlled study with two arms.

        1. In the 31 participating hospitals: selection of women with GDM who have unmet post
           prandial glycemic targets between 14 and 37 (+6 days) weeks of amenorrhea after at least
           7 days of dietary and lifestyle measures. They may be treated with basal insulin to
           control pre prandial glucose values.

        2. Explanation of protocol, with signature of consent in case of acceptation.

        3. Randomization

           . Experimental group: The women will receive acarbose with a progressive increase of
           dose according to post prandial glucose values and digestive tolerance, with a maximal
           dose of 3 x 100 mg / day. The progressive titration of acarbose reduces
           gastro-intestinal side effects.

           Patients who have not reached the glycemic targets at this highest tolerated dose for at
           least one meal will receive instead prandial insulin therapy for each meal, whereas
           acarbose will be stopped. Failure to reach post-prandial target will be defined as 3 or
           more post-prandial glycaemic values ≥ 1.20 g/L for a given meal in a week (3 values out
           of 7) after the two weeks of dose adjustment.

           · Control group: The women will receive prandial insulin according to usual practice
           (routine care according to French recommendations): before each meal, with dose
           titration according to post prandial values.

           Basal insulin may be necessary in both arms to control pre-prandial glucose values.

           At delivery:

           - Maternal blood samples : 14 ml of blood will be collected at the same time as the
           sample routinely collected just before delivery for irregular agglutinin test
           measurement, when the women are perfused.

           - Cord fluid : 7 ml will be collected at the same as cord fluid pH is routinely measured
           just after delivery. There will be 5 aliquots to prepare.

           The aliquots previously labelled and stowed in the specific boxes for the study will be
           stored locally and will be transported to the "Centre de Ressources Biologiques"(CRB) of
           the Jean Verdier Hospital.

        4. Routine monitoring of the women with GDM in both arms, up to delivery. No use of other
           oral hypoglycemic agents during pregnancy.

        5. Last consultation three months after delivery.
    
  