
    
      This study is a randomized (patients are assigned different treatments based on chance),
      double-blind (neither the patient nor the physician knows whether drug or placebo is being
      taken, or at what dosage), parallel-group, multicenter study to evaluate the effectiveness
      and safety of ustekinumab compared to placebo in the treatment of patients with active
      psoriatic arthritis who have or are currently receiving treatment with a disease-modifying
      antirheumatic drug (DMARD) and/or a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), including
      those who have previously received anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents [(examples
      are infliximab (Remicade), etanercept (Enbrel), adalimumab (Humira)]. The primary
      effectiveness endpoint will be measured by the reduction in signs and symptoms of arthritis,
      as defined by 20% improvement from baseline in American College of Rheumatology (ACR)
      measurements of arthritis at Week 24. The study will additionally look at higher levels of
      joint improvement (ie, 50% or 70% improvement from baseline) and improvement in activity and
      quality of life, as well as the impact of ustekinumab on psoriatic skin lesions. Safety
      assessments will be performed throughout the study and include obtaining and evaluating
      laboratory tests, vital signs (eg, blood pressure) and the occurrence and severity of adverse
      events (side effects). Patients will be assigned to one of three treatment groups. Patients
      will receive either 45 mg ustekinumab, 90 mg ustekinumab, or placebo at Weeks 0, 4 and every
      12 weeks until Week 40. Patients who do not have >=5% improvement in their disease (tender
      and swollen joints) at Week 16 may be eligible to receive an increase or change to their
      ustekinumab dosage. Ustekinumab 45 mg, 90 mg, or placebo subcutaneous injections at Weeks 0
      and 4 followed by every-12-week dosing with the last dose at Week 40. Early escape
      possibility at Week 16. Patients randomized to placebo will crossover to receive ustekinumab
      at Weeks 24 and 28 followed by every-12-week dosing with the last dose at Week 40. Expected
      duration of exposure to study agent including follow up for safety is 60 weeks.
    
  