
    
      The goal of this project is to better understand how interacting and working with plants in a
      group gardening activities program in a greenhouse, or a group art program that takes place
      indoors and is devoid of images or depictions of plants influences the overall health and
      well-being of participants.

      A total anticipated study population (N = 40) will consist of up to 20 healthy women randomly
      assigned to the art activities group, and up to 20 healthy women assigned to the gardening
      group. There will be measurements of heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and
      psychometric assessments including satisfaction of social activities at baseline and post
      intervention. Heart rate and blood pressure measurements will be taken at the beginning and
      end of each of the eight gardening or arts sessions. Psychometric assessments of study
      participants will be conducted at baseline and post-intervention. Each treatment group will
      be divided into two smaller groups of up to ten women each that will receive the gardening or
      art interventions on different days of the week. The participants in the gardening or art
      groups will receive an experimental intervention consisting of 8 gardening or art sessions,
      each approximately 60 minutes in duration over a four week treatment period. Gardening and
      art sessions will take place at the same time of day twice each week, and follow a
      standardized programming sequence to ensure equivalency of intervention across all sessions.
      Ambient environmental conditions in the greenhouse during the gardening sessions will be
      monitored and recorded. The gardening activities will emphasize growing plants from seeds,
      plant propagation techniques, transplanting, and plant-mediated taste, visual, olfactory and
      touch sensory stimulation. All gardening sessions will begin with a short educational module
      introducing the plants and gardening activities taking place during each session. Art
      activities will include papermaking, image transfer, visual storytelling, linocut
      printmaking, paper batik, mixed media collage, and sensation drawing, and begin with a short
      educational module of the activity.

      In addition to the pre- and post-intervention assessments and measurement, psychometric
      assessments will be administered for depression symptomatology, mood states and perceived
      stress at specific points during the gardening and art activities to evaluate any changes
      over time resulting from the interventions. Participant heart rate and blood pressure
      measurements will be made at the beginning and at the end of all gardening and art sessions.
    
  