
    
      Aim 1) Develop the intervention through focus groups and human-centered design with key
      stakeholders with particular focus on race, gender and financial strain. Key stakeholders
      including patients, caregivers and healthcare providers will discuss prototypes and refine
      intervention components through human-centered design.

      Aim 2) Refine intervention components through an open label pilot (N=5) of the intervention,
      followed by in-depth interviews. We will assess the salient features of the novel
      intervention components using mixed methods including examination of all quantitative
      measures and qualitative interviews to explore acceptability, participant/interventionist
      interactions, home environment factors, goal achievement and perceived value of intervention.
      Intervention components will be adapted for the trial based on results of aims 1 and 2.

      Aim 3) Conduct a single-masked, waitlist control pilot trial of the HEROIC intervention
      (N=50). We hypothesize that caregivers who receive the intervention will show greater
      improvement in primary outcomes (preventive health behaviors, caregiver burden and QOL) and
      potential mechanisms (self-efficacy and biomarkers of resilience [interleukins 6 and 10])
      than control caregivers.

      Randomization: Caregivers will be randomized using a computer algorithm via REDCap to receive
      either: (1) intervention or (2) waitlist. Random assignment will be stratified by spousal vs
      non-spousal caregivers due to increased burden among non-spousal caregivers.

      Waitlisted Control Group: The waitlisted group will receive usual care for caregivers for the
      first 16 weeks, which is normally limited to inclusion in some clinical assessment and
      teaching during patient visits. Waitlisted participants will receive monthly study postcards
      to encourage retention. After 16 weeks, they will begin the intervention.

      Setting:

      Aim 1: Key Stakeholder meetings will be held at the Johns Hopkins University School of
      Nursing, which is located within walking distance of the Heart Failure Bridge Clinic and
      supported by the Community Research Advisory Council.

      Aims 2-3: Study visits will be conducted in the home of the caregiver.

      Intervention Components

      The intervention will be guided by the theory and evidence-based practices that have been
      successful in previous work. For the proposed study, every participant will receive each
      component of the intervention but interventionists will tailor content to each participant's
      goals. The investigators will focus on overall preventive health behaviors broadly
      categorized as physical activity, stress management, rest, healthy diet and appropriate
      healthcare utilization. As part of the intervention, the nurse and the caregiver will discuss
      preventive health categories. In this conversation, the caregiver will prioritize the
      preventive health categories that they would most like to address and then set goals towards
      them. Allowing the caregiver maximum control over this goal-setting, without placing
      additional burden on the caregiver is one aspect of increasing self-efficacy and
      person-centeredness. Because the intervention will allow participants to pick their own
      health goals, the investigators will measure goal attainment related to preventive health
      behaviors, rather than a standardized survey of predetermined preventive health behaviors.

      Intervention Delivery/Study Visits

      The intervention delivery characteristics will consist of an assessment-driven, tailored
      package of interventions delivered by a nurse interventionist. Nurse interventionists will be
      trained and equipped with education materials vetted by national organizations leading
      preventive health research such as the American Heart Association (Healthy for Good) and
      National Institute of Aging (Go4Life). The investigators propose an intervention
      incorporating 3 individualized, nurse-led, home-based sessions, with telephone check-ins and
      text reminders, according to participant preference. Baseline, 16 and 32-week data will be
      collected by interviewers masked to treatment assignment and without interventionist contact.

      Interventional Protocol

      The nurse will meet with the caregiver to perform the initial assessment in which the nurse
      will focus on preventive health behaviors and factors contributing to a sense of burden. To
      build rapport and model the importance of physical activity, the nurse will allow the
      caregiver to choose a short physical activity (ie. Walk around the block, 2 minutes of
      dancing etc). In this assessment, the nurse and the caregiver identify and prioritize goals,
      and make plans to achieve those goals. The nurse will provide the HEROIC Handbook, which will
      be developed following aim 1 and include evidence-based educational materials, contact
      information, and a calendar of sessions that the participant keeps for reference. In each
      session, the nurse assesses goal attainment, reinforces strategy use, reviews
      problem-solving, refines strategies (such as Go4Life physical activities and Healthy for Good
      materials), and provides education and resources to address future needs. Following the
      session, the nurse will find additional resources, tailored to each caregiver. In the final
      session, the nurse reviews the participants' strategies and helps to generalize them to other
      possible challenges or goals. Sessions will be spaced to encourage practicing new strategies
      independently after developing them together with the nurse. Although this intervention
      structure has been successful in work by the mentorship team, the investigators will adjust
      the timing and frequency of study visits based on feedback in phases 1 and 2. Bi-monthly
      meetings of the nurse with the site Research Coordinator and the principal investigator will
      ensure smooth communication, address challenges, supervision, and adherence to intervention
      fidelity.
    
  