
    
      Design and Objective: The Cessation Screening Project is a 4-factor factorial screening
      experiment (i.e., 2x2x2x2 = 16 experimental conditions) designed to identify the most
      promising intervention components that are especially effective and cost-effective with
      regard to their main and interactive effects on 12-month biochemically verified abstinence.
      This design will allow us to: 1) detect main effects and interactions within the factorial
      experiment and identify especially effective regimens for varenicline and for (Combination
      Nicotine Replacement) C-NRT; 2) compare the relative effectiveness of varenicline and C-NRT;
      and 3) identify the most effective and cost-effective counseling intensity to use with the
      optimized medication regimens. Finally, these results will allow us to identify two optimized
      treatment packages for use with primary care smokers interested in quitting: packages that
      include both counseling and pharmacotherapies optimized on the bases of effectiveness and
      cost.

      Recruitment and Participants: Participants (N=608) will be primary care patients from 12
      primary care clinics in two Wisconsin healthcare systems. Smokers will be identified via the
      healthcare system electronic health record (EHR). All EHR-identified smokers in a clinic will
      receive a mailed invitation to find out more about smoking treatment by calling a healthcare
      system Care Manager (CM). In addition, using an opt-out strategy, Medical Assistants (MAs),
      using an EHR-guided prompt, will inform all identified smokers seen at in-person or
      tele-health visits that they will be contacted by the CM unless the participant indicates
      s/he wants to opt-out. The participant contact information will then be automatically sent to
      the CM unless the participant opts out; the investigators have developed and used this
      workflow successfully in their past research. The CM will call and tell patients about the
      smoking cessation options available for them including the availability of this smoking
      cessation study. If patients are interested, the CM will obtain oral assent for screening and
      sharing contact, primary care team, and screening data with the research team before
      screening patients for eligibility. Eligible patients will learn more about the study and
      have a chance to ask questions and provide verbal informed consent. Finally, participants
      will complete a brief series of questions and then the CM will schedule a call with the study
      staff (i.e., a Health Counselor) in the database to initiate treatment and complete study
      assessments. Participants interested in quitting but not eligible for this study will be
      electronically referred to the Wisconsin Tobacco Quit Line and/or their primary care provider
      (PCP) by the CM.

      Those who agree to and pass the screening for the inclusion/exclusion criteria for study
      participation will be asked to complete an oral consent and HIPAA authorization process next.
      After the patient provides oral consent, the CM will notify the patient's PCP via EHR that
      the patient has volunteered for a study with C-NRT or varenicline. The PCP will notify the CM
      via the EHR that the patient is medically eligible to receive either agent, as required by
      the collaborating healthcare systems. This will occur within 5 business days. The PCP will be
      notified via EHR of the patient's treatment assignment and of study-related serious adverse
      events or adverse events that prompt medication discontinuation that may occur. Care
      coordination with the PCP will occur via Tobacco Care Manager entry of data in the patient
      EHR.

      Procedures and Measures: At the second study call, participants (N=608) will be randomized to
      one level of each of 4 factors: 1) Medication Type (Varenicline vs. C-NRT), 2) Preparation
      Medication (4 weeks vs. Standard), 3) Medication Duration (Extended vs. Standard), and 4)
      Counseling (Intensive vs. Minimal). Participants will be told their treatment condition at
      Call 2, set a target quit date (TQD), and instructed how to use their study medications.
      Medications will be mailed following this call, along with a handout that describes: 1) when
      to begin taking study medication; 2) the type and doses involved; 3) how and when to obtain
      the next month's medication; and 4) complete instructions on proper medication use, including
      information from the package insert and contact information if they have questions regarding
      their medication and/or symptoms they experience. Participants will be mailed all Preparation
      Medication as well as one month of post-quit study medication after Call 2. They will need to
      call in to a study line to request that more medication be mailed to them (Standard Duration
      participants will call one time to receive their final 2 months of medication; Extended
      Duration participants will call once to get 2 additional months of medication and again to
      get the remaining 3 months of study medication). Participants will also receive a counseling
      handout with their medications; those randomized to intensive counseling will receive a Quit
      Plan listing their target quit day and when they start the medications and those randomized
      to minimal counseling will receive the mobile health (mHealth) handout.

      Participants will complete phone assessments one week pre-quit, during the first week
      post-target quit date (TQD) and at Weeks 2, 4, 12, 20, 26, and 52 post-TQD.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome for this study is biochemically confirmed, point-prevalence
      abstinence at 12 months post-TQD (Primary Aim 1). The secondary outcome is cost effectiveness
      in which the costs of implementing each intervention (minus research-related costs) will be
      computed from a payer perspective. Costs will be combined with the intent-to-treat
      biochemically verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence at 12 months post-TQD to determine
      the cost per quit.
    
  