
    
      The investigators will use Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS®)
      methodologies to construct improved self-report mindfulness-related measures. They will also
      use PROMIS-based PROsetta Stone® instrument linking methods to equate scores and create
      cross-walks between new mindfulness measures and existing ones. The research team has
      extensive experience in patient reported outcomes (PRO) development through PROMIS and
      related PRO development initiatives, including mind-body measures (Chicago and Pittsburgh),
      PROsetta Stone linking methodologies (Chicago), and mindfulness research (Pittsburgh and
      Chicago).

      PROMIS methodologies involve a systematic and iterative approach to person-centered
      measurement and are the gold standard. Following PROMIS methods, newly created mindfulness
      measures will be informed by: 1) the existing literature, and 2) stakeholders such as
      mindfulness researchers, Buddhist and MBI teachers, and new and experienced meditators.
      COMMENCE analyses will also reflect PROMIS, producing concise, precise, clinically relevant
      measures that can be administered as Computerized Adaptive Tests (CATs) or fixed-length short
      forms. PROsetta Stone methods will enable a crosswalk between the new mindfulness measures
      and legacy instruments that assess similar constructs. All of this will have a major impact
      on mindfulness research through increasing measurement precision and comparability across and
      between studies: past, present, and future. The project will also address the response shift
      challenge. New mindfulness measures and crosswalk linking will be produced through the
      following three SPECIFIC AIMS:

      SPECIFIC AIM I. Development of New Mindfulness Item Banks. Activities include: 1) a review of
      the mindfulness measurement literature; 2) an online survey of mindfulness researchers to
      identify domains and measurement considerations for item bank development; 3) focus groups
      with new and experienced meditators, and individual interviews with mindfulness meditation
      practitioners, including Buddhist teachers, to elaborate on concepts such as response shift;
      4) item refinement; 6) translatability review; and 7) cognitive interviews to assess item
      clarity.

      SPECIFIC AIM II. Calibration of New Mindfulness Item Banks and Score Linking with Legacy
      Measures. Calibration activities will include: 1) testing new mindfulness item banks in a
      large online general population sample (n=4200) and a sample of mindfulness teachers and
      students (n=500); 2) evaluation of dimensionality and other assumptions prior to Item
      Response Theory (IRT) analysis; 3) IRT analyses; and 4) creation of CATs and fixed length
      short forms. A battery of legacy measures will also be administrated alongside new
      mindfulness banks. Using PROsetta Stone procedures, the investigators will test mindfulness
      banks and legacy measures in a new large online sample (n=3000) to link measures on a common
      measurement metric and create cross-walk scoring tables to facilitate interpretation.

      SPECIFIC AIM III. Validation of New Mindfulness Short Forms in Ongoing Mindfulness Courses.
      To evaluate different forms of validity (e.g., construct, criterion), responsiveness to
      change over time, and estimation of minimally important differences, the investigators will
      administer new mindfulness short forms and legacy measures to 250 mindfulness students at
      baseline, 8-weeks, and 16 weeks in multiple, on-going 8-week Mindfulness-Based Stress
      Reduction (MBSR) courses and similar MBI programs at Pittsburgh and Chicago sites, as well as
      at member sites from the Academic Consortium for Integrative Medicine and Health and the
      BraveNet Practice-Based Research Network. In addition to legacy measures, a subset of the
      sample will complete the meditation breath awareness score, an experiential measure of
      focused attention.
    
  