
    
      According to the US Surgeon General's Report (1988), there are immediate, intermediate and
      long-term benefits to health from quitting smoking. For example, there is a 50% reduction in
      coronary heart disease risk in 12 months and the risk of a stroke is reduced to that of a
      nonsmoker 5-15 years after quitting. (US Surgeon General's Report, 1990, p.vi). In a
      systematic assessment of the value of clinical preventive services recommended by the US
      Preventive Services Task Force, smoking cessation treatment for adults was one of the
      highest-ranked services in terms of its cost effectiveness and its potential to reduce the
      burden of disease. Most smoking cessation interventions cost less per year of life saved than
      most widely accepted medical practices. For example, cost-effectiveness analysis of the
      implementation of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) guidelines show costs
      of $4,113 per life-year saved, in 2001 prices compared to annual mammography for women aged
      40 to 49 years, which costs $71,751 in 2001 prices, and hypertension screening for men aged
      40 years, which costs $27,117 in 2001 prices. Therefore, smoking cessation services have been
      referred to as the "gold standard" for comparing the cost effectiveness of other healthcare
      interventions. Although some studies have shown high costs from increased healthcare
      utilization in the first year after quitting smoking due to illness (Martinson, 2003), most
      studies demonstrate that smokers who quit eventually have significantly lower healthcare
      utilization than continuing smokers (Fishman, 2003; Warner, 2003) Thus, for healthcare
      organizations such as the Ontario Health Insurance Plan, implementing smoking cessation
      services will likely result in a relatively quick return on investment. Both the intensity
      and duration of behavioural interventions are associated with sustained remission in smoking.
      The addition of pharmacotherapy doubles the odds of quitting successfully. However, many
      smokers face barriers in accessing pharmacotherapy. The provision of free pharmacotherapy has
      the potential to help a substantial number of smokers to quit. A study by Curry et al, 1998,
      evaluated smokers who were willing to sign up for a cessation-support program under various
      degrees of coverage for either the program or nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). 10% of
      Smokers with full coverage were likely to attempt to quit as opposed to 2.5% with partial
      coverage. Therefore, the USHHS guidelines call for the coverage of these medications.
      Research has shown that coverage for tobacco dependence treatments can enhance not only the
      rate of quit attempts but also long-term abstinence for smokers (Levy & Friend, 2002;
      Schauffler, McMenamin, Olson, Boyce-Smith, Rideout, & Kamil, 2001). On average, the odds
      ratio of quitting at one year was 1.6 for those given free NRT. Therefore, some insurers,
      both public and private, reimburse patients for stop smoking medications. However, a study by
      Boyle et al 2002, found that simply including the medication in an insurance plan did not
      increase quit rates or utilization of medications. Adequate precautions must be taken to
      ensure that free pharmacotherapy is distributed in conjunction with behavioural interventions
      to be successful and to be used by those smokers most likely to benefit from
      pharmacotherapy.Pharmacotherapy can be very expensive if provided to all smokers. However,
      not all smokers want to quit or require medications to quit (McDonald, 2003). Most smokers
      use about 2-3 weeks of pharmacotherapy when not combined with behavioural interventions
      (Pierce, 2002). About 0.05% of smokers looking to quit will seek specialized care. Moreover,
      if we assume that 70% of current tobacco users (Approximately 1.6 million) in Ontario will
      try to quit in a given year and that 10% ( i.e. 169,000) of these individuals would qualify
      for and seek reimbursement for 10 weeks of therapy at $30/week, then the total estimated cost
      will be about $50 million! This is clearly not fundable and therefore a comprehensive
      strategy combined with some rational use of pharmacotherapy is necessary.Hypothesis:

      The provision of free NRT will increase long-term quit rates (>/= 6 months) in Ontario
      smokers.
    
  