
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Early in gestation maternal blood volume normally expands by an unknown mechanism; failure of
      this normal adaptation to pregnancy has been associated with common adverse pregnancy
      outcomes including preeclampsia, intrauterine growth retardation, and premature labor. The
      renin-angiotensin system has a critical role in controlling maternal fluid volume and
      probably in the pathophysiology of these serious complications of pregnancy. Kenneth Ward and
      his group have recently discovered DNA variants which cause amino acid substitutions in
      angiotensinogen (renin substrate), one of which (T235) is strongly associated with
      preeclampsia. They hypothesize that functionally different angiotensinogen proteins may
      underlie the pathophysiology of preeclampsia and other related disorders (such as
      intrauterine growth retardation and premature labor) by not allowing normal volume expansion
      to occur.

      The four interrelated approaches in the study should lead to a better understanding of the
      role of angiotensinogen in pregnancy and of the pathophysiology of preeclampsia. Unlike any
      previous finding in preeclamptic patients, the genetic alteration in angiotensinogen
      described is an intrinsic defect which, although it may be modified by other factors, cannot
      be 'secondary' to other pathophysiologic variables. This molecular hypothesis demands a
      reinterpretation of many prior findings in preeclampsia, fetal growth retardation, and
      premature labor based on angiotensinogen genotypes. The DNA and plasma collected for this
      study will be invaluable resources for future molecular investigations of abnormal
      pregnancies.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Four different strategies were used. First, a prospective, epidemiologic survey of 24,000
      pregnancies was conducted to determine the role of the T235 variant in common disorders of
      pregnancy. From this population, nulligravida volunteers, 150 who were homozygous for T235
      variant and 150 who were homozygous for the alternative M235 allele, were selected for a
      longitudinal study of maternal-fetal physiology and biochemistry in order to determine how
      and when the T235 variant exerted its adverse effect. Taking advantage of the large average
      family size in Utah, the female relatives of women with preeclampsia were also studied in
      order to define the genetics of important angiotensinogen variants. Finally, DNA from
      preeclamptic patients was examined for additional mutations in the angiotensinogen gene which
      may offer unique pathophysiologic insight.

      The study was renewed in 1999 for another four years to investigate the hypothesis that
      disease-associated angiotensinogen alleles promote abnormal spiral artery remodeling and
      inhibit maternal plasma volume expansion.
    
  