
    
      This will be a prospective, double blinded, randomized clinical trial, and it will be
      conducted and reported according to the consolidated standards of reporting trials group 14.

      Setting:

      The study will be conducted at Hamad General Hospital Emergency Department (HGH-ED). Since it
      is the largest tertiary care medical center in the country, having a busy ED with monthly
      census exceeding 40,000 (approximately 500,000 annually). Patients with acute limb injury are
      frequently seen in ED.

      Sample size calculation:

      300 patients are required to have a 95% chance of detecting, as significant at the 5%level, a
      decrease in the primary outcome measure from 70% in the control group to 50% in the
      experimental group. As for the number of subjects to be enrolled in pharmacokinetic study is
      directly related to both power and cost of the trial (14)*, we aim a convenience sample of 20
      subjects, 10 in each group.

      Screening and Randomization:

      All adult patients (age above 18-65 years) presenting with Acute limb injury will be assessed
      by the available physician initially. Patient's hospital identification number will be put
      into the study registry. The registry will assure all consecutive patients are screened. Once
      an eligible patient is identified the physicians will page the research assistant, who will
      be available in the emergency department from 6 am to 2 pm on week days. After meeting the
      inclusion criteria and the subject agrees to participate, written consent will be obtained.
      The enrolled participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio, to one of the two groups-
      either intramuscular diclofenac or oral diclofenac, from the trial packet available in the
      stock.

      A computer generated block randomization sequence will be generated and stored with
      sequential coding known to the clinical pharmacist only. Within the randomized sequence,
      another stratified randomized sequence will be generated for the 20 subjects to be enrolled
      for pharmacokinetic trial only during the morning shifts. In case of adverse reaction form
      will be filled and medical research center will be notified for such event.

      Intervention:

      Typical trial packet

        -  Syringe A: 3ml solution, diclofenac 75mg or placebo

        -  Tablet: 100mg diclofenac tablet or placebo A trial packet will contain one syringe
           labelled A (3ml) and one tablet labelled B (100mg) in an amber colored zip lock pouch.
           Each will be labelled with a sticker mentioning a unique code, date of preparation and
           instructions for administration.

      Trial packs A B Combination 1 Intramuscular Diclofenac Oral Placebo Combination 2 Oral
      Diclofenac Intramuscular Placebo Trial packs will be prepared and kept in a locker ready to
      be used on a daily basis. The team preparing these packets will have no further part in
      patient treatment or data recording.

      Dosage

        -  Intramuscular Diclofenac will be available in 75mg/3ml concentration for single dose
           intramuscular administration.

        -  Tablet Diclofenac will be available as 100mg tablet for single dose per oral
           administration.

      The protocol dictates to administer syringe "A" (3ml) intramuscular, 100mg tablet labeled "B"
      to administer per oral.

      Data and sample collection:

      Patient enrolled for pharmacokinetic measurement, will have an intravenous line to obtain
      blood for routine sampling, a hep- lock will be attached to the line, for the withdrawal of
      repeated samples. Blood samples will be collected only in weekdays and morning shifts from
      6am until 2 pm. 3 ml of blood will be withdrawn at time 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 45 and 60
      minutes. High- performance liquid chromatography method will be used to determine drug in
      human plasma as the method is potentially considered to be used for detailed
      pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and bioequivalence studies of diclofenac in humans. Along
      with blood sampling patient pain score using a numerical rating scale (NRS) will be used to
      assess the pain, as for the rest of the patients. Pain scores will be recorded at 0, 5, 10,
      15, 20, 25, 30, 45 and 60, minutes following administration of analgesia. Patients reported
      pain scores will be recorded contemporaneously and patient will not be reminded of the
      previous score. If patients pain does not reduce significantly at the end of 30 minutes after
      receiving the study drug, a rescue analgesia in the form of morphine will be given 3mg
      intravenously every 5 minutes until sedation side effects or pain drops to Numerical rating
      score = or <2.Patient will be discharged as per the advice of the available physician in ED.
    
  