
    
      This is a proof of concept, pilot, phase II study using iNO in patients on VA-ECMO. Stage 1
      will assess the participant's response to iNO early after cannulation. Stage 2 will assess
      the participant's response to iNO during the ECMO weaning process.

      Stage 1 Patients in whom VA-ECMO is being initiated will be invited to participate.
      Hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and biochemical parameters will be measured immediately prior
      to iNO administration and repeated 30 minutes after iNO initiation. iNO will be continued for
      six hours to allow hemodynamic and oxygenation parameters to stabilize as per previous
      protocols in the literature. After six hours, hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and biochemical
      parameters will be re-assessed after which iNO will be discontinued. All parameters will be
      re-evaluated 30 minutes after iNO discontinuation.

      Stage 2 A weaning trial will be performed at 1) the earliest signs of myocardial recovery or
      b) day 5. Myocardial recovery will be defined as: mean arterial pressure > 60 millimeters of
      mercury (mmHg) on no or minimal inotropic/vasopressor support, arterial pulse pressure > 10
      mmHg, and minimal respiratory support (oxygen saturation > 88% on < 2 liters by nasal
      cannulae, or minimal ventilator setting if intubated). Inhaled nitric oxide will be
      re-initiated 30 minutes prior to the ECMO weaning trial. Adequacy of perfusion will be
      defined as a mixed venous oxygen saturation of > 70%. Hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and
      biochemical parameter will be recorded immediately prior to iNO administration and then at 30
      minutes prior to the ECMO weaning trial. ECMO will be weaned as per the standard protocol at
      the University Health Network with re-assessment of all parameters after weaning is complete.
      When ECMO weaning is unsuccessful, these parameters will be recorded immediately prior to
      re-initiation of full flow VA-ECMO and 30 minutes thereafter. VA-ECMO weaning will be
      re-attempted at 24-48 hours at the discretion of the medical team.
    
  