
    
      The 24 month prospective cohort study will seek to understand reasons for contraceptive
      discontinuation among women of reproductive age including adolescents in Kitui and Migori
      Counties, Kenya. The study will be implemented to assess determinants of contraceptive
      discontinuation after the barrier of lack of adequate counseling is removed. The barrier will
      be addressed by implementing an intervention focusing on a client-centered counseling
      approach in reducing contraceptive discontinuation among women accepting a contraceptive
      method. Ten health facilities with a high family planning caseload will be enrolled into the
      study. Counseling sessions will be conducted at the facilities using three channels:

        1. Counseling by Community Health Volunteers (CHVs) The proposed intervention will identify
           CHVs and build their capacity on contraception with an aim of having them providing FP
           counseling and services in high volume facilities - thus providing additional human
           resources. Their current training on family planning focuses on general information for
           each contraceptive method but lacks adequate content on counseling for family planning.
           The CHV training package will be enhanced with additional content on contraceptive
           methods that will equip them with the necessary skills on counseling. They will also be
           trained on adolescent focused counseling as well. Once trained, the CHVs will offer
           counseling for family planning at facility level. Following the counseling, CHVs will
           provide a method including pills and injectables to women and girls who have come for a
           revisit, unless they request for contact with the health care worker. This is in line
           with the Kenya's Ministry of Health task sharing policy and family planning guidelines
           that allows CHVs to conduct community distribution of pills, condoms and injectables.

        2. Individualized Counseling by Health Care Workers Once counseling has been done by the
           CHVs, the heath care workers will attend to the women in need for additional counseling
           and a method that the CHVs were unable to provide, for instance LARCs. The current
           counseling method used by the health care worker is the Balanced Counseling Strategy,
           which is cumbersome as it has a lot of information that overwhelms the providers and
           clients. The study proposes to adopt the counseling for continuation materials that will
           used to develop a simplified job aid for use by heath care workers to provide
           individualized counseling.

        3. Partner Counseling by Health Care Workers (HCWs) CHVs will mobilize potential couples to
           jointly attend contraceptive counseling sessions by the health care workers. The health
           care workers will be trained on how to conduct couple counseling. Existing couples
           counseling materials will be adapted based on the information gathered from the
           formative assessment. The facility will identify a package of additional
           non-contraceptive related services for the men who will have accompanied their spouses
           for family planning services.

      The investigators will enroll 1016 women of reproductive age in the following sub groups;
      Implant, IUD, Injectables and Pill users. Follow up interviews at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months will
      be done to establish contraceptive use, discontinuation and method switching among women.
    
  