
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      glutaminase inhibitor CB-839 hydrochloride (CB-839 HCl) in combination with carfilzomib and
      dexamethasone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of CB-839 HCl in combination with carfilzomib and
      dexamethasone.

      II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) associated with the combination of CB-839
      HCl with carfilzomib and dexamethasone.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of CB-839 HCl and carfilzomib when used in
      combination.

      II. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES), messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
      (RNAseq), circulating cell free (cf) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) analysis, flow cytometry
      assessments, immunohistochemical (IHC) staining, and metabolomics-based assessments in order
      to identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers, and identify resistance
      mechanisms using genomic DNA, RNA, flow cytometry, IHC, and metabolomics-based assessment
      platforms.

      III. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research.

      IV. To bank CD138+ multiple myeloma (MM) cells from the bone marrow, and blood (for cfDNA
      analysis) obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network
      (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of glutaminase inhibitor CB-839 hydrochloride.

      Patients receive glutaminase inhibitor CB-839 hydrochloride orally (PO) every 12 hours on
      days 1-28, dexamethasone PO on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, and 23, and carfilzomib intravenously
      (IV) over 10 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then
      periodically for up to 1 year.
    
  