
    
      BACKGROUND Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune, inflammatory demyelinating disease
      targeting myelinated axons in the Central Nervous System (CNS). It is the most common
      nontraumatic cause of disability in young people. Most MS patients are diagnosed between the
      ages of 20 and 40 years. Denmark has a prevalence of approximately 155 MS patients per
      100,000 inhabitants, which is among the highest in the world. The etiology of MS is not
      known, however, a combination of genetic and environmental factors is likely to be involved
      in triggering the disease.

      CLINICAL PRESENTATION MS damages the CNS and causes progressive disability. Clinical symptoms
      of the patient depend on the location of the lesions that can occur anywhere in the CNS.
      Consequently the neurological impairments are very variable and consist of sensory, motor,
      visual, urinary, coordination and cognitive deficits. MS is divided into several categories
      based on disease progression: relapse-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), secondary
      progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) and primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS).
      Clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) is a single relapse compatible with MS accompanied by
      paraclinical evidence of demyelination with more than 80 percent of patients with CIS
      developing MS at a later stage.

      WORKUP

      McDonald criteria are used for diagnosing MS. They are based on clinical findings supported
      by paraclinical tests mentioned below. The aim is to demonstrate neurological impairments
      disseminated in time (lesions in the CNS are of different age) and localization in the CNS,
      while excluding other conditions:

        1. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the brain and spinal cord is used to demonstrate
           lesions in the CNS.

        2. Lumbar puncture is performed in order to demonstrate inflammation in the CNS. Analysis
           of the CSF can also exclude infection in the CNS.

        3. Blood Samples are drawn to assess IgG, glucose and albumin in order to assess levels on
           both sides of the blood brain barrier (BBB) and to exclude other conditions.

        4. Evoked Potentials are useful at identifying subclinical lesions.

             -  Visual Evoked Potentials (VEP) assess the anterior visual pathways where delays in
                latencies indicates demyelination.

             -  Somatosensory Evoked Potentials (SSEP) assess the posterior column of the spinal
                cord, brainstem and somatosensory cortex.

      OTHER ASPECTS OF CURRENT WORKUP

      The other aspects of the workup that are mentioned below, are not a part of the established
      workup on diagnosing or monitoring MS:

      Blood Samples: Currently, there are no established peripheral blood biomarkers for MS. A
      study has demonstrated the SORCS3-gene as a potential MS risk gene. It has not been evaluated
      as a peripheral blood biomarker for MS as of yet, despite being potentially important in the
      pathogenesis of MS.

      Furthermore a study has screened serum samples aiming to identify CNS-specific antibodies in
      MS.

      Antibodies to the glial potassium channel KIR4.1 (Inward-rectifier potassium ion channel) was
      present in a subgroup of MS patients while being absent among patients with other
      neurological conditions and healthy controls.

      Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) is suggested to play a neuroprotective role in MS.
      BDNF concentrations has been shown to be lower in patients with RRMS compared to healthy
      controls.

      There are currently biomarkers being indicative of demyelination in the PNS. Myelin protein
      zero (MPZ) is a cell surface component of myelin, which decreases in the tissue when
      demyelination occurs in the PNS. Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is a glycoprotein
      component of myelin only found in the PNS, where it accounts for 2-5% of the myelin protein
      content.

      The P75 nerve growth factor receptor (p75 NGFR) also known as P75 neurotrophin receptor
      (p75NTR) or low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (LNGFR) is a ligand, which plays a role
      in Schwann cell migration and myelination during development, apoptosis and axonal
      regeneration. Anti-myelin associated glycoprotein (Anti-MAG) is a myelin marker that is
      rather specific for the PNS.

      Neurophysiological tests: Motor Evoked Potentials (MEP) assess the motor pathways by
      stimulating the precentral gyrus. It is valuable in evaluating descending motor pathways, PNS
      and muscles. Electroneurographic examination (ENG) assesses the nerve conduction speed in the
      PNS and is not usually applied for patients with MS. Few studies that have evaluated
      examining nerve conduction speeds in the PNS among MS patients show that deficits in the PNS
      may be common among MS patients.

      TREATMENT

      There are three aspects of MS-treatment:

        1. Immunomodulatory treatment with the aim of reducing/preventing relapses and slowing
           disease progression. Patients who are initiated in immunomodulatory treatment can be
           classified into two groups: responders or non-responders. The former profits from
           treatment while the latter does not respond or has marginal response to treatment.
           Responders can become non-responders after a while. Currently, the aim of
           immunomodulatory treatment among MS patients with RRMS, is no evidence of disease
           activity (NEDA), where the patient has no relapses, no increase in disability and no new
           active lesions on MRI.

        2. Symptomatic treatment of walking disabilities, urinary tract problems, pain, depression,
           sexual problems, spasticity and fatigue. Neurorehabilitation is also an important part
           of the symptomatic treatment.

        3. Treatment of relapses using high dose corticosteroids.

      FAMPRIDINE Fampridine (Ampyra/Dalfampridine/4-aminopyridine) is the first oral agent approved
      by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the
      treatment of walking disability in MS. It was approved in 2011 in Denmark for treatment of MS
      patients with walking disability.

      Fampridine is a potassiumchannel blocker with a primary mechanism of action of blocking
      voltage-gated potassium channels. It blocks potassium from entering the channel, which leads
      to smoother nerve conduction and a subsequent improved amplitude and duration of the action
      potential. Fampridine acts at both the CNS and PNS and enhances nerve conduction in
      demyelinated axons and improves walking ability in a subset of MS patients. Furthermore a
      study has demonstrated improvement in cognition and upper extremity functioning, as a result
      of Fampridine treatment. Patients who do not profit from Fampridine treatment, are classified
      as non-responders. Currently, the mechanism behind non-response to Fampridine and conversion
      from response to non-response has not been studied. The functional test of T25FW is widely
      used to discriminate patients as responders or non-responders as well as to monitor response
      to treatment with Fampridine. When Fampridine treatment is indicated, patients will undergo a
      short-term treatment period while undergoing the T25FW in order to establish if there is
      response to treatment or non-response. If patients are classified as the latter, treatment
      will be stopped. During long-term treatment with Fampridine, the initial responders are
      yearly evaluated as to whether they are continuous responders.

      SUMMARY OF STUDY RATIONALE Walking impairment is one of the most common symptoms of MS and
      has been reported as one of the most impactful symptoms on quality of life. MS patients with
      walking impairments receive the potassium-channel blocker, Fampridine, if they respond to
      this treatment. It has been established that approximately 35% of MS patients with walking
      disabilities are responders to this treatment, and thus have improvements in their walking
      speed and acceleration. The response status is established using the functional test T25FW.
      The presence of a specific potassiumchannel antibody (KIR 4.1) has been demonstrated in a
      subtype of MS patients while being absent in healthy controls. Antibodies affecting the PNS
      and thus aggravating walking abilities have been studied, but their links to MS remain to be
      investigated.

      MS patients undergo neurodegeneration in the CNS with progressive neurological disability
      associated with axonal and neuronal damage, which is a major contributor to walking
      impairment. The involvement of the PNS in the dysfunction of the lower extremities as well as
      the role of the PNS as a potential marker of disease progression in MS remains to be fully
      elucidated. The effect of Fampridine in relation to the PNS has also not been examined and
      the mechanism behind non-response to Fampridine treatment and conversion from response to
      non-response remains to be elucidated.

      Consequently, the overall research question of the present study proposal is to further
      clarify disease mechanisms involved in MS. Moreover, the overall aim of this project is to
      expand the knowledge on 1) neurodegeneration and demyelination in the central and peripheral
      nervous system in MS linked to disease progression over time and 2) to examine mechanisms
      that can explain the different responses to Fampridine treatment. Below, the specific study
      aims and hypotheses are outlined.

      STUDY AIMS

      Overall one main study is conducted, which has three inherent sub-studies. The aims of the
      main study Central and Peripheral Nervous System Changes as Markers of Disease Progression in
      Multiple Sclerosis are therefore:

        1. to investigate the progression-rate and the corresponding changes, in patients with MS
           undertaking Fampridine treatment, in regards to a) magnetic resonance imaging-verified
           lesions in the central nervous system and b) neurophysiologic examinations of the
           peripheral nervous system. (Study I).

        2. to investigate the response of potential peripheral blood biomarkers to Fampridine
           treatment in patients with MS. (Study II).

        3. to compare motor pathways in the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system in
           patients with MS who are responders to non-responders of Fampridine treatment.

      Null hypotheses are:

        -  Over time, among MS patients, there is neurodegeneration in the central nervous system
           while there is no neurodegeneration in the peripheral nervous system.

        -  There is no difference in biomarkers of the CNS and the PNS in MS patients.

        -  There are no differences in the motor pathways of the central and peripheral nervous
           system in patients with MS who respond and do not respond to treatment with Fampridine.

        -  Responders to Fampridine treatment do not convert to non-responders over time.

      Participants will undergo MRI, blood samples, neurophysiologic examinations and the
      functional testing, as described in the trial outline section, in order to evaluate response
      to treatment with Fampridine and markers of disease progression. In addition to the widely
      used T25FW, additional functional tests will also be performed to have a more detailed
      overview of the function of the lower and upper extremities while also examining cognition
      over time. The T25FW test will also be used for identification of responders to treatment
      with Fampridine.
    
  