
    
      Twenty subjects with mature skin, at one study center, with bruising and moderate to severe
      photodamage will be selected for the study. Twenty subjects will be enrolled to achieve a
      total of 40 arms to be analyzed. At baseline, the Subject will be instructed to use the study
      cream on one forearm and hand while a control cream will be used on the other. Both the study
      cream and the control cream will be provided in containers labeled Left and Right so that the
      subjects are blinded. Each cream labeled Left and Right will be randomized with either the
      treatment or control cream in the Left container and the opposite cream will be assigned to
      the Right container. Each subject will always get the control cream in one container and the
      treatment cream in the other container. Each subject will be randomized to apply cream Right
      to the right forearm and hand. Subject will apply cream Left to the left forearm and hand. At
      each visit, the Evaluator will count the total number of bruises, determine the size of each
      bruise and assess each forearm and hand for surface roughness, laxity and mottled
      hyperpigmentation. Furthermore, subjective investigator and subject global assessments of
      bruising, skin roughness, wrinkling and pigmentation will be measured. Subjects will be
      evaluated at weeks 0 (baseline), 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12. Additionally, standardized,
      high-resolution digital photographs will be taken at each visit using the Vectra software..

      The following scales will be used for grading these features: Roughness (degree of scaling
      and surface texture) - very smooth (1), mostly smooth (2), slightly rough (3), rough (4),
      very rough (5). Laxity (ability to spring back after pinching the skin) - very tight (1),
      somewhat tight (2), somewhat loose (3), loose (4), very loose (5). Mottled hyperpigmentation
      (a combination of lentigines and hyperpigmented and hypopigmented spots) - very even (1),
      mostly even with few blotches (2), blotchy (3), mostly blotchy (4), very blotchy (5).

      Secondary endpoints will be measured including the speed of healing (measured by the two week
      average percentage change in bruising) and a reduction in the Investigator's and Subject's
      Global Assessment compared to baseline after twelve weeks. The following 5-point scale will
      be used for both the Investigator's and Subject's Global Assessments: 0, no improvement; 1,
      <25% improvement; 2, 25% to 50% improvement; 3, 51% to 75% improvement; and 4, >75%
      improvement.

      Finally, adverse events, including but not limited to redness, swelling, blistering,
      ulceration, bleeding, itch or pain, will be monitored at each visit and assessed by both the
      Subject and the Evaluator.
    
  