
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the efficacy of recombinant keratinocyte growth factor in reducing
      the duration of severe oral mucositis induced by total body irradiation and high dose
      chemotherapy in patients with hematologic malignancies. II. Determine the incidence and
      duration of severe oral mucositis, grade 2-4 diarrhea, and febrile neutropenia in these
      patients. III. Determine the necessity of use of transdermal or parenteral opioid analgesics
      and IV antifungals or antibiotics for febrile neutropenia or infections in these patients.
      IV. Determine the quality of life of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified by center. Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms. Arm I:
      Patients receive 7 doses of recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor (rHuKGF). Arm II:
      Patients receive 4 doses of rHuKGF followed by 3 doses of placebo. Arm III: Patients receive
      7 doses of placebo. Patients receive one of two conditioning regimens. Primary conditioning
      regimen: Patients receive rHuKGF or placebo daily on days -11, -10, -9, -5, 0, 1, and 2.
      Total body irradiation (TBI) is administered twice a day on days -8 to -5. Patients receive
      etoposide on day -4, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -2, and peripheral blood stem
      cell transplantation (PBSCT) on day 0. Filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or SC is administered beginning
      on day 0 and continuing for 21 days or until blood counts recover. Secondary conditioning
      regimen: Patients receive rHuKGF or placebo daily on days -13, -12, -11, -7, 0, 1, and 2. TBI
      is administered twice a day on days -10 to -7. Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 1 hour
      followed by etoposide over 23 hours on days -6 to -2, then PBSCT on day 0. G-CSF IV or SC is
      administered beginning on day 0 for 21 days or until blood counts recover. Quality of life is
      assessed daily beginning on day -11 and continuing until day 28. Patients are followed at day
      28 and then at day 60-100.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 111 patients (37 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    
  