
    
      The Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) is highly expressed in SCCHN and its
      overexpression is associated with poor patient outcome. EGFR is a promising target of
      anticancer therapy. The investigators have developed EGFR antisense DNA as a safe and
      potentially efficacious treatment for SCCHN as shown in a previous phase I study conducted at
      the University of Pittsburgh. Cetuximab (Erbitux or C225) is a chimerized EGFR monoclonal
      antibody that has produced positive results in a phase III trial in SCCHN when added to
      radiation therapy and was approved by the FDA for the treatment of locally advanced SCCHN.
      Radiation plus cetuximab is considered a standard treatment, especially for patients who are
      not good candidates for chemotherapy. In the current study, the investigators plan to
      evaluate the addition of intratumoral EGFR antisense DNA (EGFR AS) to standard radiation with
      concurrent cetuximab in patients.

      Objectives

        -  To evaluate the safety of the combination of intratumoral EGFS AS DNA with standard
           cetuximab and radiation.

        -  To evaluate the locoregional progression-free survival in selected patients with locally
           advanced SCCHN treated with intratumoral EGFR AS DNA combined with standard radiation
           plus cetuximab.

        -  To evaluate other efficacy parameters, including the objective response rate, distant
           control and overall progression-free survival, and overall survival.

        -  To determine the effect of EGFR antisense therapy on EGFR-related biomarkers. The
           investigators will use reverse phase protein microarrays (RPPA) and immunohistochemical
           (IHC) analysis of tissue microarrays (TMA) on baseline and post-treatment tumor tissue
           to determine the expression level and modulation of a panel of EGFR and EGFR-pathway
           related biomarkers, including (but not necessarily limited to) EGFR, pEGFR, Src, pMAPK,
           STAT3, pSTAT3, pSTAT5, pSTAT1, pAKT, p38, p21, p27, PARP, E-cadherin, p-ErbB3, and Ki67.

        -  To examine the transfection of the EGFR antisense gene therapy in vivo.

      Subject population

      The investigators will enroll patients with SCCHN who are suitable for intratumoral
      injections of EGFR antisense.

      Treatment plan

      EGFR AS will be administered by direct intratumoral injection using direct visualization,
      endoscopy, or imaging-guidance (ultrasound) as clinically determined (see protocol). Patients
      will receive a total of up to 4 weekly intratumoral injections of EGFR antisense (or less if
      there is no identifiable tumor) starting 2 weeks prior to radiation (study schema in
      protocol). Patients will receive standard radiation 70 Gy/200 cGy/daily, 5 days/week, with
      concurrent cetuximab 250 mg/m2, after a loading dose of 400 mg/m2 2 weeks prior to starting
      radiation.

      Statistical Design and Sample Size

      The study will be conducted in two-stages. In the first stage, 11 patients with stage IVA-C
      or recurrent disease will be evaluated for safety. If the regimen is deemed safe, a total of
      31 patients with stage III or IVA-B, previously untreated SCCHN will be enrolled in the
      second stage of the study.
    
  