
    
      -  Since we are looking for the highest dose of CCI-779 (Temsirolimus) given in combination
           with bortezomib (Velcade) that can be given to people without causing the most serious
           or unmanageable side effects, not everyone who participates in this study will be
           receiving the same amount of either drug.

        -  During the study treatment, participants will be given some medications to decrease the
           chance they they will have an allergic reaction to CCI-779 (Temsirolimus). After these
           drugs are given, participants will be receive bortezomib (Velcade) by injection followed
           by an injection of CCI-779 (Temsirolimus). These drugs wil be given once a week for four
           weeks (on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22). On the fifth week (Day 29), participants will be given
           only CCI-779 along with the drugs to decrease the chance of an allergic reaction.

        -  The cycle will last 35 days and will occur twice before the doctor evaluates for
           response. The cycles will be repeated for up to 8 cycles as long as the participant does
           not have any severe or unmanageable side effects and the disease is responding to
           treatment.

        -  While receiving study treatment, participants will be seen at the clinic at the start of
           each cycle for the following: complete physical examination, blood work, urine
           collection, x-ray of bones (if study doctor deems necessary) and an electrocardiogram
           (prior to treatment and at the end of treatment)

        -  A bone skeletal survey will be performed at the end of treatment to measure the size of
           the participants tumors.

        -  After 8 cycles of treatment or if the participant has ended treatment, more tests will
           be performed. A physical exam, blood work, urine collection, skeletal survey,
           electrocardiogram, bone marrow biopsy and aspirate will be performed.
    
  