
    
      The diaphragm pathophysiological changes occurring in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) leads to functional inefficiency that strongly correlates to the loss of lung
      function. Muscle fiber shortening follows lung hyperinflation, resulting to a chronic
      mechanical disadvantage, which worsens in COPD exacerbations. The DM is mostly assessed with
      techniques that exposes the patient to risks. The ultrasonography on M-mode is easy to use,
      safe and measures directly the diaphragmatic dome displacement. The study aim to determine
      whether the COPD impairs the DM, and verify improvements after an inpatient PR.

      Every COPD patient will comprise a standard evaluation that consists on lung function test,
      six minute walk test and arterial blood gas analyses, according to the American Thoracic
      Society/ European Respiratory Society (ATS/ERS) statements.

      Within the second day of recovery the diaphragm mobility ultrasonographic (US) measurement
      will be assessed as follow: the patients positioned in a semi recumbent position (45
      degrees).The US probe positioned between the anterior and mean axillary line, on the central
      right subcostal area, cranial and dorsal. The US wave perpendicularly on the posterior
      hemidiaphragm third (it is visualized as the hyperechogenic line behind the liver). The
      mobility assessed by M-mode while the patient breaths on tidal volume (rest breathing) and
      deep slow breathing (to Functional Residual Capacity).

      The COPD patients classification and diagnosis will be according to the the Global Initiative
      for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) criteria. Every patient, after the assessment
      will follow the PR as ATS/ERS statement on pulmonary rehabilitation. All patients will follow
      a routine of five days a week of physical exercise. The rehabilitation program consists on a
      30 minutes calisthenic gymnastic once a day, 20 minutes of cycloergometer training activity
      twice a day. The aerobic cycloergometer training was set at 60%-70% of the maximum cardiac
      frequency determined by 220 minus the patients age. The patients will perform lower limbs
      strengths exercises, especially for the quadriceps and hamstring. During the in-hospital
      stay, the patients will receive regular prescribed medication and oxygen therapy according to
      the medical staff evaluation, which will be prescribed by the clinician in charge. The
      patients will also have respiratory physiotherapy, regarding the presence of lung secretion
      retain, and the need to expand unventilated areas.

      The control group will be composed by healthy volunteers. The volunteers will be screened on
      their lung function. The subjects on the control group will be submitted to the same
      evaluation protocol regarding the spirometry and the M-mode ultrasonography.

      Statistical analyses:

      The qualitative description of the data will be made with percentages and frequency. The
      quantitative data described as means and standard deviation for the symmetrical
      distributions. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test to determine distributions mean normality. A
      One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measurements and Bonferroni test will be
      used as post-hoc test to evaluate statistical significance. Within-group effect sizes will be
      calculated using the Cohen d coefficient interpretation. For all the study data, the P values
      lower than 0.05 will be consider significant. The investigators will use the Student T- test
      for independent sample for quantitative data and for comparisons between the COPD patients
      and control group and ANOVA to the comparisons within COPD group. The investigators will use
      Pearson's correlation test to measure the correlation between the diaphragmatic mobility and
      the lung functioning variables.
    
  