
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of serious, long-term disability, and has a very sudden onset;
      families are often thrust into providing care without any training from health care
      providers. Studies have shown that caregiving without training can be detrimental to
      caregiver's physical and mental health, which can impede survivor rehabilitation and lead to
      institutionalization and higher societal costs. Unlike existing stroke caregiver
      interventions that require costly face to face interactions, and that focus primarily on the
      survivor's care, the Telephone Assessment and Skill-Building Kit (TASK II) is delivered
      completely by telephone, and empowers caregivers to address both their own and the survivor's
      needs using innovative skill-building strategies. Aligned with current patient and caregiver
      guidelines, TASK II has demonstrated evidence of content validity, treatment fidelity,
      caregiver satisfaction, and efficacy for reducing depressive symptoms; however, future
      development of TASK II requires a stronger focus on self-management strategies to improve
      caregiver health, and enhanced use of other telehealth modes of delivery prior to
      implementation into ongoing stroke systems of care. The purpose of this study is to optimize
      the TASK III intervention through the innovative leveraging of technologies and
      theoretically-based self-management strategies to improve caregiver health. Specific Aim 1
      consists of focus groups and individual interviews with 40 experts (10 interdisciplinary
      researchers, 10 technology experts, 10 clinicians and clinical leaders, and 10 stroke family
      caregivers) to provide preferences about essential areas of new self-management content,
      proposed technologies (e.g., iBook, eBook, interactive website, FaceTime, Zoom), and future
      implementation strategies to inform a novel TASK III prototype. Specific Aim 2 will determine
      feasibility of the TASK III intervention with a pilot study of 74 stroke caregivers
      randomized to TASK III or an Information, Support, and Referral (ISR) group in preparation
      for a larger randomized controlled clinical trial. Recruitment, retention, treatment
      fidelity, satisfaction, and technology ratings will be obtained for both TASK III and ISR
      groups who will receive 8 weekly sessions with a booster session 4 weeks later. Outcome
      measures will be explored at baseline, 8 weeks (end of intervention), and 12 weeks (after
      booster). If TASK III is shown to be efficacious in a future randomized controlled clinical
      trial, our next goal will be to translate TASK III into ongoing stroke systems of care; and,
      someday to adapt it for use among caregivers with other debilitating/chronic conditions
      providing a tremendous public health impact.
    
  