
    
      A screening interview and symptoms assessment by the Bowel Disease Questionnaire (BDQ) and
      consent will be obtained prior to the studies at the testing facility (General Clinical
      Research Center, 7th floor, Charlton Building, Mayo Clinic). Smoking status will be recorded.
      Vitals and an electrocardiogram will be obtained. Following an initial screening, subjects
      will be randomized to itopride or identical placebo.

      Day 1: The participant will report in a fasting condition (10 hours) to the study center
      early in the morning. All participants will undergo the nutrient drink test to assess maximum
      tolerated volume and postprandial symptoms PRIOR to ingesting any medication.

      Day 2-7: The patients will take the study medication as prescribed that is a tablet 30
      minutes before meals, three times per day. On days 6, 7 and 8, the morning and midday dose of
      the medication intake will occur in the clinical research center under supervision of the
      study staff.

      Day 6: The participant will return fasting for 10 hours to the study center early in the
      morning. Scintigraphic gastric and small bowel transit measurement will be performed, with
      medication ingested at standard times (30 min prior to meal), and the 99mTc-sulfur colloid
      labeled egg meal ingested 30 minutes after the morning dose of study medication. Imaging will
      be taken for 6 hours. Vitals and an electrocardiogram will be obtained Day 7: All
      participants will undergo a repeat nutrient drink test to assess postprandial symptoms at
      maximal satiety and 30 minutes after drug ingestion. The satiety study will be completed once
      a maximum tolerated volume is achieved, and the 30 minute post-meal questionnaire will be
      completed.

      Day 8: The participant will return fasting to the study center early in the morning.
      Participants will undergo SPECT imaging to evaluate fasting gastric volume starting 30
      minutes after ingestion of study medication. The participant will then ingest 300 ml of the
      nutrient drink Ensure", and postprandial gastric volumes will be calculated as described
      previously (41-46). Vitals will be obtained.
    
  