
    
      Sleep disordered breathing (SDB) is associated with significant adverse health consequences
      including cardiovascular disease, motor vehicle accidents, daytime functional impairments and
      mortality risk. Although SDB is more common among men than women, it still impacts 17% of
      women in the general population. [The investigators' preliminary evidence suggests it is even
      more common among women Veterans who receive VA care.] The recommended first-line therapy for
      most patients with SDB is positive airway pressure therapy (PAP). Published studies show that
      women have lower PAP adherence than men, particularly in the US, yet the investigators are
      not aware of data comparing men and women Veterans. Because women Veterans experience
      significant sleep disturbance and other consequences of sleep disorders, adjusting to PAP
      therapy may be quite difficult. To date, studies have not tested interventions specifically
      designed to improve PAP adherence among women, accounting for important sleep-related and
      social factors.

      This study is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of a program combining
      patient education with behavioral techniques to improve adherence to PAP therapy. Women
      Veterans 18 years and older, who have received care at the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare
      System, and who have at least 1 risk factor for SDB will be recruited for this study.
      Screening for sleep apnea will be performed in the participant's home using a WatchPAT
      device. Both objective (actigraphy) and self-report (questionnaire/diary) sleep measures will
      be collected, as well as other health-related measures. Participants with an AHI of 5 or
      higher, and who meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized to one of two
      educational programs.

      PAP devices, along with education about SDB and insomnia, will be provided to participants as
      part of the 6-session intervention. Follow-up assessments will be conducted immediately
      following the intervention and after 3-months.

      Main study outcomes (sleep quality and PAP adherence) will be assessed 3 months after PAP
      initiation, and PAP adherence will be tracked remotely for 12 months. Data will be analyzed
      using "intention to treat" principles, using appropriate statistical methods for clinical
      trials.
    
  