
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of treatment with cetuximab and a standard radiochemotherapy
           regimen (pelvic radiotherapy and cisplatin) in patients with stage IB2, II, and IIIB
           cervical cancer by evaluating the number of patients without recurrence at 2 years.

      Secondary

        -  Analyze the tumor response by MRI after external radiotherapy.

        -  Assess the tolerance of cetuximab and standard radiochemotherapy in patients not
           previously treated and in generally good condition.

        -  Study the correlation between treatment response and analysis of EGFR mutations (exons
           18-21 of the tyrosine kinase domain including the two hot spots L858R and E746-A750).

        -  Study the correlation between treatment response and evaluation of number of copies of
           the EGFR gene.

        -  Study the correlation between treatment response and analysis of mutations of codons 12
           and 13 of KRAS2 by direct sequencing.

        -  Study the correlation between treatment response and research of DNA sequences of human
           papillomavirus.

        -  Study the correlation between treatment response and overexpression of EGFR and COX2
           (centralized) by IHC.

        -  Study the correlation between treatment response and characterization of a genomic
           signature (genome, transcriptome, and Affymetrix chips from samples frozen in liquid
           nitrogen).

        -  Collect tumor samples for molecular analysis.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to planned surgery
      (yes vs no) and are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour once weekly during weeks 1-6. Patients
           also undergo pelvic radiotherapy 5 days a week during weeks 2-5 or 2-6.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin and undergo radiotherapy as in arm I. Patients also
           receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour once weekly during weeks 1-6.

      After 6-8 weeks of study treatment, patients continue treatment as recommended by their
      center (i.e., utero-vaginal brachytherapy, additional radiotherapy, or surgery).

      Tumor tissue and blood samples are collected for further analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3-4 weeks and then every 4
      months for 2 years.
    
  