
    
      Transition points during hospitalization are at risk of drug related problems (DRP)
      especially admission and discharge. Reconciliation procedure at admission lead by a clinical
      pharmacist had been proved to decrease DRP. The community pharmacist (CP) is often the first
      health professional that patients meet at discharge. He/she is in charge of dispensing their
      medication to patients and give treatment information. However because of lack of information
      community pharmacist is not always able to identify problems and this may lead to dispense
      wrong drugs and/or wrong dosage and/or give wrong information. The objective of this study is
      to assess the impact of drug reconciliation performed at discharge completed by a
      communication between the Hospital Pharmacist (HP) and community pharmacist on drug related
      problem during the 7 days following discharge at home.

      The study is a cluster randomized cross-over trial. It involves 21 French universitarian and
      non-universitarian hospitals with 42 care units: 22 medical units and 20 surgical units. Each
      unit (a unit corresponds to a cluster) is involved during two consecutive 14-day periods
      which are randomly assigned as "experimental" or "control" where control corresponds to usual
      care. During the experimental period, for each eligible patient discharged during the period,
      a reconciliation procedure will be performed by the HP, with communication to the patient.
      The HP will further inform the patient's community pharmacist about patient's drug therapy
      [modification in home medication, acute drugs prescribed, shelved treatments and/or labs
      results to survey patient]. Eligible patients will be over 18, attending to the same
      community pharmacist for at least 3 months. We will exclude patients with a length stay over
      21 days (too many therapeutic modifications), those who do not return to home, and also
      palliative patient. The primary outcome is a composite outcome associating any kind of drug
      misuse during the 7 days following discharge. It will be assessed by phone at day 7 (+/-2) by
      a pharmacist in charge of the study (PCS) will phone both patients and community pharmacists
      . The secondary outcome will be the unplanned hospitalizations observed in each group
      assessed by phone at day 35 (+/-5). We plan to recruit 1,176 patients, i.e. 14 per period per
      unit.

      This study will assess the impact of a reconciliation procedure at discharge followed by a
      communication between HP and community pharmacists . Also it will identify the type of
      patients for which the intervention is the most relevant in France and may be generalized to
      other countries that have the same care organisation.
    
  