
    
      Chronic lower limb oedema is the consequence of an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the
      interstitium located beneath the skin of legs. It is a frequent disease with a significant
      morbidity (skin infections, leg ulcers…), which can deeply alter patient's quality of life.

      On a pathological point of view, current main hypothesis is hemodynamic (i.e. failure of
      venous and lymphatic return).

      Recent data suggest that other factors, particularly genetic ones (genes coding for proteins
      of inflammation or of fibrosis, for adipogenesis and for lymphangiogenesis…) could influence
      the development of CO. Stimulation of these mediators varies from one person to another and
      from one clinical setting to another (i.e. venous insufficiency vs. lymphedema etc…). One can
      therefore assume that CO is not a homogeneous entity and that the distribution of tissue
      components varies.

      On a therapeutic point of view, this difference in the distribution of tissue components
      could at least in part explain the differences in effectiveness of compression therapy and in
      tissue dysmorphia from one person to another and from one type of CO to another.

      The study primary objective is to assess and compare by MRI the different tissue components
      (oedema, fat, muscle, inflammation/fibrosis) of lower limb CO of venous vs. lymphatic
      origins.

      The investigators shall conduct a prospective observational pilot study. 24 patients with a
      CO of PTS origin and 24 patients with a CO of lymphatic origin (primary lymphoedema) will
      undergo a clinical examination, 3-D laser scanner volumetry of their lower limbs, blood tests
      and a MRI of lower limb. Main exclusion criteria will be obesity and bilateral CO. The main
      primary outcome measure will be the proportion of fat, muscle and oedema assessed by MRI in a
      pre-determined lower limb area. The main secondary outcome measure will be the prevalence in
      each group of i) variations in exonic sequence of genes coding for proteins of
      inflammation/fibrosis, angiogenesis, adipogenesis; ii) variations in exonic sequence of genes
      reported in the literature as associated with primary lymphoedema.

      This study should allow to better characterize tissue structure and inflammatory, adipous and
      angio-genetic profiles of lower limb CO. The potential therapeutic perspective is to adapt
      compressive therapies to the type of oedema and to test the impact of new therapies (e.g.
      anti-inflammatory drugs for oedema with important fibrotic component?).
    
  