
    
      General Aim The aim of this prospective, multicenter observational cohort study is to
      determine the impact of baseline bio-behavioral stress (Aim I) on cancer progression and
      survival in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) undergoing standard
      radiochemotherapy. The role of baseline physical activity (PA) and baseline partner's
      distress as stress-modulating factors will be assessed in an exploratory analysis.

      Secondary aims include a longitudinal assessment of self-reported psychological distress in
      this homogenous patient cohort and their partners (Aim II) and -in a translational subproject
      - to determine the role of serum copeptin as a biomarker for distress (Aim III).

      Specific Aims Specific Aim I: Prognostic role of stress at the time of diagnosis in GBM
      patients In this analysis, baseline neuroendocrine stress will be correlated to
      progression-free survival (PFS).

      More specifically we aim at assessing

      IA) Whether stress-induced disruption of diurnal cortisol rhythmicity as measured by the
      salivary cortisol slope is an independent prognostic factor for (progression-free) survival
      in patients with newly diagnosed GBM undergoing standard multimodal treatment.

      IB) Whether increased baseline self-reported physical activity is correlated with lower
      levels of stress (i.e. acts as a stress-modulating factor) and prolonged (progression-free)
      survival

      IC) Whether high levels of stress in the patients' partner (baseline diurnal cortisol slope)
      are correlated with high levels of stress in the patient (i.e. stress-modulating factor) and
      shorter (progression-free) survival

      Specific Aim II: Longitudinal cohort of patient-partner dyads In the same cohort of patients
      (Aim I above) we aim at describing distress over time (three-monthly) from start of combined
      radiochemotherapy to disease progression in patients and - as a paired dyad - in one close
      partner.

      Specific Aim III: Copeptin biomarker subproject In a translational subproject we aim at
      assessing the prognostic role of baseline serum copeptin- an easy to test serum biomarker of
      stress in many clinical situations, which has never been assessed in cancer patients.

      Methods Study design Since the prognostic role of stress in GBM has not been studied before,
      we propose in a first step an observational, prospective multicenter cohort study in a
      well-defined group of patients, all at the same stage of disease (initial diagnosis) and all
      undergoing the same standard multimodal treatment (surgery followed by radiochemotherapy
      according to R.Stupp et al.).

      Patients All patients in good performance status (Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS) ≥ 50%),
      aged 18 years and older, with histologically confirmed, previously untreated GBM are eligible
      prior to starting initial treatment with radio-chemotherapy. In order to participate,
      patients will need to have given their informed consent on the ethics-approved consent form
      and will need to be willing and able (as judged by the investigator) to comply with the
      protocol. Cardiovascular contraindications to the 6-minute walking test (6MWT) and/or a
      history of instable angina pectoris or New York Heart Association (NYHA) grade II or greater
      congestive heart failure (according to the Thoracic Society recommendations) preclude trial
      inclusion. Equally, patients who have signs or symptoms (including laboratory findings) of
      conditions, either metabolic or psychological, that interfere with adequate assessment of the
      stress axis (e.g. chronic use of a corticosteroid, psychiatric disorder and medication) are
      excluded. Perioperative dexamethasone treatment is not an exclusion criterion as short time
      treatment does not clearly affect the HPA axis and synthetic corticosteroids can be
      discriminated in salivary cortisol measurements. Inability to follow study procedures, e.g.
      due to language problems, psychological disorders, dementia or confusion, is another reason
      for study exclusion.

      Patients' partners Each patient designates his or her closest partner, (not necessarily
      intimate partners), either a person living in the same household or with daily contact
      (husband/wife, not married partner, other family members). In order to participate, the
      patient's partner must be older than 18 years, in a good performance status (KPS≥50%),
      willing and able (as judged by the investigator) to comply with the protocol and must give
      informed consent.

      If the patient has no partner or the partner is not willing to be part of the trial,
      participation in the cohort is still possible (the group of patients without partners will be
      analyzed separately).

      Primary Endpoint for Aim I The primary endpoint is PFS, i.e. the time between diagnosis and
      disease progression (according to RANO criteria) or death of any cause.

      Response evaluation in MRI will be done using the criteria by MacDonald et al. , which are
      specified in the RANO criteria. In brief, the definitions for "progression" is the following:
      At least 25% increase in the size of a solid mass or contrast-enhancing lesions on MRI (or
      CT) or the appearance of a new lesion or clinical deterioration.

      Secondary Endpoints for Aim I

      Secondary endpoints include overall survival and measures of treatment tolerance:

        -  Number of patients, who stopped treatment for reasons other than progressive disease

        -  Percentage of planned temozolomide doses received

      Study Flow and Assessments

      Assessments Baseline (T1): predictor variables Baseline Assessment will occur at a strictly
      defined time point (T1) in order to minimize time-dependent confounders on predictor
      variables (particularly stress lab): Physical functioning tests and questionnaires will be
      performed on days -3 before start of radiochemotherapy. Salivary cortisol samples will be
      performed at days -2 and -1 before start of radiochemotherapy.

      Baseline Consolidation (T2) The visit will take place 28d after T1 when patients have started
      their treatment ("steady-state"), for all non-progressing patients (which will be the vast
      majority at this early time-point) and includes the same assessments as T1. The purpose of T2
      assessments is to validate T1 i.e. to confirm that T1 (baseline) has been representative for
      the condition patients and partners are in early during treatment and to exclude that T1
      assessments have been unrepresentative due to the impending start of an unknown treatment. T2
      assessments will be analyzed as confirmatory baseline prognostic factors in all
      non-progressing patients.

      Follow up visits until progression (FU1) Follow-up visits will be done every 12 weeks. The
      purpose of the FU1 visits is i) to measure disease status in MRI for aim I (1° endpoint) and
      ii) to longitudinally describe distress, emotional functioning and quality of life (QoL) in
      patients and partners for aim II.

      Follow up visits from progression to death (patients only) (FU2) After progression patients
      will be contacted every three months for survival status (dead or alive).

      Study procedures Stress Aim I (predictor variables): Baseline Stress measurements in patients
      as well as partners at baseline (T1) and after 4 weeks (T2) i) Neuroendocrine stress
      evaluations using standard laboratory essays (salivary diurnal cortisol slope, cortisol
      awakening response (CAR), short adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-test as well as ii)
      Self-reported psychological distress evaluations by questionnaires (distress thermometer and
      perceived stress scale)

      Aim II (descriptive variables): Distress in the longitudinal cohort will be evaluated every
      three months in patients-partners dyads with self-reported measures such as DT and PSS (ii
      above). Quality of life and emotional functioning will also be described as measured by the
      FACT-Br and HADS-D score

      Ad i.)

        -  Diurnal Cortisol Slope: Salivary cortisol levels peak 30-60 minutes after awakening and
           then drop to a nadir during sleep. This diurnal rhythm is disrupted in chronically
           stressed patients: leading to a flattening of the slope (beta) of the curve that
           connects salivary cortisol concentrations over time (from awakening to bedtime).
           Salivary cortisol will be measured on two consecutive days (patients will receive a kit
           with "salivettes" containers to use at home and store in the refrigerator until next day
           hospital visit). Salivary samples will be collected after waking up in the morning, 30
           minutes later (for CAR below), at 4pm and at 9pm. Cortisol level analyses will be done
           by the immunoassay ECLIA (E170 Roche, Switzerland) at the reference hospital (University
           Hospital Basel). Sample storage and shipment can be performed at -20°C.

        -  The cortisol awakening response (CAR) describes the increase of about 50% in saliva
           cortisol levels, which occurs 20-30 minutes after waking up in the morning. It is
           thought to be linked to the hippocampus' preparation of the
           hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) to face anticipated stress and it is
           independent from the circadian variation in the HPA axis. CAR provides an easy measure
           of the capacity of the HPA axis to react to stress. An increased CAR has been associated
           with burnout, worry and chronic stress at work. For CAR saliva samples will be collected
           on two consecutive days by passive drooling, immediately after awakening (0') and 30 min
           (30') later [45].

        -  As perioperative dexamethasone is usually given in these patients, a short or "low-dose"
           ACTH test (Synacthen test) will be performed, to rule out relative adrenal
           insufficiency. The test reflects the adrenal function and is a validated and save tool
           routinely used in daily practice. A baseline sampling of Cortisol is performed before 1
           ug Synacthen is applied by intravenous route. Stimulated Cortisol serum level is
           measured exactly 30min after Synacthen application. The test will be performed in the
           morning. Cortisol level analyses will be done by the immunoassay ECLIA (E170 Roche,
           Switzerland).

      Ad ii) The distress-thermometer (DT) is a 10-point scale displayed in a thermometer format
      and was originally developed by Roth and colleagues (Appendix 1). Validity of DT has been
      examined for outpatient cancer patients as well as relatives.

      The perceived stress scale (PSS) is a universally accepted, standardized unidimensional scale
      that assesses perceived stress by asking respondents to report whether their lives seem to be
      unpredictable or uncontrollable, or if they feel overburdened. It assesses the cognitively
      mediated emotional response to an objective event, rather than the objective event itself.

      Quality of life (QOL) will be measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy
      (FACT). The FACT comprises a series of questionnaires to measure general QOL, as well as
      cancer- and condition-specific symptoms during and after cancer treatment. The questionnaires
      are broadly used and validated in several languages, including German. The following scales
      will be used: FACT-Br (brain), containing 37 items on physical wellbeing, family/social
      wellbeing, emotional wellbeing and functional wellbeing. For comparable evaluations in
      partners, an adapted version of the FACT-G (general) has been generated.

      Emotional functioning: The German version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
      (HADS-D) will be used to assess current levels of depression and anxiety. Each scale
      comprises 7 items, which are answered on a 4-point scale. The scale is widely used to
      evaluate emotional wellbeing in patients with chronic physical conditions and is validated
      for the German language.

      Physical activity Exercise behavior will be evaluated in patients as well as in partners by
      self-reported physical activity in MET-hours per week, by Godin-Leisure-Time-Exercise
      Questionnaire (GLTEQ). In this questionnaire -validated in glioma patients- patients and
      partners are asked to complete a self-explanatory four-item query of usual leisure-time
      exercise habits.

      -Physical condition (in patients only) will be tested using an internationally standardized
      test that does not need extensive equipment (which is important for practicability in the
      multicenter setting): A 6-Minute walking test (6MWT) is a simple method to evaluate
      functional capacity and has been tested in multiple settings. Patients will be instructed to
      walk at their fastest pace and to cover the longest possible distance over 6 minutes under
      the supervision of physical therapist. During exercise, oxyhemoglobin saturation and heart
      rate will be monitored by pulse oximetry.

      Aim III: Copeptin Arginine Vasopressin (AVP) is a hypothalamic stress hormone, which is
      produced in the hypothalamus and released from the posterior pituitary. Together with
      corticotropin-releasing hormone, it leads to secretion of ACTH and cortisol. With the recent
      development of a novel sandwich immunoassay for copeptin (the C-terminal glycoprotein of the
      pre-provasopressin), a stable and easy to measure surrogate of AVP secretion has become
      available. (Direct AVP measurement is hampered by technical, pre-analytical difficulties). As
      a stress hormone copeptin mirrors individual stress levels even more subtly than cortisol.
    
  