
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Adult respiratory distress syndrome affects approximately 150,000 people in the United States
      each year. Despite twenty years of research into the mechanisms that cause this syndrome and
      numerous developments in the technology of mechanical ventilation, the mortality has remained
      greater than 50 percent. Many of the patients are young, and in addition to the tragic loss
      of human life, can be added the cost to society because these patients spend an average of
      two weeks in intensive care units and require multiple high tech procedures. Because of the
      overwhelming nature of the lung injury once it is established, prevention would appear to be
      the most effective strategy for improving the outlook in this condition.

      Basic research has identified numerous inflammatory pathways that are associated with the
      development of ARDS. Agents that block these mediators prolong survival in animals with lung
      injury, and a few of them have been tested in patients. Because of the large number of
      putative mediators and the variety of ways that their action can be blocked, the possibility
      for new drug development is almost infinite. This is an exciting prospect, since it envisions
      the first effective pharmacologic treatment for ARDS. However, preliminary clinical studies
      have shown conflicting results, and there is an urgent need for a mechanism to efficiently
      and effectively test new drugs in ARDS.

      Treatment studies in patients with ARDS are difficult to perform for three reasons. The
      complicated clinical picture makes it difficult to accumulate a large number of comparable
      patients in any one center. There is no agreement on the optimal supportive care of these
      critically ill patients. Many of the patients meeting study criteria will not be enrolled in
      study protocols because of the acute nature of the disease process. For these reasons,
      therapeutic trials in ARDS require multicenter cooperation.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Network investigators have developed a plan for a new protocol to assess the Pulmonary Artery
      Catheter as a management tool in ARDS. The new study was prompted by recommendations from the
      FDA/NIH Pulmonary Artery Catheter Clinical Outcomes workshop convened in August 1997 in
      response to concerns in the medical community regarding the clinical benefit and safety of
      pulmonary artery catheters. The new protocol in the Fluids and Catheters Treatment Trial
      (FACTT) is a two by two factorial design comparing the patients receiving PAC or a central
      venous catheter (CVC) with one of two fluid management strategies (conservative vs. liberal).
      The randomized, multicenter trial is designed to include 1000 patients. The primary endpoint
      is mortality at 60 days. Secondary endpoints include ventilator free days and organ failure
      free days.
    
  