
    
      Satisfactory pain control can generally be achieved after major surgery of the tibia through
      a combination of enteral and parenteral medications, neuraxial techniques (such as epidural
      analgesia), and/or regional techniques (such as sciatic and femoral nerve block).
      Intramedullary nailing (IMN) and open reduction/internal fixation (ORIF) of the tibia have
      been important exceptions, and postoperative pain control can be difficult to achieve in
      these cases.

      Surgical repair of fractures of the tibial shaft and of the proximal tibia can be complicated
      by compartment syndrome, with the possibility of substantial morbidity and loss of function
      if not detected and treated promptly. It is not always possible to determine preoperatively
      which tibial fractures are at high risk, and which are low risk for this complication.

      The hallmark of compartment syndrome, and often the earliest sign, is pain out of proportion
      to the nature of the injury. This pain is poorly relieved by morphine or other strong
      analgesics. In contrast, because peripheral nerve blocks, spinals, and epidurals can
      completely block the neural transmission of nociceptive stimuli, they can obliterate this
      important early warning sign. For this reason, orthopedic surgeons often request of
      anesthesiologists that patients who are to undergo IMN or ORIF of at-risk tibial fractures
      not receive neuraxial blocks or regional nerve blocks. As a result, patients who undergo
      IMN/ORIF of the tibia often receive poor pain relief because they are denied these treatment
      options, even though the vast majority do not go on to develop compartment syndrome.

      A typical postoperative pain regimen for IMN/ORIF tibia patients usually begins with a
      parenteral opioid such as morphine, along with an oral analgesic such as
      acetaminophen/hydrocodone ("Vicodin"), acetaminophen/codeine ("Tylenol #3"), or tramadol. The
      parenteral opioid is often given by patient-controlled analgesia pump (PCA), with
      supplemental doses ordered for breakthrough pain. A major disadvantage of morphine is its
      equilibration half-time of 2-4 hours. Thus there is considerable lag between the plasma
      morphine concentration (which peaks immediately) and the morphine concentration at the
      effector sites. This hysteresis results in the slow onset of analgesia, with peak analgesia
      occurring some 80-90 minutes after IV administration. It can also result in excessive
      somnolence, when several demand doses in a row finally take effect. Morphine has an
      elimination half-time of 2-3 hours. These repeated bolus doses result in the classic
      "see-saw" graph of plasma morphine concentration over time, with its peaks and troughs.
      Methadone, in contrast, has a much lower equilibration half-time, on the order of 4-8
      minutes. This results in quicker transfer of methadone from the plasma to its effector sites,
      and hence quicker onset of action, with peak analgesia occurring in just 11.3 minutes.
      Methadone's elimination half-life after a single dose is approximately 24-36 hours, resulting
      in prolonged analgesia, with less re-dosing necessary.

      Most recently, for multilevel thoracolumbar spine surgery with instrumentation and fusion,
      intraoperative intravenous methadone was shown to have substantial opioid-sparing effects
      compared to intraoperative sufentanil bolus with sufentanil infusion, and similar rates of
      side effects such as hypotension, respiratory depression, hypoxemia, arrhythmia, nausea, and
      vomiting.

      For these reasons, administering an intraoperative loading dose of 0.2 mg/kg methadone IV
      should result in better analgesia for ORIF and IMN of the tibia, compared with an
      intraoperative loading dose of 0.2 mg/kg morphine IV. This dose of methadone has previously
      been shown to yield plasma concentrations above the Minimum Effective Concentration, without
      excessive respiratory depression. This dose has been shown to provide long-lasting analgesia
      after painful procedures, often to the point that subjects needed no supplemental analgesics
      at all, or only non-narcotic analgesics.
    
  