
    
      The microorganisms present on human skin influence human health and disease. Older methods of
      studying the skin microbiota, such as culture based techniques, favored bacteria, which
      readily grew under standard laboratory conditions, compared to current molecular approaches,
      which have shown a greater diversity of skin microbiota. Human skin is a large organ that
      contains a wide range of physiological and topographical diversity. Distinct niches exist
      which predispose certain areas, such as hairy, moist underarms to a different bacterial
      community from dry, smooth sites, such as forearms. Given that the skin is a critical barrier
      between the body's internal environment and the external environment, characterization of the
      microbiota of the skin may provide insight into the balance between skin health and disease.

      Certain inflammatory skin diseases, such as seborrheic dermatitis, atopic dermatitis and
      psoriasis, have characteristic sites of involvement. The NIH funded Human Microbiome Project
      (HMP) aims to characterize the human microbiota and its role in health and disease. Recent
      research by the HMP showed that certain sites, such as the antecubital and popliteal fossa,
      sites commonly affected in atopic dermatitis, shared similar groups of organisms and distinct
      microbial communities. Sebaceous sites, commonly affected in seborrheic dermatitis, also
      shared similar microbial communities. In addition, Kong et al., showed that changes in
      microbial communities were temporally associated with disease flares in atopic dermatitis
      patients. Changes in the microbial communities in atopic dermatitis patients were not only
      associated with disease flares, but were also associated with whether the patient received
      treatment with topical medications, including antimicrobial or anti-inflammatory medications,
      during flares. These findings suggest that communities of microbes are important in the
      initiation and perpetuation of certain skin diseases and that the topical medications used in
      treatment of these diseases have an important role, which may be related to their alteration
      of the microbiome.

      The most commonly used treatments in dermatology include topical steroids and topical
      antifungals, which have long established safety and efficacy. Understanding the changes that
      these topical medications cause in the human microbiome will provide further insight into
      their role in the treatment of certain skin diseases and may assist us in developing new
      therapies in the future.
    
  