
    
      Objective: Uveitis, an inflammatory condition that affects the uvea (iris, ciliary body and
      choroid) and adjacent structures of the eyes, is an important cause of visual loss. Most
      cases of uveitis, not related to an infectious agent, are thought to be autoimmune in origin
      and are effectively treated with medications to suppress the function of the immune system.
      Efforts to decrease morbidity, reduce the dose of more toxic immunosuppressive drugs, reduce
      the frequency of recurrences of inflammation and its sequelae are important goals in the
      treatment of uveitis. A frequent sequela of uveitis is macular edema. Treatment of macular
      edema in patients with uveitis has been a particular challenge. Current evidence from
      diabetic macular edema (DME) and vitreomacular traction (VMT) trials suggests that
      pharmacologically-induced vitreoretinal separation could be a potential treatment for macular
      edema associated with uveitis. Microplasmin, a truncated form of human plasmin and naturally
      occurring enzyme that dissolves blood clots, may be a reasonable candidate for the treatment
      of uveitic macular edema. The objective of this study is to investigate the safety and
      efficacy of microplasmin as a treatment for uveitic macular edema.

      Study Population: Five participants with uveitic macular edema, with or without VMT, will be
      enrolled. In addition, participants must have no evidence of macular or complete posterior
      vitreous detachment (PVD) by Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) or ultrasound.

      Design: This Phase I-II, non-randomized, prospective, uncontrolled, single-center study will
      involve a one-time intravitreal injection of 125 µg in 100 µL of microplasmin. Eligible
      participants can receive the intravitreal injection on the same day of the baseline
      examination. Participants will be followed for 24 weeks post-injection.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure related to the safety and tolerability of
      microplasmin will be assessed by the number and severity of adverse events (AEs) and systemic
      and ocular toxicities during the study. The secondary outcome measures related to the
      potential efficacy of an intravitreal injection of microplasmin for macular edema secondary
      to uveitis will be assessed by a change in central macular thickness from baseline measured
      by OCT in response to microplasmin at 4 and 12 weeks post-injection, the number of
      participants achieving macular or complete PVD at 4 and 12 weeks post-injection, the change
      of ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and the change of retino-vascular leakage from
      baseline seen on fluorescein angiography (FA).
    
  