
    
      Treatment of most cancer patients involves radiation and/or chemotherapy which often leads to
      gastrointestinal toxicity. Cytotoxic chemotherapy in particular often induces several
      intestinal abnormalities such as mucositis including destruction of intestinal villi,
      alterations in the gut microbiota, modulation of tight junctions, leading to an increased
      intestinal permeability. These toxic effects have been observed in several types of
      chemotherapy and different methods of administering chemotherapy.

      The intestinal permeability is regulated and protected by a number factors, including a mucus
      layer covering the surface of the epithelium. This mucus layer is partly regulated by
      intestinal bacteria. Therefore it is hypothesized that chemoinduced changes in the intestinal
      microbiota may possibly affect intestinal permeability. Changes in the intestinal microbiota
      are seen after only one or a few cycles of chemotherapy treatment in different types of
      cancers, and could possibly be a contributing factor in the development of mucositis.

      It is possible that probiotics may interfere with the ability of pathogenic bacteria to bind
      to the surface of the intestinal epithelial lining. In vitro studies have shown that
      probiotics may reduce a post-infective (Escherichia coli) increased intestinal permeability,
      or increased permeability due to incubation with pro-inflammatory cytokines. VSL#3 is a
      probiotic formula containing a mixture of 9x10^10 CFU/g Lactobacilli strains (Lactobacillus
      acidophilus, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus casei, and Lactobacillus bulgaricus),
      8x10^10 CFU/g Bifidum strains (Bifidobacterium breve, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium
      infantis) and 20x10^10 CFU/g Streptococcus thermophilus. In vitro and ex vivo studies have
      suggested that the probiotic bacteria found in VSL#3 may have a reducing effect on intestinal
      permeability as well as a positive modulating effect on tight junction protein expression.
      Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 is another bacterial strain that has been shown to be able to
      mediate the modulation of tight junction proteins and thus intestinal permeability. The
      precise mechanisms behind the effects of probiotics on intestinal epithelial permeability are
      not yet clear, but some mechanisms have been proposed, including a reduction in bacterial
      secretion of proinflammatory cytokines as well as other secreted products from probiotic
      microbial metabolism.

      It is not known whether all probiotic strains exert a similar effect on intestinal
      permeability, as only very limited clinical research has addressed this relation. However, it
      is very likely that the specific choice of probiotic bacterial species may play a crucial
      role. We are only familiar with one clinical trial examining the effect of probiotics on
      intestinal permeability in adults with cancer undergoing treatment in the form of colectomy,
      but no adjuvant chemotherapy. Probiotics in the form of Lactobacillus plantarum,
      Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium longum was administered perioperative and
      postoperative to patients undergoing colectomy, and the study showed that probiotics improved
      the integrity of the small intestinal mucosal barrier, induced modulation of the intestinal
      microbiome as well as a reduction in the postoperative rate of infections.The same
      researchers also measured serum zonulin in the same subjects, and found that the treatment
      with probiotics also reduced the concentration of postoperative serum zonulin, and thus
      inhibited the same increase in intestinal permeability as was the case in the control group.
    
  