
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of mantle field radiotherapy, in terms of overall survival, in
           patients with previously untreated stage I or II Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) with a very
           favorable prognosis.

        -  Compare late treatment-related toxicity in patients with stage I or II HL with a
           favorable prognosis treated with standard subtotal nodal radiotherapy vs a combination
           of 3 courses of mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine hydrochloride,
           prednisone/doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, and vinblastine (MOPP/ABV) followed by
           involved field radiotherapy.

        -  Compare overall survival and late treatment-related toxicity in patients with stage I or
           II HL with an unfavorable prognosis treated with 6 courses of MOPP/ABV followed by
           involved field radiotherapy vs 4 courses of MOPP/ABV followed by involved field
           radiotherapy vs subtotal nodal radiotherapy.

        -  Maintain the failure-free survival rate that was reached in previous studies, with a
           reduction of the acute side effects of the treatment, particularly severe late toxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, prospective, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified according to prognosis (favorable vs unfavorable vs very favorable).

        -  Stratum 1 (very favorable prognosis): Patients undergo mantle field radiotherapy 5 days
           a week for at least 4 weeks.

        -  Stratum 2 (favorable prognosis): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients undergo subtotal nodal radiotherapy 5 days a week for at least 4
                weeks.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive mechlorethamine IV and vincristine IV on day 1; oral
                procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-7; oral prednisone on days 1-14; and
                doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, bleomycin intramuscularly (IM) or IV, and vinblastine
                IV on day 8. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion
                of chemotherapy, patients undergo involved field radiotherapy 5 days a week for at
                least 4 weeks.

        -  Stratum 3 (unfavorable prognosis): Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive mechlorethamine IV and vincristine IV on day 1; oral
                procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-7; oral prednisone on days 1-14; and
                doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, bleomycin IM or IV, and vinblastine IV on day 8.
                Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy,
                patients undergo involved field radiotherapy 5 days a week for at least 4 weeks.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks
                for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
                Patients then undergo involved field radiotherapy as in arm I.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks
                for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
                Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo subtotal
                nodal radiotherapy 5 days a week for at least 4 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed after completion of study treatment and then annually for 10
      years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 2, 4, 6, 9, and 12 months,
      every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,158 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  