
    
      Leaking urine is called "incontinence". Stress urinary incontinence (SUI), is another common
      bladder problem. It's different from OAB. People with SUI leak urine while sneezing, laughing
      or doing other physical activities. If you have an overactive bladder, you may feel
      embarrassed, isolate yourself, or limit your work and social life.

      Overactive bladder (OAB) is a very common clinical condition, with an overall prevalence
      estimated at 11.5% in the general population of Pakistan.

      In traditional medicine and recent years, nerve stimulation has been introduced as a
      replacement therapy for managing several disorders such as overactive bladder. However, there
      is still controversy in this regard. Therefore, the present study is aimed to find out the
      effectiveness of Electric Muscle Stimulation and Transcutaneous Electric Nerve Stimulation in
      treatment of overactive bladder.To overcome this controversy we need to do this study in
      Pakistan and find out whether there is any role of EMS and TENS in the management of OAB.

      OAB is one of the important conditions that lead to the limitation in activity and
      participation due to dribbling, urgency and frequency of urination. According to literature
      review there is a strong linkage between OAB rehabilitation and improvement of patient
      symptoms. The Neuromodulation plays a significant role in the management of OAB. The proper
      task specific rehabilitation not only improves the functional status of a person rather it
      enhances the quality of life and their active role in community. In routine rehabilitation
      main focus is always on the role of pelvic floor exercises but Neuromodulation is still
      neglected in treatment regimen of OAB in Pakistan. The patients will profit in better help of
      manifestations if Neuromodulation intervention is applied that is upheld by proof for the
      treatment of OAB. The consequences of the investigation will be useful for the Physical
      Therapists in planning and picking best treatment approach for the treatment of OAB.

      TENS is based on the gate control theory of abolishing the local micturition reflex arc. It
      is a non-pharmacological method of inhibiting the presynaptic afferent neurons carrying
      impulses from bladder by stimulating the nerves of peripheral segmental dermatome (gate
      control theory of electro modulation by stimulating the peripheral nerves corresponding to
      the visceral organ). It acts at the level of primitive voiding reflex coordinating the
      bladder, sphincter and the pelvic floor. Detrusor hyperreflexia can be inhibited by direct
      inhibition of impulses in the preganglionic afferent neuron or by inhibition of bladder
      preganglionic neurons of the efferent limb of micturition reflex.

      EMS is also believed to produce some inhibition of the bladder, allowing the bladder to reach
      a greater volume. This is believed to occur because electrical stimulation also stimulates
      nerves in the pelvic floor. In most people, bladder voiding is inhibited when the skin of the
      pelvis is touched or otherwise manipulated. This inhibition is via a reflex in the spinal
      cord that may have evolved to inhibit voiding during sexual contact. The pelvic floor nerves
      are responsible for transmitting the sensation of touch from the pelvis to the spinal cord.
      Electrical stimulation of these nerves thus activates sensory fibers that cause inhibition of
      bladder voiding via a reflex mechanism in the spinal cord. This may explain EMS is an
      effective treatment for people with incontinence.
    
  