
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Positron mission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) complete response
      (CR)/peripheral blood minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Progression-free survival at 36 months. II. Toxicity rates (incidence of grade 3/4
      infections, renal and neurologic toxicities, cumulative dose of cytarabine & acalabrutinib,
      dose reduction, and treatment discontinuation due to toxicity).

      III. Objective response rate (ORR). IV. Overall survival at 36 months. V. Mobilization
      failure rate (defined as a yield < 2 x 10^6 CD34+ stem cells/kg with a maximum of 4 courses
      of apheresis).

      VI. To compare PET/CT negative rate between the three arms. VII. To evaluate the association
      between baseline PET quantitative assessment (qPET) and MRD status at end of treatment (EOT).

      VIII. To evaluate the association between the change of qPET parameters from baseline to EOT
      and MRD, and compare this association across all 3 arms.

      IX. To determine the incremental prognostic value of baseline qPET to standard risk markers
      (Mantle Cell Lymphoma International Prognostic Index [MIPI]) in predicting MRD status at EOT.

      X. To determine the prognostic value of baseline, interim and EOT PET in predicting
      progression-free survival (PFS).

      EXPLORATORY IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

      I. Interim PET status both qualitatively (Deauville) and quantitatively will be correlated
      with MRD status at EOT (end of induction).

      II. Explore the incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to standard risk markers (MIPI)
      in predicting MRD status at EOT.

      III. Explore the incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to Ki67 in predicting MRD
      status at EOT.

      IV. Explore the association of interim and EOT PET with overall survival (OS).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive bendamustine intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 2 and rituximab IV on
      day 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 4, patients receive rituximab IV on day
      1 and cytarabine IV every 12 hours (Q12 hours) on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive acalabrutinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28,
      bendamustine IV on days 1 and 2, and rituximab IV on day 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Beginning cycle 4, patients receive acalabrutinib PO BID on days 1-7 and 22-28, rituximab IV
      on day 1, and cytarabine IV Q12 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up
      to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive acalabrutinib PO BID on days 1-28, bendamustine IV on days 1 and 2,
      and rituximab IV on day 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years, and
      then every 6 months until year 10.
    
  