
    
      The adipose tissue is the main energetic reserve, being constituted by adipocytes, cells that
      accumulate lipids inside its cytoplasm, in the form of triglycerides.

      Fat deposition can occur both in the subcutaneous compartment and in the visceral compartment
      and is the result of a positive energy balance in which there is an imbalance between the
      amount of calories consumed and the amount of calories expended. Thus, an excess of energy
      storage occurs in the form of triglycerides in adipose tissue, which results from a sedentary
      lifestyle and a diet based on lipid rich nutrients. When fat deposition occurs in abdominal
      adipose tissue may favor the development of metabolic disorders.

      Recently the effectiveness of an innovative physiotherapeutic intervention - low power laser
      therapy (LLLT) - on adipose tissue has been studied. This therapeutic modality stimulates
      cytochrome C oxidase, causing the release of nitric oxide, increased mitochondrial membrane
      potential and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis and the transient increase of reactive
      oxygen species (ROS). It is proposed that ROS creates temporary pores in the adipocyte
      membrane, allowing the release of its lipid content. It is also suggested that a regulation
      of cAMP occurs, which stimulates the lipolytic cascade, converting the triglycerides to fatty
      acids and glycerol. In this way, low level laser therapy seems to aid in the reduction of
      adiposity and in the decrease of cholesterol and triglycerides serum levels . In addition, it
      assists in the reduction of the inflammatory process related to obesity, by reducing the
      pro-inflammatory cytokines.

      The aerobic exercise, due to its low-moderate intensity, enhances the stimulation of
      lipolysis, by decreasing plasma insulin concentration and elevating the level of
      catecholamines. In this way, it influences the lipid metabolism, seeming to improve the lipid
      profile, through the degradation of the triglycerides as energetic substrate. In addition,
      the regular practice of physical exercise seems to promote a decrease in the inflammation
      state due to metabolic changes, through the reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, namely
      interleukin-6 and, consequently, C-reactive protein.

      The application of low level laser therapy in the abdominal region enhances the release of
      fat acids and glycerol into the bloodstream, increasing the availability of the substrate for
      muscle energy consumption. However, if they are not used as energy, free circulating fat
      acids may bind to glycerol and potentiate, again, the accumulation of triglycerides in
      abdominal adipocytes. Thus, aerobic exercise seems to be a good option in the fight against
      this re-esterification, since it is expected that the resulting fat acids will be converted
      to acetyl-CoA, entering the Krebs cycle, being used as energy source during aerobic exercise.
    
  