
    
      The long-term consequences of COVID 19 are not well understood, particularly in the Veteran
      population. This study will describe and quantify the long-term consequences of COVID-19,
      including impairment in physical and psychosocial function and health-related quality of
      life. Additionally, it will determine the impact of chronic lung disease (CLD) and other
      comorbidities on severity and recovery after COVID-19 infection and the association of social
      determinants of health with severity and recovery.

      Initially, a retrospective national cohort of VA patients who test positive with SARS2 will
      be identified. Baseline clinical history will be analyzed with outcomes that include severity
      of COVID 19, all-cause mortality, and post-discharge events.

      Subsequently, a mixed methods, prospective cohort study will include both qualitative
      (interview) and quantitative components (surveys). The investigators will identify patients
      with COVID-19 and recruited for qualitative interviews following hospital discharge or
      diagnosis. Patient caregivers will also be eligible to participate in study interviews.
      Interviews will occur once at various times ranging 2 weeks to 1 year since a patient's
      COVID-19 diagnosis. Surveys will be completed at 3 time points, 3-8 weeks after diagnosis or
      discharge to home, and then 6 months and 12 months later. Surveys will include the EQ-5D-5L
      profile for health-related quality of life, and the WHODAS 2.0 score for a global assessment
      of overall physical and psychosocial function.

      Finally, the investigators will conduct a single-arm pilot feasibility trial to develop an
      initial feasibility testing of a rehabilitation-focused program to improve physical and
      psychosocial functioning. This will involve patients with COVID-19 who were discharged home
      or 2 weeks after diagnosis if not hospitalized.
    
  