
    
      The study hypothesis is that low dose atropine eye drops will reduce the progression of
      short-sightedness in children compared with placebo eye drops. This is a randomised
      controlled trial which will be conducted across four Clinical Research Facilities associated
      with higher education institutions in the UK. It is a double masked trial, that is, neither
      the participant or the research team will know what treatment the participants are receiving.
      289 children aged 6-12 years with short-sightedness will be recruited to the trial. They will
      be randomly chosen to receive either atropine eye drops or placebo eye drops on a 2:1 basis.
      Therefore, 193 participants will receive atropine eye drops, 96 participants will receive
      placebo eye drops.

      Potential participants will be referred either by their high street optician or their parents
      will refer them directly. The study will be advertised on local radio. Potential participants
      will be invited to attend a baseline screening visit. Written informed consent and written
      informed assent will be obtained from the parent and child prior to undertaking any
      assessments. Potential participants will undergo a number of assessments similar to what is
      conducted by the high street optician or eye clinic to determine if they are eligible to
      participate. These include: assessment of near and distance vision, reading speed and
      different measurements of the eye using instruments. An eye drop will be put into each eye
      for some of these assessments. These drops cause a short-term increase in pupil size, which
      may last for 12-24 hours, and make close up vision (through their glasses) blurry for up to
      four hours, and may make them more sensitive to bright light. Participants will also be asked
      about their quality of life and their daily activities such as screen time, playing outside
      and reading.

      Participants will be instructed in the use of the eye drops. They will put one drop in each
      eye daily for 24 months. The atropine eye drops contain 0.01% atropine sulphate. Placebo eye
      drops have been chosen as the comparator group as there is no alternative treatment for this
      condition. Participants will be given a six month supply of eye drops at each visit (except
      the last visit at 24 months). This will include seven bottles as each bottle can only be used
      for 28 days after opening.

      Participants will have a further four visits to the research facility for the assessments to
      be repeated. This will be every six months, therefore five visits in total (baseline, 6
      months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months). It is anticipated that each visit will last
      approximately 1-2 hours. Children will be offered the opportunity to rest between
      assessments. At these follow up visits, in addition to the assessments, they will be asked
      about their tolerability of the eye drops. Also, five years after randomisation, the
      investigators will post a questionnaire to participants and ask details of any possible
      complications and adverse events. The investigators will also request information from their
      optometrist regarding their eye health, distance vision and refractive error data.

      The primary outcome is the change in the severity of short-sightedness after 24 months. This
      will be measured using a machine called an autorefractor.
    
  