
    
      Prostate cancer is male's leading solid non-cutaneous tumor, and the second cause of cancer
      death in western countries. The main risk factors are age (5th decade or more), family
      history and life-style (low physical activity and occidental dietary habit). Due to it's high
      incidence and mortality, the screening protocols continue to be supported worldwide by the
      urologic and oncologic societies. The diagnosis of this disease needs histological evidence
      that is obtained by prostate biopsy which is indicated when prostate specific antigen (PSA)
      serum levels are elevated or there is suspicion at digital rectal examination. Actual
      estimations conclude that more than 200.000 new cases are diagnosed per-year in US and much
      more patients are submitted to biopsies; turning prostate biopsy a routine medical procedure.
      In therms of current medical evidence there is controversy in some biopsy aspects. The ideal
      number of fragments to be obtained is not well established. While twelve core is believed to
      be the minimum to be sampled, the maximum number is not clear. To ease the estimation of the
      number of necessary core at biopsy the literature recommend the use of nomograms; they
      adequate the number of removed fragments according to each individual characteristics such as
      age, volume, previous biopsy and PSA levels. The prostate biopsy is considered a painful
      procedure by 96% of patients, therefore it is fundamental to soften the soreness employing
      some form of anesthesia. There is no consensus regarding the ideal protocol but the local
      anesthesia with the periprostatic blockade is the most employed worldwide. However there is a
      controversy related to the site of the injection during the periprostatic block in terms of
      efficacy: base versus apex or both sites.

      Considering the epidemiological importance of prostate cancer detection in a continuous aging
      population, this study protocol was enrolled in a single center high volume urology Brazilian
      Public Hospital. The patients will be randomized at a 1:1 ratio for the two biopsy schemes
      and for the two anesthesia templates.The main objective was to compare the detection rate of
      two different prostate biopsy schemes 20-core versus 12-core prostate biopsy guided by
      transrectal ultrasound. Secondary objectives were to evaluate pain perception of the two
      local anesthesia schemes using a validated pain scale. The pain was evaluated using the
      visual pain scale immediately after the biopsy and one hour after the procedure. The patients
      were contacted by phone one week after the biopsy to assess the occurrence of any
      complication. The investigators then compared the major and minor complication rates of
      20-core versus 12-core protocol using the Clavien-Dindo scale. In those patients with cancer
      at the pathologic report that underwent radical prostatectomy, the investigators will also
      compare the concordance of Gleason score between the biopsy versus surgical specimen
      according to the biopsy scheme 20-core versus 12-core.

      Data was collected since mid 2012 up to june 2016, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      detailed elsewhere. All information was obtained by the main investigator and all procedures
      were supervised by the main investigator as well.
    
  