
    
      The classification of carcinoma of the esophagus has undergone a major modification between
      the UICC sixth (TNM-6) and TNM-7 edition. Regional lymph nodes (N) are now subdivided by the
      number of involved lymph nodes (pN0, 0; pN1, 1-2; pN2, 3-6; pN3 > 6), and distant metastasis
      (M) has been simplified to M1 rather than subdivided by location [1].

      Nevertheless, TNM-7 doesn't take into consideration the morphologic characteristics of the
      metastatic lymph node itself. Since our first publications showing a negative relationship
      between presence of extracapsular lymph node involvement (EC-LNI) and survival [2], little
      has been published about the prognostic impact of this specific characteristic .

      In our latest publication "Can extracapsular lymph node involvement be a tool to fine-tune
      pN1 for adenocarcinoma in UICC TNM 7th Edition?" [3], the investigators found a significant
      survival benefit for adenocarcinoma without extracapsular lymph node involvement in pN1 (=
      1-2 positive lymph nodes) as compared to N2-N3 disease, treated by primary surgery. Moreover,
      pN1 patients with extracapsular lymph node involvement (EC-LNI) showed a survival that was
      comparable to patients with more than 2 positive lymph nodes (i.e. stage IIIB). These
      findings may have important consequences for future TNM adaptations.

      The aim of this study is to validate our results on a larger, multicentric cohort, and if
      possible make recommendations and possible fine-tuning for a future TNM adaptation, including
      the characteristics of the metastatic lymph node itself, being intra- or extracapsular.

      Furthermore the investigators want to examine if these effects are valid in pre-treated
      patients, i.e. surgery after neoadjuvant chemo(radiation) therapy. Although these patients
      are not incorporated in the current TNM classification, future adaptations to the TNM
      classification system will also examine the effects of neoadjuvant therapy (cfr.
      Rice/Blackstone WECC -Worldwide Esophageal Cancer Collaboration).
    
  