
    
      Background:

      Severe grief reactions (SGR), or complicated grief (CG), are experienced by 2-3% of the
      population after the loss of a loved one, and can be associated with declining health, social
      distress, increased use of healthcare resources and higher mortality. SGR can be related to
      the circumstances of the patient at the end of life, particularly in deaths that were
      unexpected or traumatic, when the family member was unprepared or unsupported. The COVID-19
      pandemic has affected many aspects of end-of-life care. For example, infection control
      measures may reduce interactions between long-term care residents and family members, and
      have often limited in-person family visiting to the final hours of life, or no visiting at
      all for patients with COVID-19. Anecdotally, this disruption of normal interactions has been
      difficult for patients and families alike, and it is known that isolation and lack of closure
      with a loved one can contribute to the risk of SGR. The prevalence of SGR is expected to rise
      amid increased challenges in supporting a surge of people with SGR due to physical distancing
      and limited bereavement resources.

      Methods:

      The proposed mixed methods explanatory study includes both retrospective and prospective data
      collection. The quantitative components will principally consist of natural experiments to
      identify patient/FM characteristics indicating a high risk of SGR during the COVID-19
      pandemic. The qualitative components will deepen an understanding of the impact of COVID-19
      on bereavement, while providing a formative evaluation for the virtual support groups. Study
      subjects will include all patients who died in an acute care facility in Ottawa (The Ottawa
      Hospital, Queensway-Carleton Hospital, and Hôpital Montfort) from January 1, 2020 until June
      30, 2020, and their primary contact (as indicated in their medical record).

      Significance:

      Early identification of FMs at risk of SGR provides an opportunity for early intervention
      with the hope of preventing or reducing the severity of the SGR, but it also enables
      prioritization of those in greatest need, should demand exceed resources. Moreover, because
      it is still early in the pandemic, the study will be able to collect clinical data about the
      circumstances of the death, and consistently collect bereavement data for family members of
      people who died before and after the pandemic struck, and before and after the availability
      of virtual support groups. Therefore have a unique opportunity to conduct two natural
      experiments- studying the impact of the COVID pandemic on bereavement, and studying the
      effect of virtual support groups on symptoms.
    
  