
    
      This is a pilot study, PROBE design (prospective randomized open label blinded endpoints
      study), that will include 100 patients.

      Patients will be recruited during their hospitalization in the cardiology department of
      Ichilov- Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center.

      It will include patients with known or newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus, hospitalized with
      diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome and multi-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD) that will
      be demonstrated by cardiac catheterization that the patients will undergo during their
      hospitalization in concordance with their diagnosis and practice guidelines.

      The decision about intervention with either PCI or CABG will be accepted by a heart team
      after the initial demonstration of multi-vessel disease.

      Study recruitment will take place either in the first 24 hours after PCI or before CABG.

      All patients will sign an informed consent and randomized before any intervention is done.

      After enrollment, patients will undergo the following baseline procedure (no later than 24
      hours from PCI):

        1. Physical examination and medical interview

        2. Quality of life questionnaires (Seattle angina , EQ-5D)

        3. Echocardiogram

        4. Blood tests- see below for description

        5. Endothelial function using the EndoPat®

      Blood sampling will be done via IV cannula that will be placed in an antecubital vein. Blood
      sample analyses will be performed using reagents, calibrators and control materials in the
      local labs of each participating site. A 40 ml blood sample will be obtained for the
      following blood tests

        1. Full chemistry including: lipid levels, thyroid function, liver enzymes function,
           Troponin, BNP, HbA1c, uric acid, creatinine and glucose levels.

        2. Blood count

        3. Inflammatory biomarker (hs-CRP, fibrinogen, IL-6, IL-1B, IL-18, MMP, IL-10, IL-35, TNFa,
           AchE , PAI-1, MPO, cholinergic status.)

        4. Endothelial function markers: Endothelin-1, I-CAM, V-CAM, superoxide dismutase ADMA, and
           oxidized LDL

        5. Oxidative Stress- superoxide dismutase ADMA, and oxidized LDL, Plasma protein carbonyls.

        6. Urine samples- microalbuminuria, albumin/creatinine. Uric acid.

      Endothelial function will be assessed using EndoPAT 2000 device (Itamar Medical Inc.,
      Caesarea, Israel) that is a device that measures endothelial function using a sensor placed
      on the fingers. This device has been validated and used previously to assess peripheral
      arterial tone in other populations. EndoPAT bio-sensors are placed on the index fingers of
      both arms. EndoPAT quantifies the endothelium-mediated changes in vascular tone, elicited by
      a 5-minute occlusion of the brachial artery (using a standard blood pressure cuff). When the
      cuff is released, the surge of blood flow causes an endothelium-dependent Flow Mediated
      Dilatation (FMD). The dilatation, manifested as reactive hyperemia, is captured by EndoPAT as
      an increase in the PAT Signal amplitude. A post-occlusion to pre-occlusion ratio is
      calculated by the EndoPAT software, providing the EndoPAT index. In addition, the EndoPAT
      system will measure heart rate variability.

      After randomization and assessment as described above, the patients will receive treatment
      according to the study arm they were assigned to which will include either standard medical
      therapy alone, or standard medical therapy and allopurinol.

      Allopurinol will be given initially at 100 mg once daily dose, with dose escalation by 100 mg
      every 2 weeks till final dose of 300 mg daily will be reached.

      After discharge, patients will be assessed several times:

        1. One month after in cardiology clinic. Assessment will include all the tests as in the
           pre study exam (see above). also, patients will be monitored for the possible side
           effects of allopurinol treatment.

        2. Three months- in cardiology clinic. Assessment will include all the tests as in the pre
           study exam (see above).
    
  