
    
      BACKGROUND & RATIONALE

      Exercise, or physical activity, is beneficial for all cancer survivors. Despite this
      knowledge, there is generally a gap between the evidence and practice. And this gap is
      widened with (a) underserved tumour groups in exercise oncology, such as neuro-oncology
      patients, or (b) underutilized timelines across the cancer treatment phases to deliver
      exercise oncology education or programming.

      Within Alberta (AB), the investigators have been able to very successfully implement the
      Alberta Cancer Exercise (ACE) program to start to address the gap between research and
      practice. As a hybrid implementation effectiveness study, ACE is building a model for
      exercise oncology delivery within standard cancer care. With over 2500 participants across
      AB, the investigators have substantial evidence supporting the feasibility of ACE, as well as
      the potential benefits. Despite these successes, ACE remains primarily represented by
      participants from breast, prostate, and colorectal tumour groups. This represents a lack of
      connection between smaller and more high risk tumour groups within referral pathways for the
      ACE program, both at TBCC and CCI, but also within the regional community cancer clinics
      (Grande Prairie, Red Deer, Medicine Hat, Lethbridge).

      RESEARCH QUESTION & OBJECTIVES

      The purpose of this feasibility-implementation study is to build exercise into the clinical
      care pathway in neuro-oncology clinics at the two major cancer centres in AB, where all
      neuro-oncology patients provincially are treated (Tom Baker Cancer Centre, TBCC; and the
      Cross Cancer Institute, CCI). Specifically, the objectives of the proposed work are: (1) to
      tailor the ACE exercise program for all neuro- oncology patients, to ACE-Neuro; this includes
      considering additional tailoring to address needs earlier in the care pathway, from diagnosis
      through treatment (i.e., prehabilitation phases) and into longer term survivorship (wellness
      cancer survivorship care plans), (2) to provide models of delivery of exercise oncology
      programs to enhance access (i.e., remote delivery, home support, individual vs group), and
      (3) to build this systematically within the neuro-oncology clinics at the TBCC and CCI, to
      ensure that all patients diagnosed with brain tumours can access wellness during their cancer
      care journey. The investigators hypothesize that there will be improvements in patients'
      physical and psychosocial well-being (individual level outcomes), as well as a more
      integrated workflow in the clinical cancer care setting that includes exercise as part of
      standard clinical practice (systems level outcome). Specifically, the primary outcome of this
      study is to determine the feasibility of recruitment, referral, triage, adherence, and
      adverse events. The secondary outcome is to examine the preliminary effectiveness of the
      neuro-oncology exercise program on patient-reported outcomes and physical function.

      METHODS

      Using the successful implementation model developed in ACE, the proposed work will build a
      neuro-oncology cohort within a mixed methods study design. There will be multiple phases to
      the implementation of ACE-Neuro, including:

        1. Building awareness within the clinical teams, identifying site champions, and providing
           educational and referral resources specific to neuro-oncology and exercise;

        2. Working with neuro-oncology patients and families to develop the unique aspects of
           exercise programming (from "move more" programs to "exercise") to address identified
           needs. This co-creation process will also include the cancer physiatry team (Dr. George
           Francis, Dr. Lauren Capozzi) and the clinical neuro-oncology teams (Dr. Gloria Roldan
           Urgoiti at TBCC and Dr. Jay Easaw at CCI) to address medical clinical needs that can be
           addressed within the ACE-Neuro program, and clinical workflow logistics with physiatry
           and physiotherapy to address specific treatment-related side effects (such as limb
           weakness, balance, or cognitive function);

        3. implementation of the ACE-Neuro tailored program, including referral, screening,
           assessments, intervention delivery, and follow-ups. Details of the ACE-Neuro procedures
           are detailed below.

      REFERRAL AND RECRUITMENT

      Because the main outcome of this study is feasibility, and the ultimate goal is to build
      ACE-Neuro into standard neuro-oncology care, no a priori sample size has been calculated.
      Based on current clinical numbers, and previous work done with neuro-oncology patients at
      CCI, the investigators anticipate approximately 25-30 eligible patients per year, per site.
      Our aim is to referral of all eligible neuro-oncology patients from TBCC. For recruitment,
      patients can:

        1. self-refer (i.e. patient contacts the study team from a poster or brochure received in
           clinic, through word of mouth);

           OR study team can refer:

        2. clinical team sends referral to rehab oncology via Putting Patients First Questionnaire
           (via ARIA).

      The clinical team, based on their judgment, may not refer patients they deem to be
      ineligible. This may include for the following reasons:

        1. Patient is not interested when exercise idea is brought up.

        2. Health care provider deems patient clinically ineligible, due to disease progression,
           end-of-life care, or other health factor

        3. Patient does not speak English

        4. Other

      As a feasibility study, reasons for non-referral will be tracked, with no identifying patient
      information, across the recruitment period. After consenting to the study, all patients will
      undergo a two-part screening procedure prior to beginning the exercise program:

        1. Patients will complete health and medical history screening using the Health History
           Questionnaire, Identifying Information Questionnaire, and the Physical Activity
           Readiness Questionnaire; PAR-Q.

        2. Patients will attend a Neuro Oncology Rehabilitation Triage Clinic, led by a Resident
           Physician (Dr. Lauren Capozzi; supervised by Dr. George Francis) and the ACE-Neuro Study
           Coordinator (Julia Daun). During this 30-minute appointment, patients will complete the
           Short Physical Performance Battery screening test6, and a full neurological exam,
           including Karnofsky performance and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) scores.
           This appointment will assess the patients' readiness for participating in ACE-Neuro.

      As part of this study, the investigators will be tracking the referral pathway, and which
      method of referral is most feasible as part of standard clinical workflow.

      ASSESSMENTS

        1. Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs) - will include symptom burden (Edmonton Symptom
           Assessment Scale-Revised; ESAS-r), PA levels (Godin Leisure Time Exercise
           Questionnaire-Modified; GLTEQ), quality of life (Functional Assessment of Cancer
           Therapy-Brain; FACT-Br), cognitive function (Functional Assessment of Cancer
           Therapy-Cognitive Scale; FACT-Cog), and fatigue (Functional Assessment of Chronic
           Illness Therapy-Fatigue; FACIT-F).

        2. Functional Fitness Assessments - will follow the set protocols within ACE (HREBA-CC-16-
           0905_MOD12), and are designed to be able to be completed in-person or via remote
           delivery (online assessment). All fitness assessments will be completed by a Clinical
           Exercise Physiologist and will include the assessment of lower body strength and
           endurance (30-second sit-to-stand), static balance (single leg stance), flexibility
           (sit-and-reach and active shoulder flexion), and cardiorespiratory fitness (2-minute
           step test or 6MWT).

        3. Objective Physical Activity - will be measured via the use of a wrist-worn activity
           tracker (WAT; i.e., Garmin vivosmart® 4). Garmin wearable PA trackers are widely used
           across health research, and will be provided to all participants to objectively track PA
           habits throughout the intervention.

        4. Qualitative Interviews and Photo Elicitation: Qualitative data will be gathered across
           the co-creation process via interviews and photo elicitation, to inform the feasibility
           of ACE-Neuro, as well as to assess outcomes associated with participation in the
           ACE-Neuro program (benefits, barriers, satisfaction, impact on well-being). Qualitative
           data will be stored on a secure server.

      HEALTH COACHING

      In addition to exercise delivery and assessments, all participants will have the choice to
      participate in evidence-based health coaching calls, provided by a trained Health Coach.
      Health coaching is an evidence-based tool that supports positive health behaviour change
      across cancer populations. Health coaching calls will take place weekly for 15-30 minutes
      following an individualized exercise training session, and include topics surrounding goal
      setting, social support, stress management, maintaining motivation, and overcoming barriers.
      Health coaching calls will be delivered remotely (e.g., via end-to-end encrypted Zoom or
      phone call) at the participants' preferred date and time.

      TIMELINE

      The described exercise program and data collection of PROs and functional fitness assessments
      are in addition to standard practices. The timeline for these assessments include: baseline
      (at recruitment into ACE-Neuro), 12-weeks (post-intervention), 6-months, and 12-months.

      ANALYSIS Quantitative analysis will include descriptive statistics (means, medians, standard
      deviations), and change scores to measure changes in outcomes over time. Qualitative data
      will be analyzed by verbatim transcription (in NVivo), using an interpretive description
      methodology. Both quantitative and qualitative data will be analyzed to provide a deeper
      understanding of the feasibility and impact of ACE-Neuro.

      RELEVANCE By working directly with patients, healthcare providers, and community partners,
      this implementation project will develop a framework that streamlines patient triage, and
      provides a tailored online exercise program for neuro-oncology patients, thereby advancing
      exercise oncology research and clinical practice.
    
  