
    
      SAMPLE COLLECTION: Saliva collection from all the selected subjects will be performed
      following the Salivette (SARSTEDT) manufacturer's instructions. To limit variability in
      salivary content not related to ALS, saliva will be obtained from all subjects at a fixed
      time, after an appropriate lag time from feeding and teeth brushing. Pre-analytical
      parameters (i.e. storage temperature and time between collection and processing), dietary and
      smoking habit will be properly recorded. Briefly, the swab will be removed, placed in the
      mouth and chewed for 60 seconds to stimulate salivation. Then the swab will be centrifuged
      for 2 minutes at 1,000 g to remove cells fragments and food debris. Collected samples will be
      stored at -80° C.

      SAMPLE PROCESSING: Before the Raman acquisition, saliva samples will be filtered with
      different cut-off ranges (3, 10 and 30 kDa), collecting and analysing by RS the eluted sample
      and discarding the concentrated counterpart. For the Raman analysis, a drop of each sample
      will be casted on an aluminium foil in order to achieve the Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering
      (SERS).

      DATA COLLECTION: Raman and SERS spectra will be acquired using an Aramis Raman microscope
      (Horiba Jobin-Yvon, France) equipped with a laser light source operating at 785 nm with laser
      power ranging from 25-100% (Max power 512 mW). Acquisition time between 10-30 seconds will be
      used. The instrument will be calibrated before each analysis using the reference band of
      silicon at 520.7 cm-1. Raman spectra will be collected from 15 points following a line-map
      from the edge to the centre of the drop. Spectra will be acquired in the region between 400
      and 1800 cm-1 using a 50x objective (Olympus, Japan). Spectra resolution is about 1.2 cm-1.
      The software package LabSpec 6 (Horiba Jobin-Yvon, France) will be used for map design and
      the acquisition of spectra.

      DATA PROCESSING: All the acquired spectra will be fit with a fifth-degree polynomial baseline
      and normalized by unit vector using the dedicated software LabSpec 6. The contribution of the
      substrate will be removed from each spectra. The statistical analysis to validate the method,
      will be performed using a multivariate analysis approach. Principal Component analysis (PCA)
      will be performed in order to reduce data dimensions and to evidence major trends. The first
      20 resultant Principal Components (PCs) will be used in a classification model, Linear
      Discriminant Analysis (LDA), to discriminate the data maximizing the variance between the
      selected groups. The smallest number of PCs will be selected to prevent data overfitting.
      Leave-one-out cross-validation and confusion matrix test will be used to evaluate the method
      sensitivity, precision and accuracy of the LDA model. Mann-Whitney will be performed on PCs
      scores to verify the differences statistically relevant between the analysed groups.
      Correlation and partial correlation analysis will be performed using the Spearman's test,
      assuming as valid correlation only the coefficients with a p-value lower than 0.05. The
      statistical analysis will be performed using Origin2018 (OriginLab, USA).
    
  