
    
      The research team has shown that C6 ceramide nanoliposome (CNL) has anti-cancer activity in
      laboratory models of AML and that when it is combined with other cancer-fighting drugs, it
      works better.

      The primary goal of this study is to evaluate the safety of CNL given without other cancer
      treatments in patients with AML where either their initial treatment didn't work or it
      stopped working and your AML came back (refractory or relapsed AML, or RR-AML). This study
      seeks to determine the right dose to start with in later studies when CNL is combined with
      other drugs.

      CNL is given by intravenous (IV) infusion and will be given twice a week in this study.
      Participants will receive study treatment as long as it is considered safe for them to
      continue, though their disease status will be checked regularly to make sure that their
      disease has not gotten worse. Blood samples will be collected at many time-points in order to
      see how their bodies are responding to the drug and how long it stays in the blood.

      The first patients in the study will start at one dose of the drug and, if that is shown to
      be safe, the next group will be treated at a slightly higher dose. Participants will be given
      CNL by intravenous (IV) infusion twice a week over about 2 hours and then they will be
      monitored for about 2 hours to make sure they don't have any bad side effects, but initially
      patients will be required to stay at the site for about 6 hours after the start of the
      infusion in order to get blood draws to see how long the drug stays active in their system.

      Participants will have a bone marrow biopsy before their second "cycle" of drug (after about
      1 month) and then again before their third cycle of drug in order to see how their disease is
      responding. After that, bone marrow biopsies will be about every other cycle based on what
      the study doctor recommends. If the doctor doesn't think that CNL is helping their disease,
      of if their doctor decides that it is not safe for them to continue, they will be taken off
      study treatment. Participants will be followed for safety and disease status for up to 6
      months.
    
  