
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an acute respiratory syndrome caused by the novel
      coronavirus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Severe COVID-19
      infection is associated with a hyper-inflammatory response and evidence of innate immune cell
      activation. Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) plays a central role in innate immune cell signaling
      and activation and BTK inhibition represents a promising therapeutic strategy for
      ameliorating excessive inflammatory responses in patients with COVID-19. Understanding the
      mechanisms by which BTK inhibition modulates the host inflammatory response in patients with
      COVID-19 is critical in order to better understand COVID-19 pathogenesis.

      In this multisite natural history laboratory study, hospitalized patients with COVID-19
      (n=80) will be recruited at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and The Johns
      Hopkins Hospital. Forty of these patients will be recipients of BTK inhibition, either as
      part of their standard clinical care or in another clinical trial. The other 40 will not be
      recipients of BTK inhibition and will serve as a control group. A third group of patients
      without COVID-19 (n=40) who will be recipients of BTK inhibition for other clinical
      indications will also be enrolled as a second control group.

      Participants will have three or four longitudinal blood draws and may be asked to provide
      stool samples. All specimens and data will be coded and sent to the National Institutes of
      Health (NIH) for research analysis. Only site investigators will have access to the code s
      key for their respective sites; the NIH investigators will not have the keys. Coded blood
      samples will be used for genetic testing, transcriptional analyses, deep immunological
      phenotyping, soluble biomarker analysis, and other research tests. Coded clinical and
      laboratory data from routine care (e.g., basic demographic information, vital signs,
      medications, clinical labs, and radiologic imaging findings) will also be captured. Coded
      stool samples may be collected as part of this study to determine whether viable SARS-CoV-2
      is present in stool, which will help advance our understanding of pathogenesis and enteric
      transmission.
    
  