
    
      This study examines the use of disinfectants by Egyptian women during the coronavirus
      lockdown. Data will be collected via an online self-administered questionnaire that will be
      distributed to Egyptian women via social media channels such as (Facebook and WhatsApp).

      Google Forms tool will be used to conduct the questionnaire as questions in the questionnaire
      will assess types of disinfectants frequently used and how often they have been used for
      household disinfection during the 2020 coronavirus pandemic. Questions will also assess the
      occurrence of adverse effects related to the increased use of disinfectants during the
      lockdown and how women reached out for medical care for their family members in cases of
      accidental toxicity.

      The investigators hypothesized that the frequent use of disinfectants in deep household
      cleaning during the lockdown has been associated with increased incidents of toxicity by
      bleach and similar products. At the same time, people were advised to stay home and refrain
      from seeking in-person medical care to avoid catching the coronavirus. Therefore, many people
      used social media to receive medical advice not necessarily from the right sources nor
      qualified experts.

      The questionnaire is designed by the primary investigator (Dr. Maha Farid) and was reviewed
      by other experts in the field of forensic medicine and clinical toxicology. The questions
      were developed in English and then translated in Arabic to be distributed to the target
      population in Arabic.

      The inclusion criteria for women participating in this survey will include adult females
      living in Egypt during the time of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic that started in Egypt
      in March 2020.

      The questionnaire will be open for a month or till we reach the desired sample size,
      whichever comes first.

      The data collected via this questionnaire will be then tabulated and analyzed using the
      proper statistical analysis methods.
    
  