
    
      Study Protocol The study is designed as a prospective interventional randomized parallel
      longitudinal single-center study to evaluate the effects of auricular acupuncture on pain
      relief after episiotomy conducted in the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University
      Hospital Center Sestre milosrdnice, Zagreb, Croatia. This institution performs up to 3100
      deliveries per year. Episiotomy is indicated and performed in 30% of them.

      Prospective data will be collected from November 2016 to April 2017. The study will include
      healthy pregnant women over 18 years of age, a minimum of 36 weeks' gestation that underwent
      mediolateral episiotomy during vaginal delivery. Sixty patients will be included in the
      study. Half of patients will be treated with auricular acupuncture for episiotomy pain relief
      and oral analgesics, while the other half will be treated with oral analgesics only. In both
      groups, administration of oral analgesics was recorded. The patients will be allocated to the
      groups by using a heads-tails coin toss.

      In this study, auricular acupuncture will be used. The acupuncture treatment consists of
      three acupuncture needles on the dominant ear according to French auriculotherapy guidelines
      - internal genital area, external genital area and Shen Men point that is used to increase
      the anaesthetic effect according to both French and Chinese traditions (14,15). Acupuncture
      needles will be stimulated by manual rotation of the needle to evoke needle sensation De Qi.
      No electrostimulation will be used. Sterile 0,2 x 1,4 mm needles were used. The needles will
      be inserted within 6-8 hours after childbirth by a certified acupuncturist. The needles will
      be left in place until the hospital discharge of the patient on the third postpartal day, and
      removed by a certified acupuncturist.

      Additional oral analgesics (NSAID) could be supplied at any time upon patients request during
      hospitalization. Oral ibuprofen would be given as first line therapy, while oral paracetamol
      would be given as second line therapy.

      Primary outcome measures will be pain intensity (VAS score) immediately after birth, 2 hours
      after birth, during the first 3 days-at rest and activity. Secondary outcome measures will be
      the need for analgesics, the amount of given analgesics, and the number of analgesic
      repetitions during the day.

      In addition, subjective experiences of postpartum bleeding and pain due to uterine
      contractions will be recorded. For those who had received acupuncture therapy, pain levels at
      the acupuncture site, analysis of acupuncture related experience included discomfort during
      sleep, other contacts with acupuncture previously and likelihood of recommending the method
      to a friend will be noted. After leaving the hospital, women in the acupuncture group will be
      asked to fill out a questionnaire on acupuncture treatment satisfaction. All patients will
      sign an informed consent form. Inter-group comparisons will be performed based on the patient
      status at the time of hospital admission and during hospital stay. Input parameters: age,
      education level, number of previous births. Characteristics of delivery will be noted as: the
      time of birth, the duration of the birth, the subjective experience of the birth, the
      application of epidural analgesia.

      If labor starts before 8 AM, it will be considered as the first day of the hospitalization,
      and if labor starts later than 8 AM, the first day of hospitalization will be documented as
      the next day.

      Pain intensity will be evaluated using the Visual Analog Scala score. VAS score is scaled
      from 1 (smallest pain) to 10 (strongest pain). VAS score higher than 3 was the cut-off point
      for analgesic administration. The patients will be divided into two groups based on their
      education level; the first group encompassing women who had finished high school, and the
      other women who hold a university degree.

      Statistical analysis The results will be expressed as a number for categorical variables and
      as a median value (25th-75th interquartile range) for continuous variables. Continuous
      variables will be compared using the Student's t-test for independent samples, while
      categorical variables were compared using χ2-test. Fisher's exact test will be used if
      expected frequencies are less than five. All statistical tests will be two tailed, and P
      values < 0.05 considered statistically significant. All statistical analyses will be
      performed using MedCalc 9.5.1.0 (MedCalc Software, Mariakerke, Belgium).

      Peer-reviewed publications containing data from the study have not yet been published.
    
  