
    
      This is a multinational, multicenter study (single arm) supplemented by a comparison to a
      historical, propensity score matched control group (superiority study).

      A total of 44 patients (40 patients + 10% for potential drop-outs) who will receive modern
      high-precision radiotherapy (RT) treatment for the metastases on their vertebral bodies are
      planned to take part in the clinical study. The historical control group treated with 5x4 Gy
      of conventional RT between 2001 and 2016 consists of more than 500 patients The primary aim
      of this study is to investigate the local progression-free survival (LPFS) of metastatic
      spinal cord compression (MSCC) after 5x5 Gray (Gy) of high-precision RT and to demonstrate
      that this regimen results in significantly better 6-month LPFS than conventional RT with 5x4
      Gy. For the high-precision RT volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT), stereotactic body
      radiotherapy (SBRT) is allowed for treatment of patients with involvement of only one
      vertebra, if the required constraints can be met. LPFS is defined as freedom from progression
      of motor deficits during RT and freedom from an in-field recurrence of MSCC (i.e. freedom
      from motor deficits due to a recurrence of MSCC in the previously irradiated parts of the
      spine) following RT. The LPFS rate will be assessed 6 months after the end of RT.

      In patients treated with RT alone for MSCC, conventional RT with 10x3 Gy in 2 weeks results
      in similar motor function but significantly better LPFS than conventional RT with 5x4 Gy in 1
      week. Since patients with MSCC are often significantly impaired, a RT regimen with an overall
      treatment time of only 1 week would be preferable if it resulted in similar LPFS as 10x3 Gy
      in 2 weeks. This may be achieved with 5x5 Gy in 1 week, since the equivalent dose in 2 Gy
      fractions (EQD2) with respect to tumor cell kill of 5x5 Gy and 10x3 Gy are similar. The
      tolerance dose of the spinal cord, 5x5 Gy can be safely administered with high-precision RT
      such as VMAT (or SBRT). Therefore, the present study investigates the LPFS after
      high-precision RT with 5x5 Gy in 1 week. To demonstrate superiority the patients of this
      study will be compared to a historical control group receiving conventional RT with 5x4 Gy in
      1 week. If superiority regarding LPFS can be shown for high-precision RT with 5x5 Gy,
      patients with MSCC would benefit from this regimen, since they can achieve high LPFS rates
      with an RT regimen lasting only 1 week (5x5 Gy) instead of 2 weeks (10x3 Gy). This study aims
      to make a significant contribution to the most appropriate RT schedule for patients with
      MSCC.

      In accordance with a previous study assessing local control of MSCC, the following patient
      characteristics will be recorded to allow adequate comparison with the historical,
      propensity-score matched control group:

        -  Age (2 groups, depending on median age)

        -  Gender

        -  Type of primary tumor (breast cancer vs. prostate cancer vs. myeloma/lymphoma vs. lung
           cancer vs. other tumors)

        -  Interval from tumor diagnosis to MSCC (≤15 months vs. >15 months)

        -  Number of involved vertebrae (1-2 vs. ≥3)

        -  Other bone metastases at the time of RT (no vs. yes)

        -  Visceral metastases at the time of RT (no vs. yes)

        -  Time developing motor deficits prior to RT (1-7 days vs. 8-14 days vs. >14 days)

        -  Ambulatory status prior to RT (no vs. yes)

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance score (1-2 vs. 3-4) Study arm: 5x5
           Gy of high-precision RT in 1 week Historical control: 5x4 Gy of conventional RT in 1
           week Follow-up directly and at 1, 3 and 6 months following RT RT is administered as
           high-precision RT with 25.0 Gy in 1 week, i.e. with 5.0 Gy per fraction on 5 days per
           week (representing an EQD2 of 43.8 Gy for radiation myelopathy). An EQD2 of 45 Gy is
           estimated to be associated with a risk of radiation-related myelopathy of 0.03% and is
           therefore considered safe. The clinical target volume (CTV) includes the vertebral and
           soft tissue tumor as seen on the planning computed tomography and diagnostic MR-imaging,
           the spinal canal, the width of the involved vertebrae, and half a vertebra above and
           below those vertebrae involved by MSCC. The planning target volume (PTV) should include
           the CTV plus 0.8 cm and should be covered by the 95%-isodose. The maximum relative dose
           allowed to the spinal cord is 101.5% of the prescribed dose (representing an EQD2 of
           44.9 Gy for radiation myelopathy). This maximum dose is estimated to be associated with
           a risk of radiation-related of <0.03% and is, therefore, also considered safe. Both the
           EQD2 of the prescribed dose (41.7 Gy) and the EQD2 of the maximum dose (43.8 Gy) are
           well below the tolerance dose of bone. In accordance with the Quantitative Analyses of
           Normal Tissue Effects in the Clinic (QUANTEC) data, the mean doses EQD2 for esophagus,
           heart and lung must be <34 Gy, <26 Gy and ≤7 Gy, respectively. Taking into account a
           radiation regimen of five fractions, the corresponding mean doses per fraction are 4.5
           Gy, 3.8 Gy and 1.54 Gy, respectively. MSCC may affect single or multiple spinal sites.
           All sites need to be treated with high-precision RT following the dose prescriptions and
           constraints given above.

      It is recommended that the patients receive concomitant treatment with dexamethasone during
      the period of radiotherapy if indicated.

      Quality assurance plan:

      Monitoring: The Centre for Clinical Trials Lübeck will conduct clinical on-site monitoring at
      the German sites according to Good Clinical Practice and written standard operating
      procedures (SOPs) to ensure the patients' rights and safety as well as the reliability of
      trial results.

      The frequency of monitoring visits per site will be defined depending on the recruitment rate
      and the quality of data.

      Patient Registration:

      The patients were assigned 2 code numbers, the number of the contributing center plus a
      patient identification number starting with 001 and chronologically ongoing.

      Coordination and supervision of the inclusion of the patients will be performed by the
      Department of Radiation Oncology of the University of Lübeck, Germany.

      Sample size calculation:

      The primary goal of this study is to assess high-precision RT with 5x5 Gy in 1 week with
      respect to 6-month LPFS and to demonstrate that this rate is superior to conventional RT with
      5x4 Gy with respect to LPFS of MSCC (hypothesis).

      With respect to tumor cell kill, the EQD2 of 5x5 Gy is similar to the EQD2 of 10x3 Gy (31.3
      Gy vs. 32.5 Gy) and higher than the EQD2 of 5x4 Gy (23.3 Gy) . In a previous prospective
      non-randomized study, the 6-month LPFS rates were 86% after longer-course RT and 67% after
      short-course RT, respectively (p=0.034). In that study, 95 of 117 patients (81%) in the
      longer-course RT group had received 10x3 Gy, and 91 of 114 patients (80%) in the short-course
      RT group had received 5x4 Gy. Thus, assuming - for the present study - that conventional RT
      with 5x4 Gy in fact results in a 6-month LPFS rate of 67%, an increase by roughly 20
      percentage point is considered to be clinically minimal relevant and even appears to be
      realistic when applying high-precision RT with 5x5 Gy.

      The sample size is chosen to obtain prospective data that can be interpreted on its own and
      to allow for comparison with historical data:

        -  A sample size of at least 40 eligible patients is needed to estimate the probability of
           LPFS at 6 month with adequate precision, based on the following assumptions:

             -  6-month LPFS can be assumed to be 87%

             -  6-month LPFS is to be estimated with a precision of plus/minus 20 percentage points
                expressed as the half length of the associated two-sided confidence interval with a
                confidence coefficient of 95%.

             -  The power -i.e. the probability to obtain this precision, should be at least 80%

             -  Confidence limits are used as the approach for sample size. Assuming that roughly
                10% of enrolled patients will not be eligible for efficacy analysis due to early
                lost-to-follow-up or due to premature discontinuation of high-precision RT, a total
                of 44 patients should be enrolled in the prospective part of the trial.

        -  The aim of the confirmatory study is to compare the prospectively collected data with a
           historical, propensity-score matched cohort collected up to the time of data analysis.
           Assuming for simplicity and conservative power calculation that this comparison could be
           conducted with a simple Pearson-Chi-Square test using a two-sided significance level of
           5% (10%), a power of 79% (86%) is reached, if 40 patients are treated with
           high-precision RT and roughly 400 patients of the historical control group qualify for
           Propensity-Score adjusted comparison and assuming that the expected 6-month LPFS are 87%
           and 67%, respectively. Taking into account that the more sophisticated propensity-score
           adjusted statistical analysis will increase statistical power, the power for treatment
           arm comparison reached with 40 eligible patients in the prospective part of the study
           can be assumed to be at least 80%.

      Primary endpoint:

      The primary endpoint (LPFS of MSCC) will be evaluated based on the sample size calculations.
      The evaluation will be performed in those patients, who are available for assessment of the
      primary endpoint and have received at least 80% of the planned RT dose. Due to the open
      nature of the study, a blind data review is not necessary. The safety population includes all
      patients who have received at least 1 fraction of high-precision RT.

      LPFS is defined as freedom from progression of motor deficits during RT and freedom from an
      in-field recurrence of MSCC (i.e. freedom from motor deficits due to a recurrence of MSCC in
      the previously irradiated parts of the spine) following RT. Deterioration of motor deficits
      during RT will be counted as LPFS of 0 months. Freedom from an in-field recurrence following
      RT will be referenced from the last day of RT. LPFS rates will be calculated for each
      potential prognostic factor using the Kaplan-Meier method. Differences between the
      Kaplan-Meier curves will be calculated with the log-rank test (univariate analysis). Factors
      that achieve significance (p<0.05) or show a trend (p<0.06) on univariate analysis will be
      additionally included in a multivariate analysis (Cox proportional hazards model).

      Secondary endpoints:

      The comparison of the high-precision RT group and the conventional RT group with respect to
      their effect on motor function and sensory function (improvement, no further progression,
      deterioration) will be evaluated with the ordered logit model adjusted for propensity score,
      because the data for the impact of RT on motor and sensory function are ordinal (-1 =
      deterioration, 0 = no further progression, 1 = improvement). An improvement or deterioration
      of the motor function will be defined as a change of at least 1 point on a 5-point scale.
      Post-RT ambulatory and sphincter dysfunction rates will be compared between both groups with
      the Chi-square test stratified for propensity score. Effect of RT on motor function, post-RT
      ambulatory rates, sensory function and sphincter dysfunction will be evaluated directly after
      RT and at 1, 3 and 6 months following RT in those patients who are alive and available for
      assessment. P-values of <0.05 are considered significant.

      Overall survival (OS) will be counted from the last day of RT. OS rates will be calculated
      with the Kaplan-Meier-method. Differences between Kaplan-Meier curves will be analyzed with
      the log-rank test. Again, p-values of <0.05 are considered significant. Factors that achieve
      significance or show a trend (p<0.06) on univariate analysis will be included in a
      multivariate analysis (Cox proportional hazards model). The analysis of OS will be conducted
      in the intent-to-treat population.

      Data regarding pain, quality of life and toxicity will only be assessed in the study group.
    
  