
    
      Coronary artery disease is caused by the gradual build-up of fatty deposits in coronary
      arteries (atherosclerosis). A diminished blood flow may cause chest pain (angina), shortness
      of breath or other symptoms. A complete blockage can cause a heart attack. Angioplasty and
      stenting techniques are safe and effective procedures performed to unblock coronary arteries.
      However, a recurrent problem after angioplasty is the occurrence of a new blockage, usually
      within 6 to 9 months after the initial procedure. This phenomenon, called "restenosis", is a
      body's response to the injury of the angioplasty and does not mean a progression of coronary
      artery disease.The pathophysiology of restenosis is complex and has as yet not been fully
      clarified.

      Serial studies have shown that in-stent restenosis is almost exclusively caused by neointimal
      hyperplasia and tissue proliferation occurring in site or adjacent to the stent sites.
      Histological studies confirmed that neointimal hyperplasia post-stent implantation is related
      to vessel injury during the procedure. Chemokines have been implicated in the pathogenesis of
      vascular injury. In this context, MCP-1 which shows a potent chemotactic action on monocytes,
      can amplify the inflammatory response through the recruitment of additional monocytes. In
      addition, MCP-3 is known to share some key biological features with MCP-1. It has been proved
      that MCP-1 directly induces human vascular smooth muscle proliferation acting at this level
      as a potent mitogen, and that anti-MCP-1 gene therapy inhibits restenotic changes (neointimal
      hyperplasia) in animals after balloon injury.

      An evidence of a critical increase in circulating MCP-1 after coronary angioplasty was
      reported. It was more evident and prolonged in patients with restenosis rather than in
      non-restenotic patients, in which only a transient increases in plasma MCP-1 has been
      demonstrated.

      Since these chemokines showed to play a main role in the appearance and worsening of the
      restenosis process, a selective inhibitor of MCP-1 and other members of monocyte chemotactic
      protein subfamily of CC inflammatory chemokines (MCP-3/CCL7, MCP-2/CCL8), such as bindarit,
      may have a potential therapeutic use in preventing restenosis by inhibiting the VSMC
      proliferation, and without affecting the important process of re-endothelization.
    
  