
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) represents the most common cause of blindness in
      patients over the age of 60. Most vision loss in this disease results from sequelae of
      choroidal neovascular membrane (CNVM) formation. CNVM is usually composed of well-formed
      neovascularization and occult (less well-formed) neovascularization. While clinical trials
      have shown that some patients, mostly those with well-formed CNVM, may benefit from laser
      photocoagulation or photodynamic therapy, at present there is no treatment for patients who
      have a large component of occult neovascularization.

      Retinal histopathology of patients with choroidal neovascularization demonstrates the
      presence of inflammatory and reparative responses. We hypothesize that sustained intraocular
      corticosteroids may be able to down-regulate many of the cellular factors involved in both
      inflammation and repair, resulting in stabilization of CNVM formation and vision. We will
      test this hypothesis using a randomized, prospective study. Persons having an eligible eye
      with occult choroidal neovascularization will be randomly assigned to receive either a 0.5
      microgram/day or a 2 microgram/day sustained-release fluocinolone intravitreal implant. The
      study is designed to provide limited safety and potential efficacy data regarding these
      sustained intravitreal devices. The primary outcome of the study will be implant safety as
      determined by potential, implant related, adverse advents. These events can be related to the
      surgical insertion of the intravitreal implants, such as endophthalmitis, hypotony, retinal
      detachment and hemorrhage, those related to complications of the anesthesia, such as
      retrobulbar hemorrhage or complications of general anesthesia, if used, and those related to
      intraocular fluocinolone such as development of glaucoma and cataract formation. The primary
      efficacy outcome will be proportion of patients, at two years, who have not lost two lines or
      more of visual acuity from baseline (best corrected visual acuity has improved, remained
      stable, or deteriorated by no more than 9 letters). Secondary efficacy outcome measures will
      include the size of predominate occult CNVM, as determined by fluorescein angiography, and
      visual function, as measured by the NEI VFQ. This study will allow investigators to determine
      some of the potential risks for patients receiving intravitreal fluocinolone and may provide
      insight into the potential role of the intravitreal placement of steroids in the treatment of
      predominate occult CNVM associated with AMD.
    
  