
    
      Preliminary studies will attempt to capture the perspectives of all agents involved in the
      SACYL primary care physiotherapy clinical processes.

      The perspective of the patients will be collected by means of a qualitative study through
      focal groups of people who have been attended in physiotherapy units in primary care. Each
      focus group will be made up of five patients who will be provided with information about the
      ICF and will be encouraged to express themselves on the aspects that they consider most
      relevant when they are attended in primary care physiotherapy units. The duration of these
      focus groups will be 30 minutes and as many groups as necessary will be conducted to reach
      100% saturation. The information obtained will be translated into second level categories of
      the ICF, so that it can be compared with those present in the already existing core sets.

      The perspective of the physiotherapists will be gathered through a Delphi study.
      Physiotherapists with experience in the care context under study will be selected and the
      information will be collected through online surveys. Three rounds will be carried out,
      translating the information obtained into second level categories of the ICF, and providing
      feedback in each round to the participants.

      The research perspective will be studied through a systematic review of the scientific
      literature. To this end, the main databases will be scrutinized and studies that investigate
      musculoskeletal conditions will be selected in a context compatible with that of
      physiotherapy in primary care. The data will be obtained through the outcome measures used in
      these studies, including those with an agreement level equal to or greater than 5%. This
      information will be translated into second level categories of the ICF, allowing us to know
      which of them are more relevant.

      The clinical point of view will be captured in a transversal study in which a sample of
      patients receiving physiotherapy services in primary care will be taken. These patients must
      make an assessment of the categories present in the ICF checklist. This list will be
      complemented with the categories of the core sets for musculoskeletal conditions and with
      those detected in the previous studies. The participants will assign a qualifier to each
      category, depending on the importance they attach to it. In this study, patients will also be
      assessed using a generic test that measures the degree of functionality. Aspects such as the
      presence of cognitive deficit, depression and quality of life will also be considered. The
      measurement instruments will be selected from the results obtained in the bibliographic
      review described above. The number of patients required is estimated at 50 individuals
      belonging to different basic health areas. The data obtained will be analysed and translated
      into the language of the ICF (second level categories).

      The categories derived from the set of previous studies will be compared with those present
      in the core sets of the ICF for musculoskeletal conditions. Three types of results are
      expected to be obtained: categories coincident in both groups of data, categories detected in
      the studies carried out but absent in the core sets; and categories not detected but present
      in the core sets.

      In this way, it will be possible to determine the best way to establish the use of the ICF in
      the primary care physiotherapy units of SACYL.
    
  