
    
      This study is a phase II (n= 200), prospective, double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled,
      multicenter, safety study of intravenous (IV) rt-PA alone versus IV rt-PA plus TLT
      (Transcranial Laser Therapy) at approximately 10 investigational sites (United States only).
      The primary endpoint for this safety study is occurrence of symptomatic intracranial
      hemorrhages at 36 - 48 hours after stroke symptom onset.

      Symptomatic hemorrhage will be defined as deterioration of more than 4 points on the NIHSS
      lasting at least 72 hours accompanied by intracranial hemorrhage in the distribution of the
      neurological deficit as identified by neuroimaging scans. All follow up neuroimaging scans
      will be reviewed centrally by an independent reviewer for the presence or absence of
      hemorrhage on the 36-48 hour scan.

      The secondary endpoints for this study are as follows:

        -  Hemorrhagic transformation without clinical consequences (asymptomatic) within 36-48
           hours. All follow-up neuroimaging scans will be reviewed centrally by an independent
           reviewer for the presence or absence of hemorrhage on the 36-48 hour scan.

        -  Mortality

        -  The modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score dichotomized as 0-1 versus an mRS score of 2-6 at
           90 days or the last rating in patients that develop intracerebral hemorrhages

        -  Frequency of SAEs and AEs This study is a phase II (N = 200), prospective, double-blind,
           randomized, sham controlled, multicenter, safety study of intravenous (IV) tissue
           plasminogen activator (rt-PA) versus IV rt-PA plus transcranial laser therapy (TLT) at
           approximately 10 investigational sites.

      The study population will be randomized into two arms. One group will receive a sham TLT
      procedure (Sham Control Group or SCG) and the second group will receive an active TLT
      procedure (TLTG).

      The randomization ratio of SCG and TLTG will be 1:1 and will be stratified in order to ensure
      balanced subject distribution between the treatment and sham-controlled groups for the
      following factors:

        -  Stroke severity as measured by National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at
           baseline (stratified as 7-9, 10-13, 14-17)

        -  Study Site There are 6 visits in the study. The purpose of the Visit 1 will be to
           determine and confirm the eligibility of patients for participation in the StELLAR Study
           and document baseline information about the subject and their stroke event. This will
           include all of the following standard of care tests and procedures: a non contrast head
           CT scan performed prior to rt-PA administration, vital signs, height , weight ,physical
           exam, finger stick or blood glucose, serum or urine pregnancy test (if women of
           childbearing potential). In addition, the following data will be obtained: prestroke
           mRS, NIHSS, presumed location of stroke and vascular territory, start and stop date and
           time of the IV rt-PA treatment and dose given, date and time of stroke onset, date and
           time of arrival to the hospital, demographic data (date of birth, gender,
           ethnicity),sociodemographic data (education, marital status, social support prior to
           stroke),medical and surgical history (specific cardiovascular, neurological, endocrine,
           and other standard questions asked), method of contraception use (for women of child
           bearing potential), prior (three days prior to Screening) and current concomitant
           medication use, smoking history, adverse events from the time of obtaining informed
           consent. To be eligible for the study, the administration of rt-PA should follow the
           guidelines outlined by the National Institutes of Neurologic Disorders. Patients meeting
           the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study after written informed
           consent is obtained by the patient or their legally authorized representative.
    
  