
    
      Cardiovascular diseases (heart attack, stroke, and other vascular diseases) are major causes
      of mortality in developed countries. Although medicines and revascularization procedures
      prolong lives, rates of death and disability remain high. Lifestyle factors greatly
      contribute to risk. Yet, scientific data regarding the role of lifestyle change in prevention
      and treatment are limited. In the nutrition area, limitations include observational or
      uncontrolled study design, and focus on surrogate markers rather than on clinical outcomes.

      Excess dietary fat has long been associated with cardiovascular diseases. Increased risk is
      related both to types of fat and calories from fat. Saturated fat, cholesterol, and
      trans-fatty acids have all been associated with adverse outcomes. Because fat is
      calorie-laden, high fat diets are commonly associated with weight gain and obesity. Low-fat
      diets have traditionally been recommended to control lipids and weight. However, these diets
      are high in carbohydrate and may actually be associated with weight gain if calories are not
      limited. Such diets have also been associated with worsening of hyperinsulinemia and insulin
      resistance and an adverse lipid pattern (low HDL cholesterol and high triglyceride levels).
      In contrast, increased intake of monounsaturated and omega-3 fats is associated with
      favorable effects on cardiovascular risk factors and markers including: endothelial function,
      lipids, and levels of insulin and glucose. Results have been consistent across various groups
      of high-risk patients, including those with hypercholesterolemia, diabetes, and hypertension.
      Most importantly, a Mediterranean style diet enriched in monounsaturated and omega-3 fats
      reduced death and cardiovascular complications after myocardial infarction (MI) in the Lyon
      Heart study.

      The American Heart Association (AHA) Step 2 is a low-fat diet traditionally recommended for
      people with cardiovascular disease. The Mediterranean and AHA Step 2 diets differ primarily
      in the amount of monounsaturated and omega-3 fats, both of which are higher in the
      Mediterranean diet. Both diets are low in saturated fat (less than 7%) and cholesterol (less
      than 200 mg/d). Although the Lyon Heart Study compared a Mediterranean diet to a "prudent
      Western diet," a low fat diet similar to the AHA diet, the latter group did not achieve
      recommended intake levels of saturated fat or cholesterol. Furthermore, there was no
      longitudinal nutritional intervention in the low fat diet group. Therefore, the effect of
      nutritional intervention per se was not addressed.

      Comparison(s): In survivors of a first MI, two longitudinal nutritional interventions, a
      Mediterranean style diet and an AHA Step 2 diet, will be compared. Both intervention groups
      will be compared to an untreated control group from our clinical database.
    
  