
    
      This is a single-centre, double-blind, placebo- controlled, parallel group, randomised
      controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of anti-ST2 compared to placebo, in
      patients with moderate to very severe COPD (GOLD II-IV). Anti-ST2 will be administered via
      subcutaneous injection once every 4 weeks (Week 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 40, and
      44) during the 48-week treatment period. Participants will be followed up for 60 weeks (i.e.
      48 week treatment period and 12 week follow-up), with secondary outcome measures at baseline,
      4, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 weeks and at exacerbation events presenting prior to treatment
      initiation.

      After signing the informed consent at the initial visit, patients will enter a screening
      period which should last for up to 2 weeks unless extension of the screening period is
      necessary under certain circumstances. Patients who qualify to participate in the study will
      be randomised into a 48-week treatment period in which they will receive either 490 mg
      anti-ST2 or a matching placebo. Patients will be evaluated for an additional 12 weeks
      following completion of the randomised treatment period. Treatment groups will remain blinded
      until the 60-week follow-up period is completed, and trial database is locked.

      This trial is sponsored by the University of Leicester, coordinated by the National Institute
      for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) - Respiratory and Leicester
      Clinical Trials Unit (LCTU) and funded by Genentech, Inc.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of anti-ST2 versus placebo on
      frequency of moderate-to-severe exacerbations (health care utilisation resulting in treatment
      with systemic corticosteroids and/or antibiotics or hospitalisation, respectively) as add-on
      to standard of care.

      Secondary objectives: another key objective is to assess the safety and tolerability of
      subcutaneous (SC) doses of anti-ST2 compared to placebo in adult patients with moderate to
      very severe COPD.

      Additionally, to assess the effects of anti-ST2 versus placebo both during stable visits and
      at the exacerbation events on the following:

        1. Symptoms

        2. Health status

        3. Lung function

        4. Inflammatory cell differentials i. Sputum cell count ii. Blood cell count

        5. Airway morphometry

        6. Pharmacogenomics

      Exploratory objectives include:

        1. Systemic inflammation

        2. Upper airway inflammation

        3. Airway infection and ecology

        4. Breath volatile organic compound profiling

        5. Quantitative airway geometry and densitometry

        6. Pharmacogenomics

        7. Pharmacokinetics and ADA level

        8. Pharmacogenomics response analysis in subgroups determined by SNPs for alleles
           associated with the IL33/ST2 axis.

      Subgroup objectives: to evaluate the efficacy of anti-ST2 versus placebo on the outcome rate
      of protocol-defined COPD exacerbations through 48 weeks treatment period, patient reported
      outcomes (PROs) [SGRQ-c], and lung function [FEV1] in subgroups defined by baseline blood
      eosinophil count.
    
  