
    
      Liver transplantation is a life-saving procedure for patients with end-stage liver disease.
      The demand for the operation, however, always exceeds the supply from deceased organ donors
      and living donor liver transplant (LDLT) has been developed to provide an alternative option.
      LDLT was initially limited to paediatric recipients because of the restriction imposed by the
      graft size. In order to extend the benefit of LDLT to adult recipients, we proposed the use
      of a right lobe liver graft from a living donor and performed the first RLDLT for an adult
      recipient on May 9, 1996. Following the report of our first series of 8 cases in 1997, RLDLT
      has developed rapidly and has been adopted by many transplant programs around the world. LDLT
      has the most significant impact in Asia where the issue of organ shortage is most extreme.
      The availability of RLDLT for adult recipients provides the driving force for a drastic
      increase in LDLT in recent years. Our recent survey (unpublished data) indicated that the
      number of LDLT performed in Asia each year has increased by 9 folds since the introduction of
      RLDLT 10 years ago and is continuously rising. In the year 2005, LDLT accounts for 90% of the
      1497 liver transplants performed in Asia (excluding mainland China). In Hong Kong, over
      two-thirds of the liver transplants are from living donors and the majority (90%) are RLDLT
      performed for adult recipients. RLDLT involved one of the most complicated and technically
      demanding surgical procedure. When our first series was reported in 1997, there was a high
      morbidity and reoperation rate in the recipients. Since then, various advances in technique
      and management have been introduced, including a better understanding of the minimum graft
      size requirement and anatomic variants of the right lobe, improved selection criteria for
      donors and recipients, as well as technical modifications; particularly in venous outflow and
      biliary reconstruction. There is a learning curve in RLDLT and through the lessons learnt in
      our first 100 RLDLT, we have dramatically improved the outcome of both the donors and
      recipients and an excellent graft survival rate of over 90% could be achieved even in
      high-risk recipients. The major technical hurdle that remains is biliary complication which
      affects the long-term outcome and quality of life and is occasionally the cause of graft loss
      and patient death. Hepaticojejunostomy was the standard technique for biliary reconstruction
      in RLDLT. The reported incidence of biliary complications in early reported retrospective
      series was high, ranging from 15 to 64%. Wach et al. first reported the technique of
      duct-to-duct reconstruction for RLDLT in 1998. Biliary stricture developed four weeks later
      and the anastomosis was subsequently revised to a Roux-e-Y HJ. Nonetheless, duct-to-duct
      reconstruction has the potential advantages of a shorter operation time, less septic
      complications, more physiologic enteric functions and easier endoscopic access to the biliary
      tract and these seem so obvious that duct-to-duct anastomsis has become the preferred
      technique in many transplant centers. In a retrospective study of 259 adult LDLTs; including
      225 RLDLT from the Asan Medical Center in South Korea, Shin Hwang et al. reported an
      increasing preference for duct-to-duct anastomosis over HJ, with duct-to-duct anastomosis
      comprising 29.9% of the procedures in 2000 increasing to 69.3% in 2001 and 83.7% in 2002. The
      3-year cumulative biliary complication rate, however, increased progressively form 13.7% in
      2000 to 15.8% in 2001 and 25.4% in 2002. This rising incidence of biliary complication
      contrasted sharply with the improving results in other outcome measures of RLDLT which has
      been attributed to the learning curve effect. The authors demonstrated that for a right lobe
      graft with a single biliary reconstruction, a graft duct size less than 4 mm in diameter was
      a risk factor for biliary stricture in duct-to-duct anastomosis but not for HJ. They
      suggested that duct-to-duct anastomosis had inherent deficiencies that could not be overcome
      by current surgical techniques and recommended HJ as the preferred approach under such
      circumstances.We performed a retrospective study at our centre, in 265 RLDLT recipients, 55
      (20.8%) developed postoperative BAS. The BAS rates were 21.4% (43/201) for recipients
      undergoing duct-to-duct anastomosis during transplantation, 18.9% (10/53) for recipients
      undergoing HJ, and 18.2% (2/11) for recipients undergoing both procedures. BAS and non-BAS
      patients had comparable demographics. The number of graft bile duct openings (P = 0.516) and
      the size of the graft's smallest bile duct (5 versus 5 mm, P = 0.4) were not significantly
      different between BAS and non-BAS patients. Univariate analysis showed that the factors
      associated with postoperative BAS were the recipient warm ischemia time (55 versus 51
      minutes, P = 0.026), graft cold ischemia time (120 versus 108 minutes, P = 0.046), stent use
      (21.8% versus 7.1%, P = 0.001), postoperative acute cellular rejection (29.1% versus 11.0%, P
      = 0.001), and University of Wisconsin solution use (21.8% versus 7.1%, P = 0.001).
      Multivariate analysis showed that the cold ischemia time (odds ratio = 1.012, 95% confidence
      interval = 1.002-1.023, P = 0.014) and acute rejection (odds ratio = 3.180, 95% confidence
      interval = 1.606-6.853, P = 0.002) were significant factors. The graft survival rates of BAS
      and non-BAS patients were comparable. One patient required retransplantation for secondary
      biliary cirrhosis. In conclusion, BAS remains common after adult RLDLT regardless of DDA or
      HJ. The graft cold ischemia time and postoperative acute cellular rejection are significantly
      associated with postoperative BAS. A randomised controlled trial is definitely needed to see
      which methoid is superior to another. Since we reported the first series of RLDLT in 1997, we
      have introduced numerous technical refinements; particularly in venous outflow and biliary
      reconstruction. HJ was originally the standard technique and technical modifications were
      directed at preserving the blood supply to the graft right hepatic duct during the donor
      operation. A retrospective study on the first 74 right lobe transplants showed that the
      biliary complication rate has decreased significantly from 43% in the first 37 patients to 8%
      only in the second 37 patients. In particular, there was no biliary leakge in the second
      group of patients. Since then, however, we have switched from HJ to duct-to-duct anastomosis
      as the preferred technique for biliary reconstruction because of its apparently obvious
      advantages. With the new technique, however, three of 41 patients (7%) had biliary leakage
      and 10 (24%) developed biliary stricture at a median of 5.8 months (range 1.5 to 16.9 months)
      after transplant. These results were comparable to those of the Kyoto group in which the
      incidence of bile leakage was 10% and that of stricture 23%. A randomized trial is the only
      way to objectively determine whether HJ or duct-to-duct anastomosis should be the preferred
      technique for biliary reconstruction in RLDLT. Since the results of biliary reconstruction is
      highly dependent on the technique of the surgical team, a multi-center study would introduce
      a serious surgeons' variable that may compromise the interpretation of the results. Hence a
      randomized trial in a single high volume center using a standard technique by a single
      surgical team would be the best approach.
    
  