
    
      Background: Micronutrient (MN) deficiencies are severe and widespread in West Africa
      including Ghana, which contributes to impaired growth and development in children, increased
      risk of mortality, and low economic productivity in adults. While large-scale intervention
      programs (including salt iodization and cooking oil and wheat flour fortification) exist,
      these programs are often not well-monitored, and they often provide only a subset of
      nutrients or reach only a subset of the deficient population.

      Bouillon cubes may be an ideal fortification vehicle for delivering micronutrients in West
      Africa because they are purchased by most households (including rural and poorer households),
      added to home-made meals and consumed by most members of the household in relatively constant
      amounts, and they are mainly processed centrally at large scale. However, several important
      questions must be addressed regarding the extent to which multi-fortified bouillon cubes can
      address inadequate intake of key micronutrients.

      Objective: This pilot aims to generate data that are critical for informing the design of a
      planned, more detailed study to evaluate the effect of multiple micronutrient-fortified
      bouillon cube on biomarkers of nutrient status of women and children.

      Methods: This will be a cross-sectional study, which will be conducted in the Kumbungu and
      Tolon districts in the Northern Region, where a recent survey showed that micronutrient
      deficiencies were common. Four sets of research activities will be carried out, including:

        1. Pilot survey: The investigators will recruit non-pregnant, non-lactating women of
           reproductive age, WRA (n = 250), children 2-5 years of age (n = 250), and lactating
           women (n= 250) who will be identified from households in selected communities using the
           random walk method. Information collected will include anthropometric and micronutrient
           status, hemoglobin concentration, inflammation, morbidity, household-level food
           consumption, and individual dietary intakes.

        2. Retinol isotope dilution (RID) Pilot Study 1: The investigators will recruit
           non-pregnant and nonlactating women of reproductive age, WRA (n = 30) from a subset of
           the same communities as the pilot survey using the random walk method, and
           quantitatively estimate their total body vitamin A stores after consuming a dose of
           d6-labelled vitamin A. Total body stores of vitamin A will be estimated at 14 days after
           dosing.

        3. Retinol isotope dilution (RID) Pilot Study 2 (kinetic study): Based on results from RID
           pilot study 1, the investigators will recruit non-pregnant and non-lactating women of
           reproductive age, WRA (n = 123) from a subset of the same communities as the pilot
           survey using the random walk method, to construct a population-level plasma retinol
           kinetic curve, after consuming a dose of d6-labelled vitamin A. A compartmental model
           will be fit to the plasma retinol kinetic data to develop population-specific
           coefficients for the RID prediction equation to quantitatively estimate total body
           vitamin A stores of WRA in the study population.

        4. Formative research: The investigators will (a) conduct focus group discussions on
           knowledge, attitudes and practices related to salt and bouillon cube use, nutrition and
           health problems in the community, and micronutrient fortification; (b) perform a market
           assessment of the availability and cost of fortified, non-fortified and potentially
           fortifiable foods in the communities; and (c) observe how various local food recipes are
           prepared, including the types and quantities of ingredients used, and cooking duration
           and temperature.
    
  