
    
      Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) is an emerging field for diabetes management. CGMs allow
      providers to individualize therapy by looking at real time glucose levels, detect changes in
      glucose and raise awareness for hypo- and hyperglycemic events.[1] Some CGMs can be placed on
      the patient's arm to monitor glucose at regular intervals. The data is downloaded onto a
      reader where it can be viewed or sent to a computer for more in depth analysis. There are
      multiple Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved CGM devices. The FDA considers a device
      to be accurate if 99% of glucose measurements are within 20% of lab results and if 95% of
      glucose measurements are within 15% of lab results.[2]

      The accuracy and precision of CGMs is improving with increased use and advancement of the
      systems in use. CGM data has been deemed accurate for self use to adjust insulin dosage,
      detection of hypoglycemia and determining the clinical response to therapy.[3] However, CGMs
      are a new technology and while they have vastly improved since they originally came to
      market, there are still many concerns over their accuracy and ability to inform clinical
      treatment decisions.[3] An analysis conducted on the reports to the FDA Manufacturer and User
      Facility Device Experience (MAUDE) database since 2015 revealed over 25,000 complaints of CGM
      inaccuracy.[4]

      In the American Diabetes Association (ADA) 2020 Guidelines on the Standards of Medical Care
      in Diabetes, it is stated that glycemic goals are achieved through glucose monitoring and, as
      such, self monitoring blood glucose is essential for reaching these goals.[5] CGMs are used
      to guide the treatment of diabetes including pharmacologic intervention, recommendations for
      hypoglycemia prevention and nutrition goals. The recommended time spent in range, time above
      range and time below range are also outlined in these guidelines.[5] The significance of time
      below range is associated with the risk of hypoglycemia. The more time spent below range is
      going to increase the chance of experiencing a hypoglycemic event which, if experienced, will
      have both negative physical and psychological effects on the person. In the most severe cases
      it can also lead to seizures, coma and death.[5] Increased time spent above range has been
      directly correlated with incidence and progression of microvascular complications associated
      with diabetes like retinopathy, neuropathy and kidney disease.[5] Time spent in range is also
      significant because in addition to informing treatment decisions, it has also been correlated
      to improvements in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). In a recent analysis of 18 studies reporting
      paired HbA1c and time in range (%), it was found that for every 10% change in time in range,
      there was a corresponding 0.8% change in HbA1c.[6] This could mean that if a person spends
      10% more time in range, their HbA1c may reduce up to 0.8%. This is significant since HbA1c is
      a gold standard marker of glycemic control in the diabetic population.[5]

      Based on previous studies, the evaluation of CGM readings in the left and right arms of
      diabetic patients is needed. The information provided by CGMs outside of glucose levels such
      as time range information, hyper- or hypoglycemic glucose levels, and even immediate phone
      alerts for very low or very high readings in newer devices highlights the ever growing and
      critical role these devices play in the care of diabetic patients, and as such their accuracy
      and proper use is of the utmost importance.[7]

      Cinnamon and aloe vera supplements are available over the counter and are used by consumers
      for many different ailments. Both cinnamon and aloe vera have been used for several centuries
      across many different cultures for a wide range of medicinal purposes. Diabetes is an example
      of one of the disease states commonly targeted by these two supplements. Patients with
      diabetes frequently consume cinnamon and aloe vera dietary supplements in an effort to
      improve their glycemic control. As research into the effects of these supplements has
      expanded, the understanding of their safety and practical uses has become better understood
      and is generally accepted.[8,9] There are many dietary supplements or food classified
      cinnamon and aloe vera based products on the market. Both cinnamon and aloe vera are
      Generally Recognized As Safe (GRAS status). However there is a lack of long term evaluation
      of the effects of these supplements in the diabetic patient population.

      This study is a controlled, prospective trial that aims to evaluate the difference in glucose
      readings between the right arm and left arm using continuous glucose monitors in diabetic
      patients. In addition this study aims to evaluate the effect of cinnamon and aloe vera
      supplementation on glycemic control in diabetic patients.
    
  