
    
      To prepare the brain cancer specific T cells (GD2-C7R T cells), research staff will take some
      blood from the patient. We will grow the GD2.C7R T cells by infecting the T cells with a
      retroviral vector (a special virus that can carry a new gene into cells) containing one gene
      that can recognize and kill brain cancer cells (GD2.CAR) and the new gene called C7R that
      will help these cells survive longer. After the new genes have been put into the T cells, the
      cells will be tested to make sure that they kill GD2-positive brain cancer cells.

      All patients on this study are required to have an Ommaya catheter in place prior to
      treatment as a precaution. This is a special catheter that leads to the tumor, the cavity
      left in the brain after surgical removal of the tumor, or into the fluid-filled space in the
      brain. If a patient does not have such a catheter already, one will need to be placed to
      allow for his/her treatment on this study. Catheter placement is done by a surgeon

      Because we are growing the cells in the laboratory, we will also need to take blood to test
      for infectious viruses such as hepatitis and HIV (the virus that causes AIDS), and we will
      also ask patients to complete a questionnaire that is given to blood donors.

      The cells generated will be frozen and stored to give back to the patient. Because patients
      will have received cells with a new gene in them patients will be followed for a total of 15
      years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer.

      Patients will be assigned a dose of GD2-C7R T cells. There is one dose where patients will
      only receive GD2 T cells without the C7R. The assigned dose of cells is adjusted based on
      body weight and height.

      In this study, patients will receive the GD2-(C7R) cells and also receive cyclophosphamide
      and fludarabine. These two drugs are standard chemotherapy medicines and may be given before
      the T cells to make space in the blood for the T cells to grow after receiving them.

      Cyclophosphamide and fludarabine will be given intravenously (through an i.v. needle inserted
      in a vein or your central line) for 2 days and then fludarabine alone on the third day.

      The patient will be given an injection of GD2-(C7R) T cells into the vein through an IV line
      at the assigned dose. Before receiving the T cell infusion, the patient may be given a dose
      of Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol (acetaminophen). The infusion will take between 1
      and 10 minutes. We will then monitor the patient in the hospital for at least 5 days. The
      treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital.
      The patient will need to stay in Houston for up to 4 weeks after the infusion so we can
      monitor for side effects.

      The patient will have follow-up visits at weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8, then at months 3, 6, 9,
      and 12, and then twice a year for the next 4 years and annually for the next 10 years for a
      total of 15 years. The patient will also have scheduled disease evaluations after the T-cell
      injection at week 6 and then as clinically needed.

      After disease re-evaluation, the patient may be eligible to receive one additional dose of T
      cells if the following criteria are met: (1) The disease has not gotten worse and/or it seems
      the patient may benefit in the future from an additional dose. (2) The patient has not had a
      severe side effect caused by the infusion of GD2-C7R T cells. The dose will be at the same
      dose level as the first infusion and separated by at least 3 months such that we can make
      sure there are no severe side effects between infusions. If the patient receives an
      additional dose of GD2-(C7R) T-cells, then they will need to stay in Houston for up to 4
      weeks after the infusion as well so we can monitor for side effects.

      Medical tests before treatment--

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of the tumor by routine MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)

      Medical tests during and after treatment--

      The patient will receive standard medical tests when they are getting the infusions and
      afterwards:

        -  Physical exams

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of the tumor by MRI imaging studies and spinal fluid analysis 6 weeks after
           the infusion and repeat MRI imaging at 3 months.

      Spinal Fluid Tests (optional): Spinal fluid may be drawn from the patient's existing Ommaya
      reservoir at week 2 and between week 6 and week 8 and possibly other timepoints if helpful
      for clinical care. This procedure can be done at the bedside under local anesthesia and 1-2
      ml of spinal fluid (less than half a teaspoon) will be removed. Additional spinal fluid may
      be removed if the pressure inside the brain is elevated.

      To learn more about the way the GD2-(C7R) T cells are working and how long they last in the
      body, an extra amount of blood will be obtained on the day that chemotherapy starts, the day
      of the T-cell infusion(s) and at the end of the T-cell infusion(s), 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks
      after the T-cell infusion(s) and every 3 months for the 1st year, every 6 months for the next
      4 years and annually for the next 10 years. The amount of blood taken will be based on weight
      with up to a maximum of 60 mL (12 teaspoons) of blood to be obtained at any one time. For
      children, the total amount of blood drawn will not be more than 3 mL (less than 1 teaspoon)
      per 1 kg of body weight on any one day. This volume is considered safe, but may be decreased
      if the patient is anemic (has a low red blood cell count).

      During the time points listed above, if the GD2-(C7R) T cells are found in the patient's
      blood at a certain amount, an extra 5 mL (about 1 teaspoon) of blood may need to be collected
      for additional testing.

      If the patient has a procedure where tumor samples are obtained, like a blood is collected or
      tumor biopsy, we will request a sample to be used for research purposes.

      The patient will receive supportive care for any acute or chronic toxicities, including blood
      components or antibiotics, and other intervention as appropriate.
    
  