
    
      Introduction

      The Secretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social public health clinic in Veron,
      Dominican Republic continually reports a subjectively high prevalence and incidence of
      scabies infections among its general patient population without any means of direct
      measurement, proper intervention, or control, raising concerns that long-term infestation may
      lead to multiple other secondary medical and environmental problems.

      The purpose of this project is to develop a community scabies eradication and education
      program for the highly endemic areas surrounding the Veron community. It proposes the use of
      oral Ivermectin as a replacement for topical Lindane, a readily available and prescribed
      pesticide and environmental toxin that is reportedly banned for all uses in the Dominican
      Republic as well as over 80 other countries throughout the world (Boffa, Brough, & Ead, 1995;
      Davies, Dedhia, Mergade, Banquet, & Maibach, 1983).

      Ivermectin, on the other hand, is a remarkably safe, effective, cost-comparative oral
      medication with a substantially broader scope of coverage, duration of effectiveness, and
      ease of delivery and compliance when compared to Lindane, as well as over 20 years of use in
      global mass eradication campaigns for other parasites on the order of more than 50 million
      doses to date (Alexander, Bockarie, Kastens, Kazra, & Alpers, 1998; del Guidice, Chosidow, &
      Caumes, 2003; Madan, Jaskiran, Gupta, & Gupta, 2001).

      Specific program goals include: the quantification of community disease prevalence, a
      statistically significant reduction in both scabies incidence as well as secondary disease
      sequelae, improved community scabies awareness and prevention abilities, and decreased
      environmental impact on the Veron area by eliminating the use of Lindane for scabies
      treatment.

      The research is designed to employ a door-to-door survey and treatment campaign in a typical
      Veron neighborhood aimed at evaluating and treating every member in this target population to
      create a mass prophylaxis that breaks the parasite-host cycle. Another round of treatment
      will occur 6 months later, per pharmacologic dosage interval recommendations (del Guidice et
      al., 2003).

      Individual and group scabies education programs will occur at the Veron clinic, as well as at
      the local schools to target the highly susceptible youth populations throughout the Veron
      area.

      Incidence measurements will occur on a monthly basis for one year after program start,
      coinciding with two 6-month treatment intervals. At the end of one year, final scabies
      prevalence and incidence data will be evaluated for statistical significance. While mass
      treatments will cease at this time, oral Ivermectin will become the standard of care for
      ectoparasite coverage at the Veron clinic assuming a statistically significant reduction in
      scabies prevalence is achieved.

      To date, no mass scabies eradication programs using oral Ivermectin have been reported in the
      Caribbean, despite it remarkable success in other countries against scabies as well as other
      parasites, namely onchocerciasis and filariasis (Walker & Johnstone, 2000; Walton & Holt,
      2004). This project has the potential to be an important contribution to the effort to
      eradicate a source of significant morbidity for both the people of Veron and the global
      community as a whole.

      Methodology

      The Veron Scabies Eradication and Education Program will obtain all its priority population
      data via door-to-door interviews within the Barrio Nuevo neighborhood.

      A survey team of medical personnel will walk door-to-door program in an attempt to survey and
      treat every inhabitant of Barrio Nuevo, unless there is refusal or absolute
      contraindications. Subjects will first be informed of the program and its intent, asked to
      sign a letter of patient confidentiality, and assigned a number identifier for tracking
      purposes.

      After consent is obtained, a survey will be administered to collect basic demographic
      information, scabies knowledge indicators, as well as pertinent past and current medical
      history related to scabies infection and contraindications to treatment with Ivermectin.

      The subject will then be asked to undergo a brief skin exam that assesses scabies infectivity
      and results recorded using the following criteria: the presence of erythematous popular,
      vesicular, pustular, or bullous lesions associated with itching. Information will be recorded
      and used to guide treatment protocol.

      After the skin exam, subjects will be instructed on scabies medical treatment and prevention,
      given a patient information and education pamphlet, asked if they have any specific questions
      or concerns, informed of ongoing community scabies education workshops at the clinic, and
      instructed to return to the clinic in 2 weeks if they have an active scabies infection.
      Otherwise, they will be informed that the researchers will return to their neighborhood each
      month to collect more information and in 6 months to administer another treatment.

      Finally, the subject will be given 200μg/kg oral Ivermectin dosed by height if they are male
      or non-pregnant/non-lactating female, 5 years of age or older, and taller than 90 cm.

      If the subject is a female and of childbearing age (still menstruating on a monthly basis),
      not currently menstruating, not able to show proof of using oral contraceptives (birth
      control pills) or injectable contraceptives (scheduled Depo Provera), not surgically sterile
      (hysterectomy or tubal ligation) they will be asked to undergo a rapid urine pregnancy test.
      If the test is negative they will be given 200μg/kg oral Ivermectin dosed by height.

      If the subject is knowingly pregnant or lactating, the rapid pregnancy test is positive, or a
      child under 5 years and shorter than 90 cm they will be instructed on how to properly use
      Permethrin 5% lotion and given a 60gm bottle.

      This protocol will be followed until every household is visited and treated within Barrio
      Nuevo at time = 0 and again at time = 6 months.

      Investigators will conduct monthly scabies incidence surveys via door-to-door skin checks
      within Barrio Nuevo looking for current scabies symptomatology and recording results on the
      form described above.

      At the end of one year, final scabies prevalence and incidence data will be evaluated for
      statistical significance. While mass treatments will cease at this time, oral Ivermectin will
      become the standard of care for ectoparasite coverage at the Veron clinic assuming a
      statistically significant reduction in scabies prevalence is achieved.
    
  