
    
      CT scans during breathing in and breathing out (CTPVe) can assess regional airflow within the
      lung, using newly developed software as described by Aliverti et al. This provides
      information about the function of each part of the lung. The investigators aim to assess the
      feasibility of a larger trial using CTPVe to guide treatment of lung diseases and develop the
      statistical models needed for use in these trials.

      Surgery provides the best prospect of a cure in early Non-small cell lung cancer. In the UK
      only half of people with early lung cancer undergo surgery and poor lung function may be a
      barrier to removal of part of the lung. Many patients with lung cancer also have emphysema or
      other lung diseases that reduce lung function. Actual post-operative lung function is often
      better predicted by current methods. The investigators will assess regional airflow in the
      lung and compare the airflow to the patients lung function both before and after surgery to
      assess if CTPVe can predict postoperative lung function, enabling more people to be
      considered suitable for curative surgery,

      Severe emphysema is debilitating, some surgical treatments can improve the symptoms of
      emphysema; these include lung volume reduction surgery, endobronchial valves and
      endobronchial coils. Each of these are only suitable for certain patients and it is difficult
      to predict who will benefit most. The investigators will assess regional airflow in the lung
      and compare the airflow to the patients lung function before and after these treatments for
      emphysema to assess if CTPVe can predict who will benefit from surgery.

      There are hundreds of subtypes of interstitial lung disease that respond to different types
      of treatment but diagnosing the subtype can be very difficult. Patients may need to undergo
      surgery to get the diagnosis of their subtype and this is associated with major risks,
      including death. The investigators will assess the regional airflow in the lung and compare
      the pattern to the final subtype of interstitial lung disease to assess if CTPVe could mean
      future patients do not need surgery for diagnosis.
    
  