
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of a continuing education course designed to improve primary care
           physician performance in examination and counseling of patients about skin cancer vs a
           continuing education course designed to improve physician assessment of weight
           management.

        -  Evaluate physician performance of skin examination during routine patient visits at 12
           months after completion of the skin cancer continuing education course.

        -  Evaluate physician counseling around skin cancer issues.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of the skin cancer continuing education course in improving
           physician skin cancer triage skills and in changing physician attitudes and knowledge
           regarding skin cancer issues.

        -  Assess improvements in physician assessment of weight, diet, and physical activity.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Physicians are stratified according to
      participating center. Physicians are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (skin cancer continuing education course): Physicians complete a 1-hour continuing
           education course on skin cancer. The course is available to the physician as a reference
           for up to 12 months. Physicians complete an online test at baseline, immediately after
           the course is completed, and at 1 month and 12 months after course completion to assess
           their knowledge, attitudes, skill, and practices towards skin examination and skin
           cancer counseling.

      Patients are interviewed by telephone within 1 week after a routine office visit with their
      physician to assess the physician's skin assessment and skin cancer counseling practices. The
      interviews are conducted prior to and at 1 month and 12 months after the physician completes
      the continuing education course.

        -  Arm II (weight control continuing education course): Physicians complete a 1-hour
           continuing education course on weight, dietary, and physical activity assessment and
           counseling. The course is available to the physician as a reference for up to 12 months.
           Physicians complete an online test at baseline, immediately after the course is
           completed, and at 1 month and 12 months after course completion to assess their
           knowledge, attitudes, skill, and practices towards weight, dietary, and physical
           activity assessment and counseling.

      Patients are interviewed by telephone within 1 week after a routine office visit with their
      physician to assess the physician's weight, dietary, and physical activity assessment and
      counseling practices. The interviews are conducted prior to and at 1 month and 12 months
      after the physician completes the continuing education course.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 physicians and 4,500 patients will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  