
    
      Primary Hypothesis: Risk factors such as smoking, alcohol, and caffeine are associated with
      osteoporosis in men.

      Intervention: None

      Primary Outcomes: Percent reduction in cross-sectional bone mineral density over time.

      Study Abstract: The goals of this project are to establish a new cohort of male veterans and
      describe associations between potential risk factors and baseline bone mineral density (BMD)
      as well as rates of BMD loss.

      The study is a two-year observational prospective study of 1000 male veterans aged 50 and
      older. The subjects are drawn from two existing VA cohorts, the Normative Aging Study (NAS)
      and the Veterans Health Study (VHS). Examinations to be performed on each subject (baseline
      and two follow-up exams) include BMD measurement at the hip, forearm and total body,
      anthropometry, hand grip strength, and questionnaires on current diet, physical activity,
      tobacco, alcohol use, sunlight exposure, health related quality of life (Medical Outcomes
      Study Short Form), depression (Brief Depression Scale), fracture history, medications and
      psychological factors (PrimeMD, MiniMental). Additional data on historical exposure to risk
      factors, previously obtained in the NAS or VHS studies, will also be correlated with BMD and
      BMD loss. Multivariate linear and logistic models with control for potential confounders will
      be used in the main analyses. Examinations take place at the Boston VA Outpatient Clinic.

      Examinations on each subject include BMD measurement at the hip, forearm and total body,
      height and weight, hand grip strength, leg extensor strength, and mobility. Questionnaires on
      current diet, physical activity, tobacco, alcohol use, sunlight exposure, health related
      quality of life (Medical Outcomes Study Short Form), depression (Brief Depression Scale),
      fracture history, medications and psychological factors (PrimeMD, MiniMental) are
      administered. Each subject also contributes a nonfasting blood sample and a 24-hour urine
      sample.

      Beginning in April, 1999, two additional measures are being obtained as a result of a 4-year
      supplemental VA Epidemiology grant awarded to Dr. Miller. These are the heel ultrasound
      measure and a 4-day physical activity level determined by ambulatory monitor.

      Preliminary cross-sectional analysis of mean BMD for femoral neck, total body and forearm BMD
      suggest the percent reduction in cross-sectional BMD between ages 60-69 and 80-89 is
      approximately 9% per decade at the femoral neck, 5%/decade at the total body, and 8%/decade
      at the forearm. These age-related patterns agree well with other studies of BMD in older men.

      The x-ray densitometer was installed at the Boston VA Outpatient Clinic in April, 1998 and
      the study technician was certified for bone density measurements during the three-day
      training session that followed. A precision study was conducted in the following month. In
      vivo reproducibility was determined by performing 5 repeat scans of each of the three sites
      on 5 volunteers ranging in age from 21 to 50 years. Subjects were repositioned between each
      scan. The coefficient of variation (CV) of femoral neck BMD in our laboratory is 0.92%; for
      whole body BMD, 0.72%; and for distal radius BMD, 1.04%. An aluminum spine phantom with known
      density (1.254 gm/cm2) is scanned every two weeks on the DPX-IQ. The mean ? standard
      deviation of 15 measurements is 1.250 ? 0.0058, coefficient of variation = 0.46%. There has
      been no detectable drift in phantom values during the study start-up phase.

      When completed, this study will be one of the largest in the US to study risk factors for
      osteoporosis in men, historically an understudied group in relation to osteoporosis. Several
      of the hypothesized risk factors (smoking, alcohol, caffeine, for example) are amenable to
      change and represent potential areas of intervention. Thus, not only can the VA make a
      valuable contribution to furthering our understanding of osteoporosis in men in general, but
      strategies may be identified to reduce morbidity as well as reduce health care costs
      associated with fracture in the elderly.
    
  