
    
      Proposed research:

      This pilot study will evaluate the potential efficacy and feasibility of risk factor
      modification in patients with a known history of symptomatic paroxysmal and persistent AFIB
      (in sinus rhythm) by implementing current evidence-based lifestyle recommendations as well as
      gain an understanding of the impact of these changes in the gut microbiome.

      Objectives:

      This study aims to determine if a multicomponent risk factor modification intervention
      (dietary intervention, exercise regimen and behavioural therapy) implemented using a basic
      healthcare team reduces the burden of AFIB at 12 months by decreasing the length and number
      of AFIB episodes. This study aims to assess the impact of these interventions on AFIB-related
      symptoms, quality of life and rhythm status (documented on an implantable loop recorder
      [ILR]).This study aims to examine the gut microbiota and identify potential organisms which
      may be present in higher concentrations in patients with an elevated BMI and AFIB and how
      these organism levels may alter with dietary changes.

      Study Design:

      Baseline Screening & Follow-Up Assessments and Procedures:

      As part of our current clinical practice, all participants will undergo a clinical assessment
      which includes a 12-lead ECG and BP (this will be repeated at all follow-up visits: 1, 3, 6,
      and 12 months). Demographic data and body composition measurements (i.e. waist circumference)
      will also be obtained from participants' medical charts or from each participant directly.
      Screening for Diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension
      will also be completed at the first baseline visit.

      If not checked within the prior 6 months, all participants will have a baseline blood sample
      drawn at the first baseline visit to test for baseline sodium (Na), potassium (K), urea,
      creatinine, free thyroxine (T4) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) (this will be repeated
      at 12 months). HbA1C (prediabetes/Diabetes mellitus testing) and a fasting lipid profile
      (hyperlipidemia testing) will also be measured at baseline and repeated at 12 months if
      applicable (i.e. HbA1C in those with prediabetes or Diabetes mellitus and a fasting lipid
      profile in those with hyperlipidemia).

      If not performed within the past 12 months, all participants will undergo a baseline
      transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE). A follow-up TTE will be repeated at the 12-month visit.

      AFIB: At the first baseline visit and all follow-up visits, AFIB-related symptom burden
      (using the AFSS - Appendix I) and quality of life (using the AFEQT - Appendix II) will be
      assessed. All participants will undergo implantation of an implantable loop recorder (ILR) at
      their first baseline visit (Appendix VIII). This device will continually record the
      participants' heart rate and rhythm for a period of 12 months and will record any episodes of
      AFIB. These data will be downloaded by a technician during each follow-up visit (1, 3, 6, and
      12 months) and stored in a secure manner. Principal and Co-Investigators will be blinded to
      these data. The ILR will be removed from participants during their final follow-up visit (at
      12 months).

      Apple Watch: All participants will be supplied with an Apple Watch in order to monitor their
      levels of physical activity (i.e. step counts and physical activity duration). For this
      reason, participants are required to own/have daily access to (i.e. provided by the research
      team) an iPhone to sync with the Apple Watch. The watch will be integrated with 2 apps
      (Cardiogram and Lose It) to record and keep track of physical activity, caloric intake and
      will also monitor heart rate. Participants will be trained on the use of the watch and apps.
      Participants will also be instructed to put this watch on first thing in the morning and not
      remove it until the evening when heading to bed throughout the duration of the trial.
      Participants will be asked to send data from the apps to the research team by email on a
      weekly basis. Participants will be asked to return the Apple Watch at their final follow-up
      visit (at 12 months).

      Physical activity: Physical activity levels will be assessed using the IPAQ and MESA TWPAS
      Questionnaire at the first baseline visit. These questionnaires will also be administered at
      all follow-up visits (1, 3, 6, and 12 months). Participants will be asked to share data from
      the Cardiogram app with the research team on a weekly basis.

      Diet: The diets of all participants will be evaluated at the first baseline visit and
      follow-ups (1, 3, 6, and 12 months) using the Mediterranean Diet Score Tool. Participants
      will be asked to enter all food consumed into the Lose It app each day and send this
      information to the research team on a weekly basis. Only participants in the intervention
      group will be provided with the Mediterranean Diet Handout at baseline.

      Gut microbiota: Participants will be provided with and trained on the use of "Poop" Kits.
      Stool samples will be collected (2nd baseline visit and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months) and
      immediately stored at -80°C in Zymo collection devices. This deactivates active pathogens and
      preserves DNA for future extraction. Analyses will occur in the Centre for the Analysis of
      Genome Evolution and Function (CAGEF) at the University of Toronto, directed by Professor
      David Guttman. Microbial DNA will then be extracted from the frozen fecal samples and the 16S
      rRNA gene will be amplified. Analyses will be performed to determine levels of specific
      metabolites that have been strongly correlated to obesity and metabolic syndrome, namely
      monosaccharides and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs).

      Randomization: A randomization schedule will be prepared by the data coordinating centre at
      Queens University, Kingston, Ontario using a computerized random number-generator. Random
      allocation will be determined by a participant randomization software application (Dacima
      Software Inc., IWRS: Interactive Web Response System). Participants will be randomized on a
      1:1 fashion between active intervention and control.

      Experimental arm: Multicomponent Risk Factor Modification Baseline - 12 months: Active
      Lifestyle Intervention Participants in this intervention group will undergo the baseline and
      follow-up assessments described earlier. The specific components of the experimental arm will
      be tailored to the needs of the participants at their baseline visit for the study.
      Throughout the trial, participants in this group will be called weekly by a member of the
      research team to review and discuss each component of the lifestyle intervention (diet,
      exercise, and behavioural therapy). Details of each component are explained below.

      Diet will be assessed (at baseline and all follow-up visits) using the Mediterranean Diet
      Score Tool (a 14-item questionnaire of adherence to the specified diet).Nutrition
      prescription will be based on a Mediterranean-style diet and individualized based on the
      participant's current weight and diet practices to optimize adherence. The diet will be
      comprised of recommended daily intakes of 50% carbohydrates, 35% unsaturated fats, and 15%
      protein. At baseline, basic information will be provided in written format using the
      Mediterranean Diet Handout. Data from the individuals' Apple Watches will be monitored and
      analyzed throughout the trial in order to assess compliance with these recommendations. Each
      participant will receive feedback and advice from the research assistant during weekly
      telephone sessions to motivate participants to make healthy changes to their diet in line
      with the Mediterranean Diet recommendations. Personal individual recommendations for changes
      to be introduced in the participant's diet in order to achieve a personalized goal. Research
      personnel will highlight the advantages of following this diet as opposed to the risks of not
      adhering to it. This approach has been successful in previous studies where behavioural
      intervention was used to help participants quit smoking.

      Physical activity levels will be assessed (at baseline and all follow-up visits) using the
      IPAQ and MESA TWPAS. Exercise prescription was selected by investigators based on a recently
      published Harvard Medical School Health Report 'Starting to Exercise'. This report recommends
      individuals to perform 150 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise per week (equal to >30
      minutes/day, most days of the week). Data from the individuals' Apple Watches will be
      monitored and analyzed throughout the trial in order to assess compliance with these
      recommendations. Each participant will receive feedback and advice from the research
      assistant during weekly telephone sessions to motivate participants to gradually achieve
      higher levels of physical activity. Participants will be invited to attend an optional
      exercise class in which they walk along an indoor walking track for 60 minutes biweekly at
      Providence Care Hospital, supervised by a research assistant and monitored by a medically
      qualified Co-Investigator.

      Comprehensive lifestyle intervention will include a structured behavioural change program
      that includes regular self-monitoring of food intake, by entering all food consumed into the
      Lose It app, which automatically calculates caloric intake, and physical activity. The
      qualified research assistant will facilitate participant engagement sessions by telephone on
      a weekly basis. During each session, the research assistant will assess the participant's
      current level of adherence to the diet and exercise recommendations and will motivate them to
      gradually achieve higher levels of exercise following the Harvard Medical School Health
      Report and to make healthy adjustments to their diet following the Mediterranean Diet
      Handout.

      Control arm: Baseline - 12 months: Standard Clinical Practice In addition to receiving
      standard of care AFIB treatment, participants in the control arm of this trial will undergo
      all of the same baseline screening and follow-up assessments and procedures as the
      intervention arm but will receive no lifestyle intervention (no diet, exercise regimen, or
      behavioural therapy).
    
  