
    
      This project will assess whether a health-promotion intervention initiated prior to and
      continuing beyond radical prostatectomy for the treatment of clinically localized prostate
      cancer results in improvements in overall health, health-related quality of life, and
      specific urological outcomes, specifically recovery of EF and urinary continence. While there
      is an abundance of literature supporting the harmful impact that obesity has on prostate
      cancer risk, delayed diagnosis, surgical outcomes, pathological outcomes and overall
      mortality, there is a paucity of data on the impact of health/fitness interventions on
      immediate post-operative quality of life outcomes.

      Data supporting the benefit of lifestyle interventions in terms of overall health come from
      the Look AHEAD trial [1], which demonstrated clinically significant weight loss and
      improvements in diabetic control and cardiovascular risk factors in obese, type 2 diabetics.
      It is expected that this intervention will result in beneficial changes to the participants'
      overall health status as represented in the short term by improvements in objective clinical
      measurements (such as reduction in weight, BP, serum cholesterol and fasting serum glucose
      levels), and overall health-related quality of life. The investigators also hypothesize that
      such an intervention will result in improved post-operative urological outcomes, namely
      accelerated return of urinary continence and EF. Urologists are in a good position to promote
      healthy living, and initiating interventions such as these prior to surgery can provide the
      foundation of a healthy lifestyle that will enable the patient to maintain the aforementioned
      benefits well beyond their surgery, and extending beyond the urological domain.

      The goal is to prove that patients participating in one of two lifestyle interventions, a
      more intense health promotion intervention or a less intense text-message program, will
      report improved physical parameters: BMI, BP, metabolic parameters (fasting serum glucose,
      serum cholesterol), health-related quality of life, recovery of EF and urinary continence
      (the latter three as reported by questionnaires) compared to patients who are given standard
      advice prior to radical prostatectomy.

      Specific Aim: To evaluate by means of a randomized, controlled, clinical trial the relative
      benefits and costs of an intensive health-promotion intervention, compared with a less
      intensive intervention consisting of regular daily text message health reminders, compared
      with the standard advice given to patients undergoing radical prostatectomy. While it is
      intuitive that healthier patients will feel better and have easier recoveries after radical
      prostatectomy, there is no existing evidence thus far to support this. The investigation will
      apply a single center, randomized, clinical 18 month study design and employ validated
      instruments to assess health related quality of life status, EF and urinary continence.

      The study design will be a single center, randomized, clinical 3-arm study, comparing the
      effects of an intensive lifestyle intervention based on the Look AHEAD regimen vs. a less
      intensive text message intervention vs. standard lifestyle advice typically provided prior to
      radical prostatectomy. For the control arm, participants will complete post-operative
      assessments at months 3, 6, 12 and 18 where they will repeat the baseline questionnaires and
      measures. Please note that for all recruited patients who are not local, the follow-up
      questionnaires will be obtained via mail, and the physical parameters will be derived from
      direct contact with the patient's local care provider. In the event that this is not
      possible, we will rely on patient self-report. Standard practice associated with surgery and
      postoperative laboratory testing will be performed. Patients may use a phosphodiesterase type
      5 inhibitor (sildenafil, tadalafil or vardenafil) following surgery as conventional
      "on-demand" therapy for erectile dysfunction (ED).

      For the text message (Tailored Rapid Interactive Mobile Messaging-TRIMM) arm, same as above
      for standard care, plus: "Push" and "pull"-type text messages will be delivered at a
      frequency of 3-4 times/day, starting at least 4 weeks prior to surgery and continuing 8 weeks
      postoperatively. Specific content has been developed and field-tested for acceptability.
      Patients will be asked to select three of seven possible health-related goals targeting
      specific categories, including dietary (such as increasing fruit and vegetable consumption),
      exercise (such as more walking) and behavioral (such as less eating in response to stress)
      goals. All text message participants will also receive semi-weekly messages related to
      specific urological goals relating to their surgery, such as performing Kegel exercises and
      maintaining intimate relationships. At least one message daily will require a response, and
      targeted feedback will be given based on the response. For example, participants will be
      issued a pedometer and asked to record their daily steps. If steps reported for the day are
      above or below goal, automatically generated instructions/praise/alternatives will be
      proffered.

      For the intensive intervention, same as standard care, plus: Weekly meetings, starting at
      least 4 weeks prior to surgery and continuing 8 weeks postoperatively, consisting of support
      group meetings 3 times/month using the Look AHEAD curriculum modified to a shorter term
      intervention, plus a monthly individual follow-up visit. This individual monthly visit would
      include a focused evaluation of the participant, including review of his goals and feedback
      on his progress. The intensive intervention will provide both relevant diet and exercise
      education and support for long-term lifestyle changes. The intensive intervention will be
      facilitated by a physician or other trained provider. At each monthly visit, patient's weight
      will be recorded and a review of their activity and diet logs conducted. A topical lesson
      corresponding to the Look AHEAD curriculum [1] will be given and participants would be given
      a chance to discuss the lesson and any road-blocks to their progress that have occurred.
      Participants will be issued a pedometer and asked to record their daily steps, to be used as
      a surrogate for physical activity.

      The sample size will be 25 patients randomized to each study arm. There will be a total of 5
      arms (a total of 125 patients), with the study being divided based on patient proximity to
      the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Local patients (defined as those patients who are able to be
      physically present for all of the study sessions as well as follow-up appointments) will be
      randomized to 3 arms: control, TRIMM and intensive intervention. Distant patients (defined as
      patients who are not able to be present for all study sessions as well as follow-up
      appointments) will be randomized to 2 arms: control and TRIMM. Study procedures will involve
      screening and informed consent after initial consultation, baseline evaluation including
      medical clearance and completion of validated questionnaires. Randomization will be achieved
      by a computerized random number generator, with patients stratified based on age. Assessment
      tools will consist of the IIEF questionnaire, the Quality of Erection Questionnaire (QEQ) and
      health related quality of life instruments: RAND 12-item Health Survey (SF-12) and the
      Expanded Prostate Cancer index Composite Short Form (EPIC-26-sexual and urinary domains).
      Standard practice associated with surgery, blood transfusion and postoperative laboratory
      testing will be performed. Patients will be prescribed a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor
      (sildenafil, tadalafil or vardenafil) at 1 month following surgery to be used as conventional
      "on-demand" therapy. Adverse event monitoring will be performed.
    
  