
    
      The proposed study will have two aims: i) to evaluate the effects of a nurse-coordinated
      integrated care model with a patient empowerment approach on the compatibility of patients'
      and physicians' decisions regarding oral anticoagulants (OAC) use, medication adherence,
      anxiety, depression, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and ii) to explore how and
      why the intervention affects health outcomes from the patients' perspectives. The first aim
      is based on a research hypothesis in which AF patients exposed to the nurse-coordinated
      integrated care model will be more likely to report achieving compatible patient and
      physician decisions regarding OAC use, better changes in medication adherence, anxiety,
      depression, and HRQoL, compared to patients who receive conventional care.

      Study design This will be a sequential mixed-methods study with two phases. Phase 1 will
      comprise a prospective, single-blinded randomized controlled trial (RCT) to investigate the
      effects of the nurse-coordinated integrated care model on various health outcomes among
      patients with AF. Phase 2 will comprise an exploratory qualitative study to determine how and
      why the intervention works. After collecting baseline data, the research nurse (RA1) will
      randomly allocate patients into the intervention or control group. Block randomization (block
      size: 8, 10, or 12) will be used to ensure even participant distribution between the two
      groups. The block size and respective study group allocation sequence will be determined
      using a computer-generated sequence. Chronologically recruited patients will be allocated to
      the study groups by RA1 according to this computer-generated sequence. Participants allocated
      to receive the nurse-coordinated integrated care model will be provided with an appointment
      1-2 weeks before their next scheduled medical appointment to initiate the intervention. The
      participants allocated to the control group will continue to receive conventional care as
      arranged by the hospital. An independent research assistant (RA2) who is blinded to the study
      group allocations will collect post-intervention data through medical record reviews and
      telephone interviews upon completion of the intervention and 6 months thereafter.

      For Phase 2 of the study, a purposive sample of 30 participants from the intervention group
      will be invited to participate in a qualitative interview. Participants with different
      treatment responses to the nurse-coordinated integrated AF care model will be recruited
      according to changes in their post-intervention HRQoL scores. Ten participants will be
      selected from each range of HRQoL changes: 0-34th percentile, 35th-68th percentile, and >68th
      percentile.

      Study interventions Intervention group: Nurse-coordinated integrated care model for AF
      Participants in the intervention group will participate in a 13-week, nurse-coordinated
      integrated care model comprising the following care components intended to comprehensively
      address the needs of AF patients: 1) a risk profile assessment and shared decision-making
      regarding OAC use; 2) an empowerment-based educational module on AF self-care; 3)
      nurse-initiated telephone support; and 4) patient-initiated contact for professional advice.
      The details of each care component of the intervention are described below.

        1. Risk profile assessment and shared decision-making regarding OAC use A pre-consultation
           session will be provided 1-2 weeks before the patient's next medical clinic
           consultation. This session will comprise two components: an individualized assessment
           and a group-based session to enhance patients' participation in shared decision-making.
           First, RA1 will conduct a comprehensive, individualized risk assessment of patients. The
           risk assessment will address multiple aspects, including i) the stroke risk based on the
           CHA2DS2-VASc score, ii) bleeding risk based on the HAS-BLED score, and iii) quality of
           vitamin K antagonist (VKA) anticoagulation therapy based on the SAMe-TT2R2 score.
           Details of the CHA2DS2-VASc score were elaborated in a previous section of this
           proposal. The HAS-BLED score predicts the bleeding risk according to the following risk
           factors: hypertension, abnormal renal/liver function, stroke, bleeding history or
           predisposition, labile International normalized ratio (INR), age >65 years, and
           concomitant drug/alcohol use. The SAMe-TT2R2 score assesses the likelihood of poor INR
           control among patients with AF on VKA therapy according to sex, age, medical history,
           treatment, tobacco use, and race. These risk stratification scores provide information
           crucial to determining the optimal treatment options for each patient.

           After the risk assessment, the nurse will conduct a face-to-face session in a
           small-group (6-8 patients/group) format to empower patients regarding decision-making
           and communication with physicians. This face-to-face approach was selected in accordance
           with literature suggesting it to be more effective than a written format. Additionally,
           group teaching can promote peer learning and modeling. The session will begin with a
           structured educational session on AF and its complications, with emphasis placed on
           understanding the link between AF and ischemic stroke and the deleterious effects of
           rapid ventricular rates on cardiac function. The currently available and suitable OAC
           options (warfarin and Non-vitamin-K oral anticoagulants (NOACs)) and their pros and cons
           (including the self-financed nature of novel OAC) as well as the rationales for rate and
           rhythm control will also be discussed. To assist patients with decision-making regarding
           OAC use, a patient decision aid developed by the National Institute of Health and Care
           Excellence will be used. This aid organizes treatment options in an Option Grids format,
           wherein 10 frequently asked questions are presented vertically downwards with the
           options presented horizontally across the table. This format facilitates comparison and
           clarifies the options. Numeric and graphic formats with pictograms will be used to help
           patients understand the absolute and relative risks of a stroke when not using OACs or a
           major bleeding episode while using OACs. Patients' individual risk profiles will be used
           to illustrate their stroke risks with and without OAC and their bleeding risk with OAC
           in a graphical format. The nurse will present the risk and benefit information in a fair
           and balanced manner.

           Another care component will engage patients in shared decision-making regarding OAC use
           by empowering them to better communicate their decisions to physicians during upcoming
           medical consultations. This component will highlight the key points of assertive
           communication, including asking questions, expressing concerns, and stating opinions and
           preferences regarding OACs for stroke prevention. The patients will be encouraged to
           generate a list of questions and concerns to propose to their physicians. To enhance
           patients' confidence in their ability to maintain assertive communication in stressful
           situations, a series of scenario-based patient models in video format will be used to
           optimize the acquisition of skills for handling challenging encounters. A
           role-play-based rehearsal will be conducted to allow patients to practice their new
           skills and observe others' behavior. The nurse will debrief patients to discuss their
           performance and provide feedback. Throughout the session, the nurse will adopt a
           supportive and non-judgmental attitude.

        2. Empowerment-based group educational module The same group of patients will attend an
           empowerment-based educational module beginning 1 week after their medical appointments.
           The module will comprise five weekly educational sessions covering the following major
           topics related to AF self-care: i) medication management, ii) symptom monitoring, iii)
           crisis management, iv) activities and exercise, and v) risk factor management to reduce
           risks of stroke and bleeding. The educational content of each session will comply with
           the recommendations of major practice guidelines for AF management.

           During each session, the nurse will implement the empowerment process to enhance
           patients' knowledge, skill acquisition, and confidence in AF self-care. The empowerment
           approach emphasizes the use of interactive teaching strategies, experiential learning,
           and self-reflection during the educational process to optimize learning. First, the
           nurse will deliver a structured educational session about the topic of the week.
           Emphasis will be placed on assisting patients with understanding the links between their
           self-care behaviors and health consequences to ensure that they appreciate the
           importance of their own efforts in managing AF. The nurse will encourage patients to
           share their current practices, and facilitate them to identify discrepancies between the
           suggested self-care and their current practices. The nurse will also highlight possible
           health consequences of these discrepancies and assist patients with setting
           self-directed goals related to those areas. After goal-setting, a subsequent interactive
           skill-building session will ensure that patients acquire the skills required to perform
           specific self-care behaviors. For example, to enhance patients' confidence regarding
           crisis management, a series of scenario-based patient models in video format will be
           used to optimize the acquisition of skills needed to handle challenging encounters
           related to possible crises, such as a major bleeding event or suspected stroke episode.
           A role-play-based rehearsal will be conducted, and the nurse will discuss the patients'
           performances and provide feedback. The nurse will make use of group dynamics by
           encouraging peer discussions of successful self-care actions, feelings, concerns, and
           perceived barriers to goal achievement. The nurse will also work with the patients to
           mutually develop action plans for achieving goals set during each weekly educational
           session. Each subsequent session will begin with a discussion of progress in goal
           attainment. Challenges and barriers faced while implementing the action plans set during
           the previous week will also be discussed.

        3. Nurse-initiated telephone support The nurse will provide continued support by telephone
           after the face-to-face sessions have been completed (two weekly and two bi-weekly
           calls). A telephone record containing patients' clinical profiles, AF-related
           treatments, self-management goals, and action plans will be used to facilitate the
           process. The nurse will monitor patients' adherence, symptom profiles, treatment
           efficacies, adverse effects, and goal attainment progress; identify barriers in the
           self-care process; and provide resolutions and continued support via the telephone.
           Health counseling and advice given will be documented to guide subsequent telephone
           correspondence.

        4. Patient-initiated contact for professional advice All participants from the intervention
           group will be provided with telephone access to the nurse for inquiries regarding
           disease management during office hours. The nurse will provide health advice and
           counseling accordingly. For severe undesirable symptoms and adverse reactions to
           medications, the nurse will attempt to advance patients' follow-up appointments or
           advise patients to seek emergency medical care if necessary. All correspondence and
           advice given will be documented in patients' profiles.

      Control group: Conventional care The control group will receive the conventional care
      provided by the study hospital.
    
  