
    
      Research Design

      This description applies to project specific aim 2.

      Overview of Design and Methods: FFS Medicare beneficiaries will be surveyed and compared by
      cohort for differences in response. Subjects will be randomly sampled from each of the four
      cohorts (A, B, A2B & B2A) identified in SA1.

      Survey Instrument and Question Formulation: A validated survey instrument will be used to
      collect subjective patient data. The survey will include questionnaires intended to evaluate
      1) self-reported QOL, 2) satisfaction with care, and 3) beliefs regarding back pain and its
      treatment. For assessment of self-reported QOL a version of the SF12 (Ware '96) will be used
      and modified to account for time lapse between treatment for LBP and administration of the
      survey, and to elicit treatment-specific responses The SF -12 has been previously validated
      for measuring QOL among elderly patients, (Jakobsson '07) and patients using prescription
      drugs. (Naveiro-Rilo '14) For assessment of satisfaction with care a 0-10 numeric scale will
      be used. For assessment of beliefs a modified version of the validated LBP Treatment Beliefs
      Questionnaire will be used. (Dima '15). A pre- test of all the survey instruments will be
      conducted by distributing a prototype to a sample of 100 Medicare beneficiaries seen for LBP
      at the SCU Health Center in Whittier, CA. Responses to the survey pre-test will inform any
      need to edit the questionnaire for comprehensibility and ease of use, thus helping to ensure
      instrument face validity. For ease of comprehension by older subjects, the survey questions
      will be printed in large font and will be carefully worded to be brief, unambiguous, and free
      of bias.

      Survey Methods: ResDAC will initiate contact with random samples of beneficiaries who meet
      criteria for inclusion in the cohorts identified in SA1. The Beneficiary Contact Service has
      reviewed the survey plan with the PIs and provided an official cost estimate for this
      service, which is routinely provided by the BCS with strict attention to patient protection.
      Initial contact will be in the form of a Beneficiary Notification Letter, signed by the CMS
      Privacy Officer. The letter will alert beneficiaries to the opportunity to voluntarily
      participate in a healthcare survey. Recipients will be informed that they may decline
      participation via enclosed reply forms, and will be given phone numbers to call CMS personnel
      for additional information. After three weeks, the Beneficiary Contact Service will supply
      the investigators with contact information for eligible beneficiaries (those who did not
      decline to participate). The survey will be commenced by mailing the printed survey, cover
      letter with informed consent form based on NCCIH guidelines, and a postage-paid return
      envelope with detailed information about the survey. Participants can contact study personnel
      if they have any questions. Follow up by phone after every two weeks or as needed will be
      used to increase the rate of response.

      Outcomes Measurement and Statistical Analysis: Testing will be done for between-cohort
      differences in self-reported QOL, satisfaction with care, and beliefs about treatments for
      LBP. Survey responses between the four groups will be compared using Pearson chi-square tests
      and ANOVA. Demographic characteristics [e.g. sex as a biological variable, and age - because
      age-related cognitive decline can affect survey responses (Wolinsky '15)] will be controlled
      using linear regression for continuous survey items, proportional odds logistic regression
      for ordinal items and multinomial regression for categorical items. In the multivariable
      regression models equivalence between the four groups will be evaluated using likelihood
      ratio or Wald tests. Given the multiplicity of testing (e.g. multiple groups for multiple
      items), type I error inflation will be considered through used of Bonferonni corrections or
      approaches for false discovery rates. Parametric tests of numeric data can be used to yield
      unbiased answers when analyzing Likert scale responses. (Norman '10)
    
  