
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing this consent form, the participant will
      be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if the participant can be
      in the research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular
      care and may be done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in the
      research study. If the participant has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they
      may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's health, current
           medications, and any allergies.

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how the participant is able to carry on with their
           usual activities.

        -  An assessment of your liver by X-ray, ultrasound, CT (Computerized Tomography) scan, MRI
           (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) or PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scans.

        -  Anesthesia score, which evaluates how the participant tolerates the sedation given with
           biopsies.

        -  Blood tests.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      the participant will receive the study agent. If the participant does not meet the
      eligibility criteria, then the participant will not be able to participate in this research
      study.

      After the screening procedures confirms that the participant is eligible to participate in
      the research study: The participant will be scheduled for their regular CT- or
      ultrasound-guided liver biopsy. On the day prior to the procedure, the participant will come
      to our Interventional Radiology waiting area at Massachusetts General Hospital. After the
      participant arrives, the participant will be interviewed by a research doctor and receive a
      dose of ICG intravenously. The participant will be monitored for 30 minutes after the
      injection, and after this time, the participant will be free to leave. On the day of the
      procedure, the participant will come back to the Interventional Radiology waiting area. After
      the participant arrives, the participant will receive an intravenous line. The participant
      may also have some blood drawn (no more that 4 tablespoons) for any tests needed in addition
      to blood work done before the participant was enrolled in the study. The participant will
      then meet again with the research doctor, who will go over the procedure with the participant
      and as usual obtain their consent to have the standard liver biopsy. The nurse will begin
      administering the sedatives until the participant is comfortable to proceed with the
      procedure. The research doctor and his assistant will advance a hollow biopsy needle through
      the skin and into the lesion in the liver. A miniature endoscope, small enough to fit through
      the hollow center of the biopsy needle, will then be passed through the needle so that the
      tip of the endoscope is within the lesion. The fluorescence within the lesion will be
      measured with the endoscope by a special camera attached to the back of the endoscope. The
      endoscope will then be removed, and the lesion will be biopsied with a standard biopsy
      needle. If the participant is undergoing a biopsy of the liver to obtain a sample of their
      liver tissue and not a specific area in the liver, the endoscopic imaging described above
      will not be performed. The biopsy will be performed in the usual way. Once the biopsy is
      performed, the sample of tissue from the biopsy will be imaged by a special camera and
      computer that will be within the procedure room. The added steps for this trial should only
      add approximately 5 minutes to the procedure time.

      After the procedure: After the procedure is complete, the investigator will bring the
      participant to the recovery room so that the participant can sleep off the sedative
      medications. Throughout this time, the participant will be observed by a nurse, and vital
      signs will be monitored. The participant will be given the usual post-procedure instructions.
      The investigator would like to keep track of your medical condition after the procedure to
      make sure no side effects have occurred. The investigator would like to do this by calling
      the participant on the telephone the day after the procedure and 1 week after the procedure.
    
  