
    
      Tonsillectomy is a minor procedure but it causes sever post-operative pain. This pain is
      difficult to be controlled with opioids because the fear from respiratory depression in
      pediatric age group with postoperative oral bleeding. The World Heath Organization (WHO)
      guidelines clearly state that fear and lack of knowledge regarding the use of opioids in
      children should not be a barrier for effective analgesia (1). ). However, these procedures
      are usually day case and the use of oral morphine at home may be risky in some groups of this
      population (2). So decrease the analgesic requirements following these procedures will
      increase both satisfaction and safety. The trials for the use of morphine as a preemptive
      analgesia, in awake patient, have been limited to intramuscular (IM) or oral use which has a
      slow onset and unpredictable absorption. The use of preoperative IV morphine is not popular
      because of the unpleasant sensations following its administration. I will use small dose
      midazolam 0.025 gm/kg before morphine to prevent this sensation. In this double blind study,
      after taking an informed consent, 60 children aged between 7 and 12 years old assigned for
      tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy will be randomly divided into three groups. The
      first group 30 children will receive 0.025 mg/kg midazolam IV followed by 0.1 mg/kg morphine
      as a premedication 20 to 30 min before surgical incision. In the second group30 children who
      will receive the same dose of midazolam followed by saline premedication. Inhalational
      anesthesia with sevoflurane and nitrous oxide will be used in all patients. Exclusion
      criteria are those with bronchial asthma, obstructive sleep apnea, allergy to medications
      used in the study and those who are unfit for surgery or anesthesia for any reason like
      coagulopathy or chest infection.

      All groups will be compared for pain score using visual analog scale (VAS) after recovery and
      hourly for 8 hours and during first drinking. HR, blood pressure and SPO2 will be recorded
      before premedication, every 10 min after premedication then every 5 min during and after
      anesthesia. 6 point sedation score and 4 points behavioral score will be monitored every 5
      min after sedation. Four-point wake-up score will be recorded every 5 min. Time of first
      analgesic requirement and total morphine consumption during the first post-operative 8 hours
      will be recorded. Base line oxygen saturation, incidence of postoperative hypoxia, bleeding,
      nausea and vomiting will be recorded.
    
  