
    
      Rationale: Airway disease, featuring early and intense inflammation and leading to
      progressive lung damage, is the main cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis
      (CF). Mechanisms of CF airway inflammation remain unclear, hampering development of better
      treatments. Recent introduction of heel-prick screening for CF provides a unique longitudinal
      cohort of CF infants, in which the early phase of airway disease can be assessed. In our
      hospital the investigators set up a clinical protocol for monitoring these infants in a
      structured way, using chest computed tomography (CT) and bronchoscopies with collection of
      broncho-alveolar lavage fluid (BALF) to assess early lung damage. Our protocol is designed
      according to the protocol used by the Australian AREST-CF consortium. Preliminary data show
      that lipid profiles differ in BALF from CF infants with a high score for lung damage,
      compared with a low score (minimal lung damage). Some of these lipids are products of
      activated polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN's). Others are receptor-activating molecules
      involved in the resolution of inflammation and tissue injury. Also, in a pilot study, it was
      shown that CF airway PMNs are differently programmed than in normal airways, which leads to
      increased release of inflammatory factors and toxic enzymes. The hypothesize is that CFTR
      deficiency causes abnormal inflammatory signaling in the lung of CF infants, resulting in
      abnormal programming of infiltrating PMNs, and subsequently excessive and chronic lung
      disease.

      Objectives: To better understand the progression of early CF lung disease the investigators
      aim to study lipid profiles and PMN dysfunction in relation to the severity of early lung
      disease in infants with CF, using BALF samples and peripheral blood. To optimally study these
      very precious samples, the investigators will make use of state-of-the-art technologies for
      in vivo profiling and in vitro testing of PMN function, including lipidomics and innovative
      cell- and fluid-based tools. Understanding the mechanisms at play in CF airway inflammation
      as it occurs in infants may lead to new paths for early intervention

      Study design: Observational, exploratory in vitro study in BALF and peripheral blood from
      infants with CF, correlated with clinical data.

      Study population: Children with CF diagnosed by heel-prick screening, who have a bronchoscopy
      and chest-CT for their annual check-up, at age 3 months (Utrecht),1, 3 or 5 years are
      eligible. Informed consent will be obtained from the parents.

      Intervention: The bronchoscopy done to collect BALF is part of the routine clinical
      monitoring program. For this study, BALF that is not used for clinical testing will be used.
      Furthermore, venous puncture is performed for clinical routine blood tests, and one extra
      vial of EDTA blood will be drawn.
    
  