
    
      Cancer is the second leading cause of death among individuals in the United States of America
      (Ries et al., 2000). Gastro-intestinal (GI) cancers account for approximately 253,500 new
      cases each year in both men and women. Most of the patients with GI cancer have a poor
      outcome (American Cancer Society., 2005; Ilson, 2001), accounting for approximately 16% of
      cancer related death in women and 25% of cancer related death in men (American Cancer
      Society, 2005). Of all cancers, lung cancer is the leading cause for death among men and
      women (American Cancer Society., 2005).

      GI cancer constitutes a disease with intensive medical research focused on the improvement of
      prevention, early detection and treatment. How patients with GI cancer deal with the
      diagnosis remains understudied to date. Lung cancer research has focused particularly on
      smoking and its impact on lung cancer epidemiology. Lung cancer patients' coping strategies
      have been studied. Issues related to the meaning of life, health and self-care, physical
      functioning, coping and support have been highlighted as being important in lung cancer
      patients' dealing with their disease situation (Maliski, Sarna, Evangelista, & Padilla, 2003;
      Sharf, Stelljes, & Gordon, 2005). Similarly, patients' dealing with a diagnosis of breast
      cancer has been investigated (Andritsch et al., 2004; Badger, Braden, Mishel, & Longman,
      2004; Northouse, Templin, Mood, & Oberst, 1998). Constructs such as uncertainty and locus
      control are highly important in coping with the disease situation. Uncertainty has been
      linked with quality of life (Sammarco, 2001;2003). Evidence also exists that transitoriness,
      which is the confrontation with the finitude of human life, plays an important role in how
      individuals cope (Cohen et al., 2004; Shaha & Cox, 2003). The interrelationship between and
      among transitoriness, uncertainty and locus of control has yet to be delineated. There is
      also a need to explore transitoriness more fully as it has mainly been subsumed in concepts
      such as 'finding meaning in illness' or 'anxiety' (Houldin, 2003). Transitoriness has been
      linked with patient outcomes such as quality of life (Houldin, 2003). It is necessary to
      explore the concept of transitoriness to establish its links with uncertainty and locus of
      control. It is equally important to explore the association of these three concepts together
      with patients' psycho-social well-being and quality of life. By exploring these associations,
      the individual's way of coping with the cancer diagnosis will be better understood and lead
      to the development of nursing interventions to support persons with cancer, especially those
      with lung and GI cancer.

      It will then be possible a) to explore the concept of transitoriness by describing its
      interrelationship with uncertainty and locus of control, and b) to investigate the
      association among transitoriness, uncertainty, locus of control, psycho-social well-being and
      quality of life. The following research questions will be addressed in the study:

        1. Is cancer patients' confrontation with life's finitude related to uncertainty and locus
           of control?

        2. Are cancer patients' confrontation with life's finitude, uncertainty and locus of
           control associated with psychosocial well-being and quality of life?

        3. Are there differences in these associations between patients with different forms of
           cancer?
    
  