
    
      Untreated dental decay and poor access to dental care are significant Public health problems
      for children in the world (Dye et al. 2015 and Horst, 2016). Early childhood caries is a
      multifactorial, infectious and transmissible dental disease affecting young children .
      Conventional restorative treatment may fail to reduce the burden of early childhood caries in
      many parts of the world. Most decayed teeth in preschool children remained unrestored .
      Consequences of untreated decay in preschool children may include increased risk of future
      caries in primary and permanent dentition, pain and infections; increased expensive emergency
      room visits and hospital admissions; increased treatment costs because of extensive decay and
      the accompanying need for general anesthesia; delayed growth and development; and missed days
      from school and work .To reduce the burden of caries disease in young children and to avoid
      possible serious consequences of untreated decay, it is important to identify an effective,
      low-cost method of treating caries in children at high risk of caries and with limited access
      to dental care. Silver diamine fluoride (SDF) has been identified as an anticariogenic agent
      that successfully arrests dental decay and has the potential to address the epidemic of
      untreated decay in young children

      Therefore this study will be conducted to assess the postoperative pain after application of
      silver diamine fluoride versus sodium fluoride varnish in treatment of carious primary teeth.

      Benefits of the research to the patient:

      According to American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD), 2017 SDF application is:

        -  Safe.

        -  Noninvasive.

        -  Inexpensive.

        -  Effective in dental caries management, especially arresting cavitated caries lesions in
           the primary dentition.

      Benefits of the research to the clinician:

      According to AAPD, 2017 SDF is:

        -  Easily performed.

        -  A promising strategy to manage dental caries in very young children or those who have
           special needs.

        -  Doesn't require cooperation from children during dental treatment.

      It will improve patient confidence with the dentist

      Explanation for choice of comparators:

      The use of sodium fluoride is well documented in the literature as successful caries
      arrestment material. Arrestment proportion of caries for sodium fluoride varnish was found to
      be 84.4% (NaF) and 85.3% for ( NaF + chlorohexidine mouth wash) .
    
  