
    
      In recent years, with advancement in computed tomography (CT) technology and its widespread
      use, pulmonary nodules are common incidental findings. Pulmonary nodules are used to appear
      as well-circumscribed radiographic opacity. They can be single or multiple. There are
      multiple causes of pulmonary nodules. Most nodules are benign, but some may also represent
      bronchogenic carcinoma or metastatic lesions. The prevalence of malignancy is detected
      nodules varies between 0.2% and 18%. Thus, the preoperative individuals would suffer from
      depression or anxiety caused by uncertain progression of pulmonary nodules; the postoperative
      individuals would suffer from both physical and mental trauma.

      There is growing interest in non-pharmacological approaches that could potentially improve
      pulmonary nodules patients' physical condition, psychological condition and quality of life.

      Ba Duan Jin, a traditional Chinese health-preserving technique, combines the traditional
      Chinese medicine and traditional Chinese philosophy and embrace the body, breath and spirit.
      There is substantial evidence that Ba Duan Jin has benefits for cancer rehabilitation,
      respiratory diseases, psychological health, and quality of life. The effects of Ba Duan Jin
      on patients with pulmonary nodules are yet to be further investigated.

      The present pilot clinical study aims to apply Ba Duan Jin to patients with pulmonary
      nodules, and to evaluate the effects on physical (pulmonary function), psychological
      (depression and anxiety), and quality of life. Participants allocated to the Health Education
      Group take part in the 16-week health education including work, rest, diet and other basic
      programs according to the different conditions of participants. Participants allocated to the
      Ba Duan Jin Group take part in the 16-week Ba Duan Jin plus health education program. The
      study plans to enroll 60 participants in 2 years (30 for Ba Duan Jin plus health education
      program, and 30 for health education program), expecting that Ba Duan Jin has a better effect
      on improving physical condition, psychological condition and quality of life.
    
  