
    
      Nowadays, the first line treatment of chronic respiratory failure in neuromuscular disorder
      is non invasive ventilation (NIV). However, while NIV can compensate the respiratory
      disability and significantly delays significantly the necessity for invasive ventilation with
      a tracheostomy (IVT), it is used for significant periods of time during daytime in patients
      with severe respiratory failure and can therefore interfere with patients' speech. Moreover,
      if NIV becomes inefficient, IVT may be required to pursue ventilatory support to treat the
      respiratory failure; tracheostomy also interferes with phonation and specific adaptations are
      necessary to optimize phonation and speech quality.

      Adaptation of ventilation parameters (mainly triggering sensitivity and use of positive
      expiratory pressure (PEP)) can significantly improve speech quality and therefore ventilated
      patients' communication. These adapted parameters are not strictly necessary for ventilation
      outside of speaking periods. It would be of interest to be able to use them exclusively
      during speech. In neuromuscular patients, the major motor disability constitutes a challenge
      as most patients are unable to use themselves the controls of their ventilator (and to
      potentially switch to a speech adapted ventilation program). We want to evaluate a device
      able to automatically detect speech and to transitorily switch from the patient's usual
      ventilation parameters to speech specific parameters set to optimize phonation quality.

      Specific adaptations differs between NIV or IVT, therefore we will evaluation two groups of
      ventilation dependent patients divided according to their ventilation mode.

      We believe that this device may improve the speech of NIV patients as well as IVT patients.
      Patients would benefit from an appropriate ventilator support without any ventilation
      desynchronization during speech. Speech would be more fluent and natural which would result
      in improved communication.

      Objectives The main objective of this study is to demonstrate that phonation is improved by
      the use of a device allowing the transitory switch to specific speech parameters of
      ventilation in neuromuscular ventilator dependent patient whether during NIV or during IMT.
    
  