
    
      Microbial colonization of implant surface is the main causative factor of periimplantitis.
      Non-surgical treatment have been shown to be ineffective in bacterial control. The capacity
      of certain bacteria to invade soft tissues in periodontal lesions and a possible invasion in
      peri-implant diseases, could also be a good reason. Mombelli and Lang in a case-series study
      observed a significant reduction on probing depths and microbial parameters after
      non-surgical treatment and systemic antimicrobial therapy (ornidazole) of implants affected
      by marked loss of bone.

      The rationale for conducting this research is to demonstrate that there may be significant
      differences in clinical, radiographic and microbiological parameters if systemic
      metronidazole is prescribed in conjunction with non-surgical treatment of peri-implantitis
      lesions. If there are differences, and a further improvement is observed in evaluated
      parameters, treatment protocols for these prevalent lesions could have been modified.

      The objective of this research is to check whether there are differences in clinical,
      radiographic and microbiological parameters when performing non-surgical treatment to treat
      peri-implantitis with adjunctive administration of systemic metronidazole or a placebo.

      Design: This research is designed as a parallel group, placebo-controlled, randomized,
      double-blind clinical study.

      Population: Patients who come to the Periodontology Department, Faculty of Dentistry,
      University of Santiago de Compostela with dental implants presenting pathology.

      Treatment Groups: Study group: patients treated by non-surgical treatment in conjunction with
      systemic metronidazole.Control group: patients treated by non-surgical treatment in
      conjunction with a placebo.

      Randomization:After checking the inclusion criteria, signing the informed consent and
      included in the study. All subjects will be randomly assigned a number and one of the
      treatment group. The randomization will be done by a computer program for a simple
      randomization assignment.

      Treatment: Non-surgical treatments will be performed under local anaesthesia . In cases where
      the prosthesis is screwed and screw access is possible, it will be removed during treatment
      and re-placed once completed. The patient will rinse with a mouthwash of chlorhexidine
      digluconate 0.12% and then implants affected will be debrided by ultrasound and manual
      curettes with the objective of removing deposits of plaque and calculus that are attached to
      the surface of the implant or prosthesis. Once the debridement is finished, pockets will be
      irrigated with chlorhexidine for 2 minutes and the surface of the prostheses polished using
      rubber cups and polishing paste.Immediately after the end of treatment and depending on the
      result of randomization, the exact number of tablets of the antibiotic or placebo to be taken
      during the following days will be given to the patient. The patient will be instructed in
      oral hygiene with either manual or electric toothbrush and interdental hygiene at the time of
      the completion of treatment. Subsequently, at 4 weeks, motivation and hygiene instructions
      will be strengthened by modifying brushing technique when deemed necessary.
    
  