
    
      Background Reinforcing effects of cocaine are believed to arise through release of dopamine
      (DA) at the nucleus accumbens by neurons in the ventral tegmental area. Activation of
      cholinergic receptors on the cell bodies of these neurons can enhance DA release. Elevated
      levels of acetylcholine (ACh) in the nucleus accumbens may also serve to inhibit appetitive
      behaviors. Cholinesterase inhibitors such as tacrine increase synaptic levels of ACh by
      preventing its inactivation by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) or butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE),
      and can improve learning and memory. In animals, cholinesterase inhibitors can attenuate
      cocaine self-administration and conditioned place preference. Tacrine is a centrally acting,
      reversible inhibitor of AChE and BuChE that is approved for treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
      In addition to its effects on the cholinergic system, tacrine can potentiate the actions of
      monoamines, including DA. Although use of tacrine has declined because of requirements for
      monitoring of potential liver toxicity and pharmacokinetics that necessitate multiple daily
      doses, it is more potent than other cholinesterase inhibitors in attenuating cocaine
      self-administration in animals. Pretreatment with tacrine can produce long-lasting reductions
      in cocaine-reinforced behavior in rats, described as persistent attenuation (cocaine
      self-administration is decreased by more than 80% over a period of three days during which no
      additional cholinesterase inhibitor is administered, see Figure 1). No previous studies have
      evaluated whether tacrine can modify the effects of cocaine in humans.

      Rationale To our knowledge, tacrine is the only compound that can produce persistent
      attenuation in rats treated with clinically relevant doses. If similar effects were observed
      in humans, this would lead to an important paradigm shift for substance abuse treatment, in
      that large reductions in cocaine-reinforced behavior could be produced without the need for
      continuous dosing with a medication. This scenario could remove the requirement for continued
      compliance with oral dosing in some patients with its associated potential for toxicity.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Evaluate whether tacrine treatment causes persistent attenuation of cocaine-reinforced
           behavior in humans.

        2. Determine the effectiveness of pretreatment with tacrine in attenuating cocaine-induced
           craving.

        3. Evaluate plasma levels of cocaine and characterize the bioavailability of tacrine in
           individual patients.

      Methods This is a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, inpatient,
      single-center, parallel-group evaluation of the potential for oral tacrine to modify cocaine
      self-administration, cocaine-induced craving, and the pharmacokinetics of cocaine and
      tacrine. To evaluate the occurrence of persistent attenuation, the subjective and reinforcing
      effects of intravenous cocaine will be determined during oral treatment and three days
      following its discontinuation.
    
  