
    
      Septic shock is a condition of acute organ dysfunction due to severe infection, with a
      mortality of up to 50%. Current efforts to improve care are limited by little practical
      evidence regarding the interventions in and timing of sepsis therapies. ProCESS is a
      prospective, randomized, three-arm parallel-group trial of alternative resuscitation
      strategies for early septic shock. The study objective is to improve the management of septic
      shock by exploring the clinical, biological, and economic aspects of alternative
      resuscitation strategies. This will be done by comparing two alternative resuscitation
      strategies to usual care in subjects with septic shock.

      Comparisons:

        1. Early Goal Directed Therapy (EGDT) - The subjects' blood pressure and blood oxygen
           levels will be monitored via the insertion of a central venous catheter (CVC). The study
           team will use this information to give fluid, blood and heart medications in a
           structured fashion. The central venous catheter to be used in this plan is FDA approved
           and routinely used in hospitals.

        2. Protocolized Standard Care (PSC) - The subjects' blood pressure and blood oxygen levels
           will be monitored with standard equipment (without the CVC). The study team will use
           this information to prescribe fluid and heart medications in a structured fashion. CVCs
           will only be used when standard IVs cannot give the proper amount of fluids and
           medicines. Blood transfusions will be given according to currently recommended
           guidelines.

        3. Usual Care (UC) - Subjects will be treated according to their attending physician's
           standard treatment plan and without any influence from the study team.

      The primary hypotheses to be tested sequentially are that: protocolized resuscitation (EGDT
      and PSC) results in lower hospital mortality than usual care and Early Goal Directed Therapy
      results in lower hospital mortality than Protocolized Standard Care. These hypotheses will be
      tested on all enrolled subjects.

      The study is powered to find an absolute mortality reduction (ARR) of ~6-7%. Based on the
      control arm mortality rate, we originally estimated a sample size of 1950. During the trial,
      the ProCESS Coordinating Center monitored the overall mortality rate, and appreciated that it
      was markedly lower than originally projected. Therefore, following a series of new
      calculations, in February 2013, the trial was re-sized to 1350 patients (450 patients per
      arm). The new size preserves the same power to find the same ARR. The resizing was fully
      blinded and approved by the NIH.
    
  