
    
      This is a phase 2, open label, single arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of ixazomib plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone in Japanese participants with relapsed
      and/or refractory multiple myeloma (MM). The participants population will consist of adult
      men and women who have a confirmed diagnosis of MM, who have received 1 to 3 prior lines of
      therapy, and who meet other outlined eligibility criteria. Participants will receive study
      drug (ixazomib 4.mg) on Days 1, 8, and 15 plus lenalidomide (25 mg) on Days 1 through 21 and
      dexamethasone (40 mg) on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of a 28-day cycle. Participants may continue
      to receive treatment until progressive disease (PD) or unacceptable toxicity, whichever comes
      first. Dose modifications may be made based on toxicities. Participant with a low creatinine
      clearance < 60 mL/min will receive a reduced lenalidomide dose of 10 mg once daily on Days 1
      through 21 of a 28-day cycle. The lenalidomide dose may be escalated to 15 mg once daily
      after 2 cycles if the participant is not responding to treatment and is tolerating the
      treatment. If renal function normalizes (ie, creatinine clearance >= 60 mL/min) and the
      participant continues to tolerate this treatment, lenalidomide may then be escalated to 25 mg
      once daily.

      Treatment periods will be defined as 28-day cycles. Participant will be seen at regular
      treatment cycle intervals while they are participating in the study: four times a treatment
      cycle for the first 2 cycles, twice a treatment cycle for the 3rd cycle, and then once a
      treatment cycle for the remainder of their participation in the active treatment and, if
      applicable, the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) follow-up phases of
      the study.

      Response will be assessed by investigator according to the International Myeloma Working
      Group criteria for all participants every 4 weeks until PD. Central laboratory data will be
      used for serum M-protein, urine M-protein and serum free light chain. All participants will
      be followed for survival after progression. Participants will be contacted every 12 weeks
      until death or termination of the study by the sponsor.

      The study will be closed at 24 months from the enrollment of the last participant.
    
  