
    
      1. Introduction Temocillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic active against Gram-negative bacteria.
      Its spectrum covers family members of the Enterobacteriaceae (including many of those
      producing beta-lactamases), Haemophilus influenzae and Neisseria spp 1,2, but not
      Pseudomonas. It is currently licensed for use in septicemia, urinary tract infection (UTIs),
      and lower respiratory tract infection.3 There is also evidence of its clinical efficacy in
      the treatment of biliary tract infections in adults.4,5 Temocillin biliary levels can be
      several times-fold superior to serum concentrations in patients with cholelithiasis, although
      they can also be characterised by high interindividual variation.6,7 In addition, its
      prolonged half-life (4.5-5 hours) and its Gram-negative spectrum make temocillin particularly
      suited for the treatment of hepatobiliary infections.5 One study documents the efficacy of
      temocillin in this indication (16 patients with biliary tract infections; daily dose of 2g of
      temocillin).7

      The interest of this molecule has been greatly enhanced in the recent years due to the
      increased incidence of infections caused by organisms producing extended-spectrum
      beta-lactamases (ESBL), making it to become a sparing-drug for carbapenems.8-10 Temocillin
      presents MICs ranging from 2 to 32 mg/L against Enterobacteriaceae, including most ESBL
      producers.1,2 Like all beta-lactam antibiotics, the time above MIC for free drug
      concentrations (ƒT>MIC) is the important PK-PD parameter correlating with its efficacy.11
      When the beta-lactam antibiotic concentrations do not exceed the MIC for 40% to 50% of the
      dosing interval, the efficacy of a beta-lactam antibiotic can be compromised. When a cut-off
      of a ƒT>MIC of 40% is used, a Monte-Carlo simulation of the available data defines a clinical
      PK/PD breakpoint of 8 to 16 mg/L for temocillin.11-13 The available temocillin
      pharmacokinetics data (distribution, metabolism, and elimination) comes from studies
      performed in adults. It is mainly excreted unchanged (80%) in the urine by glomerular
      filtration and tubular secretion.3

      Little is known about dosing and elimination of temocillin in children. The summary of
      product characteristics of temocillin proposes a daily dose of 25 - 50 mg/kg for paediatric
      use,14 but there are no studies that back-up this recommendation. This dose probably arises
      from scaling-down the typical adult daily dose of 2-4 g assuming an adult weight of 70kg. In
      the literature, the use of temocillin in paediatrics refers mainly to its clinical efficacy
      in the treatment of urinary tract infections.15,16 In the present hospital, temocillin is
      also used for the treatment of suspicion of cholangitis in cirrhotic paediatric patients, and
      as antibiotic prophylaxis following an hepatic transplant in children (both off-label
      indications). There is, therefore, a pressing need to explore the pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of temocillin in the paediatric population, in order to provide clear
      guidance on an appropriate dosing regimen.

      2. Study Objectives

        1. Characterisation of the pharmacokinetics (PK) of temocillin (total and free
           concentrations) in 3 paediatric populations:

             1. children requiring antibiotic treatment for urinary tract infections

             2. cirrhotic children requiring antibiotic treatment due to suspicion of cholangitis

             3. children requiring antibiotic prophylaxis following an hepatic transplant

        2. Proposal and development of a dosing schedule that can ensure therapeutic concentrations
           (40% ƒT > MIC) and optimize treatment chances of success.

        3. Characterization of MICs of microbiological strains (when available) to temocillin.

      3. Criteria for patients' selection 3.1 Inclusion Criteria

      1. Male or female patient requiring temocillin

        1. for the treatment of urinary tract infections, or

        2. for the treatment of suspicion of cholangitis associated with cirrhosis, or

        3. as antibiotic prophylaxis following an hepatic transplant. 2. Requirement of
           hospitalization (not for social or other non-medical reasons) for at least up to 5 days
           3. Patients aged 6 months - 3 years at the beginning of the treatment with temocillin 4.
           Parents or legal representatives able to give written informed consent in accordance
           with GCP and local regulatory requirements, prior to any study procedure

           3.2 Exclusion Criteria

             1. Ig-E mediated allergy to penicillins

             2. Previous treatment with temocillin for the current cholangitis episode

             3. Diagnosis of Alagille syndrome

             4. Estimated life-expectance of < 5 days due to major co-morbid conditions

             5. Other serious illnesses, e.g. HIV, serious infections requiring other antibiotics,
                malignancy

             6. Patients with acute or chronic renal failure (eGFR < 30ml/min)

             7. Patients having participated in another study < 30 days before inclusion in the
                present study

           4. Investigational Plan 4.1 Study design and plan This is a prospective, open,
           non-interventional and monocentric study that will take place at the "Service de
           Gastro-entérologie pédiatrique" of the "Cliniques Universitaires St-Luc" in Brussels,
           Belgium. All patients eligible for treatment with temocillin will be evaluated and
           considered for inclusion in the study.

           For each of the 3 paediatric populations, a total of 10-15 patients eligible for
           participation will be included in the study. According to the manufacturer's
           information14 a dose of 25mg/kg (in cases of prophylaxis) or 50mg/kg (in cases of
           treatment) every 12 hours will be used and administered by IV route. Blood samples will
           be drawn on day 1 and day 4 of treatment at 0.5, 2, 4, 8, 12 hours after dose
           administration. The patient's physician will decide on the duration of temocillin use.

           The expected total duration of the trial is 1 year (or more if patient enrollment is
           slow; number of patients to be included: 10-15 for each of the 3 paediatric
           populations).

           4.2 Study procedures All blood samples (3mL each) will be taken from an arterial or
           venous catheter and collected in additive-free blood tubes. After blood clotting, they
           will be centrifuged and the serum will be frozen (-80°C) until analysis. Total
           concentration and free concentration will be determined by a validated High Pressure
           Liquid chromatography-Ultra Violet detection (HPLC-UV) method.12,17

           In addition, the following parameters will be recorded during study period: time of
           temocillin administration, patient's weight, renal and liver function markers (including
           total serum protein), infection markers, concomitant medications.

           5. Statistics

           The temocillin concentrations versus time data in serum will be analysed using a
           non-linear mixed effects modeling approach using a Nonlinear Mixed-Effects Modelling
           software (NONMEM version 7.3; ICON Development Solutions, Ellicott City, MD). The
           population pharmacokinetic model will then be defined, and used to simulated different
           dosing regimens with Monte Carlo simulations, that will be used for calculating the
           probability of target attainment (40% ƒT>MIC) for free concentration by MIC. Statistical
           significance is defined as P value of < 0.05. JMP version 11 software (SAS Institute,
           Cary, NC, USA) will be used for statistical analysis. If the clinical isolates for each
           patient are not available, the MIC distributions of the hospital will be considered for
           data analysis.

           6. Administrative Matters The trial will be carried out in compliance with the protocol,
           the principles laid down in the Declaration of Helsinki, in accordance with the
           International Committee on Harmonisation (ICH) Harmonised Tripartite Guideline for Good
           Clinical Practice (GCP) and in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.

           6.1 Institutional Review Board / Independent Ethics Committee The trial will not be
           initiated before the protocol and informed consent and subject information form have
           been reviewed and received approval / favourable opinion from the local Institutional
           Review Board (IRB) or an Independent Ethics Committee (IEC).

           6.2 Informed Consent and Subject Information Prior to subject participation in the
           trial, written informed consent will be obtained from each subject's legally accepted
           representative according to the regulatory and legal requirements. Each signature must
           be dated by each signatory and the informed consent and any additional subject
           information form retained by the investigator as part of the study records. A signed
           copy of the informed consent and any additional subject information must be given to the
           subject's legally authorised representative.

           7. Timeframe: Outcome measure will be assessed within a maximum of 18 months.
    
  