
    
      1. Glaucomatous low vision. Glaucoma is a chronic eye disease that causes irreversible
           damage to the optic nerve and can lead to severe vision loss and blindness. Low vision
           (LV) is a decrease in vision that cannot be corrected with standard glasses, contact
           lenses, medication or surgery, impairing a person's ability to perform age-appropriate
           vision-dependent tasks.

        2. Low vision rehabilitation. Low Vision Rehabilitation (LVR) is part of the continuum of
           eye care that extends from diagnosis to treatment and rehabilitation, designed to help
           visually impaired patients retain vision to the maximum, make activities easier to
           perform, regain independence, and improve their QOL. LVR services include comprehensive
           assessment of visual function, prescription of LVAs, rehabilitation training and
           referrals to a range of community services and psychosocial support.

        3. Research status of intelligent head-mounted devices. In recent years, video head-mounted
           devices have been gradually applied in the field of VR, with the advantages of high
           definition, diverse processing modes, adjustable magnification, contrast and brightness,
           which overcome the limitations of traditional devices, like eSight 3, NuEyes, and
           IrisVision. However, studies on the effectiveness of head-mounted electronic LVAs are
           quite limited.

        4. OXSIGHT smart glasses. OXSIGHT smart glasses, the latest generation of head-mounted
           electronic LVAs, developed by the team of Oxford University in the UK, are designed for
           LV patients with visual field defects. Based on the previous generation, OXSIGHT has the
           advantages of lighter weight, comfortable wearing, better imaging quality, multi-mode
           assisted visual recognition and so on. However, the efficacy and influencing factors of
           OXSIGHT smart glasses on advanced glaucoma patients remain unclear, and further studies
           are needed.
    
  