
    
      Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), have unique and complex care needs associated
      with renal disease and common comorbidities (e.g., diabetes, hypertension), and under the
      current care model, receive fragmented care from multiple providers at multiple locations.
      ESRD patients typically spend three to five hours undergoing dialysis three days a week.
      Scheduling and traveling to other appointments are difficult to manage, increase patient and
      caregiver burden, and reduce patients' quality of life. These challenges keep many ESRD
      patients from receiving care for other conditions outside of the dialysis setting, resulting
      in higher rates of complications, and emergent healthcare use.

      The patient-centered medical home (PCMH) model has been proposed as a solution to patients
      with complex needs such as those with ESRD. The purpose of this project is to compare a PCMH
      model of care with the usual care of ESRD patients and their caregivers. We propose to
      enhance the usual care team for ESRD patients by providing a primary care doctor in the
      context of regularly scheduled dialysis sessions and by adding community health workers to
      help support patients and their caregivers. Patient and family stakeholders and care team
      members will assist in the design and refinement of the PCMH model.

      We plan to implement this model at the University of Illinois Hospital and Health Sciences
      System (UIHS) dialysis center and a local Fresenius Medical Care dialysis center. Patients
      receiving dialysis at participating centers will receive an initial comprehensive care visit
      followed by ongoing care from a multispecialty provider team during the patients' regularly
      scheduled dialysis visits. Each patient's care team will include a kidney doctor, a primary
      care doctor, a nurse coordinator, a dialysis nurse, a dietician, a pharmacist, a social
      worker, and a community health worker. The primary care doctor will be available in the
      dialysis clinic to provide general and preventive care to the patient before or after
      dialysis sessions. This doctor would also coordinate care with other specialists/clinicians
      on the patient's care team. The trained, bilingual (English/Spanish) community health worker
      will assist with making and rescheduling appointments, obtaining transportation, and
      reinforcing education components.

      We expect that this approach will increase patient access to care for other conditions and
      will increase care coordination and communication among members of the patient's care team.
      These improvements could potentially increase the likelihood of preventing complications or
      identifying problems earlier and allow for a more successful treatment. We expect that this
      enhanced care team will reduce emergency room visits and hospitalizations for dialysis
      patients. In addition, we anticipate that the addition of community health workers to the
      clinical team will help support and educate patients and their caregivers and as a result,
      patient quality of life will improve and caregiver burden may be reduced.
    
  