
    
      -  This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are
           examining this study intervention locally; although this intervention has been studied
           nationally in published clinical trials.

        -  In this research study, the investigators are studying the accuracy of the sentinel
           lymph node biopsy procedure in breast cancer patients who have cancer cells in the lymph
           nodes in the armpit (axilla) who have received chemotherapy or endocrine therapy prior
           to having surgery (neoadjuvant therapy).

        -  A sentinel lymph node biopsy is a surgical evaluation of the lymph nodes in the underarm
           area in patients who have early breast cancer. Approximately, two-five nodes are removed
           from the underarm area for evaluation. The sentinel lymph node biopsy is performed in
           patients with breast cancer to determine if there are cancer cells in the lymph nodes in
           the armpit.

        -  The sentinel lymph node biopsy procedure is performed by injecting one or two dyes into
           the breast, which then travel to the armpit region via small vessels in the immune
           system. These nodes are called the sentinel lymph nodes. They represent the first nodes
           that drain the breast tissue. They are closely evaluated by a Pathologist to determine
           if cancer cells are present.

        -  This information allows physicians to know how far the cancer may have spread and
           recommend therapies accordingly.

        -  If sentinel lymph node biopsy is determined to be accurate in patients who are known to
           already have cancer cells in the axillary lymph nodes who receive neoadjuvant therapy,
           then in the future, many of the patients in this population may be spared the procedure
           of a full axillary lymph node dissection, which removes a larger number of lymph nodes
           and thus has increased risks and side-effects.
    
  