
    
      Food & You is one of the first large-scale citizen science research project in Switzerland.
      This project is building on the results of Zeevi et al. study, which demonstrated in 2015 for
      the first time with a cohort of 800 participants that there is a high interpersonal
      variability in postprandial (postmeal) glycemic responses (PPGR). In a second stage, the
      group developed an algorithm that predicts PPGR and gives personalized diet recommendation to
      better control the blood sugar level. These results have only been shown once, if they turn
      out to be correct, it will have a very strong impact on the field of nutrition. Other studies
      have since then also shown the variability in glucose response, leading to the concept of
      individual "glucotypes". The most important particularity of Food & You is that it will be a
      citizen science project. Citizen science is a method that involves volunteers in scientific
      research activities. It increases scientific knowledge, raises people's awareness of
      scientific questions, and allows scientists to share enthusiasm and expertise. Furthermore,
      to enable any citizen to take part, the study will be entirely coordinated digitally. It
      means that unlike conventional studies, no face-to-face interviews or medical appointments
      will be organized. All instructions will be given by a website and emails / text messages
      sent to the participants. The study material will be sent by post and the data will be
      collected via the website and the MyFoodRepo app. The participants will have to track during
      14 days:

        -  Their dietary intake with the myFoodRepo app.

        -  Their physical activity and sleep with a smartphone app or an activity tracker.

        -  Their glucose level wearing the FreeStyle Libre Sensor.

        -  Collect a stool sample. The microbiome composition will be analyzed by sequencing the
           16s rDNA extracted from the stool sample.

        -  Answer anthropometric, demographic, and health online questionnaires.

      With the Food & You project, the research team will build a new algorithm that will predict
      PPGR with input that is readily available through such a "digital cohort" (i.e. low-burden on
      user, and affordable) in order to test whether this can scale to tens or hundreds of
      thousands of people. The results of this project may have substantial consequences in dietary
      guidelines, personalized diet and on health conditions related to dietary intake.
    
  