
    
      We propose to identify the genetic basis of Veterans developing either of two major
      psychiatric (or "mental health") diseases: schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The study will
      also examine the genetic basis of disability in everyday functions (such as employment,
      independent living, and self care) among the same patients. By "genetic basis," we mean how a
      person's genes might be a risk for developing these illnesses or being affected by them. We
      will compare information gathered from Veterans with these illnesses to "psychiatrically
      healthy" Veterans. Participants will be recruited from multiple Veterans Health
      Administration medical centers; the analysis of blood samples will be done in designated and
      approved laboratories.

      Both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are chronic psychiatric diseases associated with
      considerable lifelong disability; in particular, these illnesses are common in Veterans
      served by the Veterans Health Administration. Both of these conditions are also known to be
      caused in part by genes or so-called heredity; studies of the entire set of human genes
      (referred to as the genome) can be a tool to identify specific reasons why certain people
      develop certain conditions. In addition, patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder
      often have difficulty functioning in the real-world-including problems in attention and
      memory, or the ability to perform tasks of everyday living or have normal emotional
      experiences-and these "functional impairments" may also be inherited genetically. The current
      study is designed to help identify who is at higher risk for these diseases and related
      problems, so that better methods to diagnose and treat the conditions can be developed in the
      future.

      Among other aspects of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, suicide stands out as a very
      important issue to Veterans, their families, and the Veterans Health Administration. Suicide
      attempts and completed suicides are more common in Veterans with schizophrenia and bipolar
      illness (compared to Veterans without these illnesses), and this tendency may be inherited as
      well. Part of this study will involve determining whether specific genes might be associated
      with suicidal behavior. Similarly, the study will look at the genetic basis of side effects
      related to taking medications for these diseases.

      For this research, participants will be recruited from VA sites that have extensive
      experience in conducting projects involving psychiatric disorders. We will collect
      information about the genes of these Veterans from a blood sample, and we will ask questions
      about health and related factors. We will also establish a repository which allows for future
      genomic studies related to SZ, BP, and related disorders or sequelae. The total study
      duration is indefinite in the setting of creating a SZ and BP repository, although the
      required time period for addressing the primary aims is 3.5 years. Data for a comparison
      ("reference") group of Veterans with medical, but not psychiatric, illnesses, will be
      obtained from a research initiative entitled the "VA Million Veteran Program" (VA-MVP).

      Ultimately, this study attempts to advance the state-of-the-art regarding our understanding
      and treatment for two common mental health disorders affecting Veterans and will also serve
      as part of a major initiative to support "personalized" healthcare. It represents a major
      effort to link specific genes to illnesses, and eventually to treatments intended to relieve
      suffering.
    
  