
    
      This study is an observational study and participants will receive the standard of care
      according to local MDT guidelines for the treatment and surveillance of bladder cancer. As
      the study involves collection of a urine sample, subjects are permitted to be entered into
      other trials. The DETECT II study will recruit patients with newly diagnosed and recurrent
      bladder cancer. As this study is only observational and no intervention is trial related the
      patients will be given minimum 24 hours to consider this study and decide to take part as
      they will be approached in clinic at first instance. Due to the initial urine sample being
      required before any standard of care is received they will be consented within 24 hours of
      being informed of the study. Most newly diagnosed bladder cancers are detected in patients
      being investigated for haematuria and attending a haematuria clinic. Most recurrent bladder
      cancers are detected by cystoscopy at bladder cancer check cystoscopy clinics.

      Patients with a visual diagnosis or new or recurrent bladder cancer will be eligible for the
      DETECT II study. The baseline UroMark urine collection will be collected once the visual
      diagnosis of bladder cancer is established. The UroMark sample must be provided before TURBT
      in all cases.

      Patients will be approached following cystoscopy and asked to consent to study entry. The
      DETECT II study will involve obtaining a voided urine sample. Patients will be given a
      UroMark urine sample kit and asked to provide the urine sample at home and post the sample to
      the receiving lab using the stamped addressed envelope.

      Patients will receive the standard tests and investigations for bladder cancer. The standard
      treatment for bladder cancer is summarised as:

        -  TURBT following which it is recommended that patients with NMIBC receive a single
           instillation of chemotherapy unless contraindicated.

        -  Intermediate risk NMIBC will be considered for a 6 week inductive course of intravesical
           chemotherapy after TURBT.

        -  High risk NMIBC may require a second TURBT called re-resection TURBT, usually within 6
           weeks of the first. The re--resection or second TURBT is performed for pathological
           stage pT1 tumours to exclude residual detrusor muscle invasion (stage pT2 at least).
           There are 2 treatment choices when the high risk status has been confirmed clinically:

        -  A course of inductive followed by maintenance intravesical BCG

        -  An operation to remove the bladder (a cystectomy).

        -  Cystectomy or radiotherapy are the options for patients diagnosed with MIBC
    
  