
    
      Background: Breast Cancer (BC) ranks as the most frequent and lethal cancer among women, in
      Portugal. However, advances in cancer detection and treatment contributed to a steady and
      significant increase in survival over the past years, and 5-year age-standardized relative
      survival is currently estimated to be 83,4%. This increase translates into a high and growing
      number of BC survivors, with a considerable proportion of these patients experiencing
      sequelae of treatment and late effects that can occur immediately to several years after
      primary treatment ends. Anxiety, depression, fear of recurrence, existential related issues,
      fatigue, pain, physical and cognitive impairment, tailored information needs, and sexual
      dysfunction have been reported as the most common unmet support care needs experienced by
      these women. The answer to these unmet support care needs relies, in part, on delivering
      comprehensive, highly coordinated, patient-centred care. However, operationalizing such care
      may prove difficult in a context of competing priorities and constrained health and social
      care budgets. In this context, connected health, particularly internet-delivered
      interventions, can provide remarkable opportunities in overcoming the aforementioned
      constraints, as presenting an effective and innovative healthcare delivery model capable of
      improving care coordination and providing access to efficacious, cost-efficient and
      convenient survivorship care. Nevertheless, research focusing on this field and aiming at
      improving survivors´ psychosocial needs is scarce and its practical implementation is
      limited.

      Objectives: The objectives of this investigation are: studying BC patients´ and healthcare
      providers' attitudes towards internet-delivered interventions; exploring breast cancer
      patients´ unmet support care needs and; determining the acceptability, feasibility,
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of iACT-BC, a guided internet-delivered
      individually-tailored Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)-influenced cognitive
      behavioural intervention designed to improve psychosocial outcomes in BC survivors when
      compared to treatment as usual (TAU) in a waiting list control group (WLC). The primary
      outcomes in this research are anxiety and depression. Secondary outcomes include
      psychological flexibility, fatigue, insomnia, sexual dysfunction and Health Related Quality
      of Life (HRQoL).

      Hypotheses: We hypothesize that participants in the intervention group will have improved
      anxiety, depression, psychological flexibility, fatigue, insomnia, sexual dysfunction and
      HRQoL, when compared to a WLC.

      Methods: A multimethod research design will be applied and two consecutive studies will be
      performed: Study 1 - Population characterization study and Study 2 - Efficacy and
      cost-effectiveness study. Study 1 will explore participants´ attitudes towards
      internet-delivered interventions as well as, BC patients' psychosocial unmet support needs by
      adopting an exploratory cross-sectional study design. Study 2 will investigate the
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of iACT-BC in BC survivors, by implementing a two-arm,
      parallel, open label, multicentre, pragmatic, waiting list randomized controlled trial. A
      Pilot study, mirroring the conditions applied in Study 2 should be performed in order to
      evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of iACT-BC. Results from this Pilot study should
      be appraised and inform execution of Study 2

      Ethical approval: This study will soon be submitted to evaluation by CNPD and local ethic
      committees. Authorization to run the study is expected to be received until January 2018.

      Expected Results: It is anticipated that iACT-BC will show to be an effective and
      cost-effective program in improving psychosocial outcomes such as anxiety, depression,
      psychological flexibility, fatigue, insomnia, sexual dysfunction and HRQoL in BC survivors,
      as opposing to a WLC under TAU. The results of this research will be published in accordance
      with CONSORT 2010 and CONSORT-EHEALTH guidelines and should be available for publication in
      February 2020.

      Keywords: Breast Cancer; Survivors; Internet intervention; Psychosocial intervention;
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT); Randomized controlled trial protocol.
    
  