
    
      This is a randomized, open-label study that will treat adult subjects with Plasmodium vivax
      infection with chloroquine for 3 days and tinidazole for 5 days concomitantly to assess
      efficacy for radical cure (clearance of blood and liver stages of infection). There will be
      randomization to a positive comparator arm treated with chloroquine and primaquine
      (definitive radical cure) in order to obtain an estimate of the rate of re-infection during
      the monitoring period in the study population.

      A simple randomization procedure will assign subjects to one of the two arms (treatment arm
      or comparator arm). The ratio of assignment will be 2:1, treatment arm to the comparator arm.
      The exact number assigned to the treatment arm will vary depending on the initial outcome of
      early enrollees per the sequential analysis design of the trial. In the worse case scenario
      of no clear trend developing early, no more than 50 subjects will be required to complete the
      trial in the study drug arm in order to arrive at a conclusion regarding the study drug.

      Follow-up period will be for 90 days. This will allow us to capture essentially all early
      relapses that would occur under normal circumstances, as well as assess if tinidazole may
      delay but not fully eliminate recurrence. Subjects without a recurrence at 90 days will be
      considered to have achieved radical cure.

      This study will use a modified triangular test, a form of sequential analysis designed to
      enable repeated statistical analyses throughout the study recruitment period, while
      maintaining a pre-specified power and type I error. The trial can be stopped as soon as the
      information accumulated is considered sufficient to reach a conclusion and it will limit
      enrollment and exposure to a failing treatment regimen.

      Results of this study will be sufficient to determine whether tinidazole should be designated
      as an "early kill" (an ineffective drug for vivax malaria radical cure with no future
      evaluation) or whether it is sufficiently efficacious to warrant further investment with an
      IND and formal phase II study to seek an SNDA.
    
  