
    
      Design: Randomized controlled pilot trial, two parallel groups, blinded outcome assessment.

      Participants: Patients discharged from any of the six Hamilton, Kitchener-Waterloo, Brantford
      or St. Catharines acute care hospitals with a discharge prescription for an oral
      anticoagulant intended to be taken for at least 4 weeks will be eligible for recruitment.
      Patients will be excluded if they are less than 18 years of age, expected lifespan is less
      than 3 months, are discharged to long-term care or institution, do not speak English, or if
      they are to be followed post-discharge by the Thromboembolism service.

      Intervention: Intervention patients will receive:

        1. Expert, detailed discharge medication management, a process mandated by Accreditation
           Canada but with incomplete and variable uptake, which reviews hospital-administered
           medications compared to pre-admission medications in light of old and new diagnoses,
           personal characteristics and risk factors, previous medications and revises to optimize
           benefit and minimize harm. The medication management will also focus on anticoagulant
           choice, dosage, indication, duration, potential drug interactions, patient risk factors
           for thromboembolism versus bleeding, access to medications, adherence challenges and
           health literacy.

        2. Hand-overs to the patient's care team including the patient, their main caregiver,
           hospital MRP team, family physician, community specialist(s), community pharmacist, and
           home care, using an Oral Anticoagulant Monitoring Checklist. These are based on: a) Best
           evidence (international guidelines led by experts including the applicants, Thrombosis
           Canada guidelines, and decision aids for patients and their family to assist in
           anticoagulant knowledge, decisional conflict, adherence), b) Best practices regarding
           discharge medication management, coordination of care with clear accountability,
           follow-up virtual visits with teletriage where situations require medical intervention,
           with expert Thrombosis and Clinical Pharmacology specialist physician back-up, c)
           Virtual visit phone calls placed by the research pharmacist post-discharge within 24
           hours (ensure OAC Rx obtained and understood, OAC Monitoring Checklist, solicit
           concerns), 1 week and 1 month (ensure OAC compliance, OAC Monitoring Checklist, solicit
           concerns). After each call, OAC Monitoring Checklist results sent to all caregivers and
           any clinical events or serious concerns will be directed to MRP or designate via phone
           call. Expert Thrombosis and Clinical Pharmacology specialists will be available as
           needed.
    
  