
    
      Dilated cardiomyopathy of unknown cause (DCM) is a major public health problem affecting more
      than a million people in the U.S. Most DCM is now known to have an underlying genetic basis.
      First-degree relatives (FDRs) of an individual with DCM are considered to be genetically at
      risk, particularly if they carry variants classified as pathogenic (P), likely pathogenic
      (LP) or uncertain significance (VUS) in DCM genes. Practice guidelines recommend that these
      FDRs undergo serial imaging because prompt intervention may avert advanced disease. While
      tissue damage is already well underway when DCM is manifest, myocardial tissue changes,
      termed "pre-DCM" herein, are known to precede adverse changes in myocardial structure and
      function. The investigators central hypothesis states that cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR)
      imaging may detect pre-DCM in individuals with increased genetic risk by identifying
      myocardial tissue changes prior to myocardial structural and functional changes. CMR measures
      of myocardial tissue characteristics, including late gadolinium enhancement and myocardial T1
      mapping, have been histopathologically validated and have established diagnostic and
      prognostic value in DCM. Thus, the investigators specific hypotheses state that adverse
      CMR-based myocardial tissue characteristics will be associated with (1) A higher burden
      (number) of relevant variants (P, LP, VUS) in established DCM genes; and (2) Subsequent
      adverse changes in measures of cardiac structure and function. The investigators propose to
      leverage the DCM Precision Medicine Study, a multisite DCM Consortium study now with 1230 DCM
      patients (probands), balanced for race and sex, and their FDRs, most with no history of DCM.
      FDRs are cascade tested for relevant variants (P, LP, VUS) in DCM genes identified in
      probands. The investigators aim to (1) Estimate the associations between CMR-based myocardial
      tissue characteristics and the number (burden) of the proband's variants in DCM genes in
      at-risk FDRs. In 650 FDRs of probands with LP/P variants and/or VUSs, CMR scans will be
      completed at 9 participating DCM Consortium sites. The association between CMR-based
      myocardial tissue characteristics and the number of the proband's variants of each class
      (LP/P, VUS) carried by an at-risk FDR in a particular age group will be evaluated, adjusting
      for biologically relevant covariates. The investigators will also (2) Estimate the
      association between CMR-based myocardial tissue characteristics and subsequent changes in
      measures of cardiac structure and function in FDRs with normal baseline left-ventricular size
      and function. FDRs examined in Aim 1 will receive a second CMR exam 2.5 years after their
      baseline exam. The investigators will estimate the covariate-adjusted associations between
      baseline myocardial tissue characteristics and subsequent changes in CMR-derived measures of
      cardiac structure and function in groups defined by the most deleterious of the proband's
      variants carried (none, VUS, or LP/P). This study will validate a CMR-derived "pre-DCM"
      phenotype for FDRs who carry P or LP variants (established risk), and also provide
      preliminary evidence that some VUSs are biologically relevant.
    
  