
    
      Assessment of the LII scores, TSALD, Bolton analysis has been performed by the majority of
      previous studies using plaster models and calipers in a direct manner. Others have measured
      previous variables indirectly using 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional (3D) methods. 2D methods
      have included 2D scans of plaster models or 2D images of the occlusal views. The obtained
      images have been then analyzed either manually or on-screen using dedicated software. 3D
      methods have included digital models and have been used by several researchers. Although the
      wealth of knowledge 3D methods provide, they require the use of 3D imaging techniques with
      the resultant additional costs, time and labor.

      Many studies have used 2D digital images of poured plaster models to perform software-based
      measurements of tooth movement during active treatment but these studies have not reported
      the accuracy and reproducibility of their methods. Dental impressions have been required to
      obtain proper study models. This procedure is a time- and labor-consuming for the
      orthodontist and could be exhausting to the patient. When braces are fitted, impression
      taking becomes a difficult task and if several impressions are required in the context of a
      research project, this would impose additional burden to patients and researchers. Therefore,
      taking intra-oral images of dental arches instead of impressions seems to be a very
      convenient alternative.

      Validity and reliability of measurements made on photographs of study models have been
      evaluated in previous reports. However, it seems to be that there is only one paper in the
      literature with the aim of validating the use of intra-oral images of the dental arches for
      performing dental measurement. They found that the analysis of LII was valid. However, the
      practicability of their suggested method of imaging was questionable and their evaluation was
      only confined to the LII, which is not the only variable that is used in our ordinary plaster
      model analysis.

      Therefore, the primary aim of the current work were to evaluate the validity and reliability
      of measurements made directly on intraoral photographs compared to those made on poured
      plaster models in the assessment of the LII, TSALD, and Bolton ratios. As a secondary aim,
      the comparisons were also accomplished with those measurements made on photographs taken of
      the corresponding poured plaster models .
    
  