
    
      The objective of this investigation is to investigate the effect of television shows with
      commercials perceived as advertising healthy foods and television shows with commercials
      perceived as advertising unhealthy foods on the intake of either perceived healthy snack
      foods or perceived unhealthy snack foods in normal weight, dietary restrained females.

      Forty-eight women will participate in this study and will be randomized to one of six
      conditions where they will be exposed to a 30-minute television show (Saturday Night Live)
      during which they will be given two different pre-measured snack foods to eat. The television
      show will have eight commercials imbedded within it. Of the eight commercials, five
      commercials will represent the study condition (five advertising healthy food, five
      advertising unhealthy food, or five non-food related commercials). The three additional
      commercials will advertise neutral products (banks) and will remain the same in each
      condition. Snack foods being used in this investigation are red grapes and baby carrots for
      the perceived healthy snack foods; and chocolate chip cookies and potato chips for the
      perceived unhealthy snack foods. The television commercials representing the unhealthy
      category include commercials advertising M&M's candies, Oreo cookies, Cheez-it crackers, 3
      Musketeers chocolate bars, and Doritos chips. The television commercials representing the
      healthy category include commercials advertising Fiber One bars, Honey Bunches of Oats
      cereal, Nature's Path granola, Nestle fruit yogurt, and Musselman's apple sauce. The non-food
      related television commercials include commercials advertising All-State car insurance, Geico
      car insurance, State Farm car insurance, Travelers car insurance, and Liberty Mutual car
      insurance. The three neutral non-food related commercials that will remain the same in each
      condition are commercials advertising Fifth Third bank, Ally bank, and Capital One bank.

      The specific aims and hypotheses are:

        1. Women exposed to a television show with commercials imbedded advertising food will
           consume more food than women exposed to a television show with non-food related
           commercials.

        2. Women will consume more food when exposed to a television show with commercials
           advertising "unhealthy" food as compared to a television show with commercials
           advertising "healthy" food.

        3. Women will consume the most food when exposed to a television show with "unhealthy" food
           commercials and have "unhealthy" snack foods available to consume.
    
  