
    
      The study will be divided into two phases, each with different variables to evaluate, as
      described below:

      The primary objective of the first phase (proof-of-concept) will be to evaluate the effect of
      pyridostigmine on the serum level of interleukin (IL)-6 as an indicator of severe
      inflammation, as well as its kinetics throughout the days that the patient is hospitalized.

      In the first phase, we will evaluate the safety and feasibility of the study in a
      representative sample and we will explore in a preliminary way the magnitude of the effect of
      the intervention. Safety will be evaluated according to the adverse effects reported in
      patients with acute intoxication (accidental or in suicide attempt) with pyridostigmine:

        1. Abdominal pain/cramps

        2. Diarrhea

        3. Vomiting, nausea, or both

        4. Hypersalivation

        5. Urinary incontinence

        6. Fasciculations or muscle weakness

        7. Blurred vision

      In the second phase (to be carried out only if the results of the first phase justify it),
      the primary outcome to be evaluated is mortality, the requirement of invasive or non-invasive
      mechanical ventilation, or an increase in the SOFA scale ≥2 points.

      The following secondary outcomes were evaluated: changes in the total SOFA score between
      study entry and evaluation at 3, 7, and 14 days; the number of days of hospital stay, days of
      hospitalization in the intensive care unit, and the need (and if applicable, the number of
      days required) for invasive or non-invasive mechanical ventilation.

      The variables to measure are sex, age at hospitalization, date of COVID-19 diagnosis, date
      and SOFA scale measurement, date of hospitalization, date of transfer to the intensive care
      unit, date of initiation of mechanical ventilation. , date and reason for leaving the
      intensive care unit.
    
  