
    
      Renal transplant recipients using Prograf® as part of their immunosuppressive regimen will be
      included in the study. Patients will receive oral and written study information and sign the
      informed consent before entering the study. A 12-hour pharmacokinetic investigation will be
      performed when Tac doses have been stable for at least 7 days (approximately 3-4 weeks
      posttransplant). They will continue on unchanged doses of tacrolimus as before PK
      investigation 1 (PK1). After at least another 7 days a second 12h PK-investigation (PK2) will
      be performed. If Tac doses needs to be changed after PK1 and before PK2 the second PK will
      not be performed.

      Tac doses and blood concentration obtained as part of standard follow-up of the patients will
      be included in a non-parametric population model to obtain individually optimal sampling
      times for each patient using the MMopt function in Pmetrics®. During both PK1 and PK2 the
      patients themselves will be instructed to take two "home sampling" micro samples (Mitra®
      microsampling device) just prior to the standard vacutainer samples are obtained. Both the
      micro- and vacutainer samples will be drawn in 2 parallel samples right after each other and
      one will be mailed to the laboratory via standard mail. During PK1 the sampling times will be
      the same and standardized for all patients; before (0h) and 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5,
      3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 hours after dose administration. During PK2 individually optimized
      sampling times based on 2, 3 and 4 samples will be determined using the MMopt function in
      Pmetrics and utilizing all individual dose and concentration information from before PK2,
      including the rich sampling during PK1. Spread over the entire study period, at least 6 real
      life home samplings for trough (C0) of Tac will also be performed by the patient and mailed
      to the hospital.

      Tacrolimus induced tremor will be measured with a center-developed method utilizing infrared
      determined positioning (sampling ever 5 ms) of hand joints in the x-, y, z axis.
    
  