
    
      Children with recurrent abdominal pain (RAP) who meet the criteria for irritable bowel
      syndrome (IBS) will be recruited and studied. They will have been diagnosed by a pediatric
      gastroenterologist and will have had at least one healthcare visits in the past year for the
      complaint of abdominal pain.

      Coordinators will come out to the family's home on an evening that is convenient. Both the
      parent and child will fill out some questionnaires. Next, the parent and child will get
      instructions on how to fill out a diary to record any stomach pain the child is having and
      what their stools look like. The child will also collect a stool sample during the regular
      diet and diary collection period. Once the child has completed the diary, the child will go
      on a special diet for eight days to remove foods that may cause stomach pain (foods and
      drinks containing lactose, fructose, and sorbitol will be eliminated).

      Two weeks later, the coordinators will come out to the family's home again to review the pain
      and stool diary that the child kept while on the special diet. The coordinators will explain
      how to collect some samples of urine, stool, and breath. These tests will evaluate the
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract for inflammation and transit time. If the special diet does not
      make the stomach pain go away, the child will be selected at random, like the flip of a coin,
      to be placed in one of two groups: one group that receives fiber or one group that receives a
      placebo or sugar pill. Fiber has been suggested to help children with stomach pain.

      After the child has been on the treatment for 6 weeks, he/she will keep another diary and
      collect another set of samples of urine, stool, and breath.

      The children will be followed at 3 months, 6 months and 18 months after the treatment period.

      Children will be asked to collect additional stools
    
  