
    
      The purpose of this research study is to characterize the types of sensations that can be
      produced by stimulating the spinal nerves in upper-limb amputees, as well as the effects of
      that stimulation on phantom limb pain. The study involves a medical procedure to temporarily
      place one to three stimulation electrodes in the space near the spinal cord. This medical
      procedure will be performed under local anesthesia, and will take approximately one to two
      hours. Afterwards, the electrodes will be connected to an external stimulator and a series of
      experiments will be performed to characterize the types of sensations generated by electrical
      stimulation of the spinal cord and spinal nerves, as well as to measure the effect of
      stimulation on phantom limb sensations and phantom limb pain. Over the course of less than 30
      days, there will be up to 20 of these experimental sessions. At the end of the final
      experimental session, the stimulation electrodes will be removed by gently pulling on them.

      The investigators are inviting participants to consider participating in this research
      because they have an upper-limb amputation. Participants must be between the ages of 18 and
      70 and at least one year post-amputation. Participants must be willing to travel to the
      University of Pittsburgh at least twice per week for 30 days.

      Participants cannot have any serious diseases or disorders that affect your ability to
      participate in this study. Women who are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during the study
      cannot be included. The investigators will ask females of child-bearing potential to undergo
      a urine pregnancy test prior to any procedures (such as MRI, x-ray, fluoroscopy) that may
      disrupt the healthy development of an unborn child. If participants are currently taking any
      medications that thin their blood, participants will not be eligible for this study.
      Participants will have to meet other criteria to be eligible, which will be reviewed with
      participants upon their consent. The investigators will screen 15 people and expect that up
      to 10 individuals will complete this study.
    
  