
    
      1. Purpose

           The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of belly breathing
           using a smartphone-based biofeedback application to reduce procedural anxiety and pain
           in children having their blood drawn in the blood collection lab at BC Children's
           Hospital. This phase of the study will focus on evaluating 1) the efficacy of the
           application in children ages 5-17 for reducing self--reported pain and anxiety during
           blood collection and 2) the ability of the application to increase belly breathing
           compliance and engagement compared to traditional teaching methods.

        2. Objectives

           The proposed project aims to answer the following questions:

             1. Will the smartphone-based biofeedback game for belly breathing reduce self-reported
                procedural anxiety and pain in children during a blood collection procedure
                compared to a) standard of care b) belly breathing + standard care procedures or c)
                belly breathing with visual components of the application with no coaching or
                biofeedback distraction?

             2. Will the smartphone-based biofeedback game increase compliance with belly breathing
                compared to self-directed belly breathing?

             3. Will belly breathing with the smartphone-based biofeedback game be more engaging
                compared to self-directed belly breathing?

        3. Justification

           Belly breathing, a type of deep diaphragmatic breathing that typically produces a
           relaxed state, is a popular behavioural intervention used to reduce anxiety in children
           undergoing medical procedures. Studies have shown that decreased anxiety is not only
           associated with decreased distress but also with decreased pain and less negative
           attitudes towards future medical procedures. Biofeedback is a tool that is used to teach
           children about the connection between mind and body. Very little research currently
           exists on using biofeedback applications to teach relaxation to children in a clinical
           setting; however, some evidence suggests that it could be effective. This study will
           examine the efficacy of using such a tool to teach belly breathing to children in order
           to reduce procedural anxiety and pain.

        4. Research Methods

           To explore the above hypotheses, the study design will employ a randomized control trial
           design. Expected and experienced self-report anxiety and pain scores in children
           assigned to the belly breathing biofeedback group will be compared to control group
           scores. The experimental group will be taught to belly breathe using the biofeedback
           game application and will be instructed to use it during the blood collection procedure.
           Control Group 1 will receive standard of care. Control Group 2 will receive belly
           breathing training without the application and be instructed to continue with
           self-directed belly breathing during the procedure. Control Group 3 will be taught belly
           breathing without the application plus receive distraction of watching the cartoon
           avatar in the hot air balloon rising through space; however, the avatar will not 'coach'
           the child as the visual cues for breathing (words and bubbles) will not be present and
           the avatar will not rise in response to correct belly breathing. Belly breathing
           compliance will be measured using extracted respiratory rates from collected PPG data.

           Two trained volunteers will recruit participants in the waiting room of the main blood
           collection in BC Children's Hospital. They will approach parents and children and invite
           them to participate in the study. If the parents and child are interested, they will be
           given consent and assent forms that they can read return to the volunteers at any time
           before the procedure should they decide to participate.

        5. Data Analysis

      Pain Scores: An analysis of covariance will be used to determine whether experimental
      subjects report significantly less pain during blood collection than the control patients. To
      determine whether belly breathing with the application will alter the expectation of pain,
      the sample will be divided into high and low expectations of pain using a median split on
      pain scores. A 2x3 repeated measures analysis of variance will be carried out comparing high
      and low expectations groups at Time 1, 2, and 3. Paired t-tests will be carried out on the
      high and low expectation groups within the experimental and control conditions to determine
      whether there will be any change in expected pain from Time 1 to Time 2.

      In order for a clinically significant difference of 2 out 10 in pain score to be detected
      (alpha=0.05, power 80%) 70 children will be needed per group. In order to allow for
      non-compliance and post-study exclusions of children with cardiovascular/respiratory
      conditions or the use of topical anaesthetics, the investigators will need to recruit
      approximately 300 children.

      Anxiety scores: Changes over time in the four groups will be analyzed by time x group
      interaction in a repeated analysis of variance. Paired T-Tests will be carried out on each of
      the four groups to determine whether there is any change in anxiety from Time 1 to Time 2.

      A Pearson correlation will be used to investigate the relationship between anxiety scores and
      pain scores in each of the four groups.

      Belly Breathing Compliance: Photoplethysmograph (PPG) data collected during blood collection
      from the experimental group and Control Groups 2 and 3 will be analyzed using a standard peak
      detection method. Independent Sample T-tests will be carried out on the amplitude of the RSA.
      Level of significance will be set at p=0.05.

      Engagement Scores: The responses to each question on the Study Completion Questionnaires from
      the Experimental Group and Control Groups 2 and 3 will be analyzed separately using
      Independent Sample T-Test. Level of significance will be set at p=0.05. The Bonferroni
      Correction will be used to adjust for multiple measures.
    
  