
    
      Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have a significantly increased cardiovascular
      mortality rate compared to the general population.

      According to the USRDS (United States Renal Data System), in 2017 the prevalence of
      cardiovascular disease in the United States was 65.8% in patients with chronic kidney disease
      (CKD), compared to 31.9% of the subjects with stable renal function
      (https://www.usrds.org/2017/view/v1_04.aspx).

      In the natural history of nephropathy, besides the traditional cardiovascular risk factors,
      an increasingly important role is played by the nontraditional factors related to uremia and
      dialysis treatment, namely anemia, hyperhomocysteinemia, malnutrition, hyperparathyroidism,
      electrolyte imbalance, and above all chronic inflammatory state and oxidative stress. The
      main components of dialysis-related inflammatory response include neutrophil and monocyte
      activation, cytokine release, oxidative stress with production of free radicals, lipid and
      protein oxidation, and alterations in blood redox state.

      There is much evidence to indicate that ESRD patients, especially those on dialysis, are
      exposed to increased oxidative and carbonyl stress, that cause chemical modifications of
      proteins and accumulation of AGEs (advanced glycation end products).

      The formation of AGEs occurs through Maillard reaction, a non-enzymatic glycation of peptide
      amino groups, resulting in protein structural and functional alteration and production of
      reactive carbonyl species .

      Several studies have demonstrated a correlation between the levels of tissue AGEs and the
      development of various complications, since the accumulation of AGEs constitutes an index of
      hyperglycemia, oxidative stress and inflammation. The activation and up-regulation of the AGE
      receptors, including the main one RAGE (AGE Receptor), leads to the initiation of
      inflammatory cascades involved in the formation of atherosclerotic plaques and endothelial
      dysfunction, and lastly in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. AGEs are also related
      to the thickening of the intima-media tunica of the carotid arteries, considered a marker of
      arteriosclerosis, as clinically confirmed by the close relationship between coronary artery
      disease and atherosclerotic complications in diabetes and renal failure.

      Besides AGEs, a huge pattern of protein-bound toxins and of middle molecular weight uremic
      toxins are known to contribute to the uremic syndrome in terms of cardiovascular
      complications, inflammation and fibrosis . Concerning protein-bound uremic toxins, p-cresyl
      sulfate and indoxyl sulfate have received considerable attention recently. Among middle
      molecules, B2M, free light chains and FGF23 have been identified as markers of disease
      progression and mortality in CKD and hemodialysis.

      Furthermore, the activation of leukocytes, both in response to the exposure to dialysis
      membranes and as a consequence of the retrotransportation of substances that promote the
      expression of cytokines from the dialysate, increases the release of proinflammatory
      cytokines, such as IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6.

      The biocompatibility and flow properties of the different filters can influence the
      inflammatory and oxidative response to dialysis and the levels of oxidized molecules. In
      general, short-term dialysis with high-flow membranes has been shown to decrease plasma
      levels of oxidized low-density lipoproteins, regardless of the filter material.

      Nonetheless, the introduction of high-flux membranes, which increased clearance of middle
      molecules, appears to be inadequate to improve patient survival, as reported by two major
      randomized trials, the HEMO study [24] and the MPO study.

      The use of on-line HDF, that combines convective and diffusive solute removal, can
      counterbalance the rapid decrease of middle molecule diffusion obtained with high flux
      hemodialysis. The integration of diffusion with convection allows a more modest sieving
      coefficient decrease for middle molecular weight solutes. To date, evidence from four
      randomized controlled trials on HDF suggests, although not definitely, that HDF with
      convection volumes >20 L results in better patient outcomes .

      Moreover, a correlation of the membrane typology with inflammation and oxidative stress in
      the medium-long term was found in patients undergoing chronic dialysis treatment. A
      prospective study in a cohort of 50 patients who started hemodialysis with a high-flux
      polysulfone membrane (HF80 series, Fresenius Medical Care, St. Wendel, Germany) evaluated the
      variation of the inflammation and oxidative stress biomarkers. The results showed
      significantly increased circulating levels of IL-6, C-reactive protein (CRP) and higher
      carbonylation rate in dialysis patients compared to healthy controls in the first year of
      observation, and this trend was maintained in the following 12 months.

      Successive studies investigated the long-term effects on inflammation and oxidative stress of
      dialysis with Helixone (Fresenius Medical Care), another type of high-flux polysulfone
      membrane designed to maximize the clearance of uremic toxins of average molecular weight (>
      500 Daltons, Da) compared to conventional high-flux membranes. The introduction of changes as
      reduced hollow fiber wall thickness (≈35 μm), smaller inner diameter (≈185 μm) and higher
      average pore size (≈3.3 nm) has improved the clearance of medium molecular weight molecules,
      including β2-microglobulin (B2M), limiting the passage of larger molecules like albumin,
      without significant effects on inflammatory parameters .

      The features of synthetic membranes related their chemical composition and the asymmetric
      structure of the fibers make them preferable for new highly-convective therapies, such as
      high-volume hemodiafiltration (HDF), only partially allowed with cellulose.

      However, cellulose triacetate (CTA) and modified cellulose membranes remain the best option
      for the patients with hypersensitivity reactions to synthetic fibers. Although synthetic
      membranes, including those based on polysulfone, have a lower risk of hypersensitization than
      non-biocompatible ones (such as Cuprophane), in some cases adverse reactions have been
      reported, plausibly due to the contact between the dialyzer itself with plasma proteins and
      platelets.

      Moreover, the choice of polysulfone membranes has been proven to affect the intracellular and
      serum levels of bisphenol A (BPA, molecular weight 228.3 kDa), a ubiquitous environmental
      toxicant found in plastic food and beverage containers, as well as in some dialyzers, with
      several detrimental effects. BPA is considered an endocrine-disrupting chemical that acts
      mainly as a female hormone: it is associated with reproductive dysfunction, immune
      abnormality and increased incidence of cancer. Patients on hemodialysis are a high-risk
      population for BPA overload, because the normal urinary elimination of the conjugated
      molecule decreases with low renal function. For these reasons, BPA can be thought as a uremic
      toxin, similarly to p-cresol, and a particular attention should be given to BPA-containing
      medical devices, including dialysis membranes.

      Mas et al. compared BPA-free and BPA-containing dialyzers in 72 patients under on-line HDF,
      using a prospective 9-month, crossover study design. BPA-free dialyzers determined a greater
      long-term decrease in BPA levels compared to BPA-containing dialyzers, although at three
      months the difference was not significant. This may be due to the use of the on-line HDF
      technique that has been related to lower BPA levels than conventional hemodialysis.

      Recently, a new generation filter in asymmetric triacetate (ATA) has been introduced, born
      from a technology that combines the requirements of synthetic membranes for the possibility
      of being used with high-volume HDF and the advantages of natural fibers (cellulose) in terms
      of reduced allergic reactions.

      These novel ATA membranes have been demonstrated to achieve satisfactory Kt and convection
      volume, with good biocompatibility and inflammatory profiles, indicating them as a valuable
      option for patients allergic to synthetic membranes under HDF treatment.
    
  