
    
      Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death in Europe and is strongly related
      to a sedentary lifestyle combined with inadequate dietary habits and the prevalence of
      smoking. In parallel with this modern inactivity pandemic, the past 2 decades we have also
      witnessed an increase in the number of middle-aged and older individuals engaging in
      competitive sports and mass exercise events, such as marathon-running and cycling events.
      This increasing popularity of endurance sports implies that a greater proportion of
      individuals participating in high-intensity sport will have a higher cardiovascular risk
      profile. Coronary artery disease is by far the most common cause of sudden cardiac death in
      senior athletes, accounting for >75% of all cardiac deaths during exercise. Each case of
      sudden cardiac death is always a dramatic event and is often widely publicized in the media,
      thereby raising issues and questions regarding the safety of intense sports participation.
      Debate and uncertainty persist with much speculation filling the space left by an incomplete
      understanding of the exercise dose-response relationship. In view of the importance of
      exercise for healthy ageing, it is important to identify and eliminate any adverse
      associations with exercise so that everyone can enjoy the benefits of exercise. Until
      present, no studies have compared the 'standard of care,' which includes a healthy diet,
      abstinence from smoking, and regular moderate exercise, with and without the addition of
      larger doses of endurance exercise. Furthermore, it remains unknown whether the age of onset
      of endurance training influences its potential preventive and adverse effects.

      Until present, no studies have compared the 'standard of care,' which includes a healthy
      diet, abstinence from smoking, and regular moderate exercise, with and without the addition
      of long-term endurance exercise. In this multicentre project we will investigate the
      beneficial effects of long-term endurance exercise for the prevention of coronary and carotid
      artery disease and its potential adverse effects, such as an increased incidence of atrial
      fibrillation and myocardial fibrosis. We will recruit 3 age-matched cross-sectional cohorts:
      (1) lifelong endurance athletes engaged in regular endurance sports practice since the age of
      30 years, (2) late-onset endurance athletes who have initiated endurance sports activities
      after the age of 30 years and (3) non-athletic individuals. Only male subjects will be
      included given the much lower prevalence of ischemic heart disease amongst female athletes.
    
  