
    
      Background

      The incidence of sepsis has increased over the last four decades (1). Sepsis is a
      life-threatening condition that arises when the body's response to an infection injures its
      own tissues and organs. Severe sepsis and septic shock are among the leading causes of death
      for patients admitted to critical care units with mortality ranging from 20-70% depending on
      totality of organ dysfunction (2, 3). The literature is replete with initial promising phase
      2 therapies failing in definitive randomized trails (4-8). In fact, a recent systematic
      review concluded that no evidence exists for any pharmacologic intervention that has
      consistently reduced mortality in critically ill patients (9). This is both surprising and
      frustrating for the author. The most recent guidelines have tried to redefine sepsis as a
      'syndrome' since neither validated criterion nor do standard diagnostic tests exist (10). The
      authors argue that sepsis should be viewed as organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated or
      non-homeostatic host response. Most of the clinical manifestations of severe infections are
      caused by an intense, generalized inflammatory response in the host mediated by a multitude
      of interrelated cellular and humoral factors (3).

      Plasmapheresis or therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) involves the separation of plasma from
      whole blood. The removed plasma is 'exchanged or replaced' with crystalloids, albumin, fresh
      frozen plasma or a combination thereof. TPE use is well established in many neurological
      disorders including Guillain-Barre syndrome (11), Myasthenia Gravis (12, 13) and antibody
      mediated syndromes(14, 15). It is considered the standard of care for thrombotic
      thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) (16, 17). The rationale for the use of TPE in sepsis, a
      non-selective intervention, is to remove multiple toxic mediators including endotoxins,
      activated complement, pro-inflammatory cytokines and pro-coagulant factors (18, 19). If
      fresh-frozen plasma is used as replacement fluid, consumed plasma factors are substituted,
      thereby possibly restoring the opsonic capacity and improving the coagulation abnormalities
      and microcirculation.

      Plasma exchange has been reported since the late 1970s as a potential adjunctive or salvage
      therapy in severe sepsis in both pediatric and adult patients (20-24). These case reports,
      retrospective reviews and observational studies suggest a survival advantage when compared to
      historical controls. However, the obvious bias limits any meaningful interpretation. A
      literature review found only 4 studies with any attempt at randomization. One study enrolled
      only adults (25), two were exclusively pediatric patients (26, 27) and one study involved
      both adults and children (28). Excluding the pediatric studies, the adult protocols had few
      similarities:

        1. Reeves and colleagues attempted a multi-center Australian study but terminated
           enrollment after 22 adult and 8 children (28). The mean APACHEII scores for adults were
           25.2. They aggressively exchanged 5 plasma volumes continuously over 36 hours using a
           combination of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and albumin (1/4 ratio). Mortality was reported
           at 14 days. No data on ICU or hospital length of stay was provided. This trial reported
           significant decrease in certain inflammatory markers.

        2. Busund's larger trail involved 106 adults and reported mortality at 28 days (25). They
           performed a single 30-40mls/kg exchange that could be repeated once if no clinical
           improvement was observed. The replacement used was FFP and albumin in a 1:1 ratio. Six
           episodes of transient hypotension and 1 allergic reaction to FFP was reported (the only
           trial to report adverse events). There was an encouraging trend towards improved
           survival (33% vs 53%) versus historical controls. No data on ICU or hospital length of
           stay was provided.

      A more recent German pilot study tried to evaluate the safety and feasibility of enrollment
      within 12 hours of shock for a proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) (29). The inclusion
      criteria were simple: (a) Current sepsis-3 definitions; noradrenaline dose >0.4ug/kg/min
      despite >30mls/kg of crystalloid; (b) Less than 12 hours of vasopressor support. They
      performed a single 1.2x plasma exchange using entirely FFP. The major findings were
      significantly less vasopressor support, fluid balance and a decline in plasma concentrations
      of pro-inflammatory mediators. The "sustained -responders" mortality was 43% vs 77% of
      non-responders, but the small numbers prevented statistical significance.

      The use of plasma exchange in severe sepsis is graded by the American Society for Apheresis
      as category III with grade 2C indications, indicating that there is a lack of reliable trials
      to support TPE use in the condition (30). The purpose of this phase 1 clinical trial is to
      assess the safety of using plasma exchange in critically ill adult patients with septic
      shock. TPE is now a well-established program at the South Health Campus (SHC) for
      neuro-muscular disorders. Since starting in May 2018, we have performed over 240 runs in 43
      patients making the SHC ICU the most experienced TPE center in Canada in the past 2 years.
      One plasma volume is currently the standard dose used safely in patients with neuro-muscular
      disorders at SHC.

      Justification of Research

        1. The incidence of sepsis has increased over 4 decades but no single pharmacological
           invention reduces mortality/morbidity.

        2. A potential treatment that increases the chance of survival and recovery in patients
           with septic shock would be both beneficial to patients and help decrease medical costs
           from long term stays in the ICU.

        3. The maximum tolerable dose of TPE in septic patients is unknown.

      Study Objectives

      Primary Objective: To evaluate the safety of the TPE intervention protocol within 24 hours of
      study criteria being met.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate preliminary efficacy of the TPE protocol.

        2. To determine maximum tolerable dose of TPE in septic patients.

        3. To record adverse events from TPE intervention.

      Hypothesis

      It is hypothesized that TPE will be safe for use in patients with septic shock. We will
      determine the maximum tolerable dose via a dose escalation study.
    
  