
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the qualitative or quantitative toxic effects and tolerability of
      liposomal cytarabine (Depofoam encapsulated cytarabine; DTC 101) in pediatric patients with
      recurrent or refractory meningeal malignancies. II. Define a safe dose of DTC 101 in these
      patients for future clinical studies. III. Determine the plasma and CSF pharmacokinetics of
      DTC 101 in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation, multicenter study. Patients are placed in one of three
      age-related strata: stratum 1, 3 to 21 years of age; stratum 2, at least 2 but less than 3
      years of age; stratum 3, at least 1 but less than 2 years of age. Patients receive an
      induction dose of intrathecal liposomal cytarabine (Depofoam encapsulated cytarabine; DTC
      101) administered once every 2 weeks for 2 courses. Patients who have achieved a partial
      response or received significant clinical benefit with stable disease may receive a third
      induction dose of DTC 101, 2 weeks following the second dose. In the absence of progressive
      disease, patients can proceed to consolidation therapy. During consolidation therapy,
      intrathecal DTC 101 is administered once every 4 weeks for 2 courses, beginning 4 weeks after
      the last induction dose. Patients experiencing a complete or significant response can proceed
      to maintenance therapy. Patients receive a maintenance dose of intrathecal DTC 101 once every
      8 weeks for a total of 6 doses, beginning 4 weeks after the second consolidation dose. At
      least 3 patients are evaluated at each dose level. Dose escalation to the next level proceeds
      when a minimum of 3 patients per cohort has successfully completed induction therapy and been
      evaluated. Patients will be followed at 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post treatment, until
      relapse or death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 12-15 patients will be accrued for each stratum over 18 to 24
      months.
    
  