
    
      Today, Nintendo's Wii has become integrated into our popular culture replete with its own
      vocabulary and marketed promise of achieving fitness through video gaming. Recently the term
      "Wii-habilitation" has gained popularity to represent application of interactive gaming into
      the therapeutic setting as a form of rehabilitation. However, this technology remains largely
      untested in the rehabilitation field despite seemingly widespread use.

      Interactive gaming may indeed contribute to an important problem in rehabilitation,
      especially for persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) who use manual wheelchairs for primary
      mobility and depend on their upper extremity for independence. Individuals with SCI will
      benefit tremendously by maximization of early rehabilitation post-injury and effective
      ongoing conditioning focused on the upper extremity through a continuum of care model that
      supports life-long health habits. Further, traditional exercise therapy targets components of
      function such as range of motion and strength, but often relies on isolated movements and
      repetitions which might not be the most effective method. Alternately, video interactive
      gaming can provide an engaging, variable, challenging, and fun activity-based approach that
      could enhance both adherence to exercise and functional outcomes.

      A video gaming system can be readily implemented in a clinical setting and affordably
      deployed for home use with minimal instruction, is easy to use for continuation of therapy,
      and is well-suited to the SCI population for whom exercise options are limited. A wide
      variety of activities and games are available that utilize upper extremity movements
      "playing" real world sports such as golf, tennis, and bowling; multiple options for play are
      available which add variety and contribute to a comprehensive work-out. Players must grade
      whole upper limb forces to play the various games paralleling a traditional exercise regimen;
      visual and auditory feedback add interest and fun to the sessions. Interactive gaming allows
      for single and multiple player options and thus lends itself readily to promotion of social
      engagement. Real-life scenarios may contribute to self-motivation.
    
  