
    
      Clinical relevance:

      The problem of PV reconnection and recurrent AF after catheter ablation for paroxysmal AF is
      one of the important challenges faced by treating physicians.

      Rationale:

      The understanding of the role contact force plays in adequate lesion formation during
      catheter ablation and the fact that this may reduce pulmonary vein (PV) reconnection and AF
      recurrence is an exciting advance in the field of catheter ablation for AF. A few small
      clinical trials have demonstrated the safety and feasibility of contact force guided catheter
      ablation in reducing PV reconnection and AF recurrence. There is a clear need for well
      designed and adequately powered clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness of this new
      strategy. The investigators have developed a novel "augmented" CF guided augmented ablation
      strategy and will test this against the current clinical gold standard ablation technique.

      Objective:

      Using contact force (CF) technology, our intention is to evaluate an "augmented- wide area
      circumferential catheter ablation strategy" that could potentially reduce the incidence of
      pulmonary vein reconnection and AF recurrence after catheter ablation in patients with
      paroxysmal AF.

      Hypothesis:

      In patients with symptomatic paroxysmal AF an augmented-wide area circumferential catheter
      ablation strategy will result in fewer electrocardiographically documented atrial arrhythmias
      (AF, atrial flutter and atrial tachycardia) recurrences compared to conventional wide-area
      catheter ablation.

      All subjects in the control arm of the trial will undergo wide area circumferential catheter
      ablation (WACA; lesions delivered 1-2 cm away from the pulmonary vein ostium) around all four
      pulmonary veins to the endpoint of electrical isolation (demonstrated by entry and exit block
      using differential pacing). Catheter ablation will be performed using CF and VISITAG guidance
      (average CF >10g, Force time integral (FTI) > 500 g-sec and minimum ablation duration >10
      sec). Dormant PV conduction will be tested using adenosine, after completion of the lesion
      set, and additional lesions will be delivered to eliminate dormant PV conduction.

      In the experimental arm of the trial all subjects will undergo WACA as described above;
      however without adenosine testing. In addition these subjects will receive "augmented"
      ablation lesions, guided by CF feedback, on the outer aspect of the first WACA lesion set.
      Our hypothesis is that this "belts and suspender" strategy of redundant, CF guided antral
      ablation lesions will result in a wider band of irreversible atrial muscle and cardiac
      autonomic ganglionated-plexi damage. It is our expectation that the augmented WACA strategy
      will result in more durable PV isolation and thereby significantly reduce AF recurrence.

      Trial Design:

      This trial is a multicentre, prospective, randomized, blinded endpoint trial (PROBE) design.
      Subjects who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the clinical
      trial. Subjects will be randomized (1:1) to either the control arm (WACA only) or the
      experimental arm (augmented- WACA). Patients randomized to the experimental arm will go on to
      have augmented-WACA. The first 90 days after catheter ablation will be considered a
      "blanking-period" and atrial tachyarrhythmias (AF, Atrial Flutter [AFl] or Atrial Tachycardia
      [AT]) occurring during this period will be documented. However, these will not be considered
      treatment failures. Patient accrual will occur over a 24-month period and each subject will
      have a minimum follow-up period of 12 months. The total duration of the trial will be
      36-months (24 months for accrual and a minimum of 12 months of follow up for each subject).
      Patients will be followed at 3, 6, and 12 months, with 14 day continuous ambulatory ECG
      monitoring done at each follow up visit. A total of three questionnaires will be administered
      throughout the study, each at a specific time point. The Quality of Life (EQ-5D) and
      CCS-Severity of AF scale will be completed together, prior to ablation and at the final
      follow-up visit. The patient satisfaction score will be completed at the final follow-up
      visit. All participants will be followed for a minimum of 12 months.
    
  