
    
      Intense e recurrent nociceptive stimulation, which occurs in the postoperatively, can trigger
      sensitization of the peripheral and central nociceptive pathway, leading to chronic pain.
      Patients with rotator cuff injury often present to surgery due to referred moderate to
      intense long-term pain. During the immediate postoperative period, pain is rare due to the
      routine administration of a brachial plexus blockade as an adjuvant to improve the quality of
      postoperative analgesia. However, after the second postoperative day, the effect of the
      blockade ceases, and the pain becomes high and hard to treat, leading the patient to request
      administration of more frequent and more potent analgesics. The aim of this project is to
      assess the postoperative analgesic benefits of a brachial plexus blockcade 2 days before
      arthroscopic surgical correction of rotator cuff injury by reducing the sensitization of the
      nociceptive pathway.

      A sample of 70 participants will be recruited from a population of patients scheduled for
      arthroscopic correction of rotator cuff injury. The participants will be electronically
      divided into two groups: the regular group (RG) and the preemptive group (PG). Every patient
      in both groups will be taught about the numeric rating scale (NRS-11). The professional
      conducting the electronic randomization will not participate in any other step of the trial,
      and will keep the result of the lottery in secret. Every patient of both groups will undergo
      brachial plexus blockade and sedation right before surgery. The patients from PG will undergo
      brachial plexus blockade 2 days before surgery, and the RG will undergo ultrasound
      examination of the brachial plexus in the attempt to keep the patient blind to the group.
      Every patient in both groups will be advised to keep the arm in sling after the procedure 2
      days before surgery (brachial plexus blockade in PG, and ultrasound in RG).

      Seventy eligible patients on the day of their pre-anesthetic evaluation (see inclusion and
      exclusion criteria) will be invited to answer the Brief Pain Inventory validated to Brazilian
      patients, the Brazilian-Portuguese versions of the McGill Pain Questionnaire and the brief
      World Health Organization Quality of Life Assessment (WHOQOL-bref) validated to
      Brazilian-Portuguese (WHOQOL - SRPB). The samples will be electronically randomized into two
      groups: the regular group (RG) and the preemptive group (PG). Two days before the surgery,
      patients from both groups will arrive at the hospital. The patients from RG group will
      undergo ultrasound of the brachial plexus, while the patients from PG group will undergo
      brachial plexus blockade. In order to keep them blinded to the group, all of the patients
      will leave the hospital with their arms in a sling. Following this procedure and after
      surgery, the patient will be prescribed dipyrone 1 g every 6 h, and the drug combination
      acetaminophen (500 mg) with codeine (30 mg), as a rescue medication for pain > 3 (0 to 10).
      On the day of surgery, patients from each group will be questioned about their pain score and
      will undergo brachial plexus blockade and sedation immediately before the surgery. The pain
      score will be recorded immediately before the surgery, 6 h after the surgery, and at 6 p.m.
      on the first three postoperative days. On the third postoperative day, the patients will
      again respond to the Brief Pain Inventory validated to Brazilian patients, the
      Brazilian-Portuguese versions of the McGill Pain Questionnaire and the brief World Health
      Organization Quality of Life Assessment (WHOQOL-bref) validated to Brazilian-Portuguese
      (WHOQOL - SRPB).
    
  