
    
      This study will conduct a real-world clinic-based smoking cessation trial examining the
      augmentation strategy of Chantix (Varenicline Tartrate), nicotine patch, and behavioral
      counseling versus standard treatment of patch plus behavioral counseling only in heavy
      drinkers who smoke (HDS). While Chantix is approved for smoking cessation, it is not
      routinely given in practice for HDS patients

      In this study, there will be 4 total in-person study visits over the trial (pre-quit, quit
      date, week 2 and week 12), ending 12 weeks after the quit date. Biochemical verification from
      breath tests for CO, as well as vital signs and weight, will be measured at each visit along
      with survey responses measuring smoking urge and withdrawal, negative affect, neurocognition,
      and alcohol and smoking behaviors. These will also be used at a 26-week follow-up by
      telephone with biochemical verification for CO in those reporting being smoke-free.

      Screening and Randomization Participants will respond to advertisements and will undergo a
      brief phone screening to determine initial eligibility requirements. Qualified candidates
      will be invited into the lab to conduct a short screening and study information session at
      the Clinical Addictions Research Laboratory at the University of Chicago. At screening,
      participants will sign an informed consent document. Next, demographics, smoking, alcohol and
      substance use patterns, health history, medications, vital signs, a urine test (for pregnancy
      and/or drug toxicology) and a blood test will be obtained.

      Eligible participants will be randomized into one of two treatment groups: Standard Treatment
      will proceed with the study receiving nicotine patches and brief counseling sessions;
      Augmented Treatment will proceed with the same nicotine patches and brief counseling
      sessions, but will also receive standard dosing of Chantix (Varenicline tartrate).

      Nicotine Patches Nicotine patches will be utilized starting at study quit date, and proceed
      according to package insert directions (10+ cigs/day smokers will begin with 21mg patches for
      six weeks, followed by 14mg patches for four weeks, and finally 7mg patches for two weeks.
      Those smoking fewer than 10 cigarettes/day will follow the same process starting at the 14mg
      patch level.

      Chantix (Varenicline Tartrate) Those receiving Augmented Treatment will receive varenicline
      in this effectiveness study. They will undergo an up-titration week prior to the quit date,
      12 weeks of target dosing, and a down-titration week. As per Pfizer recommendations,
      up-titration will be 0.5mg tablets once daily for 3 days followed by twice daily for four
      days leading to the quit date on day 8. The sequence will reverse for a down-titration week
      on week 13.

      Smoking Cessation Behavioral Sessions:

      Participants will attend one-on-one behavioral counseling sessions with a trained Masters or
      PhD. Level therapist at each study visit. Behavioral sessions will involve teaching
      behavioral skills to assist with smoking cessation, preventing relapse, and coping with
      physical or emotional changes associated with cravings. At each study visit, subjective
      measures (i.e. brief self-report surveys about

      Follow-Up Interview (Week 26) At Study Week 26, participants will complete a follow-up
      telephone interview, completing similar subjective measures as those completed during study
      visits. Participants reporting being smoke-free during this interview will arrange for
      biochemical verification of this status via expired CO testing either by arranging for a time
      to stop into one of the study sites or by arranging for study staff to meet with them in
      their home or workplace.
    
  