
    
      Today, medicine mainly curative and reactive is primarily interested in sick people. Now,
      with our aging Western populations, we face a strong increase in chronic diseases incidence /
      prevalence that have a financial cost that becomes unbearable. Society's resources are being
      drained by the rising costs of disease management and of incremental improvements to our
      existing health care system. Immediate action is required to reverse these trends. The
      paradigm shift would be to move from a reactive to a proactive medicine that promote healthy
      life style to decrease incidence of chronic conditions through P4 Medecine that is
      Preventive, Participative, Predicitive and Personnalized.

      However, unhealthy lifestyles are major factors contributing to chronic conditions that
      impose a huge financial burden in EU healthcare systems. Insufficient physical activity, poor
      diet and obesity are significant risk factors for cancers, cardiovascular, chest, metabolic
      disorders and leading causes of morbidity and premature mortality. Clinically studies
      indicate that different conditions can be prevented and sometimes reversed through adaptation
      of healthy habits. But the communication of Public Health failed to influence consumer to
      change their habits. Hence, it is recognized as a gold standard that better nutrition and
      better health will reduce the risk of chronic diseases such as obesity and cardiovascular
      diseases, which impact heavily on health spending. A report by the French National Assembly
      estimated the cost of obesity for the health insurance, if we add the daily allowances of
      sick care costs, between 2 and 6 € billion / year (until 4.6% of current health expenditure).
      As recently summarized by Caroline K. Kramer I 2015 moderate weight loss is related to
      favorable clinical outcomes. A weight loss of 7% (modification of lifestyle) reduced diabetes
      progression (-58%). The data collected addressed to health professionals will also enable
      better guide diagnostics and more efficient care strategies. Unfortunately free-living
      individuals are often poor at judging the healthiness of their own diet (choice of meal
      constituents, cooking methods, and portion sizes pattern of eating). Moreover, there is a
      lack of awareness of the contextual features influencing eating behavior and even where there
      is motivation to change, people have difficulty translating good intentions into healthy
      behaviors. Hence, their day-to-day constraints (lack of time, lack of knowledge, constraining
      family and cultural habits, personal tastes) make it difficult for them to comply and adopt
      the nationally recommended healthy lifestyles.

      In this study, the volunteers will be followed during one year.

      The wellbeing will be followed with :

        -  survey like FFQ, IPAQ, SF36, dietary habits.

        -  actimetry measurement

        -  one year follow-up of weight, waist measurement

        -  nutritional biomarkers
    
  