
    
      Drugs used to treat COPD are available primarily in hand held inhaler devices that deliver
      dry powder (DPI), a soft mist or a metered dose of spray (MDI). The frail, arthritic elderly
      are often prescribed DPI rather than MDI or soft mist devices, because they require less
      coordination. DPIs however require the ability to inhale against a resistance with a peak
      inspiratory force (PIF) more negative than 60 L/min to break the dry powder into respirable
      particles. Preliminary data suggests that suboptimal PIF's are common during an acute
      exacerbation of COPD, affecting 48% of hospitalized patients, thus placing them at risk for
      treatment failure and possibly hospital readmission. Use of nebulizers to administer
      respiratory medications may avoid the hazards of insufficient dosing that can result from use
      of DPI however they are cumbersome, expensive and the variety of drugs available in a
      nebulizer format is limited. We hypothesize that patients treated in hospital and is charged
      on respiratory medications administered by nebulizers will exhibit better symptom control and
      lower COPD and all cause hospital readmission rates compared with patients treated with
      respiratory medications delivered by DPI. We aim to demonstrate that 1) patients treated and
      discharged on nebulized bronchodilators will have fewer readmissions to hospital at 30 and 90
      days compared to the group utilizing DPI 2) that the nebulizer group will demonstrate a
      longer duration of time till hospital readmission for COPD and all cause readmission compared
      to the group utilizing DPI and 3) the nebulizer group will demonstrate better symptom control
      compared to the group utilizing DPI. This nonblinded feasibility (pilot) study will enroll
      100 patients hospitalized for an exacerbation of COPD who are > 40 years of age, have a
      clinical diagnosis of COPD. The study will consist of 3 outpatient visits (Transitional Care
      Visit [314 days after discharge], Visit #2 [30 +/5 days after discharge], and Visit #3 [90
      +/5 days after discharge]). Visit #2 and #3 are for study purposes, the Transitional Care
      Visit is standard of care. We hypothesize and aim to demonstrate that patients treated in
      hospital and discharged on respiratory medications administered by nebulizers will exhibit
      better quality of life (QoL), symptom control and lower COPD and all cause hospital
      readmission rates compared with patients treated with respiratory medications delivered by
      DPI.
    
  