
    
      Intramuscular (IM) injection is the most frequently used nursing practice in the clinic.1 16
      billion treatments are performed through injection per year all over the world. Approximately
      95% of these injections are administered for therapeutic purpose.

      If IM injections are not administered properly, they cause many complications such as
      primarily pain and cellulitis, muscular fibrosis and contracture, abscesses, tissue necrosis,
      granuloma, hematoma, and nerve injuries.Painful injections may lead to the development of
      fear and needle phobia. People are not able to comply with the treatment due to fear and
      needle phobia and they may even reject treatment. Pain developing after IM injection may vary
      based on drug content, individual factors and injection technique.

      It has been reported that patients feel less pain and the other complications decrease when
      the correct technique of IM injection is selected. Different pain relief methods such as
      local ice application, changing needle before injection and acupressure are employed during
      injection. In the literature, mechano-analgesia, which is known as the skin stimulation
      methods, is included in pain management in addition to these methods.

      One of the mechano-analgesia methods is vibration. The pain-relief mechanism of vibration is
      explained with the gate control theory. The theory, which is a similar mechanism used to
      obtain pain relief by rubbing an area near an injury, using TENS, or acupuncture. In the
      studies, it has been explained by the fact that the sense of touch and vibration obtained
      from skin receptors stimulate the intermediary inhibitor neurons in medulla spinalis through
      A-β nerve fibres. These neurons reduce the pain level in A-delta and A-C fibres in
      transmitting the signal received from skin to the second neuron, the signal cross over
      medulla spinalis and rises to brain. There are studies in the literature explaining that pain
      is reduced by vibration. Also, the vibration has advantages over other methods such as TENS,
      acupuncture as it is a method that is easy to apply, simple, applicable in all hours, and
      cheap and does not require any preparation.

      Although the results of the related studies have indicated that this new method is effective
      in reducing injection pain, the number of studies on this method in the literature is
      limited. There is no study result in the literature on the effect of vibration on pain in the
      ventrogluteal region in particular.

      Purpose of the study The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of vibration
      stimulation application in ventrogluteal region on intramuscular injection pain and patient
      satisfaction.

      The specific study questions were as follows:

        1. What are the effects of vibration on intramuscular injection-induced pain?

        2. What are the effects of vibration on satisfaction for intramuscular injection?
    
  