
    
      When the decision is made that an infant needs a lumbar puncture for clinical indications,
      parental consent will be obtained for the actual procedure and a separate consent for
      participation in this study will be attached. Randomization for this study will be via
      permuted block randomization. The expected 122 patients will be pre-randomized, with the arm
      for each patient number 1 through 122 sealed in an envelope. After consent is obtained the
      patient will be assigned the next numerical study identification number and the corresponding
      envelope will be opened. If the infant has been randomized to the topical liposomal lidocaine
      group, 1 gram of LMX-4 will be placed over the L3-L4 space immediately, covered with a cotton
      ball and occlusive tegaderm, for minimum 30 minutes prior to the needle insertion during the
      lumbar puncture (LP). While the LMX-4 is in place, other procedures that are part of a
      routine septic work-up may be performed. Thus, the application of this medication should not
      cause an unnecessary delay in the ultimate procedure or antibiotic administration.

      If the infant has been randomized to the subcutaneous lidocaine group, after using sterile
      procedure to prepare the area, 0.1ml/kg of 1% Lidocaine will be injected using a 25 gauge
      tuberculin needle over the L3-L4 region. The injection point will be below the actual level
      desired with the needle going in at a 5-10 degree angle and moving toward the head after
      insertion. A subcutaneous wheal will form over the desired L3-L4 space when the Lidocaine is
      injected. The provider will wait at minimum 2 minutes after the injection of the Lidocaine
      prior to the insertion of the LP needle. Once the required time for local anesthesia in
      either arm has elapsed, the procedure will be performed with routine technique.

      With consent for the video portion of the study, a video camera will be set up to tape the
      infants face only during the procedure with notation of the LP needle insertion(s). During
      the procedure, an assistant will record heart rate and oxygen saturation values. The
      information from the video and documented vital signs will be used to assign a PIPP score by
      a blinded investigator. Once the procedure is complete the following information will be
      obtained for study purposes, in addition to the above video tape and vital signs: infant
      gestational age, infant birth weight, gender, day of life of procedure, level of provider(s)
      performing the procedure, attempts required to obtain cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimen,
      color of fluid (clear, pink, xanthochromic, or grossly bloody), presence of CSF culture, and
      Red Blood Cell count of CSF specimen. Infants in our institution will already be monitored
      continuously and will continue to be so for at minimum 6 hours after the procedure. Any
      adverse reaction that could be attributed to the procedure or medications used for the
      procedure will be recorded, with the most expected reaction to be a skin rash. Additional
      changes in the infant, such as apnea, sustained arrhythmia, oxygen desaturation 10% below
      baseline, or seizure will also be noted whether or not it is thought to be associated with
      the procedure.
    
  