
    
      Pain in the postpartum period is an important concern of new mothers. With over one-third of
      deliveries ending in cesarean section, effective postoperative pain control is essential in
      the care of postpartum patients.1 Improved pain control in the postpartum period after
      cesarean delivery (CD) is associated with improved overall maternal health and satisfaction,
      decreased postpartum depression, shortened hospital stay, decreased opioid consumption, and
      decreased healthcare costs, as well as possible facilitation of early contact of mothers with
      their infants.2 Pain control is of great concern to women during and after cesarean
      delivery.3 Pain relief and patient satisfaction are inadequate in many cases. Pain may be
      severe, last at least 48-72 hours, and may impair early postoperative recovery.

      Opioids are primarily used in the post-operative period. Although opioids are safe to use in
      breastfeeding mothers, they are not without unwanted side effects.4 Local anesthetics and
      parenteral NSAIDs are also beneficial adjuncts to regional or general anesthesia after CD by
      reducing opioid consumption and improving pain relief.5 In addition, field block with wound
      infiltration with local anesthetic is an effective and safe adjunct for pain control.
      Previous studies have shown improved postoperative pain control with TAP (transversus
      abdominis plane) blocks with bupivacaine in hysterectomy patients.4 Another study has looked
      at the effects of bupivacaine-soaked spongostan placed in cesarean wounds.2 EXPAREL®®
      (Parsippany, NJ: Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc) is a liposomal form of bupivacaine. Its
      mechanism of action is by DepoFoam® technology, in which microscopic, polyhedral molecules
      that contain aqueous chambers with liposomal bupivacaine that are slowly released over hours
      to days with erosion and rearrangement of lipid membranes.6 The slow release of local
      anesthetic extends its pharmacologic effect and provides longer postsurgical pain control for
      up to 72 hours.6 This method of delivery of local anesthetic has the potential to decrease
      postoperative opioid consumption.7 EXPAREL® is an FDA-approved medication for the general use
      of postoperative surgical site pain control. Paracervical block is the only obstetric
      contraindication to EXPAREL® use. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness
      of local wound infiltration of EXPAREL® (liposomal bupivacaine) with bupivacaine HCl compared
      to active control with bupivacaine HCl alone following elective primary or repeat cesarean
      delivery with spinal anesthesia. The investigators hypothesize that narcotic use during
      postoperative hospitalization will be decreased using liposomal bupivacaine.
    
  