
    
      This is the third and last part of a clinical project concerning the treatment of split
      thickness skin graft donor sites. In the first part the Investigators completed a randomised
      clinical trial (RCT) in which donor sites were randomly assigned to treatment with either
      hydrofibre covered with film, non-adhesive polyurethane foam, or porcine xenograft. Results
      from the first study indicated that donor sites treated with hydrofibre and porcine xenograft
      healed significantly faster than those treated with polyurethane foam. As the hydrofibre was
      the most comfortable, easy to use, and cost-effective it was implemented as the standard of
      care for donor sites at the specific centre.

      In the initial RCT, patients treated with polyurethane foam showed significantly longer
      healing times than the other treatment groups. As longer healing time has been shown to be a
      predictor for pathological donor site scarring it was hypothesised that this group would be
      the most unsatisfied with their scars, if they had any donor site scar at all eight years
      after their skin graft. In the second part of the project the long-term scar outcomes of the
      donor sites included in the RCT was investigated. Study participants were asked to evaluate
      their scars using the "Patients part" of the Patient and Observer Scar Scale (POSAS). After
      analysing the data collected in the second part, it was concluded that the fast and moist
      healing seen with hydrofibre seemed to result in significantly more satisfied patients - and
      members of the polyurethane foam group, as hypothesised, were significantly more unsatisfied
      with their donor site scars. The Investigators also found that the dressing associated with
      the fastest wound healing (the porcine xenograft) also had the poorest long-term outcome for
      scarring, according to the patients' opinion. This contradicts what is claimed to be the
      relation between duration of healing and donor site scarring.

      In this last, third study, the aim was to investigate if the previous findings could be
      confirmed by an evaluation done by a blinded observer using POSAS. Donor sites were also
      evaluated for firmness and elasticity using the device; Cutometer dual MPA 580 (Courage and
      Khazaka Electronic GmbH, Cologne, Germany), which is described in the Method section.
    
  