
    
      Hypothesis: In children with IBD, high scores for a sleep disturbance screener will be
      positively associated with IBD relapse

      Project Design and Specific Objective: This is a single centre pediatric observational
      prospective study to develop a non-invasive non-costly tool to screen for relapses in
      pediatric IBD patients through examining the association between sleep disturbances and
      disease relapse in children with IBD. The outcomes are

      Primary outcome: Cut-off score of a sleep screener in relation to disease relapse (as
      diagnosed by fecal calprotectin value of >100 microgram/gram of stools) in children with IBD
      Secondary outcomes

        1. Correlation between sleep disturbance scores and clinical disease activity indices
           (PCDAI and PUCAI), after controlling for symptoms of anxiety and depression

        2. Identification of which sleep component such as sleep duration and sleep latency is the
           best at detecting a disease relapse.

        3. Identification of whether sleep disturbance more accurately predicts relapse for CD than
           for UC, after controlling for symptoms of anxiety and depression.

        4. Identifying any differences in intestinal microbiom between those with sleep
           disturbances versus those without.

      Experimental Methods and Analysis

      1 Design: Observational prospective study 2. Inclusion Criteria 2.1. Children aged 8 -17
      years under the care of the Pediatric IBD Program at the Children's Hospital, Winnipeg and
      with an established diagnosis of IBD according to the North American Society of Pediatric
      Gastroenterology (NASPGHAN) 3. Exclusion Criteria 3.1. Children with IBD and known cognitive
      dysfunction or global developmental delay 3.2. Children with IBD and concurrent
      gastrointestinal infection 4 Measures

        -  4.1. A standardized sleep diary will assess sleep in the past week. Scores will be
           averaged over the 7-day recording period. The sleep diary will provide information about
           latency to fall asleep, number of awakenings, duration of awakenings, total sleep time,
           sleep quality, and sleep efficiency. To complement the sleep diary, the Children's
           Report of Sleep Patterns, a 62-item questionnaire, will assess self-reported sleep
           patterns, sleep hygiene, and sleep disturbance in children ages 8-17 years. It has
           acceptable reliability and validity.

        -  4.2. Disease relapse will be measured using fecal calprorectin (F Cal) and the PCDAI for
           CD and PUCAI for UC.The quantum blue single point of care test (ALPCO) will be used

        -  4.3. The disease phenotype, duration, base-line characteristics, patient demographics,
           smoking habits, medications, and initiation of new medications or other treatments for
           IBD during the course of the study will be obtained by chart review using an information
           form

        -  4.4. The Spence Children's Anxiety Scale will be used to assess anxiety symptoms (e.g.,
           panic attacks, social phobia, fear of physical injuries, generalized anxiety). With
           clinical cut-offs, the scale has demonstrated high internal consistency and good
           test-retest reliability over a six-month period. Evidence of convergent and divergent
           validity has been reported. As parent and youth report can differ, both self-report and
           parent-report versions of the SCAS will be administered.

        -  4.5. The Child Depression Inventory -II (short-form) is a 12-item scale of depressive
           symptoms for youth aged 7 to 17 years. It represents one of the most widely used
           measures of depression in this age group, has excellent reliability, concurrent,
           construct, and predictive validity. Both self-report and parent-report will be
           collected.

           5. Study procedure: Families with children aged 8 -17 years, who are under the care of
           the Pediatric IBD Program at the Children's Hospital, Winnipeg, and who have an
           established diagnosis of IBD will be approached via letters to inform them about the
           study and study procedures. The letters will give the option to patients and their care
           givers to declare their lack of interest in participation if they do not want to be
           approached or participate in the study. Patients and parents/guardians/care givers will
           choose whether or not to provide "permission to be contacted via phone". This will occur
           through a phone number provided in the letter, and they will be instructed to call
           within 1 week of receiving the letter to declare if they decline to be approached. If
           lack of interest is not declared, the Research Assistant will call the potential
           participants to explain the study procedure, obtain a verbal consent for participation
           and ask participants to complete a sleep diary to assess sleep disturbances for one week
           prior to the clinic visit. During the clinic visit, verbal consent will be confirmed and
           informed assent/consent will be obtained by the children/parents (guardians) and the
           completed sleep diary will be collected. During the same visit, fecal samples will be
           collected for FCAL measurement as a surrogate marker for mucosal inflammation. A fecal
           sample will be laso sent for microbiome analysis. Other investigations will include
           blood samples for serum hemoglobin, serum albumin, and inflammatory markers (CRP and
           ESR) and if participants have diarrhea, stool samples for infection screen will be
           collected to exclude any possibility for gastrointestinal infection. In addition,
           participants and their parents will complete the Spence Child Anxiety Scale, the Child
           Depression Inventory (parent and child report), and the Children's Report of Sleep
           Patterns (CRSP)(child report). It is expected that administration of these measures
           during clinic will take 45 minutes. The Research Assistant will help participants who
           need any clarification on how to respond to any question. Children will also be
           clinically assessed and clinical disease activity will be measured using PCDAI for CD
           and PUCAI for UC. Each participant will have all measures repeated at a second elective
           clinic visit 3 months later during the course of the study period (9 months of
           recruitment). Patients are normally instructed to call our office if they start
           developing symptoms of relapse such as diarrhoea and abdominal pain. Patients then will
           be asked over the phone to complete a sleep diary and to bring a stool sample for fecal
           calprotectin. Stool samples for infection screen will be also collected and an emergency
           clinic visit for clinical assessment of the disease and routine blood tests including
           blood samples for measuring inflammatory markers will be planned within a week of having
           symptoms of relapse. Completed sleep diary will be collected during the visit.

           5. Analysis and sample size To determine whether sleep disturbance is associated with
           disease relapse, logistic regression analysis will be conducted. Logistic regression
           will be used as the goal of the analysis is to predict the category of outcome for
           individual patients (relapsed, not relapsed). As symptoms of anxiety and depression are
           often comorbid with sleep disturbance, we will use these as covariates in the logistic
           regression analysis.

      To determine the diagnostic performance of the sleep measures, or the level of sleep
      disturbance associated with disease relapse, ROC will be analyzed using MedCalc. MedCalc is a
      reliable and valid method of assessing the diagnostic validity of laboratory tests. ROC curve
      analysis methodology will be used to plot curves representing the true positive (TPR) and
      false positive rates (FPR) for sleep at different cut-off points. ROC curves will be used in
      this investigation to determine an optimal cutoff level for the sleep measures and to
      contrast the relative adequacy of measures to discriminate between participants who relapsed
      versus those who did not. The MedCalc program assumes an underlying bi-normal distribution
      and produces a non-parametric estimation of the area under the curve. Results from the PCDAI
      and PUCAI will be the reference standard for the test. Information pertaining to test,
      specificity, positive predictive value (PPV, and negative predictive value (NPV will be
      obtained. Such an analysis will produce a range of sensitivity and specificity values
      associated with different cut-off points for each of the sleep variables and the MedCalc
      program chooses a cutoff point that maximizes both sensitivity and specificity. Using a
      corrected z-test, analogous to a paired t-test, results will show whether there is a
      statistically significant difference between the sleep predictors in terms of the overall
      accuracy of measurement.

      Based on existing studies of sleep disturbances in IBD, sleep disturbances are assumed to be
      prevalent in 80% of patients with active IBD compared to 40% of those in remission. To
      achieve an acceptable power of .80 with alpha = .05, a sample of 90 patients will be
      recruited. This number is highly feasible to recruit within the proposed clinic's patient
      flow and where research participation rates exceed 80% in the current and past research
      projects in the pediatric IBD program. Currently the IBD program cares for over 150 children
      with IBD with over 130 patients > 8 years old.

      Descriptive analyses of the variables will be performed comparing disease type (CD/UC) and
      disease status (inactive (F Cal < 100 microgram/gram stools /active (F Cal > 100
      microgram/gram of stool)). Comparisons of disease subtypes and active/inactive subgroups will
      be performed using two-tailed t-tests for continuous variables, and chi-square/Fisher exact
      tests of association for categorical variables.
    
  