
    
      Facial nerve paralysis is a devastating event that in up to 30% of cases may result in
      chronic weakness and/or the disfiguring condition of synkinesis, a long-lasting muscle
      discoordination of facial movement caused by aberrant facial nerve regeneration after facial
      nerve paralysis. This is believed to have a detrimental effect on social interactions, mental
      health, and quality of life.

      Neuromuscular retraining therapy and ipsilateral chemodenervation into discoordinated muscles
      by injection (onabotulinumtoxinA/Botox, Allergan or incobotulinumtoxinA/Xeomin, Merz) are two
      common treatments for the abnormal muscle movements found in synkinesis. No study has
      compared the effectiveness of these treatment modalities for synkinesis. Retrospective data
      including our series at the University of Wisconsin Facial Nerve Clinic show significant
      benefit of retraining therapy using clinician- and patient-reported outcome measures.
      However, the manner in which this therapy may be optimized for use in treatment of the
      sequelae of facial paralysis is unclear. While literature shows beneficial improvement in
      outcomes with chemodenervation in prospective studies, no study has explored the
      effectiveness of physical therapy for synkinesis in a controlled, prospective manner.
      Further, the efficacy of therapy has not been shown to improve recognition and emotional
      information interpretation, both thought to be impaired in synkinesis.

      This study has 3 specific aims:

      AIM 1: Determine the effect of neuromuscular retraining or chemodenervation on
      clinician-reported and patient-reported outcomes. The primary outcome measure after four and
      eight months of treatment will be the clinician-reported Sunnybrook Facial Grading System
      (SFGS) scored on participant videos by blinded reviewers. Further, the investigators seek to
      measure the efficacy of treatment with existing patient-reported instruments. A correlation
      of clinician-reported outcome measure changes to changes in patient-reported instruments with
      treatment will be calculated, including the widely utilized disease specific Synkinesis
      Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and Facial Clinimetric Evaluation Scale (FaCE), and with two
      disease non-specific instruments, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), and
      Brief-Illness Perception Questionnaire (BIPQ). The efficacy of our clinical intervention will
      be measured with social-perceptual and mental health outcome measurement before and after
      treatment (AIM 3).

      AIM 2: Determine the social, emotional, and functional burden of synkinesis, not captured in
      current patient-reported outcome measures as well as effect of treatment. Qualitative
      interviews with individual participants collected before treatment, after four months of
      treatment, and after eight months of treatment will be analyzed to study the burden of
      disease, experience with treatment, and potential differences in both treatments. The primary
      outcome is to identify the domains that may be missing from existing patient-reported
      measures collected in AIM 1. To do this, findings to assessment domains (i.e. decreased
      engagement, negative mood, etc.) in the FaCE, SAQ, and the two disease non-specific
      instruments, HADS and BIPQ will be compared. The investigators will then evaluate their
      findings based on domains in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System
      (PROMIS) measures, an NIH-supported collection of validated and standardized scales.

      AIM 3: Quantify the disruption in social functioning caused by synkinesis using innovative
      social-perceptual outcomes and emotion recognition tasks. Prior to treatment, participants
      will enroll in IRB Protocol 2015-0366 and complete a series of social functioning and mental
      health instruments and emotion expression recognition tasks. Results will be compared to
      control participants without facial disability to reveal the social-perceptual impairment
      attributable to synkinesis. Repetition of these tasks after four months of either treatment
      may show improvement in recognition and emotional information interpretation when compared to
      initial measurements.
    
  