
    
      Sample size is 180 180 Patients were randomly distributed in 3 groups , one group of patients
      received laser therapy after root canal treatment and the other group received disinfection
      by Diode laser activated irrigation , the third group received no treatment just conventional
      Root canal treatment. • Patients were equally divided into 3 groups (n=60 in each group ) The
      study in a Single blinded Randomized clinical trial

      , Numbers for patients will be generated and distributed randomly in a table on an Excel
      sheet, and in front of each number either a letter (C) for control or (I) for intervention
      will be typed After patients were selected in the study they will be asked to fill in a
      consent form , that states that they are part of a clinical trial and that they may or may
      not have a laser session following root canal treatment to test its ability to control pain ,
      the consent will also require them to take a questionnaire at home to measure their pain
      level and they were willingly do it.

      Conventional root canal treatment were done to selected teeth , and any cases with procedural
      errors were excluded.

      Group A Laser activated irrigation :Disinfection were done by using 5 ml of 2.5% sodium
      hypochlorite irrigation for 1 minute. Irrigation will be performed with a 30-gauge needle
      side vented The irrigation needles were introduced passively up to 2 mm away the working
      length. After irrigation Laser treatment will be performed with a diode laser, at a
      wavelength of 980 nm with a repeated pulse mode using a pulse duration of 5s per canal and a
      pulse interval of 0.2 ms. The laser irradiation were delivered for 1 minute into the canal up
      to 1 mm short of the working length, with circling movements from the apical part moving
      towards the coronal part Group B Soft tissue laser application : Endodontically treated teeth
      were targeted by virtue of a dental applicator positioned at a right angle to the mucosa at
      the level of the apices. Application of the laser probe were applied to both the buccal and
      lingual mucosae overlying the apices of the target tooth. Total exposure time for each tooth
      was 60 seconds (a dose = 70 j/cm2 for analgesia) by the co-investigator The laser unit used
      in this study will be a diode laser (Lite Medics 1.00 Watt serial number 148 Ver.SwvM.
      150VS108VT.100) of wavelength 980nm and Max power 15 WCW Class IV Laser Product ) in
      continuous wave mode Group C : conventional root canal treatment : no laser intervention
      Patients were instructed to record their post-endodontic pain by VAS where 0 stands for no
      pain and 10 stands for severe pain.
    
  