
    
      HS is a recurring chronic skin disease of the hair follicle that usually presents with
      painful and inflamed lesions in the sweat gland-bearing areas of the body. The lesions often
      progress to become chronic with pus discharge and scar formation resulting in significant
      disability.

      Current surgical management for severe HS involves surgical removal of all involved hair
      bearing skin resulting in large areas of soft tissue loss which requires reconstruction. The
      wound is reconstructed by performing skin grafting, known as SSG, whereby a healthy layer of
      skin is transferred to the area of tissue loss. SSG enables rapid wound healing and has low
      risk of recurrence of HS. Skin grafting is often done a few weeks after excision of HS
      (delayed setting) to ensure higher success rate due to the infected nature of HS. During the
      interval between surgical removal of areas with HS and skin grafting, the wound is managed
      with a suction dressing known as the Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT) to promote
      formation of healthy wound bed. NPWT is a form of vacuum dressing which applies continuous
      suction pressure on the wound to remove fluids and bacteria from the wound bed.

      The NPWT is highly successful in managing such wounds, however a novel and innovative
      improvement to this technology with an irrigation system, the Negative Pressure Wound Therapy
      with instillation (NPWTi), holds promise to enhance production of healthy wound bed and
      further reducing bacteria and infectious materials from the wound, enabling earlier wound
      coverage with SSG. The NPWTi involves irrigating and soaking the wound with fluid, followed
      by removal of the fluid via application of suction pressure at timed, regular intervals. The
      goal of the instillation therapy is to enable early application of SSG as wound irrigation
      has long been appreciated as beneficial for cleaning contaminated wounds.

      The investigators wish to evaluate the NPWTi as an alternative to NPWT for current surgical
      management strategy of severe HS. The investigators wish to determine if NPWTi allows early
      wound coverage with SSG which improves patient satisfaction and reduces length of hospital
      stay. This research will further our knowledge about the human wound healing process and it
      may help improve treatment for future patients. The investigators plan to study up to 44
      patients in total.
    
  