
    
      Background:

      Globally, communicable diseases are prevalent among school age children and the exposure to
      variety of pathogens causing preventable diseases in school population is inevitable.
      Underlying factors mainly rests on poor personal hygiene and inadequate sanitation practices
      leading to school absenteeism and life threatening illnesses among children (if continually
      neglected in the long run). The situation is worse in low and middle income countries due to
      inadequate health care facilities leading to compromised health status of school children.

      Among communicable diseases, respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases are regarded as
      the deadliest killers of young children. Incidence of diarrheal disease in the initial years
      has been linked with impaired cognitive performance in the later childhood. In addition, in
      developing countries intestinal helminthic infection is a commonly cited problem among
      school-age children. Furthermore, oral health cavity infections are also commonly found in
      school going children worldwide. Frequent attacks of infection predispose young children to
      malnutrition and can form a vicious circle and retard children's physical and cognitive
      development. Moreover, the contextual factors such as poor socio-economic environment further
      deteriorate the health status of school children especially in low and middle income
      countries.

      In the Pakistani context, alongside pneumonia and diarrhea worm infestation and scabies among
      school age children are the commonly reported health issues; manifesting poor personal
      hygiene. An evaluation study on water, sanitation and hygiene intervention on school child
      performance in two cities showed that almost 48% of government school children avoid going to
      school toilets due to poor sanitary condition. In local context, studies are mostly focused
      on oral hygiene assessment among children, showing satisfactory knowledge about using tooth
      paste. Comprehensive assessment about personal and environmental hygiene assessment among
      children, teachers and parents has remained a gap. Poor knowledge and practice of, and
      attitudes to personal hygiene have negative consequences on their long term development. This
      necessitates the designing and testing of school-based interventions aiming to improve
      hygiene behaviors among children, thereby minimizing their potential to capture preventable
      illnesses.

      It is unfortunate that school health remains a neglected aspect of public health in Pakistan.
      In 2005, School Health Program was launched in 17 districts of the country by Ministry of
      Education, Pakistan in collaboration with United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
      Organization (UNESCO). The program focused on various components including personal hygiene
      and environmental education but its impact was not determined . To the best of our knowledge,
      there is paucity of studies in Pakistan on school-based interventions to promote personal and
      environmental hygiene of school children, with child's parents and teachers' involvement.
      Towards designing school based programs, role of parents and teachers must be considered as
      they are the important role models for school going age children. And thus had detrimental
      effects in shaping children's overall health and hygiene behavior.

      In this paper, Investigators present a study protocol using mixed-methods study design to be
      implemented in schools of a peri-urban community setting, Pakistan. The proposed study aims
      to improve the knowledge and practices of school children towards personal and environmental
      hygiene through school based intervention. To our knowledge, holistic assessment of hygiene
      among school children has not been studied in the local context. And the intervention to be
      implemented (with behavior change communication using adult to child and child to child
      approach, assessment of education curriculum on hygiene concepts) has never been studied
      before.

      Primary research questions

        1. Does school-based hygiene intervention facilitate improvement in knowledge and practices
           among primary school children studying in semi urban schools, Pakistan?

        2. What are the enablers and barriers towards the adoption of personal and environmental
           hygiene practices by school children?

      Secondary research questions Does improvement in knowledge and practices among the mothers of
      primary school children studying in semi-urban schools contributes to improved knowledge and
      practices of school children?

      Methods Study design The study will employ a quasi-experimental design (pre-post intervention
      without control arm). The proposed study design is chosen as it will facilitate in evaluating
      school based interventions in the selected school settings without randomization. Similar to
      the randomized trials, quasi-experiments (community based trial) aims to demonstrate
      causality between an intervention and an outcome at the defined interval.

      Study settings The study will be conducted in District Malir, Gaddap town in Karachi,
      Pakistan

      Data collection methods The study is built on mixed method data collection approaches to gain
      insight of the hygiene literacy and practices among school children, teachers and child's
      mothers. Table 1 lists different data collection methods with its purpose and interval.

      Study phases The study has been structured into 3 phases - pre-intervention, intervention and
      post-intervention.
    
  