
    
      Family history of cancer is an important possible indicator of inherited cancer
      susceptibility, which has helped identify individuals and families at high risk of inherited
      cancers in research studies and clinical practice. While there are also various potential
      uses of family history of cancer data in cancer surveillance, the completeness and accuracy
      of family history of cancer data collected from the general population is unclear. In an
      effort to evaluate the feasibility of conducting a national surveillance study to determine
      the prevalence of family history of cancer in the U.S. population, the Risk Factor Monitoring
      and Methods Branch will undertake a pilot study, entitled the Family Health Study, that
      examines issues of data quality. In this study, a family history of cancer questionnaire
      (FHCQ) will be developed for surveillance purposes and administered to a random digit dial
      (RDD) sample of households in the state of Connecticut. Positive and negative reports of
      common cancers in the respondent's families will be validated against records of the
      Connecticut Tumor Registry (CTR) and other data sources.

      The objectives are to: 1) assess the agreement between respondent reports of specific cancers
      in first and second degree relatives and medical record-based reports, as measured by percent
      concordance; 2) quantify the sensitivity, specificity and predictive value of the FHCQ by
      cancer site; 3) evaluate the possible predictors of reporting accuracy, including cancer
      site, year of diagnosis, kinship relation of the relative to the respondent and the frequency
      and quality of their contact, overall family cohesiveness, respondent's own history of
      cancer, and demographic factors; 4) describe the completeness and reliability of family
      structure data.

      Validation of selected relatives' cancer status will be done through data linkage to the
      Connecticut Tumor Registry, other selected cancer registries, the National Death Index,
      Medicare claims data bases, state death certificate registries, or by obtaining consent to
      review available medical records from physicians and health care facilities. Self-reports of
      respondents' cancer status will also be validated since this may be a predictor of ability to
      accurately report family history. A pre-established tracing algorithm will be used to triage
      cancer reports into the medical records systems where true cancer status is most likely to be
      verified by the highest quality data. Validated cancer outcomes will be assigned ICD-9 codes
      by a nosology team following a double-blinded protocol. A certainty level will be assigned to
      each cancer outcome based on the type of confirming medical record, with evidence of
      microscopic confirmation of malignancy considered the most certain. Statistical analyses to
      determine FHCQ1 sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value, will be performed, accounting
      for level of certainty. Predictors of cancer reporting accuracy will be examined using
      multivariate regression.
    
  