
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of temsirolimus in combination with
      bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone in patients with relapsed Waldenstrom's
      macroglobulinemia and relapsed/refractory mantle cell, follicular, marginal zone or small
      lymphocytic lymphoma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate whether the addition of temsirolimus to the
      regimen of bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone improves progression-free survival in
      patients with previously untreated or relapsed Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define and describe the toxicities of temsirolimus in combination with bortezomib,
      rituximab, and dexamethasone. (Phase I) II. To evaluate time to progression of bortezomib,
      rituximab, dexamethasone +/- temsirolimus in patients. (Phase II) III. To evaluate major and
      minor response by 6 cycles of therapy of bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone +/-
      temsirolimus. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate time to response and duration of response of
      bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone +/- temsirolimus. (Phase II) V. To evaluate toxicity of
      bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone +/- temsirolimus. (Phase II) VI. To evaluate time to
      next therapy of bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone +/- temsirolimus. (Phase II) VII. To
      evaluate overall survival of bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone +/- temsirolimus. (Phase
      II) VIII. To describe treatment-related fatigue, physical and functional well-being during
      and after treatment. (Phase II) IX. To compare the change in treatment related fatigue,
      physical and functional well-being over 6 cycles of bortezomib, rituximab, dexamethasone +/-
      temsirolimus. (Quality of Life) X. To prospectively assess health-related quality of life
      longitudinally (pre-treatment to 3 year follow-up assessment) among trial participants.
      (Quality of Life) XI. To describe treatment-related peripheral neuropathy associated with
      bortezomib neurotoxicity. (Quality of Life)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of temsirolimus followed by a randomized
      phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive temsirolimus intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8,
      15, and 22; rituximab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 (of courses 1 and 4
      only); and bortezomib IV or subcutaneously (SC) and dexamethasone orally (PO) on days 1, 8,
      and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive rituximab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 (of courses
      1 and 4 only) and bortezomib IV or SC and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and
      rituximab, bortezomib, and dexamethasone as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then yearly for 5 years.
    
  