
    
      The BOLERO-2 study demonstrated an enormous benefit for patients who received everolimus in
      addition to exemestane in patients who progressed during/after a non steroidal (NSAI), which
      led to approval of everolimus in this indication. However, experience from routine use report
      a high rate of intolerability of this innovative treatment approach especially during the
      first 12 weeks of treatment. Most common side effect is mucositis/Mucositis which is
      considered the leading cause for treatment discontinuation not related to tumor progression.

      This outside clinical trial experience is contrary to findings from BOLERO-2, where the
      number of patients still taking full-dose (10mg) of everolimus at 4, 8, and 12 weeks is
      77.8%, 75.6%, and 75.6%, respectively. These findings are in concordance with
      non-interventional studies. However, findings might be biased by positive pre-selection.

      In the non-responder part (setting III) of the neoadjuvant GeparQuinto study, everolimus was
      given as salvage treatment in combination with paclitaxel for patients without response to 4
      cycles epirubicin/cyclophosphamide +/- bevacizumab. A dose-escalation schema was successfully
      used to improve tolerability of everolimus together with the cytotoxic agent. In fact the
      addition of everolimus to paclitaxel led only to increases of grades 1-4 leukopenia, grades
      1-2 thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, skin changes and hyperlipidemia. Grades 3-4 hematological
      and nonhematological toxic effects were infrequent with no differences between treatment
      arms.

      Moreover, Ravaud et al performed a metaanalysis of clinical trials in order to evaluate the
      potential relationship between everolimus exposure, safety and efficacy. Previous studies
      have shown that maximum everolimus concentrations are reached 1-2 hours after administering
      5-70 mg oral doses, maximum everolimus concentrations increase in a dose-proportional manner
      between 5 mg and 10 mg and that continuous 5-10 mg once-daily dosing enables steady state to
      be achieved within 1 week.

      The metaanalysis shows that a two-fold increase in the minimum concentration of everolimus
      increased the probability of tumor size reduction (odds ratio 1.4), which was associated with
      a trend for reduced risk of PFS events (risk ratio [RR] 0.9), but with an increased risk of
      grade 3 pulmonary toxicity (RR1.93), Mucositis (RR 1.49), and metabolic toxicity (RR 1.3).

      Taking together these results suggest a dose-dependent antitumor effect of everolimus that
      have to be balanced against the correlated increased toxicities. For this reason the optimal
      dose and schedule need to be explored within randomized prospective clinical trial, in order
      to increase compliance and tolerability, maximizing efficacy.
    
  