
    
      Purpose and background Breast cancer is the most common cancer in Danish women, and has an
      average of 4,750 new cases a year (1). Patients treated for early (non-metastatic) breast
      cancer (EBC) comprise, due to earlier diagnosis and improved treatment, a large and growing
      group of cancer survivors. However, many patients experience treatment-related endocrine
      side-effects such as reduced bone mineral density (BMD), dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and
      hypertension increasing the risk of bone fractures as well risk of development of
      cardiometabolic disease including Type 2 diabetes (T2D).

      The purpose of the study is to understand the underlying physiological and molecular
      mechanisms responsible for the chemotherapy-induced bone and cardiometabolic derangements to
      identify novel disease mechanisms as well as to identify potential biomarkers to be used for
      better prediction and prevention of metabolic disease.

      Objectives:

      In a cohort of women (n=120) with EBC to assess (WP1):

      • Bone metabolism, body composition, insulin resistance, neuropathy, bone mineral density
      (BMD) and lung function before chemotherapy, after chemotherapy and during five years
      follow-up.

      Background Patients treated for EBC comprise, due to earlier diagnosis and improved
      treatment, a large and growing group of cancer survivors. However, there might be unintended
      complications associated with the treatment, since patients experience treatment-related
      endocrine side-effects including an average weight gain of approximately 5 kg primarily
      reflected by an increase in fat mass and a decrease in muscle mass and thus change in body
      composition (2, 3). Besides less physical activity contributing to weight gain,
      (neo-)adjuvant chemotherapy and anti-estrogen treatment administered to prevent disease
      recurrence, may cause sarcopenia, increased appetite, reduced basal metabolic rate and
      altered whole-body metabolism (4, 5). Obesity is not only a risk factor for breast cancer
      development but also a risk factor for recurrence of breast cancer (6, 7). In addition to
      increased weight, several studies have reported increased fasting glucose, insulin and
      adipokine levels, increased lipids, increased insulin resistance (homeostatic model
      assessment (HOMA-IR)) as well as hypertension in response to chemotherapy (3, 5, 8, 9). All
      together these metabolic changes may induce a prediabetic phenotype associated with increased
      risk of developing cardiometabolic disease including Type 2 diabetes as well as cancer
      recurrence (10).

      Patients with estrogen receptor positive early breast cancer may be sensitive to antihormonal
      therapy. For postmenopausal women, a common adjuvant hormonal therapy is with an aromatase
      inhibitor (AI) for five years (11). However, treatment with AIs is associated with reduction
      in BMD and increase in fracture risk due to accelerated bone resorption from estrogen
      suppression (12-16). Previous studies reported the highest rates of bone loss during the
      first year of AI treatment (17). Additionally, it has been shown that the increased bone
      resorption and bone loss with regard to AI can be prevented and managed with lifestyle
      changes, calcium and vitamin-D supplementation and the use of anti-resorptive medication
      (18-22).

      Women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer (BC) have an 88% 5-year survival, and if
      hormone-receptor-positive EBC, this is even higher and underscores the importance of ensuring
      that therapeutic interventions do not confer long-term morbidity.

      The underlying cause for the changes in body composition during chemotherapy has not been
      well described and likewise has the underlying physiological and molecular mechanisms
      responsible for the cardio-metabolic derangements not been described either. Understanding
      the underlying causes and impact of treatment-related metabolic disease, will allow
      clinicians to initiate interventions to prevent, that these otherwise healthy women develop
      metabolic disease secondary to cancer treatment. This will in turn improve quality of life
      and reduced morbidity and mortality.

      Methods Subjects Postmenopausal women age 50-75 years diagnosed with EBC stage I-III eligible
      to receive (neo-)adjuvant chemotherapy or other adjuvant antineoplastic treatments Exclusion
      criteria include prior malignancy, preexisting T2D or other metabolic disease. The women will
      be recruited via the Department of Oncology at Rigshospitalet, Denmark.

      Examinations

      A cohort of 120 EBC women (WP1) will be followed from time of diagnosis through treatment and
      five years follow-up during AI treatment. Examinations will be performed either every six
      months or once a year, alongside routine visits and include:

      WP1 (n=120)

        -  Blood samples (safety biochemistry, buffy coat (DNA), calcium homeostasis, bone markers,
           glucose, insulin and lipid levels, adipokines and inflammation markers

        -  Anthropometry (height, weight, waist/hip ratio)

        -  Neuropathy test by RR-interval-variation-analysis and vibration test

        -  Spirometry

        -  Questionnaires: food frequency (FFQ), physical activity (IPAQ)

        -  DXA scanning of body composition (GE Electric) and bone mass (Hologic)

        -  Urine

        -  App "Bone@BC"

      Bone mineral density (BMD)/trabecular bone score (TBS) BMD is measured at the lumbar spine
      (mean of L2-L4), femoral neck and total hip on both sides using DXA (Hologic DiscoveryTM QDR
      Series scanner). DXA accurately determines 2 dimensional BMD (g/cm2) and detects patients at
      a heightened risk for osteoporotic fracture (23). The (unitless) calculated TBS is a novel,
      readily available, non-invasive clinical technique based on DXA images of the LS that
      provides a surrogate measure of the 3 dimensional microarchitecture of the skeleton (24). A
      high correlation between the TBS and CT42addressed microarchitecture has been observed (25),
      and the TBS is less influenced by the presence of osteoarthritis than BMD (26).

      The same laboratory technician will perform all analyses. According to the manufacturer, the
      CV (coefficient of variation) of the total BMD is approximately 1% (Europe H. Hologic
      Osteoporosis Assesment. Reference Manual. 2006; Document No. Man-00214Revision 006).

      Bone@BC app A newly developed app "Bone@BC" from RegionH that will be used by all women, is a
      guide and data collection app addressed to women with breast cancer receiving adjuvant
      anti-estrogen treatment. The app collects data on patient experiences (1. quality of life
      measures i.e. mobility, power/energy, mood, social contact and 2. measures of possible
      side-effects i.e. pain, dizziness, sleep) and from i.e. DXA-scanning, blood markers of bone
      turn-over and other biochemical measures. The specific data collection is for patient use,
      and can if approved by the patient, be part of the patient-caretaker-MD collaboration within
      the confines of this research study. The Bone@BC app will, with regard to patients in the
      study, only collect data for use in the study. The Bone@BC app has approved integration of
      app data with Region Security Requirements and is an official RegionH App legally approved at
      all levels (Nem-ID login, informed consent, approved by Datatilsynet).

      Biological material Blood samples: Blood samples are obtained via venipuncture and processed
      at the central laboratory following routine procedures at Rigshospitalet.

      Five ml urine will be stored in the biobank for metabolomics analysis.

      Research biobank The biological material will be used for molecular analyses as described in
      the present protocol. These analyses including statistics will take place in a 10-year period
      after initiation of the project. After 10 years the biological material will be transferred
      to a research biobank at Rigshospitalet for future metabolic research. Participants will be
      made aware of this in the information material. The use of these samples would require
      re-approval of the Research Ethics Committee of the Capital Region. The establishment of a
      biobank has been approved by the Data Protection Agency.

      Statistical considerations Based on literature studies the large cohort is estimated to
      include 120 enrolled EBC patients based on a power calculation of 80 finalizing the study
      (drop-out rate ~33% at year 5).

      Side effects, risks and inconveniences During the examinations, there will be a temporary
      discomfort when applying peripheral venous catheters (venflon). In addition, blood tests are
      always associated with a risk of infection. All tissue samples will be excised by a trained
      professional, and the research team has comprehensive experience with blood and tissue
      sampling.

      The total blood loss at each examination will not exceed 20 ml. Radiation from the DXA scan
      (DXA, TBS and Vertebral Fracture Assessment) is equivalent to 0.06 mRem and considered quite
      harmless. In comparison, a conventional X-ray image of the heart and lungs has a beam volume
      of approx. 30 mRem (0.3 mSv), and the annual background radiation in Denmark is about 300
      mRem (3 mSv), corresponding to 0.8 mRem (0.008 mSv) daily.

      If for any unforeseen reason, doubt arises about the health and security of the subject the
      study will be terminated immediately.

      G. Data security All personal information regarding the participants will be protected by the
      "Lov om behandling af personlige oplysninger og Sundhedsloven". The protocol will be
      performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki II, and has been approved by the
      Data Protection Agency. Analysis of biological material can possibly take place in Europe
      and/or in the United States. In such cases, the analyses will be conducted under the
      receiving country's laws and regulations, and in accordance with "Lov om behandling af
      personoplysninger".

      Patient files will be used to check standard biochemistry tests. In addition due to the long
      observation period and the potential for relapse due to the underlying condition, it will be
      necessary to check patient files to maintain the security of the patients. Therefore consent
      from the patient will give the involved researchers access to the electronic patient files.

      H. Financing Senior scientist, PhD. Charlotte Brøns and professor, dr.med. Peter Schwarz are
      responsible for initiating the research project. Neither have any conflicts of interest to
      declare.

      Compensation There will not be given any compensation to patients participating in the study.

      Recruitment All subjects will be recruited consecutively from the Department of Oncology, the
      breast cancer section, at Rigshospitalet, Denmark until 120 EBC patients have been included.
      All information given before consent is signed, will be to a researcher.

      Publication and dissemination strategy The scientific results obtained from the study,
      whether positive, negative or inconclusive, will be written up in original manuscripts to
      become submitted to peer-reviewed international journals in the field. The results will
      furthermore be disseminated in oral presentations as well as in poster forms at relevant
      national and international meetings.

      Ethical considerations Before entering the study, all individuals will receive oral and
      written information, and there will be a written consent to participate in the study. A
      unique subject ID number will be subscribed to all participants to anonymize data. The
      identification key (ID to personal information) will be encrypted and stored securely and
      separately from the unique ID number on a secure database, to ensure that no information on
      the participant can be assigned to the ID number. All data will automatically be backed up on
      a secure server. Only the research team will have access to the data. Neither the absolute
      nor the relative risk will be of unjustifiable size or of irresponsible character considering
      the impact of the study. The participants will gain information about personal health status.
      The current study provides an innovative and highly promising study approach to understanding
      metabolic and bone changes after adjuvant cancer treatments in early non-metastatic breast
      cancer.

      If necessary, participants are covered by the insurance of Rigshospitalet.
    
  