
    
      Introduction:

        -  Despite the widespread use of pharmacological and/or interventional reperfusion
           therapies, recovery of cardiac function in myocardial infarction patients is often
           modest or in some cases absent. Unlike classical re-perfusion therapies, which must be
           delivered before irreversible cardiac damage has occurred, the use of progenitor cells
           could potentially restore functional tissue in regions that otherwise would form only
           scar. A number of clinical trials have been performed, mainly using autologous bone
           marrow cells, and these suggest a significant albeit modest improvement in cardiac
           function post MI. However, a major limitation of autologous cell therapy in patients
           with cardiovascular disease is the deleterious influence of age and other cardiac risk
           factors on progenitor cell activity, which may limit greatly the potential efficacy of
           this promising approach.

      Trial Design:

        -  The Enhanced Angiogenic Cell Therapy - Acute Myocardial Infarction (ENACT-AMI) trial is
           a Canadian, 5-center, phase IIb, double-blind, parallel, randomized placebo controlled
           trial assessing the safety and efficacy of cell and gene therapy for patients with
           moderate to large anterior STEMI and who have undergone re-vascularization with stent
           implantation to the infarct related artery (IRA). The anticipated recruitment target is
           100 patients over a two-year period.

        -  Consenting participants who qualify during the screening process, will undergo
           apheresis. Randomization, through a web-based system will take place immediately after
           successful apheresis. The cell collection samples will be sent to a cell manufacturing
           facility for manufacturing according to the treatment allocation of: a)Placebo
           (Plasma-Lyte A & 25% autologous plasma), b)EPCs or c)EPCs transfected with human
           endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS).

        -  Approximately 5-7 days later, the patient will receive the randomized treatment
           allocation via intracoronary injection into the IRA. Participants will remain in
           hospital overnight for continuous cardiac monitoring. The first post-delivery visit will
           take place the following morning before hospital discharge. Subsequent study visits will
           be clinic visits at 1 week, 1, 3 and 6 months after study treatment. Subsequently, a
           registry to collect long-term safety information from telephone contacts will continue
           annually for 10 years. During the registry period, participants will be allowed to
           volunteer for enrolment in other clinical trials.
    
  