
    
      The two specific aims of the research study are as follows: 1) Proof of concept with two
      parts. Firstly, the study plan is to prove that T cells that are very commonly involved in
      the immune response: CD2, CD3, CD4, and CD8 populations can be captured. These cells will be
      captured, lysed and their mRNA genomics will be mapped. The second part of the proof of
      concept will involve exposing the CD2, CD3, CD4 and CD8 populations ex vivo to various serum
      concentrations of tacrolimus - the main cornerstone immunosuppressive medication in solid
      organ transplant. Exposure of the three cell types to the various tacrolimus concentrations
      will demonstrate that there is testing that can detect mRNA transcripts corresponding to
      under, optimal and over immunosuppressed states. The quantify IL2 production of the three
      cell types under the various immunosuppressive conditions will then be measured. With these 2
      parts of the first specific aim of the study, a technique that can readily and easily isolate
      the cell populations of interest from the transplant patients and can capture how these cell
      populations respond to immunosuppression at various concentrations will have been
      demonstrated. 2) The second specific aim of the research study is running this genomic
      profiling on kidney transplant recipients. For this portion of the study, there will be two
      cohorts. A cohort identified as the "prospective" group and a cohort labeled as the "event"
      group. For the prospective cohort, blood will be obtained from the patients at specific time
      points. Specifically, blood samples will be obtained in the pre-transplant setting when the
      patients present to the hospital for their transplant, then at post-kidney transplant day 0,
      1, 2, 3 and 7 (+/- 1 day) and at day 14, 21, and 28 (+/-3 days). Blood samples will be
      obtained again at months 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 (+/- 1 week ). For the second group, blood
      samples will be obtained at the time of "events", such as rejection, infection, etc., and
      apply the same series of tests to their blood. For this group, blood draws will be done at
      time 0(+/-1 day), at then at one week (+/-2 days), and at one, two and three months (+/-1
      week) post time 0. There will be five blood samples collected per patient. For all patients,
      there will be a comparison of the standard collected clinical information on the patient -
      graft function, rejection, infection, immunosuppression levels - to the results of our
      transcriptomics. The culmination of the project will involve revealing how genomics of the
      specific types of T cells can more precisely reflect a patient's true immunosuppressed state
      by corresponding to high, optimal and low immunosuppressive clinical phenotypes, and thus
      allow transplant clinicians to more intelligently and accurately administer immunosuppressive
      medications.

      This study will involve obtaining blood samples on the kidney transplant patients at the time
      in which they would otherwise have blood collected for standard clinical care. Consent will
      be obtained for the testing on their blood, but the patients will not suffer any additional
      pain or inconvenience of the testing. In coordination with the equipment and supplies
      currently being used by the trauma and critical care department's research, the investigators
      will organize the collection and running of the labs in a time efficient and minimally
      expensive way
    
  