
    
      Background:

        -  T cell large granular lymphocyte (T-LGL) leukemia is a chronic lymphoproliferative
           disorder associated with granulocytopenia, anemia and/or thrombocytopenia.

        -  Although agents such as cyclosporine and methotrexate have shown activity in T-LGL,
           treatment of T-LGL has remained largely undefined and symptomatic.

        -  The shared IL-2R/Il-15R Beta receptor (CD122) is over expressed on T-LGL cells and may
           stimulate growth T-LGL cells through its interaction with IL-15.

        -  Hu-Mik-Beta1 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to IL-2R/IL-15R Beta

        -  Hu-Mik-Beta1 may inhibit the growth and exert cytotoxic activity against T-LGL cells.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
           Hu-Mik-Beta1 when administered to patients with T-LGL.

        -  To determine the dose of Hu-Mik-Beta1 required to saturate IL-2R/IL-15R Beta (CD122) on
           -T-LGL cells in the peripheral blood.

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics and serum die-away curve of Hu-Mik-Beta1.

        -  To provide preliminary information on the clinical response following single dose
           administration of Hu-MiK-Beta1 in patients with CD122 expressing T-LGL leukemia.

      Eligibility:

      --T cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia (T-LGL).

      Patients must have a granulocyte count of less than 1000/microL, or hemoglobin less than 10
      gm/dL, or be transfusion dependent, or platelets less than 100,000/ microL, or any
      combination of these unless receiving a hematopoietic growth factor.

        -  T-LGL cell count greater than or equal to 1000/microL (CD3 plus/CD8 plus/usually CD57
           plus) by flow cytometry.

        -  Patients may be receiving a stable dose of a hematopoietic growth factor.

      Design:

        -  Cohorts of 3 patients each will be treated with a single intravenous dose of
           Hu-Mik-Beta1 at 0.5, 1.0 or 1.5 mg/kg.

        -  Patients will be observed for adverse events for 6-weeks.

        -  Detailed pharmacokinetic studies and determination of CD122 receptor saturation will be
           performed.

        -  Response will be evaluated using hematological, flow cytometry, molecular and clinical
           evaluations.

        -  An additional 3 patients will be accrued at the highest dose or MTD to aid in design of
           a Phase II trial.

        -  Patients participating in Phase I will also be eligible to participate in Phase II.
    
  