
    
      Background:

      Modern approach to liver injured patients favours non-operative management of liver injury
      (NOMLI) including endovascular artery occlusion. Numerous studies over the past two decades
      have confirmed the feasibility of NOMLI in up to 95% of hemodynamically stable patients with
      blunt trauma mechanisms. To further improve the outcome of patients with hepatic injuries,
      investigations should focus on the overall morbidity and mortality of NOMLI. Purely
      hepatic-related complication rates in most series are low, ranging from 0-7% and parallel the
      grade of liver lesion. But the majority of patients included in those studies suffered
      low-grade liver injuries (LI). Regarding the safety of NOMLI in high grade lesions, the
      results may be biased. Complications in patients with high-grade LI are more frequent and
      their management is considerably more complex. Regarding the sparsely available literature
      focussing on the morbidity of NOMLI in high grade LI, hepatic-related complication rates of
      11 and 13% have been described. Only the LI grade and the amount of packed red blood cell
      (PRBC) transfusion at 24 hours postinjury predicted hepatic-related complications. No data is
      available concerning the impact of collateral intra- and extra-abdominal damage on
      complications of NOMLI in those patients. Of note, up to 75% of patients with LI suffer from
      collateral intra- and extra-abdominal lesions. These injuries vary in their surgical
      importance but severe complications and to the LI independent laparotomies must be expected
      in a significant number of patients. Rates of such nonspecific laparotomies have been
      described in up to 20% of patients with hepatic trauma. Over the past decade, overall
      mortality of liver injured patients remained relatively constant, averaging between 10-15%.
      This mortality rate represents deaths of all causes in the clinical course of these complex
      trauma patients. There are studies which already suggested, that early deaths in patients
      with LI also were caused by uncontrolled bleedings from associated intra- and extra-abdominal
      injuries, and that most late deaths result from collateral head injuries and sepsis with
      multi-organ-failure (MOF). But no detailed data about the occurrence of extra-abdominal
      complications after NOMLI has been published so far.

      Objective:

      We first hypothesized that NOMLI can be safely achieved also in high-grade liver injured
      patients, the management of trauma patients with LI mainly consist of the treatment of
      collateral damages and their complications, and causes of death are in the majority of cases
      not liver related. A retrospective study involving 183 patients with blunt hepatic injuries
      was therefore carried out to investigate these hypotheses.

      Methods:

      The study was conducted at the Bern University Hospital, Switzerland between January 2000 and
      December 2006. An average of 286 (range, 204-344) multiple injured patients were treated in
      our level I trauma centre each year. Only blunt liver injured patients were included. All
      charts (including surgery and autopsy reports) were reviewed retrospectively. Demographic
      data collected included age, gender, mechanism of injury. Injury patterns were defined by the
      Abbreviated Injury Score (AIS) and Injury Severity Score (ISS). The grade of hepatic injury
      was determined by an experienced radiologist and by two experienced hepatobiliary surgeons in
      parallel based on contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan findings (Siemens® Somatom
      Sensation 16) or by laparotomy according to the American Association for the Surgery of
      Trauma Organ Injury Scale for hepatic injuries. For the current study, high-grade injuries
      were considered grades 3 to 5. Other data collected included the number and types of surgical
      procedures, hepatic-related and overall complications, and causes of deaths. All patients
      were managed and resuscitated using the protocols outlined in the Advanced Trauma Life
      Support (ATLS) manual of the American College of Surgeons Committee on Trauma. NOMLI was
    
  