
    
      Pregnancies conceived within 18 months of a prior delivery (termed short inter-pregnancy
      interval [IPI]) place mothers and infants at high risk for poor health outcomes including
      pre-eclampsia, anemia, and preterm birth. Despite these negative health consequences, nearly
      one third of women experience a short IPI, highlighting a significant public health problem
      in the U.S. A critical approach to preventing short IPIs is to provide postpartum (PP) women
      with timely access to contraception. The current standard clinical practice is to have women
      return six weeks after delivery for a postpartum visit, at which time contraceptive needs are
      addressed. However, many women resume sexual activity prior to six weeks PP, and many women,
      particularly low-income minority women, do not present for this visit. Low rates of
      postpartum contraception uptake leave women vulnerable to an unplanned pregnancy and
      significant negative health consequences. Thus, there is an urgent need for alternative
      approaches to increase timely access to PP contraception to improve outcomes for women and
      children.

      The proposed study aims to:

        1. develop a comprehensive implementation plan to link PP contraception and newborn care
           through co-scheduling visits in community health centers (CHC);

        2. use an effectiveness- implementation hybrid design to evaluate this novel system-level
           approach to linking maternal and newborn care at CHCs served by our partner
           organization, AllianceChicago and;

        3. assess implementation of linked PP contraception and newborn care and report on key
           barriers and facilitators related to successful implementation of the intervention.

      Increasing access to timely contraception is a promising strategy to help women plan their
      families and, in turn, reduce the poor health sequela associated with short IPI pregnancies.
      The long-term impact of this study is to reduce negative health outcomes among PP women and
      infants by increasing access to patient-oriented PP contraceptive care. Findings may provide
      evidence supporting a paradigm shift for linked PP care and identify important insights to
      facilitate successful implementation of this model of care in CHCs across the nation.
    
  