
    
      Loss of an arm or leg is a significant injury that affects a person's job prospects, personal
      relationships, and overall quality of life. Approximately 25% of all amputees will develop
      chronic local pain in the remaining part of their amputated limb. This pain is caused by
      neuromas- disorganized nerve endings and scar tissue that form when an injured nerve tries to
      heal. Every cut nerve will develop a neuroma unless the two ends of the nerve can be
      rejoined. With limb amputation, the nerves are cut and one end is lost with the limb,
      preventing the nerve from repairing itself. Instead, the cut nerve ending forms a painful
      neuroma. Chronic pain from neuromas is a major reason that amputees cannot wear or use their
      prostheses comfortably and increases their disability.

      Even when a limb is amputated, the nerves that used to control that limb still carry messages
      from the brain. Those messages are intended to tell the muscles how or when to move the
      missing limb, but after amputation, these limb-control nerves are no longer connected to
      muscles. In 2002, researchers at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in conjunction with the
      Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago developed a new type of surgery called targeted muscle
      reinnervation (TMR). In TMR, limb-control nerves are transferred so that they can control new
      target muscles. The neuromas from the limb-control nerves are removed, then the small nerve
      that controls the target muscle is cut. The two nerves are joined together so that the
      limb-control nerve can then grow into, or reinnervate the target muscle. After TMR, when the
      person tries to move the missing limb, the target muscle contracts instead and these signals
      can be detected and used to control a prosthesis. TMR has now been done successfully almost
      100 times worldwide. Interestingly, almost all of the patients who had painful neuromas
      before TMR had no neuroma pain after surgery. This result was investigated in laboratory
      studies - both rat and rabbit amputee neuromas were "cured" with TMR. We think that giving
      the cut nerve endings somewhere to go and something to do prevents a neuroma from forming.

      We will measure the effectiveness of both surgeries using an internet-based amputee pain
      questionnaire. We expect that TMR will be more effective for neuroma pain and prosthesis
      control than the standard treatment. This will change how patients with neuroma pain are
      treated and help thousands of patients with amputations.
    
  