
    
      The group antenatal care intervention aims to improve rates of institutional birth and ANC
      care completion via improving acceptability of group care, maternal and neonatal health
      knowledge, self-efficacy, social support, and birth planning.

      Objective 1: Assess the effect of group antenatal care on institutional birth rates through a
      prospective study using community household census data. Secondary outcomes will be
      completion of basic ANC package; neonatal mortality rate; percentage of preterm births;
      percentage of stillbirths; and percentage of small-for-gestational age (SGA) births.

        -  Hypothesis 1: Group ANC will increase institutional birth rates by 25% over one year.

        -  Hypothesis 2: Group ANC will increase completion of 4 ANC visits by 25% over one year.

        -  Hypothesis 3: Group ANC will reduce neonatal mortality rate by 25% over one year.

        -  Hypothesis 4: Group ANC will reduce the percentage of preterm births by 25% over one
           year.

        -  Hypothesis 5: Group ANC will reduce the percentage of stillbirths by 25% over one year.

        -  Hypothesis 6: Group ANC will reduce the percentage of SGA births by 25% over one year.

      Objective 2: Assess the mechanisms of implementation of group antenatal care through
      quantitative participant survey measures, qualitative focus group discussions and key
      informant interviews.

        -  Hypothesis 1: Group antenatal care will be acceptable to participants and providers, and
           preferred to individual care.

        -  Hypothesis 2: Group antenatal care will increase pregnant patients' access to and
           utilization of delivery services through improved knowledge, self-efficacy, social
           support and birth planning.

      Objective 3: Report on key aspects of the implementation process: costs, human resources,
      logistics, and fidelity of the group antenatal program to model content and participatory
      processes.
    
  