
    
      1.1 BACKGROUND In 2014, academics at the University of Liverpool Management School who are
      service quality researchers were approached by East Cheshire Hospice (ECH). ECH provides
      specialist palliative care for people with progressive life-limiting illnesses, providing
      services to patients, carers and families via inpatient and outpatient units and day
      facilities. ECH strives for excellence in service and the patient experience. Anecdotal
      stories and other forms of feedback provided plenty of evidence that the work of the hospice
      was meaningful. However, ECH did not have any systematic, robust way of capturing these
      experiences. Hence, while ECH was often told it had transformed the experience of patient's
      at the most critical time in their lives and that it was needed and appreciated by many
      service users, there was nothing but anecdotal evidence to back up this feedback. Worried
      that such superb feedback could actually lead to complacency, the team at ECH commissioned
      the University to undertake a 'deep-dive' of the impact of hospice services upon the
      different inpatient and outpatient service users associated with ECH.

      The team, comprising Prof Philippa Hunter-Jones and Dr. Lynn Sudbury-Riley, designed a new
      qualitative research technique to follow the user's experience at every touchpoint in their
      journey. In 2015, interviews with 38 in-patients, outpatients, visitors and bereaved families
      enabled a 'deep-dive' to uncover perceptions of the whole service experience among these
      diverse users. Results of this new approach suggested the technique fully captures the
      hospice experience and suggests areas for improvements to hospice services. Indeed, the
      results of the study have informed the strategy and operations of ECH, and, mindful of
      continuous improvement, ECH have requested that the exercise is repeated.

      Other hospices heard of the success of this work and the team were commissioned by Oakhaven
      Hospice in Hampshire to work with them, too. Additionally, based on the success of the
      project, the project was shortlisted by the school for a REF impact case, and the team were
      awarded funding to repeat the project in further hospice and palliative care settings.

      The Academic Palliative Care Unit on 4Y at RLBUHT was one of the palliative care units to be
      evaluated next. From the service evaluation project on 4Y grew the novel idea to use the TTT
      as part of the Advanced Care Planning (ACP) conversation lead by clinicians. ACP is not
      consistently carried out for all patients that might have a need. There is also not a
      consistent way in which ACP is conducted to ensure quality is maintained within the patient
      centric approach.

      1.2 RATIONALE FOR CURRENT STUDY Advance Care Planning (ACP) is the process of making choices
      and plans in regards of future care for patients with life limiting disease, particularly
      those who may lose the capacity to communicate. ACP has been shown to positively impact on
      the quality of end-of-life care, yet few (only 6-8%) have a completed formal ACP: a result of
      patients' anxieties about discussing future care issues and clinicians' concerns over
      responsibility and starting a "difficult" conversation.

      This project will test a new methodology, the Trajectory Touchpoint Technique - a
      visual/pictorial technique - that aids difficult conversation. In a recent trial, the
      technique has successfully enabled patients to direct in-depth and sensitive conversations
      regarding their experiences of Hospice care. This technique exhibits the potential to
      overcome barriers in ACP discussions, enabling patients to direct the conversation at their
      pace/level of comfort, and empowering clinicians to sensitively facilitate depth and detail.
      Therefore the research question is: Is the Trajectory Touchpoint Technique a feasible
      intervention to support Advance Care Planning in patients/families with advanced cancer.

      1.3 THE TRAJECTORY TOUCHPOINT TECHNIQUE The Trajectory Touchpoint Technique uses the concept
      of touchpoints; anything that fosters or impacts experiences. Touchpoints are any potentially
      important issue that a participant may wish to talk about. It is important to stress that a
      touchpoint is only valid if it is considered to be so by the participant. Potential
      touchpoints can be big or small, tangible or intangible. Rich pictures, in the form of
      cartoons and easy to recognise signs and symbols are used to reference potentially important
      touchpoints. Such rich picture methodologies are particularly appropriate for complex
      research situations where multiple forces and interactions between those forces are present,
      and can capture and elucidate potential influences that may otherwise remain hidden.

      The technique uses a qualitative, narrative data collection method and touchpoints are
      grouped together into key stages or themes. These groups of cartoon touchpoints are presented
      on an I-Pad/Electronic Tablet or printed onto large laminated cards and used as a prompt/aide
      memoire to guide discussion. Figure 1 provides an example of one group of touchpoints used to
      collect data on the experiences of care in a children's hospice.

      Prior use of the technique with over 200 palliative care patients and their families
      demonstrates that the cartoons make people smile and help people to relax, even when the
      content of the discussion is distressing. Patients and their families are free to choose from
      the range of touchpoints, and to add anything else that they may see fit. Importantly, the
      pictures guide the discussion, making difficult discussions easier as there is a greatly
      reduced need for probing and/or pre-determined clinician led questioning. Touchpoints remind
      people of things that they may have otherwise omitted from the discussion. Our experience
      suggests that the technique enables a 'deep dive' into the feelings, fears and wishes of
      palliative care patients and their families, aids systematic and comprehensive data
      collection, yet is very easy to use and understand.
    
  