
    
      When treatment with pADT is initiated in case of mHSPC, the sensitivity to castration will
      eventually disappear due to the out-selection of castration-refractory clones. At that
      moment, the stage of mCRPC is attained. In the setting of mCRPC, clinical and iconographic
      progression (and to a lesser extent biochemical progression) traditionally implies a switch
      to a next-line systemic treatment (NEST). However, within the group of these progressive
      patients, there is a subgroup showing oligoprogressive disease, which is defined as the
      progression of a limited number of metastatic spots, whereas the majority of metastases is
      controlled by the systemic therapy the patient is receiving at that time. This heterogeneous
      response to treatment reflects the heterogeneity of the clonogenic cells that give rise to
      mCRPC. The hypothesis of this trial is that treatment with MDT of these oligoprogressive
      lesions allow patients to remain on their current systemic therapy, thereby delaying the need
      for NEST.

      A multicentric retrospective chart analysis on MDT for oligoprogressive CRPC has been
      conductedat previously the UZ Leuven together with UZ Gent (doi: 10.1016/j.euo.2019.08.012.).
      A total of 30 patients with oligoprogressive CRPC were selected for further analysis. In this
      population, after a median follow-up of 17 months (IQR 9;25), the median NEST-FS in the MDT
      group was 16 months (95% CI: 10-22 months). The median progression free survival (PFS) was 10
      months (95% CI: 6-15 months). Subsequently, the investigators selected within the MDT group
      those cases who received SBRT or surgery (metastasectomy), as these patients will be the
      subjects in this phase 2 trial. There was a median NEST-free survival of 21 months (CI 95%
      12-21 months) and a median PFS of 10 months (95% CI: 6-14 months). SBRT or surgery-related
      toxicity was minor, with limited grade 1 and 2 toxicity and only one patient experiencing
      late grade 3 GU/GI toxicity after treatment for local relapse in the prostate.

      These findings of this retrospective analysis clearly show the need for further prospective
      investigation. Therefore, this prospective phase 2 trial was initiated in patients with
      oligoprogressive mCRPC who will receive MDT. If the primary tumor has not been treated yet,
      local treatment will be added. Ongoing systemic treatment will be continued until
      progression. The trial is explorative and still hypothesis generating. The results from this
      trial will serve as a guidance for a randomized phase 3 trial in the near future.
    
  