
    
      It will be carried out a randomized, triple-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

      Forty-eight volunteers will be randomly allocated to four experimental groups:

        1. PBMT before the strength training sessions and PBMT during the detraining period;

        2. PBMT before the strength training sessions and placebo during the detraining period;

        3. Placebo before the strength training sessions and PBMT during the detraining period;

        4. Placebo before the strength training sessions and placebo during the detraining period .

      The individuals randomly allocated to the different groups will be subjected to 12
      consecutive weeks of dynamic strength training involving leg-press and knee extension
      exercises in leg-press and leg-extension machines, respectively, 2 times a week.After the
      12-week training period, the volunteers will receive the application of PBMT or placebo
      depending on the group to which they are allocated for 4 weeks (2 times a week) without
      training.

      The data will be collected by a blind assessor. It will be analyzed the muscular strength and
      the structural properties of quadriceps before starting the study (baseline), at 4, 8, and 12
      weeks after starting the training period, and at 4 weeks after completing the training
      (detraining period), in both lower limbs.

      The findings will be tested for their normality using the Shapiro-Wilk test. Parametric data
      will be expressed as mean and standard deviation and non-parametric data as median and
      respective upper and lower limits. Parametric data will be analyzed by two-way repeated
      measures analysis of variance (ANOVA; time versus experimental group) with post-hoc
      Bonferroni correction. Non-parametric data will be analyzed using the Friedman test and,
      secondarily, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Data will be analyzed in terms of both their
      absolute values and their relationship to the percentage change based on the values
      established in the baseline tests. The significance level will be set at p<0.05.
    
  