
    
      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned into one of two treatment groups using a
      randomization table generated by a computer. The test group (10 sinuses) will receive
      Osteocel Plus and control group (10 sinuses) will receive conventional cortical-cancellous
      particulate allograft material. The objective of this research is to serve as a pilot study,
      gathering information that will guide the design of a larger subsequent study. Little is
      known about the distribution of bone quality changes in patients who receive Osteocel Plus
      graft to augment the maxillary sinus. Ten subjects per group is reasonable for a pilot study,
      providing an 89% probability of estimating the true mean for bone quality and implant
      stability to within half a standard deviation in each group. These means, along with the
      observed standard deviations and within-subject correlations that the investigators obtain
      will prove essential for designing the larger, confirmatory study that constitute the next
      phase of this research.

      A clinical radiographic/surgical guide will be fabricated for each patient to be used for
      CBCT scan prior to sinus augmentation procedure. The same clinical radiographic/surgical
      guide will be used for CBCT scan prior to the implant placement to measure the amount of bone
      regeneration following four months of healing at the exact sites. One line will measure the
      horizontal width and the other line will measure the vertical height. The horizontal width
      will be measured at a vertical height of 10 mm from the sinus floor in the sinus cavity based
      on the conventional average length of dental implant used in implant dentistry. The
      difference in the measurements for all surgical sites after the grafting procedure and before
      the implant placement will provide a clinical assessment of the amount of bone regeneration.

      Forty trephined core samples will be retrieved surgically from two areas of the grafted
      lateral window at the time of implant placement. One core sample will be retrieved from the
      anterior area, approximately 4 mm distal to the anterior tack which was used to fix the
      resorbable membrane, and the other one will be retrieved from the posterior area,
      approximately 4 mm mesial of the posterior tack which was used to fix the resorbable
      membrane. Histomorphometric analysis will be performed on three fields for each section using
      specialized software. Volume of vital bone, graft remnants, and connective tissue will be
      measured based on the averages of the percentages at a magnification of 63X. Data will be
      statistically analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS 13.0 for
      Windows software) program to compare between test and control groups.
    
  