
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To find a safe dose of vorinostat to be used in combination with R-CHOP (rituximab,
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and prednisone)
      (vorinostat-R-CHOP). (Phase I) II. To estimate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS)
      rate in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) treated with
      vorinostat and R-CHOP therapy (vorinostat-R-CHOP). (Phase II) III. To estimate the response
      rate (complete and partial) and 2-year overall survival rate. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate the
      toxicity of vorinostat-R-CHOP in patients with newly diagnosed DLBCL. (Phase II) V. To assess
      whether pre-treatment acetylation status of histones, expression of major histocompatibility
      complex (MHC) class II genes, and/or percentage of cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes correlate with progression-free survival. (Phase II) VI. To explore
      whether treatment with vorinostat-R-CHOP increases histone acetylation, alters expression of
      MHC class II proteins, or alters percentage of T-cell subsets (CD8+, CD4+, forkhead box P3
      [FOXP3]+) or infiltrating macrophages. (Phase II) VII. To explore whether histone acetylation
      status of tumor tissues correlates with MHC class II expression of peripheral blood B cells
      and lymphocyte subsets. (Phase II) VIII. To explore whether the change in systemic levels of
      immune cytokines with vorinostat-R-CHOP correlates with lymphoma symptoms, response,
      progression-free or overall survival. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of vorinostat followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily on days 1-5 or 1-9 (according to dose
      level), rituximab intravenously (IV), cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride IV, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 3. Patients also receive prednisone PO
      once daily on days 3-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years, and
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  