
    
      In the treatment of burn wounds polyhexanide and betaisodona (PVP-Iod) are regularly used
      today. They act as antiseptics, but both have drawbacks. Polyhexanide evaporates fast and
      therefore cools patients when applied to a large wound area. Moreover, it is known to reveal
      a gap for pseudomonas. On the other hand, the half-life of Betaisodona (PVP-Iod) ranges
      between several minutes and 12 hours. Further, its application causes intense pain, and it is
      cytotoxic. Other wound dressings involving silver are frequently used, too. However, they
      color the wounds, which might therefore not be properly assessed. Silver is also thought to
      be cytotoxic.

      New innovations are available today. In wound dressings with bound Silver ions wounds are not
      colored. Hydrolytic membranes keep the level of acidity low (acidic) and have therefore
      antiseptic effects that last until epithelialization of a second-degree burn wounds is
      completed. Medical honey is used in the treatment of chronic wounds and especially in
      pediatric surgery and oncology. Manuka honey from New Zealand is sterilized before
      application and is known to be less painful for the patient. Due to its acidic effect, it
      reduces germ numbers in the wounds. Honey can be left on the wound for more than one day, as
      well as hydrogel, that is also used for contaminated wounds.

      These new wound dressings are just used in a couple of Burn Units for the treatment of
      second-degree burns or split-skin grafted burns. However, the treatment of large burn wounds
      with older dressing regimes (e.g. PVP-Iod) cause intensive pain in every dressing change.

      Only a few studies pointing at new dressings in burn wounds can be found in the literature.
      None of them reveals a high quality randomized trial.

      The objective of this clinical investigation is a direct comparison of established and newer
      wound dressings with respect to epithelialization time, pain and the number of pathogenic
      microbe species. Besides, handling and cost are analyzed.

      This is a prospective, randomised, factorial, open clinical study. Endpoint assessment,
      primarily the time to epithelialization, for direct comparison of the dressings is performed
      in a blinded way. The aim of this study is to identify the advantages of each dressing.

      Every wound dressing will be used in every patient. The order from proximal to distal is
      varied so that every dressing is at every position in a balanced number of cases and has the
      same neighbor dressing in a balanced number of cases (Williams-Design). The order is assigned
      by randomisation. All comparisons of two wound dressing can be made using the same number of
      paired observations.

      Assessors of epithelialization time and germ burden are blinded to the wound dressing used.
    
  