
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the feasibility of "early" allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) for
      patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) high-grade myeloid neoplasms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate relapse-free survival (RFS), acute graft versus host disease (GVHD), treatment
      related mortality (TRM), event-free survival (EFS), overall survival (OS), and complete
      remission (with or without measurable disease) among patients who receive early HCT.
      Endpoints applicable to patients who don't receive early transplant (survival endpoints and
      remission) will also be estimated for all patients enrolled on the study.

      II. Assess factors that distinguish patients who receive early HCT from those who do not.

      III. Compare RFS, EFS, OS, acute GVHD, and TRM between patients in the feasibility study and
      matched patients who were transplanted with standard scheduling.

      IV. Demonstrate the feasibility of collecting patient-reported outcomes and resource
      utilization data for trial participants.

      V. Describe the outcomes of patients enrolled who went on to allogeneic HCT off-study.

      OUTLINE:

      RE-INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 0-5,
      mitoxantrone hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1-3, cladribine IV over
      2 hours on days 1-5, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days 1-5.

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Beginning 14-60 days after re-induction chemotherapy, patients receive
      fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2, melphalan IV on days -3 to -2,
      cyclosporine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) starting on day -3. Sirolimus PO BID starting on
      day -3 will be given to patients who have matched unrelated donors or mismatched unrelated
      donors. Patients >55 years or with significant co-morbidities will only receive melphalan IV
      on day -2 and will also receive total body irradiation (TBI) on day -1 or day 0.

      EARLY TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic HCT after conditioning regimen on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients with matched donors will receive mycophenolate mofetil PO three
      times daily (TID) on days 0-30, then twice a day (BID) until day 40; and cyclosporine PO BID
      on days -3 to 96, with a taper until day 150. Patients with matched unrelated donors also
      receive sirolimus PO BID on days -3 to 150, with a taper until day 180. Patients with
      mismatched unrelated donors will receive mycophenolate mofetil PO TID on days 0-30, then BID
      until day 100, with a taper until day 150; cyclosporine PO BID on days -3 to 150, then taper
      until day 180; and sirolimus BID PO days -3 to 180, then a taper until day 365.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  