
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of erectile function (defined as the ability to achieve and maintain
      an erection sufficient for intercourse without the use of pharmacological assistance) at 1
      year post-operatively in men undergoing BNS-RAP without the use of post-operative maintenance
      pharmacotherapy.

      II. To describe whether early post-operative maintenance pharmacotherapy Viagra can improve
      return of erectile function at 1 year post-operatively in patients undergoing BNS-RAP.

      III. To describe if early post-operative maintenance pharmacotherapy Viagra can decrease the
      time-to-return of erectile function in patients undergoing BNS-RAP.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe whether early post-operative maintenance pharmacotherapy MUSE can improve
      return of erectile function at 1 year post-operatively in patients undergoing BNS-RAP.

      II. To describe if early post-operative maintenance pharmacotherapy MUSE can decrease the
      time-to-return of erectile function in patients undergoing BNS-RAP.

      III. To compare sexual function quality of life in men undergoing early post-operative
      maintenance pharmacotherapy to those without early post-operative maintenance
      pharmacotherapy.

      IV. To compare the rate of potency at 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18 months in men using Viagra
      versus MUSE for early post-operative maintenance pharmacotherapy.

      V. To describe the dropout rate for MUSE maintenance pharmacotherapy secondary to urethral
      pain in men using 2% Lidocaine lubricant.

      VI. To describe if penile length is decreased following BNS-RAP. VII. To describe if penile
      length at one year is different in men who have return of potency versus those with no return
      of potency.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive 2 doses of intraurethral alprostadil prior to undergoing bilateral
      nerve-sparing robotic-assisted prostatectomy. Within 4 weeks after surgery, patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive intraurethral alprostadil once daily for up to 9 months in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive 3 doses of
      oral sildenafil citrate at least 48 hours apart monthly for up to 18 months.

      ARM II: Patients receive 3 doses of oral sildenafil citrate on 3 separate occasions at least
      48 hours apart monthly for 18 months.

      ARM III: Patients receive oral sildenafil citrate once daily for up to 9 months in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive 3 doses of
      oral sildenafil citrate at least 48 hours apart monthly for up to 18 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 18 months.
    
  