
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable cancer. The disease can often be brought to a halt with
      chemotherapy which in younger patients is accompanied by stem cell transplantation. But the
      disease relapses almost invariably. Cytogenetic changes in the myeloma cells can serve as
      prognostic markers. Accordingly, 25% of the patients show changes associated with a prognosis
      so poor that they should probably receive experimental treatment right from the start.
      Nevertheless, a part of these patients survive much longer than expected. Thus, the prognosis
      must depend on additional genetic events.

      The aim of this project is to widen the investigators knowledge of the nature, chronology and
      prognostic value of the genetic events in MM in order to improve the risk stratification of
      the patients and hence the choice of treatment. Using cytogenetics (interphase FISH) and
      molecular biological analyses (SNP, GEP, miRNA) the investigators will study the changes in
      the myeloma cells. The investigators will search for genetic and clinical differences between
      patients within the same cytogenetic group and between patients at diagnosis and at relapse.
      The study population will consist of 100 newly diagnosed patients and 100 relapse patients
      included prospectively over a 2-year period in a cooperation between the four departments of
      hematology in Zealand, Denmark.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Early relapse depends on a) molecular defects in the myeloma cells detectable with FISH,
           GEP, SNP and/or miRNA analyses, and b) the acquisition of new mutations resulting in
           chemotherapy resistance and increased prolific capacity.

        2. The progressive reduction of event free survival seen with every relapse until the
           disease turns refractory can be explained by selection of critical mutations.

        3. The cytogenetic changes associated with poor prognosis represent a heterogenous group of
           patients in whom the responsible genetic events remain unknown.
    
  