
    
      The proposed study is a placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. Potential participants
      will be identified via clinical protocol chart review of patients scheduled to attend their
      predetermined follow-up consultations at The Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Center
      (PRT-BTC) at Duke University Medical Center after evaluation of treatment for newly diagnosed
      high grade gliomas. We will identify high grade glioma patients that will receive standard
      chemoradiation (radiotherapy with daily temozolomide dosed at 75 mg/m2). After obtaining
      written informed consent, all participants will be scheduled for baseline study assessments
      before starting radiotherapy. Patients will be randomized to receive either placebo or low
      dose naltrexone (LDN) dosed at 4.5 mg orally to be taken every evening before going to bed.
      Patients will be assessed at the following time points: 1. Baseline (before chemoradiation),
      2. After chemoradiation (approximately 8 weeks from initial assessment), 3. Two months after
      standard chemoradiation (approximately 16 weeks after initial assessment), and 4. Four months
      after standard chemoradiation (approximately 24 weeks after initial assessment). Treatment
      with LDN or placebo will begin on first day of chemoradiation and will be continued for a
      total of 16 weeks from initial assessment. Last assessment at 24 weeks will occur 8 weeks
      after discontinuation of LDN or placebo. All visits will be linked to patients' clinical
      management visits. All testing will be performed at PRT-BTC and at Duke University Medical
      Center.

      The following procedures will be obtained at each assessment visit:

        1. Complete a six-minute walk test. The exercise test is designed to determine how far the
           subject can walk in six minutes. This test will take place at the PRT-BTC at Duke
           University Medical Center with appropriate medical supervision.

        2. Blood testing that will be performed as part of each clinic visit. Approximately 10
           milliliters or 2 teaspoons of blood will be drawn at each visit. This will not be
           additional blood work, but rather the standardized blood work that the subject will need
           for evaluation associated with radiation and chemotherapy treatments.

      We will ask the subject to complete the following tests/questionnaires:

        1. Neurocognitive testing: this testing will be performed using a computer program called
           CNS Vital Signs®. This program consists of verbal and visual memory tests, attention
           tests, reasoning tests, and speed of processing tests. The subject will use a laptop
           computer to complete these tests. No previous exposure to computers or computer testing
           is needed to complete the test.

        2. Computerized Questionnaires: Four questionnaires will be presented using a computerized
           program. These will include Medical Outcomes Survey (MOS), Epworth Sleepiness Scale
           (ESS), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale
           (ZSDS). MOS assesses general health, well-being, and quality of life. ESS asks about
           level of sleepiness while PSQI asks about sleep quality. Finally, ZSDS will evaluate
           feelings of depression and sadness.

        3. Beck depression inventory (BDI): This questionnaire asks questions about the subject's
           levels of sadness, changes in the subject's mood, sleeping and eating patterns, the
           subject's level of interest in activities, thoughts and feelings the subject is having
           and the subject's level of concentration. This is a pen and paper questionnaire.

        4. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-BR) scale: This questionnaire asks
           questions about physical, function, emotional, and social well-being. This is a pen and
           paper questionnaire.

        5. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) scale: This questionnaire asks
           questions about fatigue. This is a pen and paper questionnaire.

        6. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognition (FACT-Cog) scale: This questionnaire
           asks questions about your thinking and ability to do memory, attention, and reasoning
           activities. This is a pen and paper questionnaire.
    
  