
    
      This is a prospective, open-label Pharmacokinetics and safety study of
      piperacillin-tazobactam in children 2 months-6y of age.

      Overall goal: To establish extended-infusion piperacillin-tazobactam dosing recommendations
      in infants and young children with normal renal function, for the treatment of sepsis due to
      resistant organisms. Dosing recommendations will be provided according to different levels of
      antibiotic resistance (MIC). We aim to establish the age threshold below which extended
      infusion does not provide additional therapeutic benefit because of immature renal function.
      We also aim to describe the PK of piperacillin-tazobactam standard dosing in children with
      acute kidney injury.

      Study population #1: Normal Renal Function:

      Evaluate the PK of piperacillin-tazobactam extended infusion in children 2 months-6y with
      normal renal function.

      Hypothesis 1.1 : Population clearance of piperacillin will be 20% lower in infants 2-5 months
      compared with infants 6-23 months and will reach adult values at 2 years of age.

      Hypothesis 1.2: Alternative dosing strategy used in this clinical trial will achieve
      pharmacodynamics (PD) target (50% fT > MIC) for minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) up to
      16 mg/L in 90% of infants and children 2 months-6y.

      Study Population #2: Acute Kidney Injury:

      Describe the PK of piperacillin-tazobactam in children with kidney injury, using the standard
      dosing.

      Hypothesis 2.1: Population clearance of piperacillin will be 15% lower in infants with acute
      kidney injury but normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Clearance will increase as GFR
      decreases.

      Screening:

      Infants and children will be screened using a pharmacy software application available in our
      institution, displaying a list of all subjects meeting inclusion criteria in real time.
      Recruitment will take place in units where children receive piperacillin-tazobactam.

      Enrollment/Baseline: Baseline/Pre-Dose Assessment:

      After it has been determined that the participant satisfies all inclusion and no exclusion
      criteria and after the parent or legal guardian has signed the informed consent form,
      subjects will be assigned a study number and the following evaluations will be recorded in
      the clinical research form:

        1. Participant demographics including gender, date of birth, chronologic age, corrected age
           if <1 year of age and born <37 weeks of gestational age, race, birth weight if <1 year
           of age, and weight at time of consent.

        2. Active clinical diagnoses

        3. Concomitant medications taken in 72 hours prior to first dose of piperacillin-tazobactam
           or during treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam

        4. Laboratory and microbiologic determinations within 72 hours prior to first dose of
           piperacillin-tazobactam

        5. Microbiological results of sterile body fluids (blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), urine
           obtained by catheterization or supra-pubic tap), within 72 hours prior to the first dose
           of study drug

      Assessments/Procedures (Day 1 to Day 14): The following assessments will be conducted each
      day while the patient is on study

        1. Study medication administration: The date and time, amount, infusion duration and site
           of administration of each dose will be recorded. Day 1 will be day of first dose of
           study drug.

        2. PK samples collection: date and time of sample collection, total blood volume collected.

        3. Laboratory determinations on each day of PK sample collection

        4. Microbiological results of sterile body fluids (blood, CSF, urine obtained by
           catheterization or supra-pubic tap)

        5. Concomitant medications

        6. AEs

      Follow-up (Day 15 to 17 or End of Therapy): The following assessments will be conducted at
      end of therapy:

        1. Laboratory determinations on the last day of study drug, or within 72h after the last
           study dose

        2. AEs up to 72h after the last study dose

      Laboratory Determinations:

      Any labs obtained per standard of care may be recorded while the patient is on study at the
      following timeline: 1) within 72 hours prior to the first dose of study medication 2) within
      72h of PK sample collection 3) on Day 14 of therapy (or end of therapy, whichever comes
      first), or within 72h hours of last study dose will be recorded. If multiple values for a
      laboratory are obtained in the 72 hours prior to first dose, record the value closest to
      enrollment.

        1. Any hematology values including hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cell count, platelet
           count, and differential.

        2. Any serum chemistry values including blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine,
           potassium, sodium, Aspartate transaminase (AST), Alanine transaminase (ALT), albumin.

        3. Given that renal function is the main determinant of piperacillin-tazobactam clearance,
           serum creatinine will be obtained prior to the first study dose, even if not done per
           standard of care.

      Microbiological Determinations:

      All results for any cultures obtained of sterile body fluids (blood, CSF, urine obtained by
      catheterization or supra-pubic tap) from 72 hours prior to first piperacillin-tazobactam dose
      through the final dose of piperacillin-tazobactam or Day 14 of therapy (whichever comes
      first) will be recorded in the case report form (CRF).

      Special Assays or Procedures: Pharmacokinetics (PK) Samples:

      During study treatment, 4 plasma PK samples (200 µL of whole blood/sample) per subject will
      be collected using an opportunistic approach; PK samples can be collected after any dose of
      study drug because PK of piperacillin is linear. PK samples will be obtained at the same time
      as laboratory tests collected per routine medical.

      Specimen Preparation, Handling, and Shipping:

      PK samples will be collected in ethylenediamine-tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) microcontainers and
      processed immediately or placed on ice until processing. Samples will be identified using
      preprinted labels with the protocol number. Plasma will be separated via centrifugation
      (3000g for 10 minutes at 4°C), manually aspirated and transferred to polypropylene tubes.
      Plasma samples will be frozen at -80°C freezer until analysis.

      Once enrollment and sample collection are completed, PK samples will be shipped on dry ice to
      a central laboratory where piperacillin and tazobactam plasma concentrations will be measured
      using a validated bioanalytical assay.
    
  