
    
      Iron and zinc are important micronutrients for cognitive development and growth in children,
      particularly during infancy when brain development and physical growth are rapid. Iron and
      zinc deficiencies likely coexist in young children in poor developing countries due to high
      requirements for these micronutrients at this age, low consumption of animal products (which
      are rich sources of these nutrients) and similar problems of poor bioavailability from plant
      foods. One would expect that iron and zinc supplementation in infancy would be an appropriate
      strategy to promote long-term cognitive development and school achievement, but this has
      never been evaluated. We have many studies of the effects on micronutrient interventions in
      infancy but the benefits of these interventions have been assessed only in terms of outcomes
      in infancy. What are missing are studies of micronutrient interventions during the critical
      phase of infancy that report effects measured in school children and beyond. Only then will
      we begin to understand the full impact of micronutrient interventions in infancy on human
      function. From 1998 to 1999, a randomized, placebo controlled trial of iron and zinc
      supplementation was carried out in 609 4-6 month-old infants in Khon Kaen province, Thailand.
      Infants were randomized to four groups (zinc, iron, iron and zinc, placebo) and those
      supplemented received 10 mg of iron and/or 10 mg of zinc daily for 6 months. Improvements in
      iron and zinc status and in ponderal growth were found; no measures of cognitive development
      in infancy were included. We propose a follow-up study of these children at ages 8 to 10
      years. From February to July 2006, we conducted a pilot study and were able to locate 584 or
      96% of the sample. The children are all in school and we propose to assess schooling,
      cognitive performance (Wechsler test adapted to Thailand) and language and mathematical
      skills. In addition, data on physical growth, biochemical status, dietary intakes and
      socioeconomic status will be collected. We expect that knowledge from this study will be
      useful for properly assessing the full benefits of improving iron and zinc status in early
      childhood.
    
  