
    
      It is known that 20-60% of the rectal cancer patients treated with radical resection have the
      local recurrence. Therefore, chemo-radiotherapy before or after operation have been the
      standard treatment protocol in the rectal cancer patients to reduce the local recurrence,
      preserve more surrounding pelvic viscera, improve the prognosis and eventually quality of
      life. The preoperative chemo-radiotherapy was introduced by the German Rectal Cancer study,
      which compared pre- and postoperative chemo and radiotherapy. In this study, the authors
      reported that preoperative chemo-radiotherapy reduced local recurrent rate and 3 or 4 degree
      toxicity and improved the compliance for treatment. Since the introduction of chemo and
      radiotherapy in the treatment of rectal cancer, there have been numerous controversies on the
      guidelines or protocols of chemo-radiotherapy. In 1990, National Institute of Health (NIH)
      recommended postoperative chemo- radiotherapy to all the pT3 or pN1 rectal cancer patients at
      the consensus conference. In some studies, they reported that good clinical outcome and low
      local recurrence rate were obtained by only surgical treatment in the pT3N0 rectal cancer
      patients with favourable pathological characteristics. They also insisted that the
      effectiveness of postoperative chemo- radiotherapy was not evident. Gunderson, et al.
      retrospectively evaluated the five-year survival rate of the pT3N0 patients. They reported
      that the patients with surgery and chemotherapy showed the similar survival rate with the
      patients who underwent surgery and postoperative chemo-radiotherapy. National Cancer Data
      Base showed the similar report. However, there are some problems to apply theses results to
      the decision of preoperative therapeutic options. Moreover, some papers showed the low local
      recurrent rate (less than 5%) in the stage II without the supplement therapy, when the TME
      was precisely performed. All these results present the controversies on the
      radio-chemotherapy on all the T3N0 patients in terms of the clinical outcomes and the
      prognosis. In Korea, numerous clinical trials have been performed on the rectal cancer
      patients, however there has been no clinical study for preoperative chemo- radiotherapy in
      the T3N0 rectal cancer patients. In this reason, the protocols are different among
      institutions without unified standard treatment protocol. In this study, the authors compare
      the accuracy of diagnosis, the functional differences according to the preoperative chemo-
      radiotherapy, the local recurrent rate and survival rate between the two groups of T3N0
      patients; one group with preoperative chemo-radiotherapy vs. the other without. In addition,
      the authors evaluate the advantage of the laparoscopic surgery, such as an extensive vision,
      so that laparoscopy can help rectal surgery as well as the surgical outcome.
    
  