
    
      For Veterans who rely on wheelchairs for mobility, performing transfers is essential to
      achieving independence with activities of daily living. For example, transfers are required
      for getting into and out of bed, on and off a bath tub/shower seat, commode seat, motor
      vehicle seat and so on. Unfortunately transfers, along with wheelchair propulsion, weight
      relief and overhead activities are believed to largely contribute to the development of
      shoulder pain and injury. For individuals who rely are their arms for independence with ADL,
      the onset of pain or an overuse injury can be devastating leading to increased healthcare
      expenses, limitation in activity, depression, decreased societal participation and a reduced
      quality of life. Despite the importance of transfers to daily living and that transfers rank
      among the most strenuous wheelchair-related activities, there is a paucity of research on the
      biomechanics of transfers.

      During rehabilitation, achieving transfers in the safest and most efficient manner possible
      has traditionally been the goal of both the patient and clinician. However, there is wide
      variation in the amount and quality of transfer training that is provided in rehab. The
      ergonomics of performing transfers is crucial to maintaining maximal upper limb function and
      pain free limbs over time. The techniques taught to patients during rehab are not based on
      scientific evidence and there is not a uniform way of measuring performance. For these
      reasons, the investigators developed the Transfer Assessment Instrument (TAI) a 29-item
      criterion-referenced construct comprised of three domains 1) preparing for a transfer, 2) use
      of conservation techniques, and 3) quality of the transfer. The instrument was designed to be
      used by therapists in the clinic to determine a patient's adherence with 'best' transfer
      techniques, identify targeted areas of intervention, and document performance outcomes
      pre-post transfer training, intervention (e.g. trunk orthosis) or change in medical status.
      The TAI includes items that address the ergonomics of transferring independently and
      dependently for patients who need assistance either from a caregiver or with transfer
      equipment.

      The intent of the proposed three-year study is to establish the psychometric rigor of the TAI
      with wheelchair users with SCI using a two-phase approach. In Phase 1, 100 subjects will be
      evaluated for initial psychometric analysis and tool refinement. In Phase 2, using the
      refined tool extensive biomechanical validation studies will be conducted with 70 individuals
      who independently perform wheelchair transfers. Tool validation is an important first step
      towards the effective translation of evidence-based practices into a clinical setting. As a
      result, the proposed work has great potential to improve the quality of care of veteran
      patients and reduce the incidence of upper limb pain and injuries.
    
  