
    
      This project focuses on an area unmet clinical need, oral anticoagulation, in patients with a
      variety of cardiovascular diseases. The investigators' ambition is to translate their
      internationally renowned expertise in warfarin anticoagulation into low and middle income
      country (LMIC) settings where it can significantly improve health. By working with policy
      makers, the investigators will provide the required evidence to allow national roll out of
      new practices, including the introduction of 1mg warfarin tablets as a quick win to improve
      dosing accuracy.

      This National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Global Research Group is a collaboration
      between the University of Liverpool and two low and middle income countries (LMICs), Uganda
      and South Africa. It will focus on a clinically important non-communicable disease area which
      requires the use of anticoagulation.

      Anticoagulants, in particular warfarin, are used in these countries for the treatment of
      venous thromboembolism, valvular heart disease including rheumatic heart disease and
      prevention of strokes in patients with irregular heart rhythms (atrial fibrillation).
      Anticoagulation represents an unmet clinical need in Sub-Saharan Africa as patients either do
      not receive anticoagulation (because of difficulties in monitoring) or are poorly
      anticoagulated because of poor dosing guidelines. This results in potentially preventable
      morbidity and mortality which affects the poorer sectors of the population in particular. The
      investigators have extensive expertise in the United Kingdom and European Union of improving
      the use of warfarin through the development of novel dosing algorithms, which have now begun
      incorporating genetic factors.

      By contrast, in the investigators' two collaborating partner countries, no locally validated
      warfarin dosing algorithms exist, even those which only take into account clinical factors.
      This results in haphazard dosing with the attendant risks of thrombotic or bleeding
      complications. In both countries, monitoring requires frequent clinic visits, incurring
      transport costs and missed work days. Patients are often co-infected with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and/or Tuberculosis, requiring multiple concomitant medicines
      which complicate warfarin dosing and dose adjustment.
    
  