
    
      The overarching aim of this study is to determine the accuracy and reliability of a household
      survey methodology to measure PMTCT program impact. If appropriately validated, this approach
      could be used to monitor program effectiveness across a wide range of settings, both as part
      of Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) or in stand-alone evaluations.

      Specific objectives

      Objective 1: To validate the community survey methodology for measuring PMTCT program
      effectiveness. Across 42 communities in rural Lusaka Province, we will estimate HIV-free
      survival among HIV-exposed children using two methodologies at the community level: a survey
      approach and a "gold standard" cohort approach.

      Hypothesis: HIV-free survival measurements from the two study components will demonstrate
      strong correlation and high inter-method agreement, thus confirming the validity of the
      community survey for PMTCT evaluation.

      Objective 2: To identify individual- and facility-level characteristics associated with
      HIV-free survival among HIV-exposed infants. We will determine key characteristics associated
      with optimal PMTCT program effectiveness, thus providing an objective measurement of "best
      practices" in our setting.

      Hypothesis: High PMTCT service utilization and high antenatal care quality will emerge as
      important predictors of HIV-free survival.

      METHODOLOGY

      We propose to validate the use of a cross-sectional community survey to estimate PMTCT
      program effectiveness in a predominately rural African setting. The unit of measurement will
      be at the community level, where we will obtain HIV-free survival estimates using two
      approaches. Estimates from the community survey will be compared against those of our gold
      standard community cohort, with statistical correlation and inter-method agreement
      determined. This study will be implemented within the context of the Better Health Outcomes
      through Mentoring and Assessment (BHOMA) evaluation, conducted by locally by Zambia AIDS
      Related Tuberculosis (TB) Project (ZAMBART) and collaborating partners (University of Zambia
      Biomedical Research Ethics Committee (UNZA BREC) Ref# 004-12-08). The roll-out of BHOMA
      services occurred in a staggered fashion across 42 of 48 health facilities in Chongwe (n=21),
      Kafue (n=14), and Luangwa Districts (n=7). The community survey evaluation and the community
      outreach component of BHOMA target the surrounding catchment area for each health facility.
      Excluded from this evaluation are hospitals, which typically receive referrals from across
      the district, and military health posts.

      Community survey component

      We will work to integrate our PMTCT survey methodology into ongoing BHOMA evaluation
      activities. In each round, individuals are surveyed using a stratified cluster sampling,
      where the catchment areas serve as the strata. Within each stratum, geographically defined
      grid squares are randomly sampled. All households in the selected grid square are visited by
      a survey team, which comprises at minimum a trained research assistant and a clinician. All
      individuals in the household are enumerated using a personal digital assistant uploaded with
      a standard enumeration form. The household location is logged using Global Positioning System
      (GPS) coordinates, which confirms the position to be within the grid square. Enumerated
      adults present at the home are asked to provide written informed consent to participate in
      the survey. Older children and adolescents provide assent; younger children and infants
      require consent of a parent or guardian. Three questionnaires have been developed and
      implemented: the household, men's, and women's questionnaires. All have been adapted from the
      standard Demographic and Health Survey and the Sexual Behavior Survey used in Zambia for over
      a decade. The household questionnaire is completed by the head of household; the men's and
      women's questionnaires are administered to all adult men and women, respectively, who are
      home at the time of the visit. In addition, data are collected on participant weight, height,
      and abdominal circumference; hypertension screening is provided using a digital
      sphygmomanometer; and voluntary counseling and testing for HIV is offered using sequential
      testing algorithms endorsed by the Zambian Ministry of Health. HIV results are available in
      the field and will be disclosed to participants willing to learn their HIV status. Post-test
      counseling is provided by certified providers at the household and appropriate referrals
      made.

      In this component, we will implement a PMTCT evaluation module to target women reporting a
      live birth over the past 24 months within the BHOMA survey.

      Although HIV testing is offered to adults as part of the main BHOMA survey, we will also
      collect dried blood spots (DBS) specimens from both mother and infant and link them using
      pre-printed bar codes. For a mother who refuses real-time testing, but agrees to collection
      of this maternal DBS specimen, she will be provided a card with a unique study-generated
      identification number that can be used pick-up results (with appropriate post-test
      counseling) at the community's designated health facility. For those who agreed to on-site
      HIV testing, we will retain the DBS specimens for quality assurance purposes. On a regular
      basis, randomly selected anonymized specimens will be analyzed using ELISA HIV antibody
      testing. If a high level of discordancy between the on-site rapid test and the lab-based
      ELISA HIV test is observed, we will test all specimens to confirm maternal HIV status. As
      part of the informed consent process, participants will also be asked whether leftover
      specimens may be used for future use, pending local and international ethical approvals for
      specified substudies.

      If the household reports a delivery within the past 24 months, but the mother has died, we
      will collect as much relevant antenatal, delivery, and postpartum information as possible
      from the guardian or caretaker. An abbreviated verbal autopsy instrument will be administered
      to determine whether the cause of death may have been HIV-related. If the infant is still
      alive, we will collect a DBS specimen via heelstick for HIV antibody testing and possibly HIV
      DNA PCR. If the infant has died, this will be documented and included as a study event.

      Specimens from HIV-exposed infants < 18 months will be tested for HIV infection using HIV DNA
      PCR. For those who agree at time of informed consent, we will dispatch trained lay counselors
      to the household to discuss HIV test results, provide post-test counseling, and make any
      necessary clinic referrals, including for long-term HIV care and treatment.

      Community cohort component

      To calculate "gold standard" estimates of 18-month HIV-free survival, we will enroll and
      follow cohorts of HIV-exposed children (and their HIV-infected mothers) for 18 months. To
      minimize selection biases that may result from facility-based recruitments, we will enroll
      within the catchment area surrounding the health facility. In each of these communities, we
      will identify and train community-based research assistants (CRAs) to recruit participants
      into our community cohorts. To ensure continuity with the government health system, where
      possible, these individuals will be preferentially recruited from the Neighborhood Health
      Committees at each facility. We will use facility- and community-based reporting systems from
      BHOMA to identify all recent births and, within the first 4 weeks of life, approach mothers
      at their homes to explain the study. Interested candidates will be asked to show written
      documentation of their HIV status, preferably from their take-home antenatal record. For
      those without this documentation, we will obtain consent for HIV screening and provide
      testing on-site using Ministry of Health-approved algorithms. Those who test HIV-negative
      will be provided routine post-test counseling and referred to the nearest health facility for
      routine postpartum care. Women who test HIV-positive and those with documented HIV infection
      from antenatal care will have the study explained to them and asked to provide written
      informed consent for themselves and their infants to participate.

      At initial enrollment, a questionnaire will be administered, including demographic and
      socioeconomic characteristics, basic medical history, recent obstetrical history, and
      detailed questions regarding HIV, including PMTCT service utilization in the last pregnancy.
      Where possible, we will incorporate questions verbatim from the PMTCT evaluation module of
      the community survey, to ensure comparability between the two populations. A DBS specimen
      will be collected from the infant for HIV DNA PCR testing.

      Following enrollment, three additional household visits are planned: at 6 weeks, 6 months, 12
      months, and 18 months. CRAs will complete a short questionnaire focused on ongoing PMTCT
      interventions and child health (including morbidity and mortality). If available, we will
      review the Under-5 Card, a take-home medical record for children less than 5 years of age, to
      further detail the child's medical course. At 6 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months, DBS specimens
      will again be collected via heelstick for HIV DNA PCR testing. At 18 months, a rapid antibody
      test will be performed on site. Test results will be returned to the mother at site of her
      choosing, either at the home or the health facility, by a trained counselor. Children who
      test HIV-positive will be referred to the nearest health facility for confirmation of the
      diagnosis and for long-term care.

      Facility survey component

      Study staff will complete detailed facility survey questionnaires at all 42 facilities. They
      will administer a modified version of "A Rapid Health Facility Assessment Tool: to Enhance
      Quality and Access at the Primary Health Care Level". The instrument comprises four modules:
      a quality-of-care checklist completed under direct observation of first antenatal visits
      (Module 1); an exit interview with up to six consecutive pregnant women to measure knowledge
      and perception about clinical care (Module 2); a checklist of available supplies and
      infrastructure on site (Module 3); and an interview with the facility manager regarding
      services provided, staffing levels, and facility descriptors (Module 4). In addition, a
      time-motion component records the waiting time between registration and patient encounter,
      duration of the total visit, and duration of post-test counseling.

      Prior to implementation, we will field-test the survey instrument in focus groups and refine
      it as needed. Based on limitations identified from our previous analysis, we expect to
      increase the number of directly observed patient encounters from six to 15-20 individuals and
      standardize the type of visits encountered. We may also consider completion of the facility
      survey over multiple site visits, so that responses from a single clinic visit is not given
      undue weight. All data will be entered into a Microsoft Access database and seven facility
      performance scores - again, based on the previous PEARL study - will be calculated based on a
      priori groupings of characteristics: antenatal care, PMTCT, supplies, staffing levels,
      patient satisfaction, general infrastructure, and patient understanding of medications. Both
      individual characteristics and composite scores will be compared against the outcome of
      HIV-free survival.
    
  