
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate whether maintenance erlotinib hydrochloride added to standard of care
           (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel) chemotherapy in patients with erlotinib
           hydrochloride-responsive advanced non-small cell lung cancer leads to an improved
           progression-free survival as compared to standard of care pemetrexed disodium or
           docetaxel alone.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the effect of maintenance erlotinib hydrochloride on the response rate to
           standard of care (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel) therapy in patients with erlotinib
           hydrochloride-responsive advanced non-small cell lung cancer as compared to standard of
           care (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel) alone.

        -  To evaluate whether maintenance erlotinib hydrochloride added to standard of care
           (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel) chemotherapy in patients with erlotinib
           hydrochloride-responsive advanced non-small cell lung cancer leads to an improved
           overall survival as compared to standard of care (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel)
           alone.

        -  To evaluate the effect of maintenance erlotinib hydrochloride on the disease
           stabilization (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] + stable disease [SD])
           rate to standard of care (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel) therapy in patients with
           erlotinib hydrochloride-responsive advanced non-small cell lung cancer as compared to
           standard of care (pemetrexed disodium or docetaxel) alone.

        -  To evaluate the utility of early positron emission tomography (PET) scanning (baseline
           versus 1 cycle of protocol therapy) on overall disease assessment and prediction of
           treatment responsiveness.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to
      lifetime smoking status (never vs ever) and ECOG performance status (0-1 vs ≥ 2). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: (standard of care alone): Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV)
           over 10 minutes OR docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: (standard of care plus erlotinib): Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over
           10 minutes OR docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and erlotinib hydrochloride orally
           (PO) once daily on days 2-19. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients may continue to receive standard chemotherapy with or without erlotinib
      hydrochloride in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks.
    
  