
    
      Women with overweight or obesity, over the age of 25, who report high weight and shape
      concern and a desire to lose weight will be recruited from the community. Participants will
      be recruited and enrolled in cohorts of 5-10 individuals, with a focus on ensuring that each
      group has approximately 50% women of color (i.e., identify as non-white).

      Participants will attend, with all individuals in their cohort, the four weekly body project
      intervention sessions led by a trained facilitator. Each session is approximately 60 minutes
      long and relies on guided discussion and group activities to engage participants. In between
      group meetings, participants will be given exercises to complete prior to the next session.
      The intervention content will be modified prior to the first cohort in order to identify
      factors relevant for body image among women who would medically benefit from weight loss
      (e.g., internalized weight bias). The active ingredients will remain the same while modifying
      content and assignments or exercises to enhance effects among the target population.

      Participants will complete a baseline assessment of self-report surveys and a 7-day
      ecological momentary assessment period. All assessment procedures must be complete prior to
      the first group meeting. After the fourth and final group meeting, participants will complete
      a second assessment including self-report surveys and a 7-day EMA period. The data collected
      from the pre and post-assessments will be used to shape the focus group script. Within four
      weeks of the last group meeting, participants will attend a focus group meeting led by a
      facilitator who was not involved in intervention delivery to better understand the
      participant experience with the intervention content. Key changes may include expanding
      content to address contextual factors that cause negative weight/shape-related thoughts among
      women with overweight or obesity and to target weight stigma (internalized), modifying
      exercises that were reviewed negatively, and incorporating explicit discussion of weight
      management.

      Following the focus group, the intervention will be revised using the quantitative and
      qualitative data collected from each cohort. The process will be repeated to refine the
      intervention through iterative testing with small groups of individuals (n≤10). It is
      anticipated that approximately 4-6 groups will be required. Upon completion of all study
      procedures, participants will receive information and resources for healthy weight loss.
    
  