
    
      Patient population and setting. We will identify all patients undergoing their first PD
      catheter insertion during the study period, at 20 participating centers in Canada and the USA
      (see Appendix 1). A total of 800 cases have been captured to date during our pilot study and
      an additional 1,520 cases will be accrued over a 30-month period, for a total sample size of
      2,320 PD catheter insertions. We will attempt to collect information about consecutive
      patients undergoing PD catheter attempts/insertions in order to accurately measure local
      performance. However if a waiver of consent cannot be obtained at participating centers, then
      non-consecutive patients will be enrolled.

      Inclusion criteria: patients must be 18 years of age or older; have advanced chronic kidney
      disease; have chosen PD as their intended treatment modality; and undergone their first PD
      catheter placement during the study period.

      Exclusion criteria: patients who intend to transfer to another PD program or who are
      scheduled to receive a transplant within 3 months of the start of PD therapy will be
      excluded. Data source: ISPD Catheter Registry. The ISPD Catheter Registry is a web-based data
      collection tool that was custom-built for this project. It was developed based on a patented
      approach (Canadian patent #2,666,569; issued 2/28/2017)

      Patient-level variables for our models will include baseline demographic (age, sex),
      comorbidity [body mass index (BMI), chronic kidney disease (dialysis-dependent vs. not),
      diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease (coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular
      disease, cerebrovascular disease), congestive heart failure, respiratory disease, liver
      disease, abdominal scarring, history of abdominal hernias], laboratory (hemoglobin, albumin),
      and medication variables (use of anticoagulants, antiplatelet, immunosuppressive
      medications).

      Operator variables include operator volume, advanced training in PD catheter insertion and
      years of experience placing PD catheters.

      Primary outcome: PD catheter complications. Our primary outcome will be the composite of the
      need for interventional procedures, emergency room visits and hospitalizations, reduction in
      time on PD, or discontinuation of PD therapy due to insertion-related PD catheter
      complications.

      Sample size of 2,000 patients will provide 80% power to detect a 25% relative reduction in
      the risk of our primary outcome in those undergoing laparoscopic insertion of their catheter,
      across a range of possible ICC values. In order to guard against a larger than anticipated
      intra-class correlation coefficient(up to 0.001), we will target a sample size of 2,320
      patients
    
  