
    
      Patients with conservatively treated proximal humerus fracture who admitted to Ege University
      Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation outpatient clinic have been included in the study. All
      patients who met inclusion criteria were enrolled into the study at the first week of
      fracture. Rehabilitation program carried out under the guidance of same physiotherapist 3
      times a week for 6 weeks. The patients also received a complete set of premade exercise card
      which has shown all exercises to ensure that the training program was learned properly. The
      patients were recruited at the first week after proximal humerus fracture and then allocated
      into the groups. The patients were separated into two groups as interferential current or
      sham interferential current using a simple randomization method managed by an impartial
      observer. Flipping a coin was used for simple randomization (heads - sham, tails -
      treatment). The patient's group was reported to the physiotherapist who would apply
      interferential current in a closed envelope. Patients and the outcome assessor were blind to
      the treatment groups. In literature, there is no consensus regarding the duration of
      treatment, so 20 minutes was selected as that is the duration routinely used in our clinic.
      Pre-modulated bipolar method with the currier frequency of 4 kHz by a combination therapy
      unit (Sonopuls 692, Enraf-Nonius) with two electrodes (8×6 cm) was used. One electrode was
      placed on the lateral part of the deltoid muscle; the other was placed on the trapezium
      muscle close to the shoulder. Subjects were told that in order to produce an effect, the
      intensity of the stimulator must be maintained at a "strong but comfortable level" at all
      times. The sham interferential current therapy consisted of the placement of the same pads
      for the same time but no electrical stimulation was applied to the probes. The primary
      outcome was shoulder global function which was measured by the Constant-Murley score (CMS).
      The questionnaire assesses four shoulder functions: 1) pain; 2) activities of daily living
      (sleeping, work, leisure); 3) range of motion; and 4) muscle strength. The total score ranges
      from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating better shoulder function. Pain was measured
      with the visual analog scale (VAS). The patients themselves used the VAS to make an
      assessment of their pain with 0 representing no pain, 10 cm representing severe pain. In
      addition, in order to evaluate shoulder function and disability, the Disability of the Arm,
      Shoulder and Hand questionnaire (DASH) was used. This self-administered questionnaire
      includes 30 questions evaluated on a 5-point Likert scale, most of which relate to the
      individual's capacity to realize a task. The patients were allowed to use paracetamol during
      the study and the paracetamol intake was recorded as gr/week.

      Clinical assessments were made at the end of the treatment (6th week), at the 1st (10th
      week), and 4th (22nd week) months after the treatments. At baseline, only VAS-pain was
      evaluated. The physician who assessed the treatment outcomes, the patients and the
      physiotherapist who administer the exercises were unaware of the patient's group of
      treatment.

      A clinically meaningful difference was considered to be a change of 15 points in total CMS.
      In order to detect this improvement, the number of patients needed was 17 per group according
      to a power of 0.80, a p value of 0.05, and a 15% dropout rate.

      Statistical analyses were performed with the 20.0 Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS). An intention-to-treat analysis was employed for all analysis. The nominal variables
      were shown using cross tabulations. The Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test was used to
      compere these proportions in different groups. The numeric variables were investigated using
      visual (histograms, probability plots) and analytical method (Shapiro-Wilk's test) to
      determine whether or not they are normally distributed. Descriptive analyses were presented
      using medians and interquartile range (IQR) for the non-normally distributed. When a normal
      distribution could not be shown in data with Shapiro-Wilk test, Mann-Whitney U test was used
      in comparison of groups. The repeated measurements were carried out with Friedman and
      Wilcoxon tests. In the other clinical data with normal distribution, descriptive analyses
      were presented using means and standard deviations and repeated-measures analysis of variance
      was used to evaluate the time of observation. Group comparisons were performed with
      independent samples t test. A p value of less than 0.05 was considered to show a
      statistically significant result.
    
  