
    
      Pancreatic cancer has the worst overall prognosis with fewer than 3% of affected patients
      alive ﬁve years after the initial diagnosis. It is the fourth leading cause of death from
      cancer in Korea. 80-90% of patients have locally unresectable or advanced metastatic disease
      and for these patients only palliative treatment options remain. Symptoms include obstructive
      jaundice, duodenal obstruction, pain, and weight loss. Palliative treatment is mainly
      directed against the former three. Interventions to prevent (further) weight loss have as yet
      received little or no attention, in spite of the frequent occurrence of this symptom. About
      90% of patients with pancreatic carcinoma have weight loss at the time of diagnosis. In
      addition, Weight loss prior to chemotherapy was found to have a prognostic effect on survival
      in a range of different tumor types.

      There is a limited range of studies investigating the incidence of exocrine insufficiency in
      pancreatic cancer. Studies available indicate a high incidence of exocrine insufficiency in
      unresectable pancreatic cancer patients and patients before and after pancreatic cancer
      surgery. The previous reports showed that 68-92% of pancreatic cancer patients were exocrine
      insufficient. Such high incidences of exocrine insufficiency in pancreatic cancer patients
      support the use of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in this patient group. The
      guidelines for the management of patients with pancreatic cancer periampullary and ampullary
      carcinoma published in Gut promote the use of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy to
      maintain weight and to increase quality of life in this patient group. However, studies
      evaluating the efficacy of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in pancreatic cancer are
      lacking to date. There have been no systematic reviews and only one randomized control trial
      involving a small sample of 21 patients with unresectable cancer of the pancreatic cancer.
    
  