
    
      Although anticholinesterase therapies have greatly improved the symptomatic treatment of
      Alzheimer's disease (AD), they have not been demonstrated to significantly slow the disease
      progression; and amyloid-directed therapies have produced disappointing results. A promising
      evidence-based and relatively side-effect free lifestyle approach is emerging as an
      alternative or adjunct to drug therapy. In cross-section and prospective studies, and a few
      randomized controlled trials; aerobic exercise-training has been demonstrated to improve
      cognition in older subjects. However, the mechanisms of these effects remain poorly
      understood. Because it is now recognized that cardiovascular disease (CVD) risks can catalyze
      AD development, it is vital to test whether lifestyle adaptation shown to reduce CVD risks
      can favorably modify cognitive trajectories and markers of neurodegeneration. Such
      interventions may benefit those at an early and clinically discernible prodromal stage of AD
      such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Notably, such data are currently lacking in African
      Americans (AA)s who harbor higher rate of CVD risks and AD.

      While a laboratory approach to exercise intervention study is required to prove causation,
      such a design may not lend itself to real-life application, and is demanding for many
      economically and educationally disadvantaged older AAs experiencing early symptoms of
      cognitive deterioration. To address this concern, the Investigators seek to initiate an
      18-month study, testing real-life applicability of the effects of exercise adaptation on
      memory in a more ideal community setting. However, those who chose to exercise at an academic
      center will not be excluded. Collection of outcome measures at baseline, 3-month, 6-month,
      9-month, 12-month and 18-month will provide pilot data to inform dose and duration effects of
      exercise on outcome measures. In addition to augmenting enrollments, the proposed approach
      will bolster retention.

      The objectives of this pilot study, therefore, are to examine the feasibility of a
      community-based 18-month study (6-month active intervention and 12-month passive follow-up)
      aerobic exercise-training on neurodegeneration in AAs MCI subjects. The Investigators will
      test the hypotheses by randomizing subjects into one of 2 groups: 1.) aerobic-exercise; and
      2.) stretch-exercise (control). The Investigators proposed that the aerobic-exercise group
      will perform better than control group on cognitive measures. Secondarily, the Investigators
      will determine whether training-induced changes in cognition relate to increases in brain
      volume. Exploratory, the Investigators will also investigate intervention effects on
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, selected CVD risk factors and biomarkers, cerebral
      oxygenation and Hypoxia-Inducible Factors (HIF-1α) gene expression, and Apolipoprotein E gene
      (APOE), to assess their mediation of training-induced changes in cognition.

      A team of experienced Investigators in neuroimaging, neurology, cognitive neuroscience, and
      exercise physiology has been assembled to conduct this study. Working collaboratively with
      the District of Columbia Office on Aging (DCOA), the Directors of the Ward 6 Senior Wellness
      Center operated by DCOA, and the lead agencies on aging (community grassroots organizations
      supported by DCOA), the Investigators will recruit, enroll, randomize, and train participants
      at the wellness center. After obtaining informed consent and completing an initial
      assessment, participants will undergo initial exercise screening to determine their ability
      to exercise safely. Following randomization of 80 volunteers into aerobic-exercise (40) and
      control (40); baseline neuropsychological, neuroimaging and biomarker measurements will be
      obtained. Both groups will undergo 3 times/week supervised group-specific intervention at the
      wellness center for 6 months. After the initial 6 months of active intervention, the
      aerobic-exercise group will follow a prescribed but free living 40 minutes, 3 time/week
      exercise regimen, while the control group returns to usual care. Baseline tests will be
      repeated at 3 month, after 6 months (active intervention period); and at 9, 12 and 18 months
      (passive follow-up period). Treadmill, lumber puncture (LP) and brain magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) tests will occur only at baseline and 6 months. Between groups changes in
      cognitive performance, biomarkers, and neuroimaging measurements will be compared using
      appropriate multivariate methods.

      While the Investigators remain cognizant of other planned or ongoing fitness and memory
      trial, the proposed study is unique in the sense that: it is a logical extension of the
      Investigators' ongoing work; tests the proposed hypotheses in predominantly AA sample in whom
      paucity of data remains, and therefore, will advance reduction in health disparity; will
      obtain data at multiple time-points (baseline, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18 months) and therefore allow
      for the assessments of the effects of duration and dose of intervention on outcome measures;
      test the real-life applicability of the proposed intervention in a community setting; and
      generate pilot data on the mechanisms by which these interventions affects memory.
      Importantly, outcomes from this study may lead to practical and effective strategy to delay
      cognitive decline in populations at most risk, and can prevent or attenuate the physical,
      psychological and the economic burden associated with dementia in AAs.
    
  