
    
      Favourable agreement was obtained from the authors to adapt the Australian moose tool in a
      cross-cultural manner. None of the co-authors expressed a desire to collaborate on our
      project. The EXIT questionnaire is free of rights.

      The translation of the EXIT questionnaire into French will be carried out according to the
      recommended steps of the cross-cultural adaptation process (21, 22, 25): translation of the
      source version into French by three native French translators, adaptation of the different
      translations by a group of experts, back translation by two native English speakers, testing
      with a panel of women who have been triggered for childbirth, in order to arrive at the final
      version which will be evaluated in a sample of the target population.

      Information about the study will be given to women between Day 2 and Day 4 postpartum.
      Patients' non-opposition to participate in this study will be collected in the patient's
      medical record.

      Recruitment of subjects: the study will be proposed to all eligible women who have been
      induced for their delivery and with an unfavourable cervix in the obstetrics department of
      the CHU Estaing, Clermont-Ferrand.

      Completion of the questionnaire: women will complete the EXIT self-questionnaire between D2
      and D4 post-delivery.

      The data collection will include additional socio-demographic and clinical information for
      each woman participating in the study from their medical records.

      The test-retest involves filling in the EXIT questionnaire twice at one to two week
      intervals.

      The women will be contacted by phone one week after the first EXIT test, to inform them that
      a link will be sent by e-mail to complete the EXIT questionnaire online (on Redcap) a second
      time. They will be called back a second time a week later if the questionnaire is not
      completed online.
    
  