
    
      Chemotherapy can provide significant palliation of symptoms for patients with unresectable,
      locally advanced or metastatic esophageal cancer. Cisplatin and continuous infusion 5 FU,
      alone or combined with radiotherapy, is the most frequently used regimen. The response rate
      reported with cisplatin and 5 FU ranged from 35 to 40% ,whereas the 2-year survival rates of
      patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer ranged from 8 to 55%, with a mean 27%.
      Therefore, there is a need to test new combination, specifically in unresectable locally
      advanced esophageal patients, with the aim of increasing the pCR rate and survival. Cisplatin
      had been widely used as radiosensitizer and Docetaxel is different from that of cisplatin
      -5FU and and has proved to have an additive effect with cisplatin and supra-additive
      antitumor activity with fluorouracil in vitro and in murine models. To investigate the
      feasibility of combining concomitant radiation with docetaxel and cisplatin and assess the
      regimen's toxicity, locoregional control rate, and survival in patients with locally advanced
      or metastatic esophageal cancer.In this study, docetaxel 25mg/m2 is given with 500ml normal
      saline , as a 1hr infusion, on days 1,8 of every 3 weeks. Cisplatin75mg/m2 is given by
      intravenous infusion in 500 mL of 5% dextrose solution over 60 minutes on day 1 of every
      3weeks.. Therapy will be repeated every 21 days. Radiation therapy (200cGy/day upto 5400 cGy)
      begin on the first day of week 1 over 6 weeks (concomitant chemoradiation therapy). When the
      investigators assume that standard treatment's response rate is 50% and the response of
      experimental treatment is 75% and use Simon's two-stage optimal design under the significance
      level of 5% and the power of 80%, the total sample size of 25 is at least required. For a
      total of 25 subjects, 11 will be accrued during stage 1 and 14 during stage 2. If 6 or fewer
      responses are observed during the first stage then the trial is stopped early. If 16 or fewer
      responses are observed by the end of the trial then no further investigation of the drug is
      warranted. If the investigators assumed that the drop out rate was 10%, number of subjects
      per treatment arm will be 28.
    
  