
    
      Initial Visit Participants will be asked to come into the ISSM in the morning, following an
      overnight fast (7-9 hr) having abstained from caffeine for the previous 12 hours, and having
      abstained from alcohol and exercise for the previous 24 hr. Participants will be asked to
      consume 6 ml·kg-1 water 60 minutes prior to arrival. Following the signing of the informed
      consent document, participants will be asked to change into athletic clothing. Thereafter,
      with shoes removed, participants' height will be assessed to the nearest cm via a
      wall-mounted scale (Seca, Hamburg, Germany). Participants will be weighed to the nearest 0.1
      kg via an automated scale (Detecto® 750, Webb City, MO). Body composition will then be
      assessed via Bod Pod (Cosmed, Chicago, IL). Participants will be asked to rest quietly in a
      supine position for 5 minutes, before blood pressure will be measured via auscultation and
      sphygmomanometry (Grainger, Lake Forest, Illinois). While still in a supine position, fluid
      compartments will be measured via bioelectric impedance spectroscopy (BIS) (ImpediMed SFB7,
      ImpediMed Limited, Australia).

      Following these baseline measurements, participants will be asked to wear a heart rate
      monitor then complete a self-determined 5-min warm-up on an electronically-braked cycle
      ergometer (Velotron, SRAM, Spearfish, SD). Immediately after the warm-up, participants will
      be fitted with a metabolic mask (TrueOne 2400 Metabolic Cart, ParvoMedics, Sandy, Utah) then
      commence an incremental exercise test to exhaustion. The incremental test will consist of
      3-min stages in which the resistance will begin at a relative intensity of 2 W·kg-1 and
      increase in 25 W increments until RER is greater than 1.0. At this point, the test will
      switch to 1-min stages with resistance increasing in 10 W increments until volitional
      exhaustion. A similar protocol is described elsewhere 223.

      Afterwards, participants will be provided with their blinded supplement and instructed to
      consume 50 mg·kg-1 twice daily (~12 hr apart) with 6 ml·kg-1 water each time, for 7 days.

      Familiarization Trials The familiarization trials will occur the first week of
      supplementation on days 2 and 4, and the second week of supplementation on days 16 and 18. On
      familiarization days, participants will be asked to arrive at the Sandels building in the
      morning in a euhydrated state, having consumed 6 ml·kg-1 water 60 minutes prior to arrival.
      Additionally, participants will be asked to arrive following an overnight fast (7-9 hr)
      having abstained from caffeine for the previous 12 hours, and having abstained from alcohol
      and exercise for the previous 24 hr. Upon arrival, the participant will be fitted with a
      heart rate monitor (Polar® FT4M, Sempele, Finland). Participants will enter the chamber (33°
      C, 35% RH), be fitted with a metabolic mask (TrueOne 2400 Metabolic Cart, ParvoMedics, Sandy,
      Utah) and cycle for 30 min at 70% VO2 peak. After a 5 min active recovery period, self-paced
      pedaling against 50 W, participants will perform four 12 s maximal effort sprints against
      5.5% of their body mass, followed by one 30 s maximal effort sprint against 5.5% of their
      body mass. Participants will perform 2.5 min active recovery (self-paced pedaling against 50
      W) between sprints. Participants will then exit the chamber and be allowed to drink ad
      libitum in a resting position.

      Experimental Trials This section provides an overview of the experimental trials, with
      greater detail provided in the appropriate sections below.

      The experimental trials will occur after the first week of supplementation on day 7, and the
      second week of supplementation on day 21. The participants will be asked to ingest a CorTemp
      Sensor (HQInc, Palmetto, FL) 10-12 hr before arrival. Participants will be asked to arrive at
      the Sandels building in the morning in a euhydrated state, having consumed 6 ml·kg-1 water 60
      minutes prior to arrival. Additionally, participants will be asked to arrive following an
      overnight fast (7-9 hr) having abstained from caffeine for the previous 12 hours, and having
      abstained from alcohol and exercise for the previous 24 hr. Participants will be asked to
      provide a urine sample to confirm hydration status. A urine specific gravity (USG)
      measurement of >1.020 will be considered dehydrated, whereas a USG measurement of <1.020 will
      be considered euhydrated 124-126. If the participant is considered dehydrated upon arrival,
      they will be provided with 6 mL·kg-1 water and the experimental trial will be pushed back
      another 30 minutes. Additionally, hydration status will be measured via changes in pre- to
      post-exercise body mass. Participants, in a private room, will be asked to towel dry and
      provide a nude body weight while resting pre-exercise, and again after the 60 min bout of
      exercise. Prior to exercise, participants will be asked to rest quietly in a supine position
      for 5 minutes, before blood pressure will be measured via auscultation and sphygmomanometry
      (Grainger, Lake Forest, Illinois). While still in a supine position, fluid compartments will
      be measured via bioelectric impedance spectroscopy (BIS) (ImpediMed SFB7, ImpediMed Limited,
      Australia).

      Participants will then be fitted with iButtons (iButton DS1921G-F5, Maxim Integrated, San
      Jose, CA, USA) to estimate whole body skin temperature from 7 standardized locations on the
      body. Specifically, the investigators will use the abdomen (site A), inferior angle of the
      left scapula (site B), left posterior forearm (site C), dorsal side of the left hand (site
      D), left anterior thigh (site E), posterior side of the lower leg (site F), and left mid-foot
      (site G) 224. Then, participants will be seated in an upright position and fitted with a
      heart rate monitor (Polar® FT4M, Sempele, Finland) and metabolic mask (TrueOne 2400 Metabolic
      Cart, ParvoMedics, Sandy, Utah). Baseline measures of core temperature, skin temperature,
      heart rate, gas exchange, and blood will be sampled at this time.

      Following baseline measurements, participants will enter the chamber (33° C, 35% RH) and
      complete a workload corresponding to 70% VO2 peak for 60 min. Immediately following the
      steady state exercise bout, participants will have a 5 min rest period to collect a blood
      sample and nude body weight. Afterwards, participants will perform four 12 s maximal effort
      sprints against 5.5% of their body mass, followed by one 30 s maximal effort sprint against
      5.5% of their body mass. Participants will perform 2.5 min active recovery (self-paced
      pedaling against 50 W) between sprints. Participants will then exit the chamber and be
      allowed to drink ad libitum in a resting position.

      Environmental Chamber Ambient Temperature Ambient temperature and humidity will be controlled
      via the environmental chamber and will be secondarily confirmed (Vantage Vue Weather Station,
      Davis Instruments, Hayward, California) in 10 min increments throughout experimental visits.

      Standardization of Diet and Training Prior to each familiarization and experimental visit,
      participants will be asked to maintain consistent dietary and exercise habits for 2 days.
      Additionally, for both days leading up to experimental trials, participants will be asked to
      exactly replicate their dietary intake from week to week. To ensure compliance, participants
      will be asked to complete a 48-hr dietary intake form (Appendix C) and a 48-hr exercise log
      (Appendix D) for the days preceding the experimental trial. Finally, participants will be
      asked to abstain from caffeine for the previous 12 hours, and abstain from alcohol and
      exercise for the previous 24 hr.
    
  