
    
      Adolescent alcohol tobacco and drug (ATOD) use is a major public health concern, with rates
      for Latino middle school youth higher than other ethnic groups. One well-established
      precursor of adolescent ATOD use is psychosocial stress. The overall aim of this project is
      to test the efficacy of a culturally appropriate psychosocial program to prevent or reduce
      ATOD use among Latino immigrant youth. The intervention consists of: (1) encouraging parental
      involvement in child schooling, general parenting skills, and coping strategies ; (2)
      fostering child social emotional learning (SEL) through assigning a near-peer success coach
      to help develop critical thinking, problem solving, and goal setting skills; and (3)
      promoting positive peer affiliations through participation in regular activities that
      facilitate bonding to prosocial institutions.

      The specific aims are:

      (1) Evaluate the potential of the intervention to delay the initiation into or reduce ATOD
      use among Latino youth who are 1st to 2nd generation immigrants; and (2) Evaluate the
      intervention's ability to strengthen known protective factors against ATOD use among
      adolescents-specifically child personal agency and parent-child, peer, and school
      relationships.

      The study's primary hypothesis is: The Unidos Se Puede program will delay initiation of ATOD
      use of current non-users and reduce use among current users.

      To accomplish these aims, we propose an attention placebo randomized control trial. For this
      trial, we will recruit a sample of youth and their parents (N=120 dyads) from a random sample
      of Latino 7th and 8th grade students in Tulsa Public Schools. Those meeting the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and agreeing to participate will provide baseline data before
      being randomly assigned to either the treatment or control condition (n=60 dyads each).
      Participants will be followed for 24 months post-baseline, during which time we will collect
      psychosocial measures annually near the end of each school year (May to June). The study will
      collect psychosocial measures from parents and youth.
    
  