
    
      Primary Objectives: There are three study goals. First, the investigators will determine the
      safety of a 24 month regimen of Leukine administered as a weight-based dose at 3 µg/kg/day
      for 5 days (week), followed by a 2-day holiday (weekend). This 24 month (n=10) pilot study
      will extend the prior 2 month observation tests towards the goal of assessing the safety of
      Leukine for treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Clinical signs and symptoms will be
      measured by personal well-being, physical, and neurological examinations (UPDRS Parts I, II,
      III, and IV assessments) and blood tests (CBC with differential, total T cell count, and a
      comprehensive metabolic sera panel). Second, the investigators will assess regimen
      tolerability administered in a dose reduction, from 6 µg/kg/day without interruption, to 3
      µg/kg/day with 2 day drug holidays. The lowered dose was chosen based on known tolerability
      and parallel-linked immune reconstitution seen in cancer-associated disease treatments. Due
      to fragility of the patient population and prior recorded adverse events the proposed dose
      reductions are justified.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Over a course of 24 months, the effects of treatment on defined adaptive immune deficits in
      PD as measured by analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected before, during,
      and after cessation of Leukine administration will be examined. Individual T cell parameters
      that include links between T cell function and subset analyses and clinical neurological
      signs and symptoms will be examined. These immune parameters will be serially examined as
      they may contribute to the immune deficits in PD. Thus, timed analyses of changes in T cell
      phenotypes and/or function will be completed. In addition, the investigators will assess the
      functional stability of the immune deficits in PD and will determine whether the immune
      deficits of PD are consistent during baseline data collection. The potential Leukine-induced
      motor control and mobility improvements will be determined by assessing UPDRS part I, II,
      III, and IV scores off treatment and on treatment. Specifically, over the course of this
      six-month treatment study, various biomarkers will be assessed including: T cell markers of
      immune activation, DNA methylation status, and B cell and bone marrow progenitor cell
      markers. We hope to uncover the time course of Treg induction, as well as link the
      pharmacokinetics of Leukine treatment (not previously recorded) to changes in specific
      biomarkers. Additionally, changes in the humoral response following extended Leukine
      treatment will be assessed by measuring the presence of antibodies against Leukine and
      alterations in B cell frequencies.
    
  