
    
      Despite successful control of many infectious diseases since the 19th century, viral diseases
      remain an important and significant health burden in the 21st century. In fact, the turn of
      the 21st century saw the emergence of not only new but also re-emergent pathogens such as
      SARS, MERS, West Nile, Ebola, dengue and Zika viruses. In addition, the modern world is
      highly mobile and interconnected. The spread of infectious diseases is imminently only a
      flight away. It is thus of no surprise that epidemics in this century are happening at a much
      faster pace and spreading quicker to cause disruption to human health, society and the
      economy. Vaccination, particularly with a live attenuated vaccine (LAV), which has the most
      successful track record among the various forms of vaccines, remains the most economical
      public health tool available to prevent or stop the spread of infections and alleviate human
      sufferings. Rapid mass vaccination of at risk populations to establish herd immunity has been
      successfully employed to control sporadic YF outbreaks in Africa and South America. More
      recently, a clinical trial showed that ring vaccination of contacts with Ebola patients
      completely abrogated secondary virus spread. Vaccination in times of pandemics, however,
      cannot be limited to children but must include adults in order to rapidly elevate herd
      immunity rates to halt further transmission.

      The use of LAV in adults has several important challenges that have not been systematically
      addressed. The population demographics in Singapore, like most developed countries have
      changed drastically over the past 3 decades. Along with improved nutrition, populations are
      now living longer but with increasing prevalence of chronic diseases such as obesity and
      dyslipidemia. Consequently, the anti-cholesterol group of drugs, with pleiotropic properties,
      statins, are among the commonest drugs prescribed globally for the prevention of secondary
      cardiovascular and major vascular complications. There is presently a mounting concern that
      the anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory effects of statins could have a detrimental
      effect on vaccine efficacy. Indeed, studies examining inactivated influenza vaccination in
      older individuals had observed lower immunogenicity and overall efficacy with statin use.
      Whether statins have a similar negative immunogenicity effect on LAV remains undefined. The
      anti-inflammatory effects may dampen innate immune responses critical for triggering adaptive
      immunity resulting in reduced immunogenicity. Conversely, the suppression of innate immune
      responses could favor LAV infection and replication, allowing adaptive immune cells a longer
      period to sense the antigen, become activated and differentiated for improved immune
      response.

      In this study, an experimental medicine investigation that leverages on a recently completed
      clinical trial that the PI led examining how cross-reactive antibodies altered the
      immunogenicity of yellow fever (YF) vaccination. We will seek to clarify the effects of
      statin on LAV immunogenicity. YF vaccine is an excellent LAV, which remains the WHO
      recommended response to the ever-present threat of YF outbreak. It has also served as an
      important model for studying human antiviral immunity. We propose to test the hypothesis that
      long term statins therapy alters YF LAV immunogenicity by coupling the power of a clinical
      trial with comprehensive systems vaccinology to define the impact statins have on the
      adaptive immune response to YF vaccination. This study will elucidate how statins modulate
      the networks that drive immunity to vaccination in a fast growing population globally.
      Knowledge on how statins impact LAV immunogenicity would inform public health authorities on
      the size of the general population that should be vaccinated to compensate for alterations in
      immunogenicity in this subpopulation to achieve sufficient herd immunity for epidemic and
      pandemic control.
    
  