
    
      A number of studies have explored the role of visual, vestibular and somatosensory systems in
      the control of upright posture. However, the cortical control of postural stability, in
      general, and the role of higher cognitive function in assessment of postural stability, in
      specific, has been less studied. It is well established that certain features of postural
      control change during the advancing years of life so that the stability of posture can be a
      problem in the elderly. However, neural mechanisms of postural stability that decline with
      age and make older adults more prone to falling have not been identified specifically. To
      characterize specific causes of falling in the elderly in problematic, because human posture
      is a product of an extremely complex dynamical system and like any other physical activity
      undergoes dramatic changes in organization throughout the life-span. In our previous research
      we showed the existence of specialized neural detectors that are embodied in spatiotemporal
      patterns of brain activiation (Slobounov et al., 200) capable of discrimination the unstable
      postures in dynamic situations. We propose that these neural detectors may deteriorate with
      aging, which result in difficulty to (a) initiate compensatory postural adjustments when
      balance is in danger, and (b) to discriminate relevant from irrelevant information in control
      of upright posture. This can be documented via changes in behavioral correlates of postural
      control and spatiotemporal patterns of the brain activation as a function of advanced age.
      Accordingly, the purpose of this study is to investigate the age-related cortical control of
      postural stability combining electroencephalography and postural control measures. This will
      be done when a subject physically approaches the postural stability boundary and when a
      subject solves a cognitive task identifying unstable postures in dynamic situations.
    
  