
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the level of pain perceived by chronic neuropathic
      and/or inflammatory pain patients using a compounded transdermal pain cream as a pain
      management solution. Our goal is to identify statistically relevant relationships existing
      between this type of pain therapy and patients' perceived pain levels.

      A secondary goal of this study is to identify any statistically relevant relationships
      between this change in pain perception (if any) and the patient's perception of overall
      well-being.

      This will be an observational study with a cohort observational model study design. Patients
      whom have been prescribed a compounded pain cream regimen as a new pain therapy but have not
      yet begun the regimen will be recruited.

      We will work with local prescribing neurologic, orthopedic and pain clinic physicians to
      identify patients who will be beginning this type of therapy in the near future. Prior to
      administering their first dose, the participants will need to complete the consenting
      process. Participants may opt to review and complete the informed consent form with their
      doctor or with a member of the pharmacy research team.

      The custom survey entitled MLP-001-PC will be administered throughout the 12 week study at 4
      week intervals (baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks).

      Participants will not be required to come to the pharmacy to complete the subsequent surveys.
      They can be mailed or emailed at the participant's discretion. Any patient whom opts to
      receive their survey via mail or email will need to indicate so on their patient information
      form and provide a signature at that time stating that all surveys will be completed on one's
      own behalf (See Attachment 1).

      If the participants opt to receive their surveys by mail, we will ask that they return their
      survey to the pharmacy either in person or in the stamped envelope that will be provided.
      Participants receiving their surveys by email, will need to return their completed surveys in
      person, by mail or by email.

      We will follow up with the patients at 3 and 6 days after the distribution of the surveys to
      remind them to complete and return the surveys. Surveys which are not completed within one
      week of the respective follow-up date will be excluded from the study for that respective
      follow-up interval. These participants will still be encouraged to complete the next survey
      for the next follow-up date.

      The study is projected to last one year from enrollment of the first subject to completion of
      the last subject's participation.

      All results from the baseline and follow-up surveys will be scored and the data will be
      compiled on site. Statistical analysis (Multinomial Regressional Analysis) will be performed
      to identify all statistically relevant correlations. All data will be summarized and
      concluded.

      A description of this clinical trial will be available on http://ClinicalTrials.gov, as
      required by U.S. Law.
    
  