
    
      The cartilage is a unique avascular, aneural tissue that does not regenerate easily once
      damaged. Chondral defects or damages to articular cartilages due to accidents, necrosis of
      subchondral bone tissue, or arthritis have become some of the more common disorders today.
      About 15% of the world's population is reportedly suffering from cartilage and joint damages
      such as degenerative arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. As population aging progresses and
      as more young people start taking up active sports, the size of the target patient group is
      also growing. However, despite ongoing research, an effective treatment for cartilage defects
      is yet to be discovered. Various different types of treatments are currently in use, such as
      drug therapy, arthroscopy, and artificial joint surgery. However, they all fail to address
      the root cause. Complete treatment, or regeneration of damaged or defective cartilage is
      impossible and continuous drug administration or secondary surgeries are required in many
      cases.

      As a way of regenerating the damaged or defective cartilage tissue, treatment of localized
      damage to articular cartilage using autologous chondrocytes is currently under review. A few
      life science companies both home and abroad are marketing this method of treatment called
      'autologous chondrocyte transplant'. The treatment involves the extraction of healthy
      cartilage tissue from the patient which is then cultured and transplanted into the damaged
      site.

      However, this treatment requires the extraction of chondrocytes directly from the patient and
      thus causes trauma in healthy articular cartilage. Also, this type of treatment cannot be
      applied to large lesions, nor is the efficacy satisfactory in patients over the age of 40
      whose cellular activation levels are low. Thus, autologous chondrocyte transplant is rather
      limited in the number of cells harvested and their activation level and is therefore
      restricted in terms of treatment site, severity of the condition, and the size of lesion. The
      current technology allows the application of treatments in local cartilage defects but not in
      degenerative arthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. The technology needs to be taken up to
      another level in order to benefit such prevalent arthritic disorders. Treatments using stem
      cells do not cause damage to healthy articular cartilage as they don't require the harvesting
      of healthy cartilage tissues from the patients. Moreover, the number of successfully cultured
      cells is larger due to the excellent proliferation capability of stem cells and thus, mass
      supply is possible.

      This clinical trial for the stem cell therapies is essential because treatment of cartilage
      defects with umbilical cord blood-derived mesenchymal stem cells, known to have the highest
      level of activity among all adult stem cells, opens the possibility of articular cartilage
      regeneration even for aged patients and patients with large lesions unable to benefit from
      existing treatments.

      The biggest challenge faced by nations competing in the field of "tissue differentiation and
      regeneration using stem cells" is the question of whether or not the use of embryonic stem
      cells is ethical. Chondrogenesis using umbilical cord blood-derived mesenchymal stem cells
      can not only avoid similar challenges, but also present an innovative treatment mode with
      significant clinical implications for the patients.

      In the clinical study, mesenchymal stem cells will be isolated from umbilical cord blood and
      cultured, mixed with semi- solid polymer, and administered into the cartilage tissue lesion
      by orthopedic surgery in order to stimulate the regeneration of defective cartilage tissue
      and to improve their functions.
    
  