
    
      Interventions designed to reduce STI/HIV risk have mostly failed to consider clients of FSWs,
      who may act as a 'bridge' to the general population. Our recent survey of U.S and Mexican
      clients seeking FSWs in Tijuana revealed a startling HIV prevalence rate of 4.1%. Based on
      qualitative and quantitative interviews with clients from Tijuana Mexico and the U.S. the
      investigators developed a theory-based intervention (Hombre Seguro) that uses Motivational
      Interviewing, active participation, and problem solving to increase clients' use of condoms
      with FSWs. The investigators now propose an RCT to test the efficacy of this one-hour
      intervention in Tijuana which will enroll 400 HIV-negative men (200 residents of San Diego
      County; 200 Tijuana residents) who report having unprotected sex with FSWs in the past 4
      months. Our theory-based participatory intervention will be evaluated in comparison with a
      time and information equivalent didactic control condition. Participants will be recruited in
      Tijuana where they will undergo a baseline CAPI-administered interview, STI testing (HIV,
      syphilis, gonorrhea, Chlamydia), and intervention counseling with follow-up interviews at 4,
      8, and 12 months post-baseline conducted in either Tijuana or San Diego. Our study aims are
      to: 1) evaluate the efficacy of Hombres Seguro to increase condom use of clients with FSWs;
      2) determine if the intervention is as efficacious among U.S. versus Mexican clients; 3)
      determine the extent to which theoretically-based components of our intervention (e.g.,
      self-efficacy) represent underlying mechanisms of change in primary outcomes (e.g., lower
      HIV/STI incidence); and 4) explore subgroup differences in efficacy of the intervention based
      on background characteristics (e.g., age), contextual factors (e.g., substance use
      before/during sex), psychosexual factors (e.g., social-sexual effectiveness), and
      psychosocial factors (e.g., social network influence). Our primary analytic approach will
      utilize a generalized linear mixed models (GLMM) approach to repeated measures analysis. This
      bi-national study will contribute significantly to HIV prevention research by addressing the
      role of male clients in the escalating HIV epidemics in Tijuana and San Diego, and could have
      application to other settings where HIV prevalence is high among FSWs and their clients.
    
  