
    
      The ability of blood vessels to dilate is essential to ensure adequate blood flow and oxygen
      delivery to active muscle during exercise. With advancing age, exercising muscle loses the
      ability to overcome vasoconstriction from the sympathetic nervous system, which impairs blood
      flow and limits exercise tolerance. Thus, understanding the signaling mechanisms that
      underlie the ability of active muscle to limit sympathetic vasoconstriction will advance our
      understanding of blood flow regulation in humans and lay the foundation for new strategies to
      improve blood flow and exercise tolerance in aging and clinical populations.

      Therefore, the purpose of this research is to investigate endogenous acetylcholine as an
      important signaling molecule that regulates blood flow during exercise. The studies will also
      determine whether a reduced contribution of acetylcholine explains blood flow impairments in
      older adults. Since exercise training is known to improve acetylcholine signaling, this
      research will also address whether a handgrip exercise training intervention will improve
      blood flow regulation. The expected outcomes will provide new insight to the basic physiology
      underlying vascular control in humans. Furthermore, the findings will provide insight to the
      age-related decline in blood flow regulation during exercise and will assess the use of an
      exercise intervention to improve functional outcomes in older individuals.

      Participants will be asked to complete several study visits over the course of 8 weeks. Once
      study eligibility has been determined, participants will report to the Human Performance
      Clinical Research Laboratory at Colorado State University for a 3 hour visit to assess
      forearm exercise capacity. In a separate 5 hour visit following an overnight fast, a
      physician will place a catheter in the brachial artery of the non-dominant arm to assess
      vascular function. Participants will then complete 7 weeks of handgrip exercise training
      (four sessions per week) and return to the laboratory for follow-up visits to assess forearm
      exercise capacity and vascular function.
    
  