
    
      Background:

      Current research priorities to manage wait times for total joint arthroplasty (TJA) indicate
      the need to establish benchmarks that consider patient preferences. Among clinically
      appropriate candidates for this procedure, patients' preferences for surgery is very low;
      between 8.5 and 14.9% of clinically ideal candidates were definitely willing to consider
      TJA.However, patients' preferences for hip or knee replacements are strongly associated with
      their misperceptions of the indications for, and the risks and benefits of, these procedures.
      These misperceptions can be corrected with the use of patient decision aids. Therefore,
      patient decision aids may have a role in ensuring that wait list reforms address under-use of
      surgical procedures that informed patients need and want, while preventing the over-use of
      procedures that informed patients do not value. If they were used in combination with
      screening for surgical eligibility, they might also prevent inappropriate referrals for
      surgery (i.e., patients who are not clinically eligible or who would not want surgery even if
      they were clinically eligible).

      Objective:

      To pilot test the feasibility of a trial evaluating the incremental effects of patient
      decision aids on reducing unnecessary surgical referrals for TJA, when used in combination
      with a general practitioner intake clinic that screens patients for surgical eligibility.

      Participants & Setting:

      Patients referred for surgical consultation for hip or knee osteoarthritis at The Ottawa
      Hospital will be recruited. Excluded are those with inflammatory arthritis, previous TJA, or
      those unable to understand video/DVD decision aids due to deafness, blindness, cognitive
      impairment, or language barrier.

      Design:

      In this pilot study, patients will be screened for surgical eligibility by a trained general
      practitioner using a standardized examination of the hip/knee and questionnaire assessing
      joint symptoms and disability. Eligible patients will be stratified by affected joint
      (hip/knee) and randomly allocated to either: a) usual education; or b) a patient decision aid
      which presents balanced evidence-based information on the treatment options, including the
      risks and benefits. Automated reports will be sent to the surgeon for all patients.

      Primary Outcomes:

        -  Feasibility of participant recruitment, intervention provision, and data collection;
           sample size needed to detect differences in the rates of unnecessary referral

      Secondary Outcomes

        -  Proportion of unnecessary surgical referrals.

        -  Decision quality, the extent to which patients' decisions are informed and values-based.

        -  Perception of Preparation for Decision Making.

      Timeline and Deliverables:

      By the end of this one year study, we will prepare a report and policy brief on the evidence
      of feasibility to support a larger scale multi-centre trial and a fully implementable set of
      interventions, with standardized training, to facilitate replication elsewhere.
    
  