
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize and describe the patterns of temporary interruption vs. continuation of
      ibrutinib after their coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) diagnosis and their corresponding
      rates of hospitalization and/or death by day 28 in an observational cohort of COVID-19
      infected patients treated with ibrutinib therapy as their standard of care. (Cohort 1) II. To
      determine if continuation of ibrutinib during COVID-19 infection among patients who are
      hospitalized can result in decreased need for mechanical ventilation and decreased mortality
      by day 28 compared to patients who suspend temporarily ibrutinib treatment after their
      COVID-19 diagnosis. (Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. To determine the average length of time from diagnosis of COVID-19
      infection to need for hospitalization due to worsening disease. (Cohort 1) II. To determine
      the rate of viral clearance on days 15, 28, 42, and 56 after registration. (Cohort 1) III. To
      evaluate coagulation parameters at baseline, and on days 15 and 28 after registration.
      (Cohort 1) IV. To determine the incidence of arterial and venous thrombosis as well as
      bleeding complications. (Cohort 1) V. To evaluate patient-reported health status and quality
      of life using the patient reported outcome (PRO)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE). (Cohort 1) VI. To determine if patients develop a "flare phenomenon" if
      ibrutinib is stopped. (Cohort 1) VII. To evaluate the patterns and timing of restarting
      ibrutinib in those patients who suspended their ibrutinib treatment after their COVID-19
      diagnosis. (Cohort 1) VIII. To evaluate the association of patient outcomes stratified by the
      Charlson Co-morbidity index (CCI). (Cohort 1) IX. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of
      continuation of ibrutinib. (Cohort 1) X. To evaluate if continued treatment with ibrutinib
      can reduce the proportion of patients who die due to any cause in the 28 days after
      randomization compared to patients who stop ibrutinib in COVID-19 positive patients who are
      hospitalized at the time of study enrollment. (Cohort 2) XI. To evaluate the incidence of
      mechanical ventilation in hospitalized patients, and whether continued ibrutinib therapy
      reduces this incidence compared to stopping ibrutinib. (Cohort 2) XII. To determine whether
      continued ibrutinib can significantly improve the viral clearance rate at baseline, and on
      days 8, 15, 28, 42 and 56 days after randomization compared to those who temporarily
      interrupt ibrutinib. (Cohort 2) XIII. To evaluate coagulation parameters at baseline, and on
      days 8, 15, and 28 after randomization among patients who continue ibrutinib compared to
      those who discontinue ibrutinib. (Cohort 2) XIV. To determine the incidence of arterial and
      venous thrombosis as well as bleeding complications in patients who continue ibrutinib
      compared to those who stop it. (Cohort 2) XV. To determine if patients who are randomized to
      stopping ibrutinib develop "flare phenomenon". (Cohort 2) XVI. To evaluate the association of
      patient outcomes stratified by the Charlson Co-morbidity index (CCI). (Cohort 2)

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association of inflammatory status with COVID severity. II. To determine
      the proportion of patients who develop antibodies to SARS-CoV2, especially given that
      patients with B cell malignancies tend to have inadequate responses to vaccines and often
      suffer from hypogammaglobulinemia.

      III. To determine changes in the immune profile by advanced flow cytometry given that the
      status of the immune system , both innate and adaptive , may dictate ultimate host management
      and clearance of COVID infections.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients may continue to receive ibrutinib orally (PO) daily or stop ibrutinib per
      provider's discretion.

      COHORT II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM 2A: Patients continue to receive ibrutinib PO daily in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM 2B: Patients undergo temporary interruption of ibrutinib for up to 28 days unless they
      are discharged home and are thought to be medically fit by the primary caregiver to resume
      therapy according to their primary treating oncologist.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 42, 56, and 84 days.
    
  