
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the dose limiting toxicities and determine the maximum tolerated
      dose/recommended phase 2 dose of the combination of guadecitabine and durvalumab. (Dose
      escalation part) II. To evaluate the objective response rate (per Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1) for the combination of guadecitabine and durvalumab in
      hepatocellular carcinoma, pancreatic cancer and cholangiocarcinoma cohorts, respectively.
      (Expansion part)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the safety and tolerability of the combination of guadecitabine and
      durvalumab.

      II. To estimate the progression-free and overall survival of patients with advanced
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), pancreatic cancer and biliary cancers treated with the
      combination of guadecitabine and durvalumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Correlate programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1)
      expression on various cells within tumor samples and anti-tumor effect (response rate and
      survival).

      II. Correlate effector T cells (Teff)/regulatory T cells (Treg) ratio in the tumor and
      anti-tumor effect.

      III. Correlate granulocytic and monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) level in
      the peripheral blood using fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) and anti-tumor effect.

      IV. Evaluate changes in inflammatory T cell signatures pre and post treatment and potential
      associations with anti-tumor effect.

      V. Assess the induction, activation, expansion and tumor infiltration of tumor
      neo-epitope-specific T cells.

      VI. Explore changes in gene methylation and expression with anti-tumor effect, with
      particular emphasis on the ancestry-informative marker (AIM) gene panel.

      VII. Correlate immunologic changes in pre- and post-treatment peripheral blood mononuclear
      cell (PBMCs) and anti-tumor effect.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of guadecitabine.

      Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and durvalumab
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 8. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.
    
  