
    
      Beaumont Quantitative CT lung function imaging (BQLFI) uses mathematical modeling to
      determine regional differences in ventilation (CT-V) and pulmonary blood mass (PBM) from a
      pair of inspiration-expiration CT scans or time-resolved four-dimensional (4D) CT scans. CT-V
      and PBM images provide surrogates for pulmonary ventilation and perfusion, respectively, in
      the form of detailed functional maps. CT-V and PBM therefore allow us to distinguish healthy
      from abnormal lung. Moreover, the technique generalizes to recover lung compliance imaging
      (LCI) when the CT is acquired at different pressure settings, in order to characterize lung
      stiffness. PBM and CT-V can detect parenchymal lung function changes at a voxel level and can
      be used to 1) assess disease progression in SARS-CoV-2, 2) detect treatment effects, and 3)
      identify early changes in high-risk patients prior to their development of disease. BQLFI
      affords the opportunity to provide imaging biomarkers that enable the early diagnosis of lung
      injury, which in turn cause impairment in gas exchange at the level of alveolar capillary
      interface. Currently, there are no available imaging biomarkers to predict patients at risk
      of progression or identify those at risk of developing severe disease with SARS-CoV-2. Our
      proposed study will validate a novel methodology, based on state-of-the-art CT-V and PBM
      imaging that can accurately measure regional ventilation and perfusion, as a means for
      improving surveillance, diagnosis, and prognostication of patients with SARS-CoV-2. This is a
      prospective, pilot study of 25 adult patients with SARS-CoV-2, who have mild to moderate
      disease, defined as positive PCR screen and not requiring invasive mechanical ventilator
      support or noninvasive ventilation or high flow nasal cannula. Participants will provide
      informed consent and eligibility will be confirmed. Demographics and medical history will be
      obtained. Participants will undergo one inspiration-expiration CT. Outcomes and adverse
      events will be assessed over 30 day using chart review or phone interview.
    
  