
    
      Populations all over the world are experiencing rapid increases in the prevalence of obesity
      and diabetes. To date, the public health response to the emerging obesity epidemic has been
      almost totally ineffective. As a first line of response, professional bodies and government
      organizations have issued prevention guidelines, all of which include recommendations on
      levels of activity energy expenditure (AEE). However, even if fully implemented, it is not
      clear that the current recommendations on AEE would impact the trend in age-related weight
      gain. In fact, there is virtually no direct evidence that can be brought to bear on the
      question of whether the obesity epidemic has resulted primarily or even partially from
      society-wide declines in habitual physical activity (PA).

      To date, epidemiologic research on AEE has relied on very crude measurement tools-primarily
      questionnaires. These self-reported data capture only a small fraction of the total variance
      in activity and are potentially confounded when they focus on leisure-time PA. By contrast,
      direct measurement with doubly labeled water (DLW) provides a precise, unbiased estimate of
      all forms of non-resting energy expenditure. DLW has also been used to validate the new
      generation of accelerometers which are efficient measurement tools for larger studies.

      In this study, objective measurement tools will be used to examine the "ecology of AEE". This
      study will take place in 5 countries spanning the range of the activity-obesity spectrum and
      will combine both within-population person-level and between-population ecological analyses.
      First, the study will examine whether an individual's amount or pattern of AEE is related to
      adiposity in a diverse sample of 2,500. Second, the study will evaluate whether a decline in
      levels of AEE is an important cause of the rapid increases in obesity that currently take
      place in many societies. As an exploratory aim we will examine the role of selected
      adipocytokines and the appetite hormone ghrelin.
    
  