
    
      Myocardial infarction (MI) is a disease of middle and advanced age.

      Most of the present knowledge of infarction is derived from studies in this older cohort of
      patients.

      In fact, some clinical studies of patients with chest pain have excluded individuals under 40
      years of age

      Although thrombolytic therapy has been shown to improve survival in elderly AMI patients when
      compared with placebo, many studies have shown lower mortality rates when these patients are
      treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention(PPCI) for AMI

      Young adults are a relatively small portion of those having acute myocardial infarction
      (AMI). However they are an important group to examine with regard to risk factor modification
      and secondary prevention.

      Previous studies have estimated that young patients of less than 40 years old make up between
      2% and 6% of all AMI

      young patients has different characteristics from that in the older coronary arteriography
      performed in young patients after myocardial infarction has identified a relatively high
      prevalence of angiographically normal coronary arteries.

      Risk factor analysis in young AMI patients has revealed a high prevalence of current smoking,
      hyperlipidemia and positive family history

      In addition, non-classical risk factors such as vasospastic tendencies, thrombophilic
      conditions and a history of Kawasaki disease have also been proposed as the causes of AMI in
      young patients.

      PPCI is now widely accepted as a therapeutic strategy for older patients with AMI. Early,
      complete revascularization can salvage myocardium at risk and improve survival rates.

      However on the basis of the difference in etiology of AMI, there is a possibility that the
      clinical effectiveness of PCI for young adults with AMI might be different from that old
      patients

      Nevertheless, coronary artery disease has been recognized in young age groups more frequently
      in recent years.

      It is a topic of increasing clinical interest due to the potential for premature death and
      long-term disability.

      Aim of the study :

      The purpose of the present study is to examine the clinical background, angiographic
      findings, acute results and in-hospital outcome of PPCI in young adults with AMI (less than
      40 years) compared with those non young group (more than 40 years) .

      Type of the study: case only , prospective study .Study Setting: cardiology department ,
      assuit university hospital , assuit , Egypt

      Study subjects:

        1. Inclusion criteria:

           All patients with acute myocardial infarction (STEMI) : chest pain > 30 minutes and ST
           segment elevation in more than one lead , treated with PPCI at assuit university
           hospital starting from September 2017 .

        2. Exclusion criteria:

           Patients undergoing elective percutaneous intervention and thrombolytic therapy.

        3. Sample Size Calculation: : Sample size was calculated using Epi-info version 3 , based
           on previous studies , prevalence of MI in Egypt is 8.3 % , with confident level of 95 %
           , the sample needed for the study was estimated to be about 117

      Study tools (in detail, e.g., lab methods, instruments, steps, chemicals, …):

      All patient will be subjected to :

      1-history taking , clinical examination & assessment of clinical risk factors of coronary
      heart disease as ( age , sex , family history ,DM , HTN ,smoking , addiction and type of
      addiction , previous ACS ,previous PCI , psychic trauma ,history of chest obstructive , renal
      and vascular disease , weight ,length ,BMI ,BSA , obesity , KILLIP class , ischemic time ,
      preinfarction angina ,mode of transport 2-12 lead ECG before and after PPCI. 3-Angiongraphic
      findings, acute results of PPCI ( previous PCI , culprit artery , if MVD , which segment
      affected ,presence or absence of visible thrombus ,type of penetrating wire ,direct stenting
      or not ,type of the stent , name of the stent , number of stents , diameter and length of
      each stent , usage of thrombus aspiration , balloon dilatation ,diameter and length of the
      balloon ,and inflation pressure ,volume of contrast ,final TIMI flow ,presence of
      collaterals.

      4-evaluation of PCI success (in-hospital):

      a-angiographic success :( residual stenosis ≤ 30% and TIMI flow grade 3) and side branch
      angiographic success (residual stenosis ≤ 50% and TIMI flow grade 3)

      a- procedural success : achievement of angiographic success without major clinical
      complication as ( death ,MI ,emergency coronary artery bypass surgery ) during
      hospitalization .

      c- clinical success : in the short term , recovering of signs and symptoms of myocardial
      ischemia .

      5-Therapuetic data as ( aspirin loading dose , clopidogrel loading dose ,maintenance dose and
      its duration , ticagrelor loading dose ,maintenance dose and its duration , usage of
      tirofiban intracoronary or intravenous ) 6- echocardiographic finding during admission ( EF
      by Simpson and M-mode , SWMA, mechanical complication ) 7-laboratory finding during admission
      ( total cholesterol , LDL , HDL , TG , basal creatinine , creatinine at discharge ,basal CK
      and CKMB , peak CK and CKMB , CK - CKMB - TNL at discharge , hemoglobin and platelet level )
      8-follow up after 3 months for ( mortality , ACS, MI , target artery revascularization ,ISR
      ,HF ,follow up echo EF by Simpson and M-mode , SWMA )
    
  