
    
      Investigators will conduct a triple-blinded randomized controlled trial of a whole-home UV
      water treatment device in southeastern Pennsylvania. Participating families will be
      randomized to receive an active UV device or a sham (inactive) UV device. Following the
      installation of the device, participants will be followed for one year. During that year,
      participants will respond to weekly text messages to report the presence of symptoms
      associated with gastrointestinal and respiratory illness in their children. Upon reporting
      symptoms, participants will complete an illness questionnaire on details regarding the
      illness and other potential exposure events. A subset of participants will submit groundwater
      samples as well as stool and saliva samples from their children. Water and stool samples will
      be analyzed for common waterborne pathogens. Saliva samples will be analyzed for
      immunoconversions to common waterborne pathogens (exploratory aim).

      Under the guidance of an interdisciplinary advisory committee we will execute the following
      aims:

      Aim 1- Quantify the incidence rate of endemic childhood GI associated with consuming
      untreated private well water and compare that to the incidence rate of consuming well water
      treated by UV.

      Aim 1a- Construct a Quantitative Microbial Risk Assessment (QMRA) using water quality data we
      collect to estimate the risk of childhood GI associated with consuming untreated private well
      water and compare the incidence from the risk model to the incidence we calculate in Aim 1.

      Aim 2- Identify, quantify and compare viral, bacterial and protozoan pathogens in stool of
      children consuming UV treated or untreated (sham) private well water (including both
      asymptomatic and symptomatic cases).

      Aim 3- Explore the presence of pathogens in untreated well water and stool samples of
      children consuming untreated private well water (sham group only).
    
  