
    
      Pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. Chronic pain, including chronic low
      back pain, represents a major public health problem. Risk factors of chronicity of low back
      pain include high levels of psychological distress prior to or during the episode, premorbid
      association with work status or employment dissatisfaction, unemployment, poor self-rated
      health and low levels of physical activity. Other psychosocial features are poor social and
      educational status, previous sexual or physical abuse. Furthermore, mechanical strain on the
      spine from heavy lifting, repetitive lifting, twisting and vibration, including driving
      increase the risk. Static work postures, prolonged standing or walking, road traffic
      accidents and falls are also significantly related.While there is little evidence for a
      specific personality profile, stress, distress, anxiety, mood disorders and depression were
      consistently related to neck and back pain.

      CLBP is associated with significant disability, functional impairment, high rates of
      psychiatric symptoms including anxiety and depression, and loss of other physical roles.
      These may produce social and functional problems, which include reduced earning capacity,
      unemployment and family disharmony. Chronic pain is also associated with loss of self
      confidence and self-esteem, leading to social withdrawal and social isolation. Men with CLBP
      have significantly higher lifetime rates of major depression, alcohol use disorder and major
      anxiety disorder. After age of pain onset, CLBP subjects had over 9 times the risk of
      developing major depression.

      Depression is believed to be mediated by 5-HT and norepinephrine through the raphe nucleus
      and locus coeruleus projections to the cerebral cortex and forebrain limbic systems, whereas
      pain is believed to be mediated in part through descending 5-HT and norepinephrine pain
      pathways that provide inhibitory input to the dorsal horn neurons in the spinal cord. Global
      deficiences in 5-HT or norepinephrine neurotransmission would be predicted to affect both
      mood and pain thresholds, possibly accounting for the hgh comorbidity of painful symptoms in
      patients with depression.Accordingly, enhancement of both neurotransmitter or 5-HT alone
      would be expected both to improve symptoms of depression and to normalize pain thresholds.

      In antidepressant treatment of CLBP, only 2 studies were published using SSRIs. One reported
      significantly higher pain intensity reduction in maprotilin group compared to paroxetine and
      placebo. The other showed no effect of paroxetine on depression or pain. Patients on SSRI,
      however, reduced the amount of analgesic medication.
    
  