
    
      Background:

      The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is rising dramatically. T2DM represents a
      major cause for cardiovascular disease -related mortality and morbidity and increasingly
      burdens healthcare systems. While the fundamental pathomechanism of T2DM is insulin
      resistance of muscle and adipose tissue, recent studies demonstrate that insulin resistance
      in T2DM also occurs in platelets. As insulin directly inhibits platelet function, this
      mechanism might contribute to platelet activation and platelet hyperreactivity, which were in
      fact detected in diabetic patients. Since (inadvertent) platelet activation is causally
      linked to the development of atherosclerosis and atherothrombosis, regulation of platelet
      function is of utmost importance. Exercise training, performed on a regular basis has been
      shown to reduce morbidity and mortality in sedentary and diseased populations. Furthermore,
      exercise training improves whole body insulin sensitivity - however, it is currently unclear,
      if exercise training also affects insulin sensitivity of platelets. Recently, a time-saving
      interval training protocol has been adapted for T2DM-patients. Since this adapted high
      intensity interval training (HIIT) needs a fractional time commitment of exercise training
      according to current guidelines, HIIT possibly represents a promising instrument to increase
      adherence to exercise and thereby reduce T2DM morbidity.

      Aims:

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate the effect of 12 weeks of HIIT vs. continuous
      training (CT) on platelet insulin sensitivity and platelet (hyper)reactivity in prediabetic
      patients.

      Secondary aims are to assess the effect of HIIT and CT on whole body insulin sensitivity and
      fitness in prediabetic patients as well as on various parameters of platelet function and on
      the hepatic fat content.

      Hypotheses:

      Our main hypothesis is that HIIT increases platelet insulin sensitivity and thereby decreases
      platelet activation/reactivity in patients with prediabetes. Methods: 44 prediabetic (see
      inclusion criteria) patients will be enrolled in this study. Patients will randomly be
      assigned to a HIIT group (committed to a supervised training program) or a CT group. After
      initial examinations (supervised graded exercise test, platelet function tests, oral glucose
      tolerance test, measurement of the hepatic fat content via FibroScan®), supervised training
      will be performed over a period of 12 weeks. Tests performed at the beginning of the study
      will be repeated after the training period.
    
  