
    
      SPOON Colombia is an innovative strategy to prevent undernutrition and obesity in children
      aged 0-24 months living in high-poverty areas of Colombia. The SPOON program aims to improve
      infant and young children feeding practices, including exclusive breastfeeding during a
      child's first six months and home-fortification with peanut-based SQ-LNS (small quantity
      lipid-based nutrient supplements) for children 6 to 24 months of age.

      The SPOON intervention will randomly assign participants at the household level to one of
      three groups: a control group, Treatment Group 1, and Treatment Group 2. Participants in the
      control group will receive the standard services provided by their local health clinics in
      addition to a supply of micronutrient powder. The powder consists of vitamins and minerals
      that are added to the child's food to increase his or her consumption of micronutrients.
      Participants in Treatment Group 1 will receive group counseling and the SQ-LNS supplement
      instead of micronutrient powder. The group counseling program consists of various lessons for
      the children's caregivers about the importance of breastfeeding and providing high quality
      food with the SQ-LNS supplement. Those assigned to Treatment Group 2 will receive all the
      services that those in Treatment Group 1 receive in addition to individualized counseling,
      where messages about nutrition and breastfeeding will be reinforced through home visits.

      Comparing the three treatment arms will identify the marginal impact of the SPOON program.
      For example, measuring the differences in outcomes between the participants in the control
      arm and in Treatment Group 1 will identify the impact of the Spoon program package, which
      includes SQ-LNS and group counseling, compared to current government-provided services.
      Measuring the differences between Treatment Group 1 and Treatment Group 2 will indicate the
      marginal impact of individualized counseling, and measuring the difference between the
      control arm and Treatment Group 2 will determine the combined impact of the SPOON program
      combined with individualized counseling.
    
  