
    
      The study is a Phase 1/2a, multicenter, randomized (the study medication is assigned by
      chance), single dose, dose escalation, fellow-eye controlled study evaluating the safety and
      clinical response of a single, subretinal administration of CNTO 2476 in patients with visual
      acuity impairment associated with GA secondary to AMD. The study will consist of screening
      (up to 21 days prior to treatment) period, treatment (Day 1) period and follow up period. The
      study will be conducted in 2 portions: the Phase 1 portion will include dose escalation and
      the Phase 2 portion will enroll additional patients randomized to one of the 2 optimal doses
      selected from the Phase 1 portion (with an acceptable safety profile seen in Phase 1). For
      Phase 1, the treatment eye will be the eye with worse visual acuity or the one chosen by the
      investigator, however, the treatment eye cannot have a visual acuity no better than 20/200.
      For Phase 2a, the treatment eye will be the eye with worse visual acuity, and cannot have a
      visual acuity better than 20/80. Approximately 30 patients will participate in the Phase 1
      dose escalation portion, and 38 patients will be enrolled in the Phase 2a portion (19
      patients receiving optimal dose level X from Phase 1 and 19 receiving optimal dose level Y
      from Phase 1). In the Phase 1 portion, treatment will be assigned 5 sequential cohorts, with
      3 patients per cohort in each of the first 4 cohorts and 6 patients in the fifth cohort.
      Cohort A patients will be treated first, followed by Cohort B patients. All patients in a
      given cohort must have completed at least 4 weeks of post-treatment follow-up before patients
      in the next cohort may be treated. Follow-up will include postoperative follow-up period of
      12 months (Day 2, Day 7, Day 15, Week 3, Week 4, Months 2, 3, 6, and 12) and long-term safety
      follow-up period (patients will be evaluated every 6 months for safety assessments). Safety
      assessments will include vital signs, AEs, and concomitant medications and routine 12-lead
      electrocardiograms (ECG). The anticipated study duration will be approximately 5 years (1
      year in the 12-month postoperative follow-up period; up to 4 years in the long-term safety
      follow-up period).
    
  