
    
      African Americans are more likely to have a reduced insulin sensitivity which results in a
      greater risk for diabetes. However, the reasons for their decreased insulin sensitivity are
      not clearly understood. Natriuretic peptides (NPs) are hormones produced by the heart that
      are known to have a wide range of favorable metabolic effects. Studies indicate that lower NP
      levels are associated with a decreased insulin sensitivity and has a causal role in the
      development of diabetes.

      Evidence suggests that African Americans have low levels of NPs. Increased clearance of NPs
      by neprilysin, a NP degrading enzyme, contributes the low levels of NP among these
      population. Since NPs play an important role in the regulation of insulin sensitivity and
      energy expenditure, one can infer that relatively low NP levels are an important biological
      contributor to the high prevalence rates of cardiometabolic disease in African Americans.

      Sacubitril/valsartan is an FDA approved inhibitor of neprilysin that augment NP levels. NP
      augmentation using sacubitril/valsartan has been shown to improve the insulin sensitivity and
      lipid metabolism in small clinical trial among obese white individuals. It can be postulated
      that NP augmentation in population with relatively low NP levels will help in improving their
      metabolic health. Improvement in the metabolic health following NP augmentation will also
      help us to outline the relationship between NP system and the risk of cardiometabolic disease
      among African Americans.

      We hypothesize that NP augmentation among African Americans will show an improvement in their
      metabolic health as measured by insulin sensitivity and energy expenditure. We hypothesize
      that African American individuals will show an improvement in their insulin sensitivity and
      their resting & exercise energy expenditure after treatment with sacubitril/valsartan versus
      valsartan alone.

      Our study will have two aims. The first aim is to assess the change in the insulin
      sensitivity after NP augmentation therapy (using sacubitril/valsartan) as compared with NP
      neutral therapy (using valsartan) among African Americans. We will measure the change in
      insulin sensitivity (assessed using IVGTT) after 12 weeks of intervention. We will also
      assess the change in NP levels (a marker of NP augmentation) & cyclic guanylate monophosphate
      (cGMP) levels after intervention and evaluate their relationship with the change in insulin
      sensitivity.

      The second aim of our study is to examine the change in the energy expenditure after
      sacubitril/valsartan as compared to valsartan alone among African American individuals. The
      individuals enrolled in the first aim will also be examined for the change in resting as well
      as exercise energy expenditure. This will be assessed using standardized protocol performed
      using the metabolic cart and an exercise treadmill, at baseline and after 12 weeks of either
      sacubitril/valsartan or valsartan alone.
    
  