
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether high-dose trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (HD-TIV) compared
      with standard dose quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (QIV) will increase the
      probability of achieving a >= 4-fold rise in hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) titers, >=
      1:40 HAI titer, or higher geometric mean titer (GMT) to influenza A antigens in pediatric
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether HD-TIV compared with standard dose QIV will increase the probability
      of achieving a >= 4-fold rise in HAI titers, >= 1:40 HAI titer, or higher GMT titers to
      influenza B antigens in pediatric HSCT recipients.

      II. To determine the frequency and severity of solicited local injection site adverse events
      (e.g. pain/ tenderness, redness, and swelling at injection site) with HD-TIV compared to
      standard QIV in pediatric HSCT recipients.

      III. To determine the frequency and severity of solicited systemic adverse events (e.g.
      fevers, headache, fatigue/malaise, nausea, body ache/myalgia, general activity level, and
      vomiting) with HD-TIV compared to standard dose QIV in pediatric HSCT recipients.

      IV. To define the relationship between HAI titers, in vivo T and B cell phenotype, and in
      vitro influenza-specific T and B cell response in pediatric HSCT recipients receiving either
      HD-TIV or standard dose QIV.

      V. To correlate HAI responses to microneutralization responses.

      VI. To compare the persistent HAI and microneutralization (MN) titers for all four antigen
      seven months after the last vaccine dose to assess for persistence of antibody titers.

      VII. To compare influenza detection by PCR during influenza season in pediatric HSCT
      recipients receiving either HD-TIV or standard dose QIV.

      VIII. To assess HAI and MN response in children vaccinated during year 1 and revaccinated
      during year 2 using the same antigen dose.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

      GROUP I (Experimental): Patients receive HD-TIV intramuscularly (IM) on day 0 and day 28.

      GROUP II (Standard): Patients receive standard dose QIV IM on day 0 and day 28.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28-42 days, and at 7 months.
    
  