
    
      The project purpose is to scientifically examine the benefits of piano training as compared
      to computer cognitive training and no treatment controls on cognitive (processing speed,
      task-switching, verbal fluency, verbal memory, and working memory), psychosocial (mood,
      self-efficacy, and quality of life), and physiological variables (biomarkers) in healthy
      older adult participants in a randomized clinical trial design.

      Participants: Ninety community dwelling older adults will be recruited from the community.
      Criteria for enrollment are: between the ages of 60-80, native English speakers, not
      currently taking medications affecting memory performance, have no pre-existing cognitive
      impairment or neurological disorders, (as indicated by the Telephone Interview for Cognitive
      Status > 30), no moderate to severe depression (as indicated by the Geriatric Depression
      Scale), no difficulty with hand movements, less than three years of prior musical training,
      not currently engaged in music reading or musical performance, and less than ten hours of
      prior computer brain training experience. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of
      three groups stratified by intelligence and gender: piano instruction, computerized cognitive
      training or a no treatment control group. Informed written consent will be obtained in
      accordance with the Institutional Review Board.

      Procedure: Participants will be tested in three visits: pre-training, immediately
      post-training, and three months follow-up. Those randomized to piano training or computerized
      cognitive training will complete their assigned training between pre-training and
      post-training visits. Measures of music aptitude and intelligence will be administered at the
      pre-training visit. These factors can influence cognitive performance. Any significant
      differences at baseline between the three assigned groups will be statistically controlled
      for in the analyses. Standardized cognitive measures will be used to examine processing
      speed, task-switching, verbal fluency, verbal memory, and working memory at each visit.
      Psychosocial outcomes (mood, self-efficacy, and quality of life) and physiological biomarkers
      will also be evaluated at each visit.

      The goal for both interventions will be to complete 48 hours of group training over a four
      month period (16 weeks). Sixty participants (30 piano training; 30 auditory computer
      training) will be asked to attend three hours of training each week. Thirty participants will
      serve in the no treatment control group. Piano training will consist of basic piano
      technique, dexterity exercises, piano literature, and music theory. Participants will be
      expected to perform all major scales, repertoire from the Alfred All-in-One Method, and
      complete weekly theory assignments. Each class session is structured as a cognitive
      intervention that focuses upon review of materials (15-20 min), and the remaining portion of
      the class focuses upon learning new skills and concepts. Computerized cognitive training
      involves computerized perceptual practice exercises that vary in difficulty ranging from
      basic auditory processing speed to application through memory exercises. Within each
      exercise, the stimuli (i.e., tones, speech sounds, words, sentences) become less
      discriminable and speed of presentation increases (making the exercises more difficult) as
      performance improves. The Brain Fitness training program with working memory exercises will
      be used.

      Data source(s). Data will consist of a series of standardized cognitive, psychosocial, and
      neurophysiological measures administered at three time points: pre-training, post-training,
      and at a three month follow-up. All standardized measures have been previously used to assess
      the efficacy of cognitive training approaches and demonstrate good psychometric properties.
    
  