
    
      Mammography is considered a fundamental part of diagnosis in modern health care services. It
      provides low dose soft tissue imaging of normal structure and pathology within the breast. A
      mammogram can be performed on both asymptomatic and symptomatic women with palpable lumps and
      any other complaints. It is an appropriate source of early detection for breast cancer in
      diagnostic imaging. This screening practice is associated with a strong reduction in
      mortality in breast cancer as many guidelines have already published. Thus, Mammography has
      been demonstrated as a "Gold Standard" technique used for Breast cancer Imaging.

      Besides, a strong reliance on Mammographic examination that most of the females may
      experience breast pain and discomfort while achieving standard compression in mammography
      which is necessary for optimal image quality a number of trials have been published.
      Moreover, previously reported that anxiety-related psychological pain, false perception or
      fear of discomfort is a factual reason for pain and discomfort while performing mammography.
      Breast pain is also associated with the menstrual cycle and noncyclic (trauma, surgery, and
      infection). Although, pain, discomfort, anxiety and false beliefs is a major reason to
      discontinue this procedure and over the past decades taking part in mammography is quite
      challenging for many women.

      Premeditated mammography with the aid of analgesics is one of the most suitable interventions
      for diminishing pain. In this current study, paracetamol is used as an intervention for
      diminishing pain during mammography. Previously, a study declared that paracetamol can reduce
      mild pain and most people can take this medicine safely. We planned this study to evaluate
      the effective strategy to cope with the pain and discomfort among women undergoing
      mammography.
    
  