
    
      The TB-TRUST-plus is a phaseIII, multicenter, open-label trial. The purpose of this study is
      to assess the feasibility of the ultra-short treatment regimen guided by PZA sensitivity
      among fluoroquinolone-resistant MDR-TB patients.A total of 200 participants with MDR-TB will
      be recruited and followed up until 84 weeks after the treatment initiation.

      This regimen consists of two periods of 24-36 weeks. During the first 4-8 weeks(waiting for
      pyrazinamide drug sensitivity test), the regimen consists of bedaquiline, linezolid,
      cycloserine, clofazimine and pyrazinamide. Then based on molecular PZA drug sensitivity
      results, patients will be in divided into 3 sub-groups: pyrazinamide-susceptible (PZA-S)
      patients , pyrazinamide-resistant (PZA-R) patients and pyrazinamide-unavailable
      (PZA-U)patients.

      The Regimen for PZA-S patients, consisting of bedaquiline, linezolid, cycloserine and
      pyrazinamide, are given until the 24th week (prolonged to 28 or 32 weeks if no smear
      conversion by end of 16th and 20th week).

      PZA-R sub-group regimen, consisting of bedaquiline, linezolid, cycloserine and clofazimine
      ,are given until 36th week (prolonged to 40 or 44 weeks if no smear conversion by end of 16th
      and 20th week) .

      PZA-U sub-group continue the previous regimen, consisting of bedaquiline, linezolid,
      cycloserine , clofazimine and pyrazinamide ,until 36th week (prolonged to 40 or 44 weeks if
      no smear conversion by end of 16th and 20th week) .

      The primary objective is to access the treatment success rate without relapse of the PZA
      sensitivity guided ultra short regimen.

      The secondary objective is to access the median time to sputum culture conversion. Safety
      evaluations performed are the routine lab tests, blood glucose, vital signs,
      electrocardiograph (ECG), reporting of adverse events, peripheral neuropathy brief examining
      with the use of a Brief Peripheral Neuropathy rating scale(BPNS) and ophthalmologic
      examination, including assessment of visual acuity and color vision，physical examinations and
      chest CT. Adverse events will be monitored and promptly managed during the whole treatment
      course.
    
  