
    
      Obesity, which leads to higher rates of diabetes, cancer, and heart disease, is an
      increasingly important public health problem. Evidence suggests that the effects of poor diet
      and physical inactivity will soon overtake smoking as the leading cause of death.
      Obesity-attributable medical expenses account for 9.1% of the total annual medical
      expenditures in the United States, and may be as high as $78.5 billion. In North Carolina,
      obesity accounts for more than $2 billion annually in increased medical spending and nearly
      half of this total is financed through employer-provided health insurance. Weight loss
      programs that take place at work have demonstrated the ability to improve both employee
      health and the financial health of the company. However, few weight loss programs have been
      evaluated and implemented in the workplace. The purpose of this study is to compare the
      effectiveness of a Web-based weight loss program versus a cash incentive weight loss program
      among employees at universities and colleges in North Carolina.

      This study will enroll approximately 1200 employees from 12 universities and colleges in
      North Carolina. Each university or college will be randomly assigned to one of the following
      four groups: 1) a Web-based weight loss program, 2) a cash incentive weight loss program, 3)
      the Web-based program plus the cash incentive program, or 4) neither program. Participants in
      the Web-based weight loss program will take part in a weekly Web-based weight control program
      that is comprehensive, individually focused, self-directed, and includes both weight loss and
      weight gain prevention information. In the cash incentive program, participants will receive
      a cash payment if they lose a pre-determined amount of weight at each follow-up weigh in. At
      baseline and Months 3, 6, 12, and 18, all participants will be weighed, body fat measurements
      will occur, and information on physical activity levels, eating behaviors, quality of life,
      work productivity, and medical expenses will be collected. During this study, study
      researchers will also monitor changes that occur in the physical and social environment on
      campus.
    
  