
    
      To address the growing healthcare challenges of an aging Veteran population it is critical to
      understand effective rehabilitation techniques that mitigate age-related co-morbidity and
      improve quality of life. To date, exercise is one of a few proven interventions that
      attenuates age-related declines in brain health and function. A consistent but unexplained
      finding in many of these studies is a change in the cortical activation pattern during task,
      assessed using blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) signal with fMRI that corresponds with
      improved task performance. Two key metrics of cerebrovascular health and functioning that are
      underexplored but may influence the documented changes in the BOLD response that is observed
      with post-aerobic activity are: 1) changes in resting or basal cerebral blood flow
      (perfusion) to key brain regions; and 2) changes in the ability of cerebrovasculature to
      dilate in the face of increased demand, termed cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR). The
      investigators' goal is to quantify the impact of aerobic exercise on cerebrovascular function
      and how both perfusion and CVR contributes to the BOLD signal during task-based fMRI.
      Consistent with the investigators' previous aging and exercise studies participants will
      complete one of two conditions; 1) an aerobic, interval-training intervention (Spin; n= 44),
      or 2) a non-aerobic, stretching control condition (Control; n=44). Cardiovascular fitness,
      arterial spin labeling for basal cerebral perfusion, CVR, task-based fMRI
      (cognitive-executive and motor), and behavioral outcomes will be assessed before and after
      the interventions. The specific aims will determine the effect of a 12-week aerobic exercise
      intervention on changes in cerebral perfusion and CVR in older Veterans. The investigators
      hypothesize that compared to the Control group, the aerobically-trained group will have
      increased basal perfusion and CVR in areas that demonstrate age-related decline and that have
      been demonstrated to be malleable to aerobic exercise (inferior frontal and motor cortices).

      Research over the last few decades have driven the continual promotion of exercise as one of
      the most impactful interventions of central nervous system health and function. At the
      forefront of much of this research is the use of task-based fMRI BOLD to quantify beneficial
      changes in cortical function following aerobic exercise. While transformative, the true
      impact of this research is limited in scope until the investigators can define the influence
      of cerebrovascular function on the well-documented beneficial change in BOLD response. The
      investigators do know that older adults who are physically active have improved vascular
      health but do not know the full impact of an exercise intervention on cerebrovascular health.
      If the hypotheses of improved perfusion and CVR is supported it would inform current
      intervention strategies and would add important additional information about the potential of
      exercise to improve brain health in aging. This would have implications for aging Veterans at
      risk for neurodegenerative disease brought on by cerebrovascular dysfunction.
    
  