
    
      Background

      There is a high incidence of cognitive dysfunction, neurological dysfunction, and
      multi-system organ dysfunction syndrome following cardiac surgery. There is preliminary
      evidence that optimization of cerebral oxygenation is associated with improved neurological
      and clinical outcomes.

      Cerebral oximetry using near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is based on the ability of
      near-infrared light to penetrate scalp and skull, and its differential intracranial
      absorbance by oxyhemoglobin (HbO2) and deoxyhemoglobin (Hb). Cerebral oximetry measures
      regional cerebral tissue oxygen saturation (SctO2) at the microvascular level (arterioles,
      venules, and capillaries) and provides information on the availability of oxygen in brain
      tissue. Unlike digital pulse oximetry, SctO2 reflects regional cerebral metabolism and the
      regional balance of cerebral oxygen supply and demand. NIRS SctO2 is the most promising
      monitoring technology for the purpose of guiding interventions targeted to improve brain and
      other organ preservation. The reasons for this include: (1) SctO2 is continuous,
      non-invasive, and available at the point of care; and (2) SctO2 is a sensitive index of
      cerebral hypoxia and/or cerebral ischemia, which are the main causes of brain injury in
      clinical settings. The preliminary work of Murkin strongly suggests that optimizing tissue
      perfusion using protocol-based treatments that optimize SctO2 decrease end-organ dysfunction
      in cardiothoracic surgical patients.

      Recruitment Methods

      Potential subjects are patients who are planned to undergo elective cardiac surgery at Mount
      Sinai Hospital. Potential subjects will be identified by checking the pre-admission schedule
      f or cardiothoracic surgery on a daily basis. Patients will be recruited at the surgical
      pre-admission screening; written informed consent will be obtained.

      Risks to Subjects

      Cerebral oximetry and computerized neurocognitive testing pose no known risk of harm to
      subjects.

      Cerebral oximetry is an evolving technology that is not currently or imminently becoming a
      standard of care in monitoring for cardiothoracic surgical patients. The expense and the lack
      of outcome data make this a discretionary monitoring technology that is advocated by some,
      but that is not incorporated into any evidence-based guidelines or practice parameters.
      Therefore, compared with the existing standards of care, patients are not exposed to
      additional risk by withholding cerebral oximetry information from the practitioners.

      Interventions to maintain cerebral oximetry above threshold values could be potentially
      injurious (e.g., initiating a red blood cell transfusion when it would not otherwise be
      given), however, any potential risk that is imparted by the interventions to maintain
      cerebral oximetry values are justified by the benefits of averting low or very low period of
      cerebral oximetry within the context of this research protocol.
    
  