
    
      165 consecutive CCP patients admitted in our surgical gastro enterology department since
      January 2013 were screened for eligibility. 29 patients were excluded (28 were not meeting
      the inclusion criteria and 1 patient intra operatively found to have disseminated
      malignancy). After exclusion 136 patients were included in our study. They were randomized in
      to 2 groups, one group was treated by Frey's procedure with NCPB (Group-I) and the other by
      Frey's procedure with saline as placebo (Group-II). Method of Study is a randomized, double-
      blind, placebo- controlled, parallel arm, superiority trial.

      Randomization was done at the time of surgery using random number table created with
      computerized software by a statistician not involved in this study.

      Blinding and masking was done by using pre numbered containers having filled with either
      absolute alcohol or saline according to the randomization chart which was then kept sealed by
      an office staff until the end of the study. Both subjects and response assessor were blinded.

      Data collection:

      The preoperative baseline details such as etiology, morphology, associated complications and
      VAS pain score, Izbicki pain score, weight loss, insulin requirement, LFT (liver function
      tests), serum amylase & lipase, fasting sugar& fecal elastase were collected on admission.

      Additional procedures, presence of peripancreatic inflammatory changes (fibrosis) as
      evidenced by difficult Kocherisation and plasted capsule and intra-operative complications
      were noted during surgery.

      Short term follow up details including pain relief measured by VAS score &Izbicki pain score,
      analgesic consumption, weight gain, improvement in steatorrhoea (Fecal elastase>200 µg/g of
      stool & subjective reduction in foul smelling oily diarrhea), diabetic status (fasting
      glucose, GTT, HgbA1c, insulin& oral hypoglycemic agents requirement), mortality and morbidity
      were noted.

      Follow up details were collected every 3 months as outpatient basis. Standard questionnaire
      format of SF 12 Version-2 was used for QOL assessment every 6 months in a face to face
      interview.

      Statistical analysis was performed in SPSS version 20. Continuous variables were presented as
      mean, standard deviation and 95% confidence interval; categorical variables were presented as
      frequencies. The chi-square test and the Fisher exact test were used to analyze categorical
      variables. The unpaired Student t test was used to analyze continuous variables. P value
      <0.05 was considered statistically significant. Factors found significant on univariate
      logistic regression analysis were incorporated in to the multivariate logistic regression
      analysis for odds ratio with 95% confidence intervals to analyze the significant factors
      affecting the outcome of surgery.
    
  