
    
      Study Drugs:

      Vorinostat, a class I/II pan-histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI), was the first approved
      agent og this class on the basis of activity in refractory cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma. Lethal
      mechanisms include anti-apoptotic protein down-regulation, up-regulation of proapoptotic
      proteins, induction of ROS, death receptor up-regulation, and disruption of chaperone
      function and DNA-repair proteins.

      Carfilzomib, is a irreversible proteasome inhibitor of the epoxyketone class that exhibits a
      high level of selectivity for the proteosome. This agent induced a dose- and time-dependent
      inhibition of proliferation, ultimately leading to apoptosis.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study:

        -  Vorinostat PO twice daily on Days 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16 and 17.

        -  Daily Carfilzomib 30 minutes infusion on Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16.

        -  Administer first daily dose of vorinostat prior to carfilzomib on Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15,
           16

        -  Cycle repeated every 28 days, up to 13 cycles.

      Carfilzomib will be given at 20mg/m2 for days 1 and 2 of cycle 1 only, then escalated to the
      higher dose indicated in the schema on day 8 of cycle 1 and thereafter. Carfilzomib treatment
      is to be done early in the morning and have a minimum of a 6 hour observation period after
      the infusion. For patients with good tolerability to carfilzomib during the first cycle, an
      observation period of 2 hours is recommended. A minimum of 16 hours should separate doses of
      carfilzomib, so that the day 1 dose may be given in the afternoon and the day 2 dose in
      morning during cycle 2 and subsequent cycles for patients who tolerate the drug well.

      If two out of 6 patients do not tolerate the initial dose of 20 mg/m2 carfilzomib on days 1 &
      2 followed by 27 mg/m2 carfilzomib for subsequent doses and 200 mg/day bid vorinostat, the
      next patient should be dose reduced to 20 mg/m2 carfilzomib and 100 mg/day bid vorinostat.

      Study Visits:

        -  Baseline within 4 weeks of Cycle 1 Day 1.

        -  CT or physical exam.

        -  Bone marrow if needed to follow disease status.

        -  PET recommended but not required. To document complete response (CR), a PET is REQUIRED.

        -  Optional research tumor biopsy.

        -  Peripheral blood obtained for PD prior to initiation of treatment and at 48 hours +/- 6
           hours after receiving first dose of Carfilzomib , and at Off Study.

        -  End of Treatment Restaging will take place 6-8 weeks after completion of treatment and
           will include an assessment by the physician, labs, and a tumor response evaluation.

        -  After completion of Restaging exams, Follow up exams will take place every 6 months for
           2 years and then annually until disease progression or initiation of another treatment.

        -  An Off Study visit will take place at the time of disease progression or initiation of
           another treatment, which will include assessment by the physician,a tumor response
           evaluation, labs, and a final PD sample, by the patient's consent.
    
  