
    
      Background: Childhood fibromyalgia (FM) and chronic musculoskeletal pain are common and
      sometimes devastating pediatric disorders resulting in widespread pain, fatigue, tenderness
      and significant disability. Exercises, including vigorous aerobics, and complementary and
      alternative health strategies - like Qigong - have shown to be safe and effective in the
      treatment of adult FM and chronic pain. Qigong may be more tolerable than more vigorous
      exercise. No data is available for this treatment in children.

      Research Question: To test the feasibility of studying Qigong exercise versus aerobic fitness
      exercise to reduce symptoms and disability in children with FM or chronic pain.

      Methods: Randomized single-blind pilot study of 30 childhood FM/chronic pain patients
      allocated to either 12 weeks of supervised Qigong therapy or 12 weeks of supervised graded
      aerobic exercise training (cardio-karate).

      Expected Results: Physical exercise training - whether Qigong or aerobic exercise -
      represents a potentially feasible, safe and effective alternative therapy and may increase
      the ability for these children to resume their normal activities of daily life. Exercise
      training may therefore emerge as a pivotal mode of therapy for all children with FM/chronic
      pain. Results from our study will allow us to plan a definitive study.

      Specific Objectives: 1. To study the feasibility of enrolling, randomizing and studying
      participants with FM/chronic pain using validated measures of symptoms, physical and
      psychosocial function, quality of life and exercise testing. 2. Acquire pilot data that will
      allow for the estimation of an effect size for the comparison of 2 forms of exercise -
      standard aerobic fitness exercise, and a specially designed Qigong program. This effect size
      estimate will be used in designing a subsequent definitive randomized controlled trial.
    
  