
    
      BACKGROUND

      For Out-Of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest (OHCA) patients suffering from ventricular fibrillation
      (VF) or ventricular tachycardia (VT), BLS care consists of administering external electric
      shocks (EES) and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). However, despite successful
      defibrillation, VF recurs in 50% of cases. Rescuers are forced to repeat EES as often as
      needed, without the recommendations specifying a maximum number.

      International guidelines recommend a 2-min CPR time between 2 rhythm analysis, that means one
      shock every 2 min. Since refibrillation occurs mostly during the first-minute post-shock, the
      patient will have to wait until the end of the 2 minutes before receiving the next EES.
      During that time, the chest compressions (CC) provide a reduced fraction of physiologic blood
      flow.

      The new AED algorithm provides the following changes :

        -  After a 60-second post-shock CPR-period, the AED performs an analysis "in presence of
           CC" i.e., without CC interruption is performed.

        -  Each time the AED detects a VF "in presence of CC" the algorithm requires the CC to be
           interrupted to perform an analysis "in absence of CC " to confirm the rhythm
           shockability.

        -  Analyses "in presence of CC" are triggered every minute, possibly followed or not by an
           analysis " in absence of CC "

        -  at least, the algorithm performs an analysis " in absence of CC " systematically every 2
           minutes.

      This new algorithm fits in between two historical CPR algorithms used in western medical
      systems - the one-minute and the two-minute CPR cycle- depending on the rhythm shockability
      detected " in presence of CC "

      OBJECTIVES

      The main objective is to measure the " CC fraction " during the ten first minutes of Fire
      Fighter BLS care in OHCA.

      The secondary objectives :

        1. Report on the available CPR quality parameters (CC frequency, hands-off maximum).

        2. Report on the AED's diagnostic performance when analyzing the rhythm "in presence of CC
           "

        3. Report on the AED's diagnostic performance when analyzing the rhythm " in absence of CC
           "

        4. Report on the overall AED's diagnostic performance that results from the combination of
           two consecutive analyses " in presence of CC " and " in absence of CC"

      (3) Report on post-shock rhythms and their incidence (4) Report on the number of EES per
      patient (5) Report on the time distribution for the shocks administered per-patient to
      describe the rhythmic storm.

      (5) Report on the incidence of Return Of Spontaneous Circulation (ROSC), survival at hospital
      admission, and survival at hospital discharge.

      (6) Compare these reports to a historical cohort (2017).

      METHOD

      This is a prospective observational study.

        -  The observation window is limited to CPR cycles within the first 10 minutes of BLS care,
           or less if ROSC is presumed.

        -  The choice of 10 minutes is intended to observe the BLS team's action, without
           interfering with the ALS team that arrives later.

        -  The three following criteria define a presumptive ROSC:

        -  1. presence of QRS complexes of broadly similar morphology

        -  2. synchronous impedance curve variation with the QRS complexes (indicating
           intrathoracic movement, in that case, cardiac mechanical activity)

        -  3. no on-going CC

        -  A CPR cycle is defined by the delay between two " in absence of CC " analyses.

      The study does not imply any change in current practice. There is no planned interim
      analysis.

      All consecutive participants with inclusion criteria and no exclusion criteria will be
      analyzed.

      STUDY SIZE

      A study size for a before-after comparison, with 2017 as the "before" period and 2020 as the
      "after" period has been calculated

      In our healthcare system, the average CC ratio was 65% in 2017, whereas the ERC guidelines
      recommend a minimum of 60%.

      With the use of the 2020 algorithm, for CA with shockable rhythm, the CC ratio is expected to
      decrease slightly, as the analyses become closer in time.

      It is assumed a CCratio in 2020 being " equivalent " to 2017 (65%) and consider that a
      difference in CCratio rate as large as 10% in favor of the 2017 period still allows the new
      algorithm to be non-inferior (delta = 0.1). The sample size calculation is based on an 80%
      power to confirm non-inferiority and a one-sided confidence level of 97.5%.

      As a result, the number of subjects to be included in each period is 282, i.e., six months of
      observation in each period.

      INTERRUPTION OR STOPPING OF THE STUDY

      The sponsor has the responsibility to report, to the national health authority, any serious
      and unexpected adverse events attributable to the new AED algorithm.

      RISKS

      A full report on the risks, the description of incidents, accidents and adverse events will
      be the subject of a chapter in the results section and also in the discussion.

      FINANCING

      Funding for the study is provided by the Paris Fire Brigade (promoter, following acceptance
      of the survey under French policy for clinical research projects)

      DISCUSSION

      The study will report on the CC fraction of an AED algorithm designed to analyze "under CC."
    
  