
    
      Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a progressive photoreceptor and retinal pigment epithelial (RPE)
      degeneration that begins as a night vision loss, resulting in narrowing of the visual field
      and legal blindness. RP is a heterogeneous genetic disorder, affecting 1/3000- 8000 people
      worldwide. RP is the result of mutation in one of more than 260 genes. These genes are
      responsible for the synthesis of peptides involved in the visual cycle. These genes are also
      responsible for the synthesis of growth factors responsible for the conversion of glucose to
      adenosine triphosphate (ATP) or responsible for the removal of metabolic wastes.

      The incidence of cystoid macular edema (CME) in RP has been reported as between 10% - 50%.
      There are several hypotheses about the pathogenesis of cystoid macular edema in RP. The first
      hypothesis is explained by M端ller cell hypertrophy and its paracrine effects. Mutations in
      the retinal pigment epithelium disrupt the synthesis of some growth factors. Stress caused by
      apoptosis in rod cells in the periphery leads to ectopic synaptogenesis of M端ller cells in
      the central. M端ller cells undergo copensatory hypertrophy and synthesize excessive growth
      factors. This paracrine effect provides protection of central vision. Edema in a certain
      level is considered to be protective to photoreceptors and should not be treated. But if
      edema is excessive and prolonged leads to a break in synaptic connections in the neural
      retina and an increase in neurodegeneration. CME also deteriorates central visual quality in
      patients with impaired peripheral vision. Treatment should be considered only if the edema is
      excessive and disrupts central vision. According to our clinical experience, when central
      macular thickness exceeds 500 microns, central visual quality of the patient decreases and
      requires treatment.

      Other pathophysiological causes of CME in RP are explained by low grade inflammation and
      retinal autoantibodies. In some genetic mutation types of RP, such as the X-linked RPGR gene
      mutation; vitritis, lipofuscin deposits and inflammation are predominant. Ciliopathy leads to
      inflammation and CME, which increases photoreceptor loss rate. Immediate treatment of
      inflammation-induced edema can slow disease progression. Inflammatory edema appears as
      cystoid macular edema, whereas compensatory edema due to M端ller cell hypertrophy is seen as
      separeted intraretinal cysts. Inflammatory edema responds well to carbonic anhydrase
      inhibitors, while compensatory edema does not.

      The results of the treatment of CME in RP are controversial, as the compensatory or
      inflammatory distinction is not made clearly. Treatments such as grid laser photocoagulation,
      oral acetazolamide, topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, intravitreal therapy with
      corticosteroids or anti-vascular endothelial growth factor agents and pars plana vitrectomy
      may be effective in some cases with CME secondary to RP. Most of these treatments have either
      insufficient response or excessive side effects.

      To our knowledge, so far, we have not found a scientific publication about the use of
      micropulse yellow laser for treatment cystoid macular edema secondary to retinitis
      pigmentosa.

      Subliminal micropulse laser (SL-MPL) is a method developed to reduce the laser-induced
      thermal damage caused by conventional laser therapy for treatment some macular diseases. In
      the micropulse mode, laser is applied in short pulses, thereby reducing the thermal energy
      generated in the target area. The coagulation scars do not form with SL-MPL treatment.
      Sublethally injured RPE cells induce an up- and down regulation of various growth factors
      (GFs) [pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
      inhibitors, VEGF inducers, permeability factors, etc.] which restores the pathologic
      imbalance.

      The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of yellow (577 nm) SL-MPL therapy on
      central macular thickness (CMT) and on best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in patients with
      cystoid macular edema secondary to retinitis pigmentosa.
    
  