
    
      Part A: All newly admitted prisoners (80-120 new inmates on admission days) undergo a
      complete assessment, including a brief exam and mandatory rapid HIV test by the prison
      medical unit. Each prisoner waiting to be evaluated will be invited for participation in TB
      screening activities (not currently part of standard care). If they verbally assent to
      wanting to learn more in a group session, their names and ID will be recorded and then
      invited for informed consent privately, followed by a brief survey, WHO symptom assessment,
      tuberculin skin testing (TST) with reading after 72 hours, sputum induction on 2 consecutive
      mornings for AFB smear, TB culture (results back 6-8 weeks using the BACTEC MGIT 960 liquid
      culture gold standard), and point-of care (POC) Gene Xpert. Each person will have phlebotomy
      for HBV and HCV Ab, LFTs, and if HIV+, CD4 testing (all of these are POC using Alere™). For
      those with CD4<50, they will undergo POC low-cost, urinary TB-LAM lateral flow testing
      (sensitivity=67%) (Alere™ Determine) to identify disseminated TB. Additional demographic,
      drug use, and TB risks will also be assessed along with prison data (release date, previous
      incarcerations, type of offense). Participants will then undergo CXR testing. A TB specialist
      will review all patients and results, ensuring that patients with suspected TB initiate
      treatment. All suspected or confirmed cases active TB cases in HIV+ prisoners will have ART
      initiated after 2 weeks of TB treatment initiation (if CNS TB not suspected) if CD4<50 and
      within 8 weeks for all others.

      Part B: All HIV+ prisoners with latent TB infection (LTBI) (TST reaction 10 mm or greater)
      from part A will be asked to participate in Part B. Enrolled participants will undergo block
      stratified randomization, stratifying on three factors: a) CD4<350; b) HCV Ab status; and c)
      ART status. After randomization and allocation to 12HR or 40H, participants will be provided
      12HR weekly (12 weeks) and INH daily (26 weeks) as directly observed therapy. Every 4 weeks,
      patients will be monitored for AST/ALT and adverse side effects. Premature treatment
      discontinuation will occur for any DAIDS Grade 4 toxicity or patient refusal to continue.

      Part C: All HIV+ or HIV-prisoners with active or LTBI and who meet pre-incarceration DSM-V
      criteria for opioid dependence and who will require transitional treatment for active or
      latent TB infection will be approached. If these TB patients have >3 month remaining to
      complete their TB treatment, but are expected to discharge home before completing treatment
      (6 months for active TB and 26 weeks for INH), they will be eligible; among HIV+ patients,
      active TB incidence is 16% annually and LTBI prevalence is 84%. All HIV+ patients with active
      TB will receive PCP prophylaxis, as will those with LTBI and CD4<200. Because previous
      studies have documented negative attitudes about opioid agonist maintenance therapies (OAT)
      in PWIDs in Malaysia (including in prisoners) and that readiness for treatment may not be
      high, the investigators will enroll participants in a preference trial that will allow
      patients to choose their preferred OAT (MMT, BPN/NLX, or no OAT) with the help of a shared
      decision-making aid. Because preferences may change when better informed, they will be
      informed about the risks and benefits of OAT and asked to see if their preference changes.
      Those preferring no OAT, will be followed post-release with monthly interviews. Using
      previously described procedures, MMT allocated participants will initiate MMT immediately
      with a target dose >80mg (n.b. Cytochrome P450 induction by rifampin and ART will likely be
      completed before MMT is initiated, making opioid withdrawal precipitation unlikely). For
      participants that choose BPN/NLX, they will receive their sublingual treatment 7-10 days
      before release. Consented participants will undergo a detailed baseline assessment and
      administered a using computer-assisted survey instrument (CASI) in our private research room
      with guidance from the research assistant (RA). Using procedures from our recently completed
      RCT of released prisoners, all participants will be met on the day of release and
      transitioned to the integrated Cure and Care center post-release site (one of our research
      sites) and undergo a day-of-release interview to facilitate familiarity with our team in the
      community. All participants, regardless of OAT, will complete monthly follow-up visits for 6
      months. MMT will be dispensed at the Cure & Care Center using previously described protocols
      by our team. Participants will receive BPN/NLX at a community clinic upon release. At monthly
      visits, patients will be assessed for adverse side effects, drug/alcohol use, and ART and TB
      medication adherence using the visual analogue scale (VAS). TB, HIV and substance abuse
      treatment outcomes will be assessed. All participants will be maintained on OAT after study
      completion.
    
  