
    
      Netherton Syndrome is a serious skin disorder caused by damage in a gene called SPINK5. This
      gene controls the formation of a protein called LEKTI, which important for skin barrier
      function. LEKTI inhibits certain enzymes (serine proteinases) in the outermost layer of the
      skin (epidermis). The function of the serine proteinases is to break down the intracellular
      cement that holds together the horny cells in the epidermis, in order for the skin to be able
      to shed cells (known as cell desquamation). LEKTI deficiency leads to an uninhibited
      desquamation of horny cells, and as a result the skin becomes red and scaly. The barrier
      function of the skin is also affected. The permeability of the skin increases, and its
      capacity to bind water decreases, which causes dryness. The thinness of the barrier also
      results in over absorption of chemicals, for example topical medical treatments. Historically
      one in ten infants dies before their first birthday. Currently there are no proven treatments
      to cure this condition.

      The investigators have been developing a gene therapy approach to treat this disorder. The
      investigators have used a disabled virus (vector) to carry a functional copy of the SPINK5
      gene into skin stem cells. Proof-of-principle experiments have shown the investigators can
      restore almost normal shape and size of the upper layer of the skin in skin grafts grown in
      the lab. Even if only a small number of cells are genetically modified to carry the corrected
      SPINK5 gene, there seems to be a correction over a wide area of the graft.

      In this trial the investigators propose grafting of autologous epidermal sheets generated
      from genetically modified skin stem cells for the treatment of patients with Netherton
      Syndrome. The investigators anticipate production and release of LEKTI protein from even a
      small patch of skin will be beneficial.
    
  