
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the feasibility and safety of lymphodepleting chemotherapy followed by cellular
      immunotherapy utilizing IL13Ralpha2-specific hinge-optimized 41BB-co-stimulatory chimeric
      antigen receptor [CAR] truncated CD19-expressing autologous T-lymphocytes
      (IL13[EQ]BBzeta/CD19t+ Tn/mem cells) administered by intraventricular (ICV) delivery for
      pediatric participants with IL13Ralpha2+ recurrent/refractory brain tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe persistence and expansion of CAR T cells in peripheral blood (PB) and
      cerebrospinal (CSF).

      II. To describe cytokine levels (PB, and CSF) over the study period.

      III. In research participants who receive the full schedule of 4 CAR T cell cycles:

      IIIa. To estimate 6-month progression free survival (PFS) rate per disease. IIIb. To estimate
      disease response rates per disease. IIIc. To estimate 1-year overall survival rate per
      disease. IV. To evaluate the use of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) to
      evaluate tumor burden.

      V. For study participants who undergo an additional biopsy/resection or autopsy:

      Va. To evaluate CAR T cell persistence in the tumor tissue and the location of the CAR T
      cells with respect to the infusion site. Vb. To evaluate IL13Ralpha2 antigen expression
      levels on tumor tissue pre and post CAR T cell therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells.

      Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -5 and -4, and fludarabine IV on
      days -5 to -2. Patients then receive autologous IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells
      intraventricularly over 5 minutes once a week (QW) on day 0. Treatment with autologous
      IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells repeats every 7 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive additional cycles of
      IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells as long as they continue to meet eligibility criteria and have
      doses available for infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months, and then yearly for 15 years.
    
  