
    
      Healthcare personnel (HCP) are believed to be at increased risk of influenza infection and
      often work while ill, which increases the risk of secondary exposure to vulnerable patients.
      Vaccination of HCP against influenza is an important component of infection control in
      healthcare settings, but persistently low rates of vaccine uptake among HCP remains a topic
      of international concern and debate. Although recent reviews confirm that the seasonal
      influenza vaccine is moderately effective in reducing the risk of influenza illness [10],
      multiple gaps in knowledge remain regarding the preventive value of vaccine among HCP.

      During at least two consecutive influenza seasons or years, this prospective cohort study of
      healthcare personnel in middle-income countries has four primary objectives: (1) Describe the
      frequency and impact of acute respiratory illnesses (ARI) among HCP during wintertime; (2)
      Estimate the effectiveness of influenza vaccine in preventing symptomatic influenza illness,
      missed work due to influenza illness, and hours of direct patient care provided by HCP with
      symptomatic influenza infections; (3) Examine the association between repeated influenza
      vaccination and HCP's baseline immune landscape, their response to influenza vaccines, and
      their subsequent protection against infection; (4) Examine if influenza vaccine modifies
      symptom severity and duration among HCP with breakthrough influenza infections despite
      vaccination.

      Approximately 2,400-2,800 HCP providing direct patient care will be enrolled in a prospective
      cohort to be followed for at least two years (or two influenza seasons). In Israel,
      approximately 1,200 HCPs will be enrolled in Year 1 of the study, with an expansion to full
      enrollment in Year 2. Thus, the investigators anticipate a 3 year cohort study in which
      ~1,200 participants will contribute to years 1 and 2 of the study and the remaining sample
      will contribute to years 2 and 3 of the study. Information on socio-demographic
      characteristics, current medical conditions, medical history, medical care utilization, and
      influenza vaccination history will be extracted from medical and employee records with the
      participant's permission. Other information on socio-demographics, occupational
      responsibilities, health status, and knowledge and attitudes about viruses and vaccines will
      be collected by self-report through an enrollment survey. Collection of blood specimens will
      occur prior to and after influenza seasons during each study year; in addition, HCP who
      receive the influenza vaccine will provide an additional blood draw 21-42 days after
      vaccination. Active surveillance to identify acute illnesses (associated with cough, runny
      nose, body aches, or feverishness) will occur twice-weekly during weeks of local influenza
      circulation. When an acute illness is identified, participants will provide a respiratory
      specimen (nasal self-swab) for influenza testing and complete two brief surveys during and
      after resolution of their illness. For a sub-sample of consented participants, additional
      information on attitudes toward morbidity with influenza and respiratory illness will be
      collected through in-depth qualitative interviews. Additional brief surveys will be completed
      at the end of each season/year and at the start of the second influenza season to update
      information on participant health, work responsibilities, and attitudes and practices
      associated with vaccination and other inflection control and prevention measures.
    
  