
    
      Behavioral interventions for chronic pain among people living with HIV (PLWH) are an
      understudied area, with great potential to improve pain and function. Chronic pain is an
      important comorbidity that affects between 30% and 85% of PLWH and is associated with greater
      odds of functional impairment, increased emergency room utilization, suboptimal retention in
      HIV care, and failure to achieve virologic suppression. What is not known is how to optimally
      address chronic pain in this population. Opioids are a commonly used treatment for chronic
      pain, particularly in PLWH. Opioid prescribing for chronic pain often does not result in
      substantial improvement in outcomes and contributes to the growing epidemic of opioid
      addiction and overdose. In contrast, behavioral interventions are among the most effective
      and safest treatments for chronic pain in the general population. Pain Self-Management (PSM)
      is a Social Cognitive Theory (SCT)-based behavioral approach that involves pain-related skill
      acquisition and goal setting. PSM interventions have been promoted by the 2016 Department of
      Health and Human Services National Pain Strategy (DHHS NPS) as an effective, scalable
      approach to chronic pain management. Especially given the current opioid crisis, the DHHS NPS
      underscored the urgent need to develop and test PSM interventions tailored to the unique
      needs of vulnerable populations, particularly PLWH, that can be implemented and disseminated
      nationwide. Until an effective and scalable PSM intervention for chronic pain in PLWH is
      developed, reducing the burden of chronic pain safely and effectively in this population will
      not be possible. The overall objective of this proposal is to evaluate a novel theory-based
      PSM intervention, "Skills TO Manage Pain" (STOMP), developed for and tailored to PLWH. The
      investigators will accomplish the overall objective with the following primary specific aim:
      1) Evaluate the efficacy of STOMP, a theory-based intervention tailored to improving chronic
      pain in PLWH. Given the investigators' rigorous intervention development process and
      promising pilot trial results, the working hypothesis is that STOMP will decrease pain and
      improve function in PLWH. Investigators also propose the following secondary aims: 2) Conduct
      exploratory analyses of the impact of STOMP on HIV outcomes associated with chronic pain
      (i.e. retention in care, virologic suppression), and 3) Investigate proximal outcomes as
      potential mediators of STOMP's impact on chronic pain. This approach is innovative because it
      incorporates novel peer co-led group sessions that were created based on the investigators'
      formative intervention development work, includes patients with comorbidities (e.g.,
      depressive symptoms, addiction history) common among PLWH but typically excluded from chronic
      pain studies, and investigates the impact of a chronic pain intervention on disease-specific
      HIV outcomes in addition to pain and function. The proposed research will be significant
      because if successful, it will pave the way for future dissemination and implementation
      studies that have the potential to dramatically change chronic pain treatment for PLWH.
    
  