
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the effects of the whole set as well as individual smart growth principles
           on prevention of obesity risk in middle, moderately low, and low-income families who
           reside in a smart growth community, the Preserve, compared to two types of control
           groups of families who reside in other communities that may naturally vary in exposure
           to these principles.

        -  To evaluate the longitudinal-mediational relationship between increased activity and
           pro-health attitudes achieved in the smart growth community to lower obesity risk.

        -  To identify trajectories of physical activity over time and evaluate their relationship
           to obesity risk, including high-stable, early-onset stable, early-onset short-term, and
           low-stable trajectories.

      Secondary (exploratory)

        -  To evaluate demographic x type of community (smart growth vs other) interactions (with
           the major ethnic groups representing Hispanic vs white), gender, parent vs child on
           outcomes, as well as on obesogenic trajectories.

        -  To evaluate a possible "chaining" or translational effect, i.e., whether effects of
           living in a smart growth community generalize to changes in eating behavior as part of a
           general change in health attitudes.

        -  To assess whether neighborhoods where physical activity actually takes place (defined as
           0.5 square-mile area and 10-15 walking distance from residence, school [for children],
           work or equivalent [for index adult], and leisure), contribute significantly to physical
           activity and eating behavior beyond the effect of smart growth community residence.

        -  To determine whether some individual smart growth principles may have a relatively
           greater impact on obesity risk than others, in both intervention and control
           communities.

        -  To assess whether physical activity trajectories other than those hypothesized can be
           identified for their predictive relationship to obesity prevention.

      OUTLINE: Participants receive an accelerometer monitor and are instructed to wear it for 7
      continuous days (except when sleeping, bathing, or swimming) on the right hip attached to an
      adjusted belt to assess physical activity. Participants also undergo anthropometric measures
      (height and weight) using a calibrated digital scale and professional stadiometer.

      Participants complete surveys and questionnaires on Self-reported Physical Activity,
      Self-reported Dietary Intake, and Social Network Survey. Participants also complete other
      self-reported items assessing demographic characteristics, family finances, health status,
      health history, length of current residence, home-relocation patterns, time use and
      transportation patterns, substance use, depression, sleeping habits, fast-food consumption,
      and school and work addresses.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 390 families living in The Preserve, 195 families who were not
      chosen to live in The Preserve, and 195 control families who live in the surrounding area
      will be accrued for this study.
    
  