
    
      There is a significant unmet medical need for effective oral pharmacologic therapies for
      inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis. Current anti-TNF therapies, including
      infliximab and adalimumab, are effective treatments for these conditions, but they must be
      administered by intravenous or subcutaneous injection. The major safety concerns associated
      with the use of injectable anti-TNF therapies are infection, demyelinating disease, and
      lymphoma, all of which are the result of systemic exposure. These uncommon but serious side
      effects have limited the use of systemic anti-TNF antibody therapy to patients with severe
      disease that have failed to respond to first-line treatments.

      AVX-470 is purified immunoglobulin (Ig) from the colostrum (early milk) of cows immunized
      with recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (rhTNF). AVX-470 is formulated in
      delayed-release enteric-coated capsules designed to protect the capsule contents from gastric
      acids following oral administration and to provide localized delivery to sites of
      inflammation in the distal intestine. Prior clinical experience with bovine Ig therapies in
      other human diseases suggests that AVX-470 will not be absorbed to any significant extent,
      meaning that systemic exposure could be minimized. The development of oral anti-TNF therapy
      targeting local intestinal disease activity might reduce the risks associated with injectable
      anti-TNF therapy and allow the convenience of oral dosing.

      The present study is a first-in-human, Phase 1 clinical study. It is primarily intended to
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of AVX-470 administered orally to
      patients with active ulcerative colitis.

      Animal models of ulcerative colitis using a mouse-specific TNF antibody derived from bovine
      colostrum demonstrated a 50% or more reduction in tissue TNF, TNF-messenger ribonucleic acid
      (mRNA), interleukin (IL)-6 mRNA, and myeloperoxidase and lowering of colonic inflammatory
      activity. Twenty-eight-day toxicology studies demonstrated no clinical or histologic findings
      in exposures above the intended clinical dose range.
    
  