
    
      Fifty patients presenting a rhizarthrose asserted by radiography and justifying a
      viscosupplement, without other selection criterion than the opinion of the investigator
      concerning the legitimacy of a viscosupplement and the agreement of the patient participating
      in the study.

      The patients are identified by N ° of center (01 - 10) followed by the inclusion order number
      for every center (from 1 to 10).

      The informations collected during the initial consultation (J0) are: demographic (sex, age,
      weight, size), pathological (history of the disease, bilaterality, prosthesis of thumb
      contralateral, evaluation of pain at J0 (scale of Likert : 11 points), treatments with
      analgesic aim, use of an orthosis), radiologics (Dell's stage), techniques (type of
      radiological or ultrasound guide).

      The informations collected during the final consultation (J90) are: the evaluation of pain at
      J90 (scale of Likert 11 points), the perception by the patient of the efficiency of the
      treatment at J90 (scale of Likert 4 points), variation of its consumption of analgesic or of
      AINS (scale of Likert 3 points).

      A CRF, indicating the number of center, the inclusion number of the patient, is attributed to
      every patient. The data collected during the consultations at J0 and J90 will be inputed by
      the investigator in the paper version of the CRF.

      A descriptive analysis will be performed to characterize the demographic data, the history of
      the disease and its treatments, as well as the clinical and radiological data of the patients
      in the date of the inclusion.

      The answer to the treatment will be estimated by 2 modalities (YES/NO) from the answer of the
      patients at the question " How do you judge the efficiency of the treatment ?": yes if the
      patients answered "Effective" or "very effective", no if they answered "little effective" or
      "not effective".

      The influence of the radiological stage on the answer to the treatment will be studied (main
      criterion). The influence of radiological stage on the level of pain at J0 and on the
      reduction of pain between J0 and J90 will also be studied.

      The coefficients of the multivariate models (ANCOVA and mixed model) will be considered as
      significant if their p-value is inferior to the threshold of 5%.
    
  