
    
      The pulmonary vascular response to ultrasound-facilitated, catheter-directed fibrinolysis for
      treatment of pulmonary embolism (PE) results in rapid improvement in patient symptoms and
      right ventricular (RV) recovery, while minimizing the risk of intracranial hemorrhage. The
      investigators recently completed an analysis of the chest computed tomographic (CT) data from
      the SEATTLE II Trial of ultrasound-facilitated, catheter-directed fibrinolysis for treatment
      of PE using a previously-validated 3-dimensional (3D) reconstruction technique pioneered at
      Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH). This software-based 3D technique enables anatomic and
      structural resolution of the distal pulmonary arteries (microvasculature) far beyond the
      imaging capabilities of clinically utilized methods. This technique also provides a precise
      quantitation of RV volume and quantification of the perfusion of the proximal and distal
      pulmonary arteries. In our 3D reconstruction analysis of the multicenter, U.S.-based SEATTLE
      II Trial chest CT data, the investigators found that loss of intraparenchymal blood vessel
      volume was associated with RV enlargement and change in distal small vessel pulmonary artery
      perfusion predicted RV recovery with ultrasound-facilitated, catheter-directed fibrinolysis
      in subjects with acute PE. These data were presented at the American Heart Association (AHA)
      Annual Scientific Sessions in 2017 and have been submitted for publication.

      While ultrasound-facilitated, catheter-directed fibrinolysis has been studied using this 3D
      reconstruction technique, the pulmonary vascular response in PE patients treated clinically
      with anticoagulation alone has not been. The investigators propose a study to evaluate
      inpatients diagnosed with acute PE, in whom clinical providers have already prescribed
      standard anticoagulation alone for treatment based on clinical grounds at Brigham and Women's
      Hospital, applying this 3-dimensional reconstruction technique to compare data from a
      standard clinical contrast-enhanced chest CT scan performed 48 hours after initiation of
      therapy and those data from the standard clinically-indicated baseline contrast-enhanced
      chest CT scan.

      The specific aims for this proposed study are as follows:

      Aim #1: To quantify the CT-determined percent change in perfusion of the pulmonary
      vasculature from baseline to 48 hours in inpatients diagnosed with acute PE, in whom clinical
      providers have prescribed standard anticoagulation alone for treatment based on clinical
      grounds at Brigham and Women's Hospital.

      Hypothesis #1: The greatest change in pulmonary vascular perfusion following anticoagulation
      alone for acute PE will take place in the distal small (<5 mm2 cross-sectional area)
      pulmonary arteries compared with larger (>5 mm2 cross-sectional area) vessels. However, the
      magnitude of change will be less than that observed in our previously reported analysis
      focused on patients with acute PE undergoing ultrasound-facilitated, catheter-based
      fibrinolysis.

      Aim #2: To quantify the CT-determined percent change in RV volume from baseline to 48 hours
      in inpatients diagnosed with acute PE, in whom clinical providers have prescribed standard
      anticoagulation alone for treatment based on clinical grounds at Brigham and Women's
      Hospital.

      Hypothesis #2: RV volume will decrease over 48 hours of anticoagulation alone but the percent
      change will be less than that observed in our previously reported analysis focused on
      patients with acute PE undergoing ultrasound-facilitated, catheter-based fibrinolysis
    
  