
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Altered contour of the lower face is a frequent complication of HIV and can lead to
      significant cosmetic disfigurement and social stigmatization. However, posterior cheek
      enlargement in HIV is poorly characterized. The parotid and masseter overlie the mandibular
      ramus, thus both contributing to the lower facial contour. Parotid hypertrophy is a
      recognized and common complication of HIV. It is presently unknown whether masseter muscle
      hypertrophy also contributes to this cosmetic deformity. The investigators will conduct a
      prospective pilot study in HIV+ patients to determine whether masseter muscle hypertrophy and
      parotid gland enlargement contribute to a bulky and widened lower facial contour, or whether
      the aesthetic appearance is due primarily to apparent muscle enlargement attributable to
      facial lipoatrophy.

      Development of novel treatments to address these HIV-associated cosmetic changes is
      increasingly important as the burden of this disease expands globally. There have been
      limited advances in salivary gland surgery in recent years. The benign nature of parotid
      gland hypertrophy requires the surgeon to preserve key anatomical structures as an important
      marker of outcome. As such, parotidectomy is a controversial procedure. Treatments for
      masseter hypertrophy include surgical reduction of the masseter muscle and resection of the
      mandibular angle to create a narrower facial width. These surgical treatments can involve
      significant complications such as facial nerve injury, infection, scarring, bleeding,
      swelling and trismus. This highlights the need to develop more treatments for posterior cheek
      enlargement. Botulinum toxin is a highly efficacious and cost-effective, nonsurgical option
      for reducing the width and improving the shape of the lower face and jawline. Botulinum toxin
      for masseter hypertrophy and parotid enlargement in HIV negative individuals and sialorrhea
      in neurological disease is a safe and effective treatment for these conditions. However,
      there are no studies published to date on the use of botulinum toxin in the setting of HIV.
      Furthermore, the investigators have already demonstrated the efficacy of using botulinum
      toxin A in the treatment of posterior cheek enlargement in a trial HIV+ patient with both
      parotid enlargement and masseter hypertrophy. This patient had a dramatic response clinically
      and demonstrated a 19.0% and 19.4% mean reduction in the volume of the parotid gland and
      masseter muscle, respectively, 12 weeks after injection of botulinum toxin A. He experienced
      no adverse effects from the injections.

      The investigators will use clinical, photographic and radiological evaluations to determine
      the efficacy and durability of botulinum toxin A for altered lower facial contour in HIV+
      patients. The investigators anticipate that, at a minimum, this study will improve our
      understanding of posterior cheek enlargement seen in some HIV+ patients. The results of this
      study may translate into a novel and evidence-based use of botulinum toxin for management of
      altered lower facial contour in HIV+ patients. This could potentially improve the
      psychosocial wellbeing in patients afflicted with this devastating disease.

      STUDY PROTOCOL

      This will be an initial pilot study with 5 participants. Participants with posterior cheek
      enlargement will have photographs taken and a baseline CT scan of the head performed.
      Botulinum toxin A will be injected by identifying the inferior border of the zygomatic arch
      and mandibular ramus as well as the anterior and posterior demarcation of the posterior cheek
      enlargement. Injections will be performed percutaneously by palpation. A total of 10 U will
      be injected into 5 evenly spaced points of the posterior cheek enlargement to give a total
      dose of 50 U per side.

      Participants will be evaluated clinically at 4, 8 and 12 weeks after injection, with
      photographs, and by a questionnaire assessing patient satisfaction and side effects. A CT
      scan of the head will be performed 12 weeks after injection of botulinum toxin A. Long-term
      efficacy of botulinum toxin A will then be evaluated at 6 and 12 months post injection
      clinically, with photographs and a questionnaire assessing patient satisfaction and side
      effects.

      The primary outcome will be the change in volume of the masseter muscle and parotid gland 12
      weeks after treatment with botulinum toxin A. The mean change and standard deviation will be
      determined. A secondary outcome will be the relative contributions of masseter hypertrophy
      and parotid enlargement to posterior cheek enlargement in HIV+ patients. The pre-treatment
      volume of the masseter muscle and parotid gland determined in our HIV+ participants will be
      compared to those of normal controls published in the literature.
    
  