
    
      Metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) has a five year survival of <10% and is the cause of
      death of nearly 50,000 individuals in the United States each year. Current first and second
      line therapies for mCRC include FOLFOX, XELOX, or FOLFIRI in combination with Bevacizumab or
      Cetuximab or Panitumumab, as well as Xeloda, camptosar or infusional 5-FU within various less
      intensive regimens for patients who cannot tolerate full-dose chemotherapy. Current practice
      involves evaluation of response by imaging at 2-3 months after initiation of therapy. Recent
      studies have demonstrated that the number of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in the blood of
      patients with mCRC has independent prognostic value in terms of reflecting disease burden as
      well as indicating response to therapy. The use of CTC counts offers the possibility of
      predicting response in treated patients at an earlier time than through standard means by
      using CT scans. The investigators hypothesize that subsets of CTCs with cancer stem cell
      (CSC) markers or other known prognostic markers may improve the prognostic value of CTC
      evaluation in the course of therapy of patients with mCRC. The protocol will use Veridex
      CellSearch technology and will when possible compare this to other emerging technologies
      including microfluidic devices that can isolate CTCs or GFP-expressing adenoviruses that
      replicate in telomerase-expressing epithelial tumor cells ex-vivo. The protocol will enroll
      200 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer receiving therapy. Additional proposed
      laboratory studies may unravel important biological insights into the relationship of CTC
      genomic and genetic profiles as they compare to the primary tumors. Additionally the
      investigators hope to gain an understanding of potential subgroups of patients that have very
      high numbers of CTCs or those with early relapse of CTC after early reduction of CTC numbers.
      The impact of this research may be in better prediction of response to mCRC therapy so that
      patients can be treated with second line or other experimental therapy if they are unlikely
      to respond to their current therapy as predicted by CTC evaluation.
    
  