
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of administering adjuvant paclitaxel, dose-intensive
           cyclophosphamide, and filgrastim (G-CSF), followed by doxorubicin and then radiotherapy
           in patients with stage II or IIIA breast cancer involving > 4 lymph nodes.

        -  Determine the incidence of febrile neutropenia in these patients during the first course
           of therapy.

        -  Compare the incidence of febrile neutropenia and duration of neutropenia in patients
           treated with this regimen with that seen in patients treated on protocol CWRU-4194.

        -  Determine the disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life of these patients.

        -  Correlate HER-2/neu overexpression with disease-free and overall survival in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive paclitaxel IV continuously and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on
      days 1-3. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 5 and
      continuing until day 14 or until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3
      courses. Patients then receive doxorubicin IV on day 1 and G-CSF SC on days 2-11 every 21
      days for 4 courses.

      Patients with hormone receptor positive disease also receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years
      beginning at the completion of chemotherapy.

      Beginning 3-6 weeks after the completion of chemotherapy, patients receive radiotherapy 5
      days a week for 6-7 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed days 1 and 4 of the first course of chemotherapy, day 1 of the
      second course, the last day of the final course, and at 6 months after the completion of
      treatment.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 26 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  