
    
      Cardiogenic pulmonary edema (CPE) is a frequent presenting process for acute out-of-hospital
      practice. Acute left heart failure may occur from a variety of processes that rapidly
      deteriorates to this generalized cardiopulmonary disorder. The classical treatment of
      out-of-hospital CPE includes supplemental oxygen, vasodilators, loop diuretics, and morphine.
      If not effective, or because of the associated respiratory depression, tracheal intubation
      and mechanical ventilation are often needed, which, by themselves are associated with a worse
      prognosis. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) has been proposed as an alternative to
      mechanical ventilation in CPE. This technique not only improves alveolar recruitment and
      decreases the work of breathing 4 but also reduces left ventricular afterload, and both right
      and left ventricular preload. The overall effect of CPAP in the acute management of CPE is to
      improve cardio-respiratory function and sustained tissue oxygenation. Furthermore, the
      combination of CPAP with medical treatment in patients with CPE significantly reduces the
      need for intubation and improves the outcome.

      Unfortunately, very limited data are available on the effects of CPAP in the out-of-hospital
      practice. Thus, we tested the potential benefit of immediate use of CPAP alone in comparison
      with pharmacological therapy in treatment of CPE in the acute out-of-hospital environment.

      The protocol lasts 45 minutes, divided into 3 periods of 15 minutes. Patients with severe
      pulmonary edema are randomly assigned in 2 groups: 1/ "Early CPAP" (n=63): CPAP alone
      (T0-T15); CPAP + medical treatment (T15-T30); medical treatment alone (T30-T45); 2/ "Late
      CPAP" (n=61): medical treatment alone (T0-T15); medical treatment + CPAP (T15-T30); medical
      treatment alone (T30-T45). Primary endpoint : effect of early CPAP on a dyspnea clinical
      score and on arterial blood gases. Secondary endpoints : incidence of tracheal intubation,
      inotropic support, and in-hospital mortality.
    
  