
    
      Diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL) are highly aggressive and heterogeneous B-cell
      lymphoma that would imminently be fatal without treatment. Monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody,
      rituximab, in combination of CHOP chemotherapy (R-CHOP) is widely used with favourable
      results. Although more than half of patients achieve long-term remission, many are not cured
      with this immunotherapy. Decreased CD20 expression has been postulated to be one of the most
      important contributing to rituximab resistance. Moreover, R-CHOP therapies are sometimes
      ineffective, and new treatment strategies based notably on host immune responses modulation
      are being explored. Among them, programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) protein was identified
      as a potent predicting biomarker in DLBCL. Exosomes are small membrane vesicles secreted by
      several cell types during exocytic fusion of multivesicular bodies with the plasma membrane.
      Many cancer cells have been shown to secrete exosomes in greater amounts than normal cells.
      Exosome secretion may contribute to drug resistance. Indeed, exosome release from B-cell
      Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (B-NHL), by the expression of CD20, has been suggest to act as decoy
      targets upon rituximab exposure, allowing lymphoma cells to escape from humoral
      immunotherapy. Finally, as exosome composition seems to be cell and tissue specific, they are
      highly suitable to serve as diagnostic markers.

      Our hypothesis is that high expression of the immunotherapeutic targets (CD20, PD-L1) on
      exosomes derived from aggressive or resistant B-NHL may allow tumor cells to escape
      therapeutic antibodies, and thus contribute in vivo to therapeutic resistance. For this
      objective, we will used exosomes derived from DLBCL human cells and exosomes isolated from
      plasma of DLBCL patients. We will analyze, on these microvesicles, CD20 and PDL-1 expression
      in function of DLBCL sub-types and outcome of patients. Moreover, exosome capacity to
      interfere with immunotherapy will be also studied from in vitro and in vivo (xenografts)
      models.
    
  