
    
      Participants will be recruited through two NHS audiology clinics where they will be invited
      to participant in this study via an invitation letter either enclosed within their
      appointment letter or given to them at their audiology appointment. The information used to
      identify potential participants is that of their diagnoses (must be using or being supplied
      with hearing aids) . The audiology clinic staff will be identifying potential clients
      therefore it is believed that there is unlikely to be a breach of confidentiality. All
      participants will be sent a £10 shop-for-all voucher for participating in the second stage of
      the study (10-week post appointment) this will be sent to participants home after 6 months
      and this will include an invitation to a follow up questionnaire.

      All prospective participants will be required to give written consent before being assigned
      to the study and those unable to do this will not be included. After consent is given
      participants will be allocated to either the intervention group or the control group.
      Procedure of the proposed study is as follows:

        1. Each participant will be randomly assigned to either the control group or the
           intervention group. Blinding of both the participant and the researcher with regards to
           which group the participant has been assigned to will be achieved by all questionnaires
           being placed in opaque envelopes which will have a number printed on the front of the
           envelope. The numbers from the envelope will be placed in a computerised list generator
           and an order list of how they are to be administered will be produced. Alternatively
           participants can go online and the platform will randomly assign them to either the
           intervention or the control questionnaire.

        2. Participants in both groups fill in a questionnaire which contain the following Scales:
           The Anxiety toward Ageing Scale (AAS), The Attitudes Toward Loss of Hearing
           Questionnaire (ATLH) and The Glasgow Benefit Hearing Aid Scale (GBHA) as well as a
           self-report question on their daily hearing aid use. The intervention group also
           undertake a self-affirmation exercise which is placed at the end of the questionnaire.
           This is expected to take 20-30 minutes.

        3. Participants return 10 weeks later (post) and have their hearing aid usage downloaded
           (hours per day the aids were worn) from their hearing aids by an audiologist before
           subsequently filling in another questionnaire which again contains the AAS, ATLH, GBHA
           and a self- report question on their daily hearing aid use. This is expected to take
           30-40 minutes.

      3A: If it is not possible for the participant to come back for a follow up appointment the
      second questionnaire will be sent out postal to the participants address or an email with a
      hyperlink to the follow up questionnaire online will be sent to participants who previously
      completed the first questionnaire online.

      4: Six months later participants are contacted via email ( hyperlink) or post to fill in an
      optional questionnaire containing the AAS, ATLH, GBHA and a self-report question on their
      daily hearing aid use which they send back to the researcher. This should take 20-30 minutes.
      If participants receive the follow up questionnaire through the post the shopping voucher
      will also be enclosed. Online participants will also receive their shopping voucher through
      the post.

      5: A debrief form will be sent out via e-mail or post by the principal researcher 3 weeks
      after the follow up questionnaire was returned or alternatively if they decide to not to
      complete the follow up questionnaire the debrief will be sent 4 weeks after the initial
      questionnaire request was sent.

      A G-power analysis was conducted to detect a small-moderate effect size (Cohen's D of 0.35)
      with 80% power at the 5% significance level which indicated that a sample of 260 participants
      (130 per group) would be required. This study will attempt to recruit 400 based on a similar
      pilot study having a 34% attrition rate. The data collection phase will continue until 260
      participants have completed the 10 week follow up.

      The study design is a mixed Design: Between-participants factor is condition (control vs
      intervention). Within-participants factor is time (pre-intervention vs post intervention
      (10-week) vs exit (6 month after post ). We will use a series of 2 (Intervention, control) x
      3 ( pre-intervention, post intervention and exit) repeated ANOVA to assess to assess the
      outcome measures. If a small-moderate effect size (Cohen's d = 0.35) is found on any of the
      principle and secondary measures, then the Hayes PROCESS macro will be used to examine the
      possible mediating effects of the intervention on participants' hearing aid usage. If data is
      missing at the 10-week follow up the participant concerned will be excluded from the analysis
      at this point. The present study also has a longitudinal element and attrition at 6 months is
      expected. Any missing data will be addressed by using the "last observation carried forward
      technique".

      All data such as contact details and ethnicity will be pseudonymised and kept in a separate,
      password protected file, in a restricted access folder on a secure University server. All
      paper copies of contact details and questionnaire data will be secured in Manchester
      University in a locked filing cabinet. Only the study team and regulatory monitoring and
      auditing authorities from the University of Manchester will have access to this data.

      All the questionnaire data will be anonymised and kept in a separate, password protected
      file, in a restricted access folder on a secure University server. Only the study team and
      regulatory monitoring and auditing authorities from the University of Manchester will have
      access to this data.

      The physical personal data copies will be kept until completion of the study then will be
      destroyed in accordance with University of Manchester regulations. All consent forms and
      questionnaire data are deemed as essential and this will be kept for 5 years to comply with
      University of Manchester regulations.

      The current study will go through ethics approval with the National Health Service, Health
      Research Authority in the UK before it will be allowed to proceed. The study has already been
      through a preliminary ethics review at the University of Manchester.
    
  