
    
      1. National Database: The purpose of the Bariatric Outcomes Longitudinal Database (BOLD)
           study is to study the mid- and long-term outcomes of bariatric surgeries and to analyze
           the relationship between these outcomes and 1) patient demographics and comorbidities,
           2) clinical and surgical characteristics, and 3) pre-operative, peri-operative, and
           post-operative care and treatment. The UCLA program will be just one of many
           institutions that participate in the BOLD study. Participants include other programs and
           surgeons who have received a Full Approval or Provisional Status designation in the
           American Society for Bariatric Surgery (ASBS) Bariatric Surgery Center for Excellence
           program. This study, along with the database itself, is being established, maintained
           and overseen by East Carolina University in association with the Surgical Review
           Corporation.

        2. Health Survey: The purpose of evaluating physical and mental health is to document
           changes that occur following surgery. Standardized surveys will include SF-36,
           (Bariatric Analysis and Reporting Outcome System), BAROS, and Epworth Sleepiness Scale.
           Our hypothesis is that bariatric surgery will improve quality of life for the majority
           of patients.

        3. Reproductive-Age Women:

      While the number of bariatric procedures performed has increased to over 200,000 annually,
      this number represents only a small fraction of those that qualify. The prevalence of extreme
      obesity is higher in women than in men (7% vs. 3%), and women are disproportionately more
      likely to undergo bariatric surgery. Nearly 80% of patients undergoing bariatric surgery are
      female and 35% are less than 40 years of age.

      Given the current demographics of metabolic/bariatric surgery and the epidemic of childhood
      obesity, it is important to evaluate the long-term impact of bariatric surgery on nutrition,
      pregnancy, offspring health, and bone density. Despite previous concerns, metabolic/bariatric
      surgery has been demonstrated to improve maternal outcomes and likely improves neonatal
      outcomes. Interestingly, weight-loss surgery has been demonstrated to reduce the incidence of
      obesity in offspring by 50%. It is unclear whether improvements in offspring health are
      related to changes in the uterine environment, the post-natal environment, or the epigenome.

      While obesity has been associated with Vitamin D deficiency and hyperparathyroidism, it is
      not usually associated with the development of osteoporosis. Bariatric surgery can impair
      calcium absorption and exacerbate vitamin deficiencies. However, the impact of surgery on
      bone mineral content and density is unclear. This has particular ramifications for young
      female patients and the risk of osteoporosis long-term.

      The purpose is this portion of the study is to evaluate the impact of metabolic/bariatric
      surgery on reproductive-age women (age 13 to 30) with respect to weight, nutritional status,
      body composition, biomarker/epigenome profile, markers of atherosclerosis, and bone mineral
      content/density.

        1. Obstetrical/Offspring Health and Fertility: The purpose of this assessment is to
           evaluate the impact of surgery on obstetrical complications, offspring health, and
           fertility. A simple questionnaire will be administered to women of reproductive age.

        2. Biomarkers /Epigenetic Markers: The purpose of collecting specimens (e.g. blood) and
           analyzing changes in hormones, biologic markers, and epigenetic markers is to help
           elucidate potential mechanism involved in weight loss.

        3. Imaging: In collaboration with Children's Hospital - Los Angeles, we will coordinate
           imaging to evaluate body composition, bone density/content, and subclinical markers of
           atherosclerosis. Imaging studies will include DEXA (dual x-ray absorptiometry) for
           patients under 300 lbs, low-dose CT-scan for patients under 350 lbs, and ultrasound of
           the vessels of the neck.
    
  