
    
      Stenosis severity, plaque features, and myocardial ischemia have been known as important
      indicators in diagnosis and prognostication of patients with coronary artery disease.
      Invasive physiologic indies such as fractional flow reserve (FFR) are used to define
      ischemia-causing stenosis in the catheterization laboratory. FFR represents maximal blood
      flow to the myocardium supplied by an artery with stenosis as a fraction of normal maximum
      flow. The FFR-guided strategy was reported to improve the patients' outcomes in comparison
      with the angiography-guided strategy. However, clinical events still occur in patients with
      FFR >0.80, and invasive therapy did not improve prognosis in patients with moderate to severe
      ischemia compared to optimal medical therapy in the ISCHEMIA trial. In the recent report, the
      prognosis in the vessel with FFR >0.80 was associated with high-risk plaque characteristics
      on coronary CT angiography (CCTA). Likewise, incorporation of stenosis and plaque features
      and myocardial ischemia may provide better risk stratification of patients with coronary
      artery disease than evaluating each attribute alone. Recent proposed novel measurement such
      as pericoronary inflammation or epicardial fat metrics and lesion-specific or vessel-specific
      hemodynamic parameters derived from CCTA has also been known as a robust prognostic
      predictor. In addition, antiplatelet agents and lipid-lowering medication such as aspirin,
      clopidogrel, or statin are commonly used for primary and secondary prevention of adverse
      cardiovascular events. However, the relationship of combination and dosage of those drugs
      with prevention of plaque progression and clinical outcomes has not been fully understood.
      Accordingly, the investigators aim to find the prognostic implications of stenosis and plaque
      features, fat metrics on CCTA along with physiologic assessment and pharmocotherapy according
      to the different treatment strategies.
    
  