
    
      1. The clinic site staff and physical therapist will fill out facility consent form to
           participate as a treatment site. The treating physical therapist participant will
           complete an informed consent form at their clinic site, if willing to participate via
           phone call with PI. If they consent, they will fill in a demographics form and be given
           an ID# that will be used for data collection by PI after informed consent received. This
           will take about 5 minutes.

        2. Front office staff at each physical therapy clinic will provide recruitment letter for
           each new patient that potentially meets inclusion/exclusion criteria (coming into the
           clinic with low back that has persisted for greater than 3 month). If patient agrees to
           participate, they will fill out informed consent and HIPPA form on-line via PsychData
           link provided to them by clinic staff.

        3. After completing the informed consent process, the patient participant will complete the
           necessary forms provided in PsychData link prior to the initial visit (Baseline
           demographics, General Trust in Physician Scale, Wake Forest Scale, Trust in Physician
           Scale, Patient Care Assessment Survey, Modified Oswestry Disability Index, Numeric Pain
           Rating Scale) Completing the forms will take place in the waiting room as they fill out
           their other normal initial paperwork needed for clinic site. This should take about
           10-15 minutes. The forms will be handled electronically as the information is placed in
           the PI's individual PsychData account. The therapist participants will be blinded to
           research questionnaires information through the whole research project.

        4. The patient then will receive a normal physical therapy initial evaluation and treatment
           as directed by the physical therapist based on the patient presentation.

        5. At the conclusion of the initial visit, the patient participant will complete the
           necessary forms on-line through a second PsychData link (Wake Forest Scale, Trust in
           Physician Scale, Patient Care Assessment Survey, Working Alliance Inventory - Short
           Revised). This should take about 5-10 minutes.

        6. Participant will continue to receive normal physical therapy care as directed by the
           physical therapist based on patient presentation. The majority of the visits (80%) have
           to be with the initial physical therapist involved in the care of the patient for that
           patient participant to be eligible for the study. The patient participant will still be
           eligible for all the gift cards even if they are eventually excluded due to not seeing
           the same therapist for 80% of the visits.

        7. At the conclusion of care for the current episode (or at the end of 6 months of
           continual care by the provider), the patient participant will fill out forms on line to
           a third PsychData link (Wake Forest Scale, Trust in Physician Scale, Patient Care
           Assessment Survey, Working Alliance Inventory - Short Revised, Modified Oswestry
           Disability Index, Numeric Pain Rating Scale, Global Rate of Change). This should take
           about 10-15 minutes. If the patient is a no show and does not return for follow up
           visits, the principle investigator will send follow up letters to try to get final
           surveys completed.

        8. After the second visit, the treating physical therapist will complete a PT Survey of
           Patient Connection and Engagement form on the patient via an on-line PyschData link.
           This will take less than 5 minutes. Treating therapist participant will be notified by
           PI that patient has consented into the study. This on-line PsychData information will be
           kept confidential from the patient participant.

        9. At the conclusion of care (or 6 month time period), the physical therapist and clinic
           site will complete appropriate forms (PT Survey of Patient Connection and Engagement,
           number of visits, compliance (no show/cancellations), discharge disposition, and Current
           Procedural Terminology (CPT) billing codes for patients care) and send back to the
           principle investigator.
    
  