
    
      Joint mobilizations are reported to increase range of motion (ROM), postural control and
      proprioception, and decrease pain in individuals with CAI. However, there is no research
      supporting the combined effects of thrust mobilization and exercise on function in this
      population.

      Inclusion and exclusion criterion have been established utilizing the International Ankle
      Consortium guidelines. Using a convenience sampling, participants will be randomized into the
      exercise only or mobilization (experimental) and exercise group. Both groups will undergo 12
      supervised training sessions across a six-week period. The mobilization (experimental) group
      will also receive high-velocity-low-amplitude (HVLA) thrust mobilizations at the talocrural,
      proximal, and distal tibiofibular joints prior to the first three treatment sessions.

      An examiner, who is blinded to involved limb and group allocation, will perform a baseline
      and six-week follow-up examination of joint mobility, range of motion, and functional
      performance. The participants will complete subjective outcome measures at baseline, 2 weeks,
      4 weeks, and 6 weeks including the Foot and Ankle Ability Measurement (FAAM), FAAM-Sport,
      Ankle Joint Functional Assessment Tool (AJFAT), and the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool
      (CAIT). Participants will also complete baseline and six-week follow up assessments of the
      figure-of-8 hop test, side hop test, and three directions of the Star Excursion Balance test
      (SEBT).

      The exercise protocol is a modified version of the balance training program described by
      McKeon et al. Participants will complete this protocol twice a week for six weeks. Treatment
      sessions will last approximately 30 minutes. Participants will individually progress on
      particular exercises if zero errors are observed. In addition, all participants will be given
      a home exercise program (HEP) to complete every day of the week excluding treatment days.

      The mobilization (experimental) group will receive HVLA thrust mobilizations at the three
      joints stated above for the first three sessions prior to completing the exercise protocol.
      Each mobilization will be performed one time at each joint. The order of joint mobilizations
      will be randomized prior to administering.

      Data analysis will be performed using International Business Machines Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (SPSS). Alpha level will be set p<0.05. Expecting to utilize separate 2 x
      2 repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) to assess changes in the FAAM, FAAM-Sport,
      AJFAT, CAIT, figure-of-8 hop test, side hop test, and three directions of the SEBT.
    
  