
    
      Sepsis is a life-threatening syndrome and the most common cause of death nowadays. This
      syndrome develops as a result of the dysregulated host response to an infectious insult. As
      such the mainstay of treatment is the early administration of antimicrobials leading to early
      eradication of the offending pathogen. However, in this statement the key-feature is the
      definition of what "early" means. Using the retrospective analysis of data associating final
      outcome from septic shock with the delay in start of antimicrobials from the start of
      vasopressors in 2713 patients with septic shock, it was found that 79.1% of patients in which
      this delay was less than one hour survived. Every further hour of delay in start of
      antibiotics led to 7.6% increase of the risk for unfavorable outcome. These findings were
      later confirmed from two other analyses. These findings generate two thoughts: a) the above
      results are based on early recognition of hospital-acquired sepsis that was achievable only
      because these studies were done in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) environment in patients under
      close monitoring. However, early sepsis recognition for a newly admitted patient remains an
      unmet need; b) all the above results are coming from patients with septic shock where
      diagnosis had already been established since patients were already on vasopressors.

      It is reasonable to hypothesize that if sepsis had been recognized even earlier final outcome
      would have been even better. Sanmina have developed a non-invasive technique for the
      measurement of endothelial released nitric oxide (NO) through customized pulse
      photoplethysmography (PPG). Since NO is released by the vascular endothelium early in the
      pathogenesis of sepsis it is reasonable to hypothesize that PPG is a technique that can early
      inform on the risk for a patient with suspicion of an infection to develop sepsis. The time
      of measurement is less than two minutes. Preliminary data show that the reading of a healthy
      subject of eight consecutive minutes cannot trace any increase of NO; in sepsis a peak of
      more than 200 units is shown within the first 40 seconds of measurement.

      The development of PPG as a tool for the early diagnosis of sepsis requires a two-stage
      approach. The first stage is based on the association of PPG readings with the change of the
      SOFA (sequential organ failure assessment) score and vital signs to define if among patients
      who eventually develop sepsis, PPG changes will be produced earlier than changes of SOFA
      scores and of vital signs.
    
  