
    
      Background: According to international guidelines on low back pain (LBP), advice to stay
      active should be provided from healthcare professionals to all patients with LBP. However,
      provision of advice to stay active is reported to be diverse. Some primary care healthcare
      professionals believe that avoidance of activities and work will help the patient recover.
      Consequently some patients are not receiving optimal advice to stay active and may think that
      inactivity will help them and consequently achieve less favourable treatment outcomes. Thus,
      changing patients' beliefs are considered the key decisive factor to change actual behaviour,
      and by that improve the functional ability of the patients. This should reduce primary health
      care use and reduce referrals to the more expensive treatments in secondary care. The effect
      of patients' beliefs on their functional outcomes has to our knowledge never been studied in
      a population of patients with LBP being referred from primary care to secondary care
      treatment.

      Materials and Methods:

      This is a prospective cohort study. Data is collected from a consecutive series of 800 adult
      patients (18+), with low back pain as the dominant musculoskeletal complaint, referred from
      general practices in Central Denmark Region to the Spine Centre at Silkeborg Regional
      Hospital. Patients will be excluded in case of spinal fractures or malignancy.

      All patients seen at the Spine Centre receive a digital letter with a link to an online
      questionnaire to be completed approximately one week before their appointment at the Spine
      Centre. The questionnaire contains questions about their back pain history, present pain (Low
      Back Pain Rating Scale), disability (Rolland Morris Disability Questionnaire), quality of
      life (EQ-5D), fear-avoidance questions (Örebro Musculoskeletal Pain Questionnaire), STarT
      Back Screening tool, questions on average level of physical activity, beliefs about physical
      activity in relation to back pain, advice received from health professionals about staying
      active, and questions about employment and housing situation. For those accepting
      participation the same questionnaire is forwarded by email 52 weeks after the initial visit
      at the Spine Center.

      Expected outcome and perspective: This study will bring knowledge about the associations
      between patient's disease perceptions and beliefs about staying active despite pain and their
      functional improvement. Furthermore, the study will clarify to what extent patients perceive
      to have been given advice to stay active by a primary care health professional. Although this
      study does not explain why some patients do not have guideline concordant beliefs, it will
      help inform health care professionals in primary care about the possible potential of an
      increased primary care attention towards the recommendation of staying active when patients
      have LBP.
    
  