
    
      Critically ill patients frequently suffer from pain during their stay in the intensive care
      unit, as nearly 30% of those patients experience pain at rest and up to 50% experience pain
      during nursing procedures. Pain experienced by critically ill patients falls into four
      categories that coexist and overlap: pre-existing chronic pain, acute illness-related pain,
      continuous ICU treatment-related pain or discomfort and intermittent procedural pain.
      Moreover, acute pain experienced in the ICU may become a chronic problem after discharge from
      the unit, as a lifelong ICU footprint. Everyday nursing procedures and interventions (i.e.
      positioning, mouth and trachea suctioning, wound care, catheter removal or placement,
      cannulation or intubation) performed in the ICU may be a potential source of pain, therefore
      there is a clinical need for a simple and easy ICU pain scale to evaluate this condition in
      patients unable to self-report pain.

      Assessment of pain in patients treated in the ICU becomes a daily clinical challenge for the
      ICU team, especially in those units where deep levels of sedation are used, but also in the
      minimal sedation environment based on analgesia. Various guidelines and recommendations exist
      to guide the ICU care team in the pain management and assessment process. Nevertheless, the
      gold standard for pain assessment is patient's self-report of pain (using numeric raing scale
      - NRS or visual analog scale - VAS), which can be aided with behavioural scales only when the
      self-report is unreliable or impossible to obtain. Those observational pain scales include
      the Critical-Care Pain Observation Tool (CPOT) and the Behavioural Pain Scale (BPS) and have
      been recommended for clinical use in the critically ill adults. However, their validation in
      a given patient population (cardiac, burn, different languages) is strongly recommended and
      required.

      The need to equip critical care teams with dedicated monitoring tools is clear as early
      identification warrants early treatment. The CPOT has been developed by ICU professionals,
      yet it has not been translated or validated in Polish until now.
    
  