
    
      Background:

        -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder that affects approximately 1 in
           3,500 individuals.

        -  A number of common clinical manifestations, including plexiform neurofibromas,
           scoliosis, and chronic headaches, can cause frequent and significant pain and impact
           quality of life.

        -  Often, NF1-related pain is not well-controlled with medication and many of the
           medications cause significant side effects.

        -  To our knowledge, no studies have examined the effectiveness of behavioral interventions
           for chronic pain in individuals with NF1.

        -  Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT), a newer generation of cognitive-behavioral
           therapy, focuses on encouraging individuals to engage in more adaptive ways of coping
           with pain or distress.

             -  In helping individuals with pain, the goal of ACT is not to eliminate the person s
                pain, but to optimize the person s quality of life despite their pain.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate whether the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) group demonstrates
           improvement on the Modified Brief Pain Inventory scale from baseline to 3 months in
           adolescents and young adults with NF1 and chronic pain.

        -  To examine changes in patient s functional ability, quality of life, pain-related
           coping, pain-related anxiety, pain severity, and depression from baseline to 3 months

        -  To examine the effects of ACT on parents psychological well-being, overall stress, and
           ability to cope with their child s pain

        -  To explore the relationship between changes in patients pain interference, functional
           ability, pain-related coping, pain-related anxiety, pain severity, depression and
           treatment adherence with demographic variables, parent stress, and parent coping

        -  To collect preliminary data on the value of ACT to guide the potential development of a
           future phase II trial

      Eligibility:

      Patients ages 12 to 21 with a confirmed diagnosis of NF1.-Parents of participating
      patients.-The patient must indicate a score of 3 or higher on a pain item (1 5 scale) from a
      quality of life measure assessing the extent to which pain has interfered with the patient s
      daily functioning over the past month.

      Design:

        -  This is a behavioral study to determine the feasibility and potential benefit of an ACT
           intervention on pain interference from baseline to 3 months post-intervention.

        -  A sample size of 12 patients is needed to provide 90% power for detecting a change of
           .77 standard deviations on the total pain interference score of the M-BPI using a
           1-sided .1 level test.

        -  ACT workshops will be scheduled multiple times over approximately five months and will
           be comprised of three 2-hour sessions held over two consecutive days

        -  Measures assessing pain interference, pain coping, pain-related anxiety, quality of
           life, functional disability, depression, and pain severity will be administered to
           patients prior to the ACT intervention and 3 months later.

        -  At the same time points, a parent or legal guardian of each patient will complete
           measures assessing their child s quality of life, functional disability, depression, and
           pain severity, as well as the parent s own psychological functioning and ability to cope
           with their child s pain
    
  