
    
      Natural products have long been used in traditional medicine and are promising sources for
      novel therapeutic agents, especially in treating oral diseases such as dental caries.

      Previously, herbs are used in dentistry for prevention and curative purpose of dental caries.
      The main advantages of using herbal alternatives are easy availability, cost effectiveness,
      increased shelf life, low toxicity, and lack of microbial resistance.

      Grape seed extract (GSE) has been found to be a promising natural remineralizing agent for
      treatment of the demineralized tooth.

      Grape seed extract (GSE), a readily available over the counter supplement, has been noted for
      its potential dental restorative and caries preventative properties as a potent antioxidant.
      There are multiple bioactive properties in GSE, but in particular, its rich content of
      proanthocyanidins (PACs) plays a role in its theoretical benefit in caries prevention.

      PACs have hydrophobic and hydrophilic properties, which enhance their ability to irreversibly
      bind to a variety of compounds, particularly minerals, proteins, and carbohydrates.

      The remineralization effect of GSE appears to be featured. First, it participates in mineral
      deposition on the superficial layer of the lesion through forming insoluble complexes and
      combines with calcium to enhance remineralization. Second, GSE may interact with the organic
      portion of enamel through PA-collagen interaction, thereby stabilizing the exposed collagen
      matrix.

      Proanthocyanidin (PA) has been proved to strengthen collagen-based tissues by increasing
      collagen cross-links. It is claimed that it can increase collagen synthesis and accelerates
      the conversion of soluble collagen into insoluble collagen. Proanthocyanidin has proved safe
      in different clinical applications and has been used as dietary supplements as well.
    
  