
    
      The study is a single-centre, interventional, prospective, case-control study. After being
      informed about the study and potential risks during preoperative anaesthetic evaluation, all
      patients giving written informed consent will be enrolled in the study.

      Inclusion criteria will be: patients undergoing vertebral fixation via posterior approach,
      age 18-85, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I-III, written informed consent
      signed. Exclusion criteria will be: traumatic spine injury, patients outside the 18-85 year
      old range, allergies or contraindications to the use of local anaesthetics and erector spinae
      block, skin infections at the puncture site, body-mass index above 40.

      The estimated amount of patients needed to detect statistically significant results has been
      estimated in 60 (30 cases versus 30 controls). Considering the surgical activity in the
      organising centre, the study should be completed before the end of 2021. Randomization will
      be made with a random sequence informatically produced. The study will be single-blinded,
      with the physician making the postoperative pain optimization not knowing the type of
      anaesthesia performed.

      Erector spine plane (ESP) block will be performed 30 minutes before general anaesthesia (GA)
      induction and the anaesthetic level will be assessed (pin-prick and hot-cold test). It will
      be made at the vertebral level of anaesthesia, bilaterally, with Ropivacaine 0.4% and
      dexamethasone 4 mg in 20 mL of sodium chloride (NaCl) 0.9% per side. GA will be induced with
      propofol, fentanyl and rocuronium to all patients, while GA maintenance will be performed
      with total-intravenous anaesthesia (TIVA) with propofol and boluses of fentanyl as required.
      Basic blood pressure, pulse-oximetry, electrocardiogram, train-of-four, body temperature and
      bispectral index monitoring will be applied to every patient. At the end of the surgery all
      the patients will receive a bolus of acetaminophen 1 g and morphine 6 mg.

      Post-operative analgesia in controls will be performed by patient-controlled analgesia (PCA)
      pumps infusing boluses-at-request of morphine 1 mg (maximum once every 15 minutes) plus
      acetaminophen 1 g every 8 hours for the first 48 hours.

      Post-operative analgesia in cases will be performed with PCA only releasing
      boluses-at-request (maximum 1 mg every 15 minutes) and acetaminophen 1 g every 8 hours during
      the first 48 hours.

      Postoperative pain will be assessed by a trained physician blinded to the anaesthetic
      technique employed. Numerical rating scale (NRS) and Richmond agitation-sedation scale (RASS)
      will be performed at 2-6-12-24-36-48 hours after the end of the surgery.

      The primary outcome is postoperative morphine consumption. Secondary outcomes are
      intraoperative opioid use, postoperative NRS scores, nausea and vomit (PONV), in-hospital
      length-of-stay and final patient satisfaction.

      Statistical analysis will be performed by trained professionals with STATA 14.2 for Windows.
    
  