
    
      Introduction With the rapid developments to anticipate and manage the ongoing COVID-19
      pandemic, healthcare personnel is quickly reallocated to COVID-19 units. These people will
      experience substantial amounts of stress which has been shown to result in the development or
      increase of stress related disorders like psychological distress and psychopathology in
      50-70%. Adaptive reconsolidation of stressful events is required for resilience against
      prolonged stress and prevent development and/or recurrence of psychopathology.

      Mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) are potent interventions with profitable results in
      many people with and without stress-related disorders. These interventions invite people to
      allow bodily sensations, thoughts and feelings in reaction to and in the aftermath of
      stressors and pay attention to them in a particular way: on purpose, in the present moment,
      and without judgment. The effectiveness of these interventions on stress reduction is now
      founded on a strong meta-analytical evidence base in symptom and stress-reduction in diverse
      clinical and non-clinical populations.

      Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is a specific stress-focused MBI. In healthcare
      professionals, MBSR training increased well-being, mindfulness skills, empathy and emotional
      stability and decreased burnout, anxiety, and depression. A randomized clinical trial showed
      that specifically residents with high baseline levels of emotional exhaustion benefitted from
      MBSR. Moreover, MBSR can be delivered effectively via interactive video-conferencing, which
      makes it suited to quickly support relatively large groups of healthcare workers.

      Taken together that MBSR has beneficial effects in healthcare workers and is aimed at dealing
      with stress, this makes it a potentially useful intervention to prevent psychopathological
      sequela of the high-stress situations for healthcare workers inherent to the current COVID-19
      outbreak. However, the effectiveness of an additional MBSR intervention in a severe crisis
      situation like the COVID-19 outbreak needs to be empirically investigated in a prospective
      study, before large scale implementation is advocated.

      Aims The aim of the study is to investigate the effectiveness of an adapted online MBSR added
      to Support As Usual (SAU) versus daily self-help mindfulness exercises via a YouTube-channel
      (DMYT) + SAU on the incidence and prevalence of psychological distress and psychopathology
      (anxiety, depression, somatoform symptoms). In addition, we aim to decrease post-traumatic
      stress symptoms, insomnia, substance abuse and health-related costs more in the MBSR + SAU
      group. We also aim to improve the post-traumatic growth, positive mental health and
      health-related quality of life. Furthermore, we will investigate whether improving
      mindfulness skills and self-compassion and decreasing repetitive negative thinking may help
      reduce psychological distress (working mechanism).

      Method A two-armed randomized, controlled superiority trial comparing an adapted MBSR + SAU
      versus DMYT + SAU for reducing psychological distress and psychopathology in healthcare
      workers working with COVID-19 patients. Assessments will be conducted at baseline, post
      intervention (1 month) and follow-up at 4 and 7 months.

      The intervention is an interactive adapted online MBSR program. The training consists of
      eight 1.5 hour group sessions twice per week during 4 weeks and daily home practice
      assignments guided by audio files. The sessions will be held via interactive video-streaming.
      MBSR courses will be taught by qualified mindfulness teachers. Participants in the control
      condition will have the possibility to use a self-help daily mindfulness exercise of 30
      minutes on a YouTube channel (DMYT) for 4 weeks. Both will be offered on top of the other
      interventions (SAU) already available in the hospital or organization (e.g. buddy-, team- and
      peer support system, shopping/dinner service, etc.).
    
  