
    
      Objectives: The primary objective of the trial is to determine the optimum PMC delivery
      mechanism by comparing community- versus health facility-based strategies in order to inform
      policy.

      Study Type: This is a single-centre, matched, cluster randomized, 5-arm, factorial design
      trial comparing the uptake of PMC-DHP delivered through health facility or community-based
      approaches with or without SMS/HSA reminders.

      Site: 90 villages in the catchment areas of Zomba Central hospital in southern Malawi

      Study Population:

      Inclusion criteria: convalescent children aged less than 5 years and weighing >5 kg admitted
      with severe anaemia (haemoglobin<5g/dL / Ht<15%); clinically stable, able to take or switch
      to oral medication; post-transfusion Hb >5g/dL.

      Exclusion criteria: blood loss due to trauma, malignancy, known bleeding disorders or sickle
      cell trait, known hypersensitivity to study drug, known heart conditions, non-resident in
      study area, previous participation in study, known need at enrolment for prohibited
      medication and scheduled surgery during the course of the study. HIV infection and
      cotrimoxazole prophylaxis are not exclusion criteria

      Study Interventions:

      All children will receive Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (3-day treatment courses, given 2,6
      and 10 weeks after discharge) either:

        1. at discharge + SMS Reminder;

        2. at discharge + No SMS Reminder;

        3. at discharge + HSA Reminder;

        4. at OPD + SMS Reminder; or

        5. at OPD + No SMS Reminder

      Outcome Measures:

      Primary: 100% of PMC drugs uptake (defined as administration of all 3-day treatment courses,
      given 2, 6 and 10 weeks after discharge) assessed by unannounced spot checks.

      Follow-up procedures: Children will be followed up for 15 weeks by passive case detection in
      2 phases: Pre-PMC (2 weeks between hospital admission and 2 weeks post-discharge); PMC (2-14
      weeks post-discharge)

      Sample Size: A sample size of 75 children per arm (375 total children) allows for a detection
      of 25% increase in uptake from 50% to 75% with 10% loss to follow-up (power 90%, α=0.05).

      Data Analysis: The % of children receiving IPTpd according to schedule will be compared by
      relative risks (95% CI), adjusted for prognostic factors at baseline using log binomial or
      Poisson regression with adjustment for cluster effects
    
  