
    
      VIRxSYS has concluded a 6-month Phase 1/2 clinical study under an IND of the vector VRX496 in
      HIV-positive subjects who have failed at least two HAART regimens. HAART typically consists
      of a triple "cocktail" of drugs. Although these cocktails have been successful in reducing
      viral loads and restoring immune function, they do not represent a cure. There are also
      concerns about adverse effects associated with long-term usage of HAART. Specifically, a
      variety of metabolic disorders including HIV-associated lipodystrophy, central adiposity,
      dyslipidaemia, hyperlipidaemia, hyperglycemia, and insulin resistance have been reported as
      resulting from HAART. These reactions, combined with often complex and cumbersome dosing
      regimens, can have an adverse effect on patient-subject adherence to therapy. Furthermore,
      poor adherence has led to increased rates of HIV resistance, resulting in viral strains that
      have reduced sensitivity to the drugs. Importantly, in the Phase 1/2 clinical trial conducted
      by VIRxSYS, there were no reported toxicities associated with the product.

      Gene therapy for HIV-1 infection has been proposed as an alternative to antiretroviral drug
      regimens. A number of different genetic vectors with antiviral payloads have been utilized to
      combat HIV-1, including antisense RNA, transdominant proteins, ribozymes, RNA decoys, single
      chain antibodies, and RNAi (RNA-interference. Antisense RNA targeted to wt-HIV RNA offers a
      significant advantage over several other genetic antiviral approaches because it is not a
      protein and thus not immunogenic and because the size of the payload prevents virus escape
      mutants, such as occurs with the use of RNAi.

      In this Phase 2 protocol, 6 subjects will be staggered for infusion by at least 2 weeks. The
      first group of 3 subjects will receive 4 infusions (4-dose cohort). If no dose limiting
      toxicities (DLT) are observed, the second group of 3 subjects, (i.e. subjects 4, 5 and 6)
      will continue with 8 infusions (8-dose cohort). Safety visits are scheduled 1 week after
      infusion and monthly for the first 6 months and at 9 months following the last infusion.

      After safety has been evaluated, and in order to explore biological activity, additional
      subjects (6-10 evaluable subjects) will be entered into each cohort. Follow-up visits are
      scheduled 1 week after infusion and monthly for the first 6 months and at 9 months following
      the last infusion.

      The effect of a single bolus will also be examined in a third cohort. The single bolus
      infusion will consist of the following cell doses: approximately 10 billion, 20 billion, and
      30 billion, respectively. Subjects will be allotted to the respective cell dose groups
      according to the order in which they are enrolled. Three to 5 subjects will be allotted to
      the lower cell dose group and followed for safety for 4 weeks. After safety is evaluated, the
      next group (3 to 5 subjects) will be allotted to the next higher cell dose group and followed
      for safety for 4 weeks. If the intermediate cell dose group is determined to be safe, an
      additional 3 to 5 subjects will be allotted to the highest cell dose group. All subjects will
      be followed for safety at biweekly intervals for the first 4 weeks and thereafter at monthly
      intervals up to 6 months and then at 9 months.

      The study has concluded it's 9-month active phase. Subjects are currently in a 15-year Long
      Term Follow-up Phase of the study.

      In keeping with the recently released Guidance on Monitoring For Delayed Adverse Events, that
      states that for the first 5 years all subjects should undergo monitoring of vector sequences
      every 6 months, subjects will visit the clinic at a maximum of 6 months intervals for a blood
      test evaluating persistence of vector sequences.

      Therefore for the first 5 years, subjects will have 6 months visits for safety assessment.
      For years 6 to 15, subjects will be contacted by phone or mail. At these contacts, subjects
      will be asked about their health status.
    
  