
    
      All eligible subjects undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) at
      New York Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical College will be invited to participate.
      Consenting subjects will be enrolled and treated according to the protocol. Study
      investigators anticipate that by consenting all eligible cardiovascular surgical subjects,
      investigators will not omit the results of subjects who may present with microvascular
      bleeding after CPB. It is well known that microvascular bleeding occurs more often in
      reoperations or complex, open cardiac procedures, such as coronary revascularization and
      valve repair/replacement, or aortic replacements under deep hypothermic circulatory arrest.

      Enrolled subjects will receive intraoperative anesthetic, anticoagulation, laboratory
      testing, and hemodynamic management according to WCMC standards of practice. The need for
      blood products, including fibrinogen supplementation (CRYO/FIB), will be assessed using a
      point-of-care (ROTEM) based transfusion algorithm (Appendix A) to ensure consistency and
      accuracy of treatment. The cardiac anesthesiologists and surgeons are currently using the
      ROTEM algorithm for the treatment of bleeding during cardiovascular surgery with CPB as part
      of routine clinical practice at WCMC. The algorithm will have been in place for greater than
      9 months prior to study initiation. Randomization will occur in the blood bank when study
      product (CRYO/FIB) is requested to treat intraoperative acquired hypofibrinogenemia (based on
      ROTEM tracings). Transfusion of the randomized study product (CRYO/FIB), however, will only
      occur when the surgeon declares the presence of microvascular bleeding. Surgeons will be
      blinded to the subject's ROTEM results and randomized study arm. Intraoperative
      anesthesiologists will not be blinded as the two products require different preparation and
      administration techniques and cannot be blinded easily.

      Once the subject is randomized to their study intervention they will receive that product at
      all subsequent points during the procedure when fibrinogen replacement is required. If
      microvascular bleeding occurs and there is no indication by the ROTEM algorithm to administer
      CRYO/FIB, the subject will revert to standard of care treatment guided by ROTEM or
      traditional laboratory testing. The subject will not be randomized in the study. In the case
      of abnormal ROTEM parameters but no clinical evidence of microvascular bleeding as evaluated
      by the cardiac surgeon, the subject will continue to be monitored carefully for bleeding for
      the remainder of the procedure. If non-surgical bleeding is subsequently observed prior to
      chest closure and the consensus is that fibrinogen is needed based on ROTEM results (FIBTEM
      A10 less than or equal to 10 mm), the subject will be treated with their randomized study
      product according to the algorithm. Following completion of the procedure, postoperative
      coagulation management will be according to standard practice and guided by standard
      laboratory testing, when possible. Unless persistent bleeding is noted, all subjects will
      receive aspirin (300 mg per rectum) 6 hours postoperatively. Subjects with mechanical or
      mitral tissue valves will be anticoagulated with warfarin (no heparin bridge) starting on
      postoperative day two (POD#2). Any subjects experiencing significant arrhythmias (e.g. atrial
      fibrillation in the perioperative setting) will also be anticoagulated with warfarin.
      Pharmacologic deep vein thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis will follow the usual standard of care.
      Subjects enrolled, randomized, and transfused study product will be observed until hospital
      discharge (total observation time). Research staff from the Department of Anesthesiology will
      collect outcomes data, including transfused blood products, laboratory results, evidence of
      perioperative thrombosis or infection, returns to the OR, length of stay, and mortality using
      case report forms reports and enter all collected data into a secure REDCap database.
    
  