
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is associated with an about two to three-fold increased risk
      for cardiovascular events as compared to subjects without diabetes.

      Sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT-2) is mainly expressed in human kidneys and
      small intestinal cells. In the proximal tubule of the nephron SGLT-2 is responsible for the
      reabsorption of approximately 90% of the filtrated glucose. Inhibition of SGLT-2 was shown to
      increase renal glucose excretion and to lower glucose. Subsequently, a number of SGLT-2
      inhibitors were developed and are currently approved for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

      Recently, Zinman et al published the results of the EMPA-REG-OUTCOME (Cardiovascular Outcome
      Event Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patient) trial where the cardiovascular impact of a
      glucose lowering regimen including Empagliflozin as compared to usual glucose control without
      an SGLT-2 inhibitor was investigated. The trial demonstrated an unexpected reduction in the
      primary composite endpoint, comprising cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction
      and non-fatal stroke. The reduction was mainly driven by a 38% relative risk reduction in
      cardiovascular deaths; moreover they demonstrated an impressive 35% relative risk reduction
      in the secondary endpoint hospitalization for heart failure. Of note, the beneficial effects
      observed in the Empagliflozin group seem to occur very rapidly after commencing the
      treatment, as suggested by the early separation of the Kaplan-Meier curves. However, the
      mechanisms responsible for this finding remain unclear. Diuretic effects with subsequent
      impact on hemodynamics or potential cardioprotective effects of glucagon, which levels rise
      under the treatment with SGLT-2 inhibitors and the resulting rise in ketone bodies or a small
      increase in hematocrit have been suggested.

      The aim of our trial is to investigate whether Empagliflozin treatment commenced within 72-h
      after acute myocardial infarction has an impact on heart failure in subjects with and without
      diabetes mellitus type 2.
    
  