
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To examine the extent to which the dyadic yoga (DY) program improves patient objective
      physical performance as compared to the waitlist control (WLC) group (primary comparison) and
      the patient-only yoga (PY) group (exploratory comparison).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To examine the extent to which the DY program improves patient and partner quality of life
      (QOL) compared to the WLC group (primary comparison) and the PY group (exploratory
      comparison).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To examine the extent to which the DY program reduces patient healthcare utilization
      (i.e., emergency room visits, hospital admissions, and feeding tube insertions) and patient
      and partner work productivity compared to the WLC group (primary comparison) and the PY group
      (exploratory comparison).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To explore if, compared to the WLC and PY groups, the DY program improves symptom burden
      and symptom management skills at the end of treatment, which will in turn mediate
      intervention outcomes at the subsequent follow-up assessments.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP I (DY): Patients and their partners attend yoga sessions 3 days per week for up to 15
      sessions, lasting 60 minutes each, in-person or via videoconferencing over the course of
      radiation therapy.

      GROUP II (PY): Patients attend yoga sessions 3 days per week for up to 15 sessions, lasting
      60 minutes each, in-person or via videoconferencing over the course of radiation therapy.
      Once data collection is completed, partners will be offered intervention materials, and
      encouraged to attend yoga classes at the Integrative Medicine Clinic.

      GROUP III (WLC): Patients and their partner receive usual care. Once data collection is
      completed, couples may participate in the DY or PY program of their choice over 60 minutes
      each. Partners are also offered intervention materials along with five 60 minute optional
      yoga sessions.

      After completion of radiation therapy, patients are followed up at 1 , 2, 3, and 6 months.
    
  