
    
      To address the urgent need for user-friendly decision support for antidepressant choices in
      UK primary care, the investigators will probe a specifically tailored innovative tool
      advising GPs on patients who have not responded to first-line treatments. Despite one
      promising US study, there is no such tool available in the UK. The US study was based in a
      private GP setting and employed now outdated treatment algorithms. In contrast, the treatment
      algorithm implemented in the current decision support tool is based on National Institute for
      Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines including the latest health technology
      appraisals. The investigators have further gained the support of the leading UK provider of
      primary care electronic record systems (EMIS group: >3000 GP practice users) who will develop
      the software implementation of the algorithm as an add-on tool to their widely employed
      software.

      Considering complex intervention guidance, the study is designed as a feasibility study to
      provide estimates of the following unknown variables needed to plan a subsequent larger
      trial: lost to follow-up and recruitment rates, GP satisfaction with the tool, impact on
      health service use, and standard deviations on our planned primary outcome measure on the
      self-rated Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (QIDS-SR16) for a subsequent trial.
      The investigators will use a single-blinded parallel group cluster-randomised controlled
      trial design with at least 8 GPs across 8 practices (one per practice) being randomised
      supported by the Clinical Research Network (CRN) to two arms: 1) Usual care of patients with
      depression with no computerised decision support, 2) Using the novel computerised decision
      support tool to assist with antidepressant choices.

      The investigators will recruit 8-20 GPs in 8-20 different practices to avoid communication
      between GPs, each contributing approximately 10 study patients. The EMIS eligibility tool
      (see below) will identify potential participants by screening for antidepressant and problem
      history. Blinded practice staff/CRN will ask all eligible patients for consent for contact.
      Patients will fill in an electronic version of the self-report version of the Primary Care
      Evaluation of Mental Disorders (PRIME-MD) and provide electronic consent for this.
      Alternatively, participants will be called to answer the questions over the phone and provide
      oral consent. Other patients will prefer receiving a mailed printed questionnaire and provide
      written consent. PRIME-MD has been validated against clinical diagnoses of current major
      depressive and anxiety disorders, as well as alcohol abuse according to DSM-IV criteria and
      will be modified to screen for drug abuse and anxiety disorders may be dropped from the
      screening as they are not exclusion criteria and will be assessed in the in-depth assessment.
      Patients will further complete self-report versions of the WHO Composite International
      Diagnostic Interview (CIDI) screening scale for bipolar disorder and 3 screening questions
      validated in the investigators' group to exclude schizophrenia. Further, the investigators
      will ask about the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study, because the information
      recorded on EMIS is not always complete and does not always include a patient's history with
      previous GP surgery for example. Eligible patients will be seen for an in-depth assessment by
      the study research associate (RA) where she will take written informed consent.

      2.1.2 Data collection and Assessment for patients meeting the pre-screening criteria

      As in the investigators' previous work, the RA will be closely supervised and trained,
      establishing sufficient inter-rater reliability on semi-structured interviews with the PI
      before carrying out assessments independently. Apart from the outcome measures, the in-depth
      assessment will include measuring past subthreshold hypomanic symptoms, and perceived
      credibility of and expectancy towards treatment using a dedicated questionnaire, and a
      detailed clinical evaluation whilst accessing patients' EMIS records including:

        -  Treatment history

        -  Medical history

        -  Age at onset, episode duration and number, illness duration

        -  International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) suicidality screen

        -  DSM5 Structured Clinical Diagnostic Interview

        -  Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-R in patients over 50 to detect early Alzheimer's
           disease

        -  Young Mania Rating Scale The results of the assessment will be shared with GPs and
           patients. This will also allow the investigators to use the Maudsley Staging Method to
           compare the level of treatment resistance between treatment groups prior to entry into
           the study as a potential confounder. Patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria
           will subsequently be seen by their GP who initiates and monitors treatment using EMIS.
           The decision whom to include will not be made by the GPs to ensure against different
           selection biases in the different treatment arms. The RA will be blinded to the
           intervention arm that a GP was randomised to, in order to prevent the RA from making
           biased inclusion/exclusion decisions. The RA will communicate inclusion/exclusion
           decisions to patients and will draft a short report to their GP. The RA will seek the
           Chief Investigator's advice on inclusion/exclusion questions without telling him which
           GP the patient was referred from. Should the RA become unblinded accidentally or for
           some other reason, this would be noted in the case record file, but the patient would be
           retained in the study. On the second and final RA visit 15-18 weeks after the baseline
           assessment, outcome measures and Young Mania Rating Scale will be repeated and the
           Longitudinal Interval Follow-up Interview will be used to determine remission, its
           psychiatric status rating scale will be used at baseline for comparison. After being
           enrolled, patients, who have no smartphone, receive a mobile smart phone to access a
           secure patient app (developed as part of the proposal which will communicate via secure
           email with GPs) to prompt them to enter weekly (changing the usual two week time
           interval to one week and using the Maudsley modified version) PHQ-9 ratings (chosen also
           because it has no licencing restrictions), to report hypomanic symptoms, fill in a
           validated self-report side effects scale (Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side
           Effects Rating (FIBSER), and enter medication (including opting in for a reminder
           function), as well as asking about self-blame-related action tendencies such as hiding.
           The app will be based on an adaptation of similar mood tracking apps developed by our
           BRC. Alternatively, ratings and medication compliances will be asked about at weekly
           intervals via post or phone which will be recorded in the case file.

      Main objectives of this study

        1. To develop the first computerised decision support tool for antidepressant treatment in
           UK primary care

        2. To probe the feasibility of a clinical trial to assess the tool's efficacy by

             1. estimating lost to follow-up rates

             2. estimating GP and patient adherence to prescribed medications

             3. determining the number of GP practices willing to recruit patients for the study
                (determined by the CRN who will approach all practices in the participating CCGs)

             4. estimating the recruitment rates per GP

             5. estimating GP satisfaction

        3. To provide standard deviation estimates and intra-class correlation coefficients per GP
           for computing effect size estimates for improving treatment outcomes in preparation of
           larger subsequent trials

        4. To collect health economic estimates of changes in service use associated with the new
           tool (including psychiatric referrals to mental health teams and/or the study
           psychiatrist).

      As soon as possible after their baseline in-depth assessment, eligible patients will undergo
      treatment over 14 weeks with their GPs which allows 3 weeks for determining sufficient
      treatment response at low and high dose of each of the two different recommended medications
      and 1 week for cross-tapering before step 1 and step 3. The final assessment by the RA will
      take place 15-18 weeks after the baseline assessment. Patients' participation will therefore
      last for approximately 15-18 weeks. Deviations from this time will occur due to scheduling
      difficulties and will be recorded. Time in the study will be used as a covariate in secondary
      data analyses.

      GPs will be randomised into two groups, asking each GP to enroll approximately 8-11
      participants each, adding more GPs if necessary. The study aims to recruit 86 participants
      assuming the same lost to follow-up rate as in the US trial (18%), resulting in a final
      sample size of 70 (35 in each group as recommended). This will enable the investigators to
      estimate the lost to follow-up rate within a 95% confidence interval of +/-8%. Because the
      comparable previous trial did not provide effect size estimates, this study has been designed
      to provide means and standard deviations, as well as confidence intervals for measures of
      change on the primary outcome measure (QIDS-SR16) in n=35 per group as recommended for
      feasibility trials.

      Double data entry will be employed. Categorical outcomes (e.g. lost to follow-up rate) will
      be described using appropriate summary statistics. The QIDS-SR16 and other continuous
      outcomes will be summarised at baseline and final assessment time points to obtain means and
      standard deviations for a larger trial sample size calculation, with the GP intra-class
      correlation calculated for the outcome variable using one-way random effects analysis of
      covariance (adjusted for baseline). The investigators plan to do a preliminary analysis of
      the difference between the groups, as far as possible using the intention to treat principle.
      This analysis will be identified as preliminary and underpowered when published. The outcomes
      measured at baseline and follow-up only, such as the QIDS-SR16, will be analysed using robust
      linear regression to account for clustering within GP. Continuous outcomes measured weekly
      will be analysed using mixed linear regression models with an intercept for GP to account for
      clustering. Both types of models will include treatment group as a covariate, in order to
      estimate differences between the two intervention groups, and will adjust for the baseline
      measure of the outcome where appropriate. The investigators do not expect missing baseline
      data, however, any such missing data will be imputed using mean imputation. Missing data in
      the weekly outcomes will be accounted for under the missing at random assumption by using the
      maximum likelihood algorithm to fit the mixed models. The investigators may consider multiple
      imputation for outcomes measured only at follow-up if post-randomisation adherence variables
      can be quantified and are related to having missing outcomes.
    
  