
    
      INTRODUCTION

      It becomes clear that dyspnea is becoming a major matter of concern in ICU mechanically
      ventilated patients. As this is the case for pain, addressing dyspnea in ICU patients
      therefore appears highly clinically relevant. This requires focused awareness from caregivers
      and patient cooperation. Indeed, because dyspnea involves the sensory identification of
      afferent signals by the brain and their cognitive and affective processing, its
      characterization depends on self-report. Clinical signs of "respiratory distress" and
      self-perceived dyspnea can be disconnected, setting a limitation to identifying dyspnea in
      many ICU patients whose ability to communicate verbally is impaired. Nevertheless, a link
      does exist between dyspnea and certain observable signs. A respiratory distress observation
      scale (RDOS) has been validated as a surrogate for self-reported dyspnea in the palliative
      care setting.

      In ICU patients, the research team has recently developed and validated a 5-items intensive
      care (IC)-RDOS (heart rate, neck muscles use during inspiration, abdominal paradox, fear
      expression, supplemental oxygen). The findings validate IC-RDOS as potential surrogates of
      dyspnea in the ICU, proving the concept that observation scales can be useful in this
      context. Indeed, IC-RDOS had a high sensitivity and specificity to predict a dyspnea-VAS ≥4.
      However, IC-RDOS is only validated in aware patients and its clinical usefulness in "non
      communicating" patients still need to be demonstrated.

      Addressing dyspnea in "non-communicating" patients is challenging since these patients cannot
      self-report dyspnea. However, it does not mean at all that they do not experience dyspnea.
      Indeed, "non-communicating" and "communicating" mechanically ventilated patients are equally
      submitted to risk factors for dyspnea. Moreover, ignoring dyspnea in a "non-communicating"
      patient may increase the risk of inadequate ventilator settings, which could in turn even
      increase dyspnea.

      To address this issue, the research team and others have developed and validated reliable
      electrophysiological makers that help to detect and quantify dyspnea regardless of the
      patient's self-report ability: 1) the electromyographic (EMG) activity of extra diaphragmatic
      inspiratory muscles and 2) the premotor inspiratory potentials (PIP) detected on the
      electroencephalogram (EEG).

        1. The EMG activity of three extra diaphragmatic inspiratory muscles (scalene, parasternal
           intercostal muscles and Alae nasi) is a reliable surrogate of the load capacity balance
           in healthy subjects and in patients with a respiratory disease. In ICU patients, this
           EMG activity is significantly correlated with the dyspnea-VAS.

        2. The application of an inspiratory resistive load to healthy subjects results in the
           activation of the pre-motor cortex detected by EEG recording named pre-inspiratory
           potential (PIP).

      OBJECTIVE

      The objective of the study is to validate the IC-RDOS as a surrogate of dyspnea in
      "non-communicating" mechanically ventilated patients in the ICU. To achieve this goal, the
      IC-RDOS will be compared to two electrophysiological tools that are validated for the
      assessment of dyspnea in "non-communicating" patients, the EMG of extra diaphragmatic
      inspiratory muscles and the PIP on the EEG. This comparison will be performed before and
      after a therapeutic intervention aiming at reduces dyspnea because the concomitant variation
      of the scale and of the neurophysiological markers is required to validate the reliability of
      the scale.

      The specific aims will be to simultaneously collect the IC-RDOS, PIP and the EMG activity of
      the Scalene, Parasternal intercostal muscles and Alae nasi,

        1. Before any intervention,

        2. And after an intervention aiming at reduce dyspnea.

      STUDY DESIGN

      A first non-verbal measure of respiratory discomfort will be achieved through the IC-RDOS by
      the experimenter. Concomitantly, EEG and EMG will be recorded over a 15-minutes period.

      The therapeutic interventions aiming at reduce dyspnea will be performed by the clinician in
      charge of the patient, who will be strictly independent of the experimenter. This
      intervention could be a change in ventilator settings or an administration of a
      pharmacological agent. The nature of the intervention will be recorded but will remain
      blinded to the experimenter.

      After the therapeutic intervention, a second non-verbal measure of respiratory discomfort
      will be performed with the IC-RDOS. Concomitantly, EEG and EMG will be recorded over a
      15-minutes period.

      If the physician in charge of the patients judges it necessary, a second therapeutic
      intervention may be performed. After this second therapeutic intervention, a third non-verbal
      measure of respiratory discomfort will be performed with the IC-RDOS. Concomitantly, EEG and
      EMG will be again recorded over a of 15-minutes period.

      EXPECTED RESULTS

      Observe a strong positive correlation between non-verbal numerical evaluation of dyspnea by
      the IC-RDOS and the amplitude of the EMG activity of the three extra diaphragmatic
      inspiratory muscles.

      Observe a significant positive association between the presence and the amplitude of a PIP
      and the value of the IC-RDOS.

      Observe a significant association between the change in the IC-RDOS and the respective
      changes in the EMG activity of extra diaphragmatic inspiratory muscles and in the amplitude
      of the PIP.

      Observe a decrease in the proportion of dyspneic patients after therapeutic intervention.
      Observe an average relative reduction of the IC-RDOS after therapeutic intervention.
    
  