
    
      Toxoplasmosis is a parasitic disease caused by Toxoplasma gondii and transmitted to humans
      through the consumption of raw or undercooked infected meat and / or by poorly washed
      vegetables. It can be transmitted from the pregnant woman to the fetus when infection occurs
      during pregnancy leading to congenital toxoplasmosis. Once infected, it is considered that
      the subject harbors cyst forms of the parasite in the muscles and brain for life with a risk
      of reactivation when immunocompromised. Recently, questions have been raised about the
      persistence of these cysts.

      Currently, only serological diagnosis can demonstrate the infection. This is done by
      detecting IgM and IgG directed against the parasite. Although humoral immunity is useful to
      diagnose toxoplasmosis, the cellular immunity is responsible of the main protective role
      during infection with the secretion of cytokines such as gamma interferon. In some
      situations, the serological diagnosis is limited: in immunocompromised subjects, some
      immunocompetent patients, in children with congenital toxoplasmosis, in which the anti T.
      gondii antibodies are no longer detectable. In order to have a true evaluation of the
      capacities of the immune system of each individual against T. gondii infection, it is
      necessary to evaluate the effector immune cells.

      The main objective of this protocol is to set up a cellular test with the stimulation of
      lymphocyte by T. gondii. For this objective, 20 subjects (10 positive, 10 negative for
      Toxoplasmosis serology) will be included. The secondary objective will be to compare the
      cellular diagnosis (evaluation by ELISA of the secretion of gamma interferon in the
      supernatant of cells stimulated by the Ag) with the serological diagnosis (IgG and IgM
      Alinity Abbott and Western blot LD Bio) in 3 groups of 10 patients: chronically infected
      patients, uninfected patients, patients with congenital toxoplasmosis as well as to assess
      the persistence or not of cellular and humoral immunity against T. gondii in 10 patients who
      had acute toxoplasmosis with a known date infection more than 10 years. Thus, 60 patients
      will be included for a total study period of 24 months.

      The patients included must be over 15 years of age, unknown HIV (questionnaire), not
      immunocompromised (questionnaire), with a known T. gondii serological status, affiliated with
      social security and having signed the informed consent form. Patients with known
      immunosuppression or immunosuppressive therapy (questionnaire) will be included.

      The patients thus selected will be included in the study. This study will allow the sponsor
      to acquire knowledge of the real immunity of the patients, if they harbor cysts with a risk
      of reactivation in case of immunosuppression and, for pregnant women known with congenital
      toxoplasmosis, whether lymphocytes from these women are able to react against T. gondii.
    
  