
    
      The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is rising worldwide. Almost all cases of HCC
      develop over clearly defined stages of chronic hepatic inflammation and cirrhosis of the
      liver which can be determined as an irreversible stage during this process. In the Western
      world excessive alcohol consumption and chronic infection with the hepatitis c virus (hcv)
      are frequent causes of chronic hepatocellular injury. As HCC is often diagnosed at advanced
      stages and therapeutic intervention possibilities are limited it becomes more and more
      necessary to search for prevention strategies to stop the development of HCC.

      In the last years micronutrients such as selenium have reached the interests of oncologists.
      Several studies were able to show that there are often low selenium levels in patients with
      different tumors. Some epidemiologic studies showed that supplementation of selenium can
      decrease the incidence of some tumors.

      Oxidative stress is meant to play an essential role in hepatocarcinogenesis and as selenium
      could decrease it, it may be possible that patients infected with the hepatitis c - virus
      show low selenium levels probably as a result of the chronic hepatic inflammation. Moreover
      there may be differences between the stages of disease namely chronic infection, cirrhosis of
      the liver and hepatocellular carcinoma. The aim of this trial is to determine these
      differences.

      HCV- infected patients are enrolled in this trial. Three groups are formed: In Group 1 all
      HCV- infected patients with a chronic inflammation without cirrhosis of the liver and without
      HCC are summarized. in group 2 all HCV- infected patients with cirrhosis of the liver but
      without HCC are enrolled. In group 3 hcv- infected HCC- patients are summarized. In each
      group 10 patients should be enrolled, matched to age and other diseases. Blood samples are
      taken from these patients and selenium levels are measured.
    
  