
    
      There is a well known and well described relationship between malnutrition, immune
      dysfunction, and infection. Critically ill patients are often hypermetabolic and can rapidly
      become nutritionally compromised. Repeated efforts over the past few years have not
      significantly improved the amount of calories delivered via the enteral route. Historically,
      feeding protocols have been used to guide the delivery of enteral nutrition (EN) but they
      frequently utilize conservative, reactionary approaches to optimizing nutrition.

      We propose a new, innovative approach that protocolizes an aggressive set of strategies to
      providing EN and shifts the paradigm from reactionary to proactive followed by de-escalation
      if nutrition therapy is not needed. The key components of this new protocol are the
      following: 1) Starting feeds at the target rate based on increasing evidence that some
      patients tolerate starting nutrition at a higher rate of delivery and that slow start ups are
      not necessary. For patients who are hemodynamically stable, we propose to shift from an
      hourly rate target goal to a 24 hour volume goal and give nurses guidance on how to make up
      this volume if there was an interruption for non-gastrointestinal reasons. This
      'volume-based' goal represents a significant shift in practice from traditional fixed hourly
      rate goals to a new protocol in which nurses can increase the hourly rate depending on how
      many hours they have left in the day to ensure that the patient receives the 24 hour volume
      within the day. 2) For patients who are deemed unsuitable for high volume intragastric feeds,
      we provide an option to initiate 'trophic feeds.' Trophic feeds represent an idea to provide
      a low volume of a concentrated feeding solution for 24 hours or longer, designed to maintain
      gastrointestinal structure and function rather than meet their protein and caloric goals.
      This option should reduce the numbers of patients ordered to be kept nil per os (NPO). Thus,
      PEP uP patients may gain some of the benefit of early EN. 3) To optimize tolerance in the
      early phase of critical illness, we propose to use a semi elemental feeding solution instead
      of a standard polymeric solution. There is some evidence that these semi elemental solutions
      are better assimilated than polymeric solutions in the critical care setting. These solutions
      can be changed to a more traditional polymeric solution once the patient is tolerating
      adequate amounts of nutrition. 4) Rather than wait for a protein debt to accumulate because
      of inadequate delivery of EN, protein supplements are prescribed at initiation of EN and can
      be discontinued if EN is well tolerated and they are receiving all their protein requirements
      through their standard EN. This strategy guarantees that the patient will most likely receive
      all their protein requirements in the early phase of their critical illness. 5) Rather than
      wait for a problem with gastrointestinal tolerance to develop, we propose to start motility
      agents at the same time EN is started with a re-evaluation in the days following to see if it
      is necessary. By preventing delayed gastric emptying, which frequently occurs in this patient
      population, we can improve nutritional adequacy. 6) Based on emerging evidence that a higher
      gastric residual volume (the volume of feeds remaining in the stomach when the bedside nurse
      aspirates the feeding tube) is safe and perhaps results in greater nutritional adequacy, we
      will include a higher gastric residual volume of 300ml in our protocol. It has been shown in
      one randomized trial that a feeding protocol that starts a motility agent empirically at the
      time of initiation of feeds and uses a higher threshold for a critical gastric residual
      volume (250 ml) improves nutritional adequacy.

      Since the bedside nurses initiate and utilize feeding protocols to achieve target goals, we
      will couple this newer generational feeding protocol with a comprehensive nurse-directed
      nutritional educational intervention that will focus on its safe and effective
      implementation. This focus on nursing nutrition education represents a major shift away from
      traditional education which has focused on dietitians and physicians.

      Our hypothesis is that this aggressive feeding protocol combined with a nurse-directed
      nutrition educational intervention will be safe, acceptable, and effectively increase protein
      and energy delivery to critically ill patients. We postulate that this increased provision of
      calories and protein may translate into improved clinical outcomes, particularly for the
      patients at the extremes of weight, but the current study is not powered to demonstrate such
      a difference.
    
  