
    
      This is a single arm, open label study of SV-BR-1-GM in recurrent and/or metastatic breast
      cancer. The detailed treatment regimen follows:

      Pre-Inoculation Regimen:

      Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) 300 mg/m^2 I.V., 1x only, will be given 48-72 hours before each
      SV-BR-1-GM inoculation, with an antiemetic of the provider's choice (steroids prohibited). If
      the patient is not tolerating the cyclophosphamide, a lower dose may be used (e.g. 200 or 150
      mg/m^2) or it may be withheld, with the Sponsor's approval.

      Innoculation Day Standard Operating Procedures:

        1. Inquire regarding events of past weeks, change in medications, pain scale, ECOG scale,
           and review of systems.

        2. Check injection sites.

        3. Perform DTH skin test intra-dermally with the SV-BR-1 parent cell line (~1 x 10^6
           irradiated tumor cells). Observe about 20 minutes for acute hypersensitivity. Grade III
           or higher acute hypersensitivity will abort therapy.

        4. Inject SV-BR-1-GM intra-dermally into 4 sites in thighs and upper back (0.5 mL each).
           Monitor patients for 60 minutes. Vital signs will be assessed and medical attention will
           be warranted if unstable.

      SV-BR-1-GM Preparation & Inoculation Regimen:

      Each inoculation will be administered via intra-dermal injection at the investigational
      sites. Subjects will receive 15-25 x 10^6 viable, irradiated transfected breast tumor cells
      in a total volume of 2.0 ml Ringer's lactate. SV-BR-1-GM cells will be irradiated to ensure
      cell replication incompetency.

      SV-BR-1-GM will be divided into four aliquots of 0.5 mL each and injected intra-dermally; one
      each into the anterior skin of the subject's right and left thighs and over the right and
      left upper back . Application of anesthetic lidocaine crème may be used if necessary for
      control of local pain before inoculation. Subjects will be monitored for 60 minutes.

      After at least 10 subjects have been treated safely with this regimen, the dose of SV-BR-1-GM
      may be escalated or decreased in subsequent patients based on the emerging data.

      Post-Inoculation Regimen:

      2 days (± 1 day) after inoculation, and again 4 days (± 1 day) later after inoculation, the
      patient will return to the principal investigator's office to receive Interferon-alpha-2b
      (Merck) in 0.1 mL saline, prepared as follows: These will also be provided by the sponsor and
      injected intra-dermally to each inoculation site, beneath the thickest area. Again, subjects
      will be observed about 20 minutes. The DTH response will also be recorded at the 2 days (± 1
      day) visit.

      This cycle will be performed every 2 weeks for the first month of treatment (3 inoculations),
      and then every month for up to one year.
    
  