
    
      Parents/guardians of children with incurable cancer face end-of-life decisions on behalf of
      their child including whether or not to enroll their child in a Phase I study, whether or not
      to agree to a 'do not resuscitate' status, or to begin terminal care. Descriptive research to
      date indicates that one of the factors that most helps parents to make these decisions and to
      remain satisfied with the decision afterward is their perception that they decided as a 'good
      parent' would decide. Parents define being a 'good parent' as making a decision that is in
      the best interest of their child. Parents' perception of their success in being a good parent
      is influenced by their interactions with the child's health care providers. Health care
      providers who are not fully informed about the decision and the parents' rationale for the
      decision are likely to convey doubt about the decision to parents and to other health care
      providers. Parents interpret this doubt as staff questioning the parents' ability to make
      good decisions. Lack of adequate information also creates staff tension. This single-site
      feasibility study will implement and evaluate a two-part communication intervention designed
      to identify parents' definition of being a good parent, and to communicate this definition
      and the rationale for the parents' decision to staff. The intervention will be implemented in
      60 to 80 end-of-life clinical care situations in which parents have made a decision on behalf
      of a child who is still living. The feasibility study is guided by the Pediatric Quality of
      Life at End of Life model. The parent/guardian intervention includes a face-to-face interview
      with parents regarding their definition of a 'good parent' and their basis for the decision
      they made. Parents/guardians will be interviewed within 72 hours after making the end of life
      decision and again 1 to 3 weeks after making the decision. Health care professionals assigned
      to the terminally ill child will receive the communication intervention within hours of the
      parent interview, and will evaluate its usefulness 1 to 2 weeks after receiving it.

      1.1 To assess the feasibility of delivering the two-part communication intervention. The
      definition of feasible is that 50% of all interventions are successfully implemented.

      1.1.1 To identify all three types of difficult treatment decisions within the defined time
      frame (thus identifying eligible parents/guardians and obtaining consent within 72 hours
      after the decision was made), document the study team's ability to successfully implement the
      intervention before the child's death (obtaining the parent/guardian information and sharing
      that with the defined staff such that the family achieves the definition of being fully
      evaluable as a study participant), and document the participation rate by tracking the number
      of eligible parents/guardians who agree to participate, decline to participate or withdraw
      from the study.

      1.2: To assess staff perceptions of the impact of the communication intervention on staff 1
      to 2 weeks after the intervention.

      1.2.1 to measure: a) staff recall of the definition of a good parent and the rationale for
      the decision; b) staff perception of how this knowledge influenced their care for the family;
      c) staff satisfaction with the verbal and written communication intervention forms; and d)
      the impact of the communication intervention on team tension and team communication about the
      parents' decisions.

      1.3: To assess the impact of the communication on parents/guardians by recording their
      perceptions of the positive and negative aspects of the intervention at the time of the
      intervention and 1 to 3 weeks after the decision making.
    
  