
    
      In Norway 5%-8% of the adult population believe that their amalgam fillings have affected
      their health adversely; and a similar proportion of the adult population has had their
      amalgam fillings removed for health reasons only. The Norwegian Ministry of Health and Care
      Services has decided to fund a project comprising experimental treatment (i.e. removal of
      amalgam fillings) for patients with health complaints which they attribute to dental amalgam.
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the intervention by measuring health complaints and
      quality of life before and after amalgam removal and to compare changes over time with
      relevant patient groups. Amalgam-attributed health complaints are heterogeneous and a variety
      of symptoms have been attributed to amalgam. Therefore, amalgam related health complaints are
      difficult to quantify. However, amalgam-attributed health complaints are largely similar to
      complaints experienced by patients with so called "medically unexplained physical symptoms"
      (MUPS). Therefore, in order to operationalize and measure the patient's subjective health
      complaints, the MUPS criteria and questionnaire will be applied to patients who attribute
      their health problems to amalgam. Furthermore, this strategy allows for the inclusion of
      patients suffering from MUPS, however without any attribution to amalgam. This group of
      patients can serve as a comparison group with a similar symptom load, but no subjective
      attribution to amalgam. For the interpretation of the study outcome, the natural course of
      the health complaints in this group is of high importance.

      Therefore, the project is designed as a prospective cohort study, consisting of three groups
      recruited separately. The two comparison groups consist of one group of patients with MUPS
      recruited from general practice and one group of healthy study patients, recruited at dental
      practice. These study participants are recruited regardless of amalgam status. The main
      target group consists of a group of patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms,
      which they attribute to dental amalgam restorations. The patients should furthermore express
      the wish to have these amalgam fillings removed ("amalgam cohort"). Patients with amalgam
      attributed health complaints who suffer from medically explained disease but attribute their
      diagnosis and course of the disease to amalgam (thus, not included in the amalgam cohort),
      will be included in a separate case series ("amalgam - case series", to be registered as a
      separate study).

      Patients in the "amalgam cohort" will have all amalgam fillings removed according to
      pre-defined criteria. Amalgam removal will be performed by the patient's regular dentist or
      another dentist chosen by the patient. After completed removal, patients in the amalgam
      groups will be examined at a Regional Dental Center of Competence. The costs of amalgam
      removal will be reimbursed according to pre-defined rules.
    
  