
    
      A recent study, where the authors studied the effectiveness of stenting of prolonged lesions
      (>200 mm) of the femoral-popliteal segment with nitinol stents (TASC II, D), showed
      unsatisfactory primary patency rates (45%) within 2 years follow up (Lin et al, 2015). One of
      the possible solutions to the problem of breakage of stents in the femoral-popliteal position
      is a modified method of their manufacture by braiding from nitinol wire. Another possible
      solution to the problem of stent breakage in the femoral-popliteal position is fasciotomy in
      Gunter's canal with dissection of the lamina vasto-adductoria. According to a pilot
      randomized study (Karpenko et al, 2019), the primary patency at 24 months was 60% in the
      stenting group supplemented with fasciotomy in Gunter's canal, and 28.5% in the stenting
      group without fasciotomy. These facts prove the need for a comparative study on a cohort of
      patients using a biomimetic interwoven nitinol stent. This is a pilot prospective,
      randomized, open-label study. The main objective of the study is to compare the clinical
      efficacy and safety of two methods of treating prolonged atherosclerotic lesions (TASC II,
      type D) of the arteries of the femoropopliteal segment above the knee.

      Screening It is performed in patients with a verified diagnosed occlusive lesion of the
      femoropopliteal segment above the knee (type D by TASC II classification), with chronic limb
      ischemia (3-6 categories by Rutherford classification). Assessment of inclusion / exclusion
      criteria, assigning a patient number.

      Study inclusion Collecting baseline information about the patient (anamnesis, including
      information about concomitant therapy, data from the initial physical examination, ultrasound
      data of the lower limb arteries, CT-angiography data, assessment of the quality of life using
      the SF-36 questionnaire). Randomization using the envelope method to one group or another.

      Surgical intervention:

      Group 1 (n=50): Recanalization of prolonged occlusion of the arteries of the
      femoral-popliteal segment above the knee with angioplasty and stenting with a biomimetic
      interwoven nitinol stent; Group 2 (n=50): Recanalization of prolonged occlusion of the
      arteries of the femoropopliteal segment above the knee with angioplasty and stenting with a
      biomimetic interwoven nitinol stent, supplemented by fasciotomy in Gunter's canal.

      Follow up: 6, 12, 24 months.

      Performed:

      Triplex ultrasound of one lower limb (restenosis, thrombosis, stent breakage); Radiography of
      the operated limb in two projections, for patients in whom a stent breakage is suspected
      according to ultrasound; Consultation with a cardiovascular surgeon. For each patient
      participating in the study, a CRF is filled out in a form convenient for the Investigator.
      The creation of a folder "Investigator's file" is provided, which stores all the necessary
      documents provided for by the rules of "Good Clinical Practice".
    
  