
    
      Background As the metabolic evaluation is an essential part of diagnostic and recurrence
      prevention of urolithiasis, the current EAU Guidelines, as well as the German S2k guidelines
      therefore suggest 24-hour urine collection, done twice. This evaluation is crucial for
      determining possible underlying diseases causing stone growth and to consider the lifestyle
      changes or medical prophylaxis needed to prevent or at least reduce stone recurrence.

      The time point is suggested between 3 weeks and 3 month after stone removal, but so far there
      are no studies comparing 24-hour urine prior and after stone removal. This could simplify the
      diagnostic and make this essential information available for more patients suffering from
      urolithiasis.

      Hypothesis

      Null hypothesis: The analyzed parameters in the 24-hour urine prior and after complete stone
      removal differ from each other Alternative hypothesis: The analyzed parameters in the 24-hour
      urine prior and after complete stone removal do not differ from each other Primary endpoint:
      The difference of the analyzed parameters prior and after complete stone removal

      Parameters to be collected

        1. 24h urine composition prior and after stone removal: pH value, spec. weight, creatinine,
           calcium, oxalate, uric acid, citrate, magnesium, phosphate, ammonium, cysteine, sodium,
           potassium.

        2. Secondary: Age, sex, body mass index, stone composition analyzed by infrared
           spectroscopy, urine culture, comorbidities (diabetes mellitus, hypertension, …), degree
           of hydronephrosis, serum electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, first
           manifestation or recurrent disease

      Methods

        -  After assessing inclusion and exclusion criteria, all eligible patients administered for
           active stone removal are included in this study.

        -  Prior to surgery, a 24-hour urine collection need to be performed (not longer than 2
           month).

        -  Post-operatively stone free status is assessed by NCCT, in ureterolithiasis only if
           stone free status is uncertain.

        -  4 weeks after proven stone free status the post surgical 24h urine collection is
           performed.

        -  If a ureter stent was placed, the 24-hour urine collection is performed 4 weeks after
           stent removal.

        -  All 24-hour collection are performed as outpatients. Patients will be asked to drink and
           eat normally when they do their urine collection. Urinary volume is measured as a marker
           of liquid consumption, sodium as a marker of salt intake.

      Sample size As no available data to show the difference of urine composition prior or after
      surgery, the study will enroll 100 participants first to get preliminary data. Then the final
      sample size will be determined by the preliminary data.

      Statistical Analysis： Comparisons of the urine compositions before and after stone removal
      will be performed using the Student's t-test for continuous variables and chi-squared for
      categorical variables.
    
  