
    
      Several studies have been performed to understand the cellular mechanisms involved in the
      development of VTE in cancer patients. The pathogenesis of a thrombotic state is linked to
      the presence of a tumor and is associated with the development of a hypercoagulant state,
      namely coagulopathy, which confers numerous advantages to the cancer cells. Indeed, both
      activation of the coagulation cascade and aggregation of blood platelets around cancer cells
      protect themselves from the immune response; facilitate their circulation in the bloodstream
      and their adhesion at potential sites of metastasis. Beside its implication in the activation
      of coagulation, the TF/FVIIa complex also influences pathways that activate cell-bound
      protease activated receptors (PARs) leading to the activation of inflammatory and angiogenic
      responses. Furthermore, a soluble variant of TF, known as alternatively spliced TF (asTF)
      stimulates angiogenesis independent of FVIIa. This leads to a model in which the presence of
      Tissue Factor (TF), generation of thrombin and platelets activation all directly participate
      to the cancer progression and dissemination. The presence of TF and the activation of
      platelets participate to the progression of the tumor.

      A retrospective study collected clinical information and plasma samples of 117 patients with
      pancreatic or biliary cancer, of which 68% were pancreatic cancer and 29% biliary cancers.
      Thrombotic events occurred in 52 (44.4%) patients. Mean and median tissue factor for all
      patients were 2.15 pg/mL and 1.20 pg/mL, respectively (range: 0.17-31.01 pg/mL). Elevated
      Tissue Factor levels were significantly associated with VTE events (P=0.04), and an elevated
      tissue Factor level was associated with a worse overall survival (hazard ratio, HR: 1.05;
      P=0.01).

      This procoagulant state could be due to the expression of active TF and transmembrane
      proteins (PSGL-1, Muc1, …) by the cancer cell itself or cancer cell-derived microparticles
      leading to platelets activation and aggregation. While studying the key role of TF bearing
      cancer cell-derived microparticles in cancer associated thrombosis, the investigators have
      previously shown (Dubois C, INSERM UMR 1076 Marseille) that both endogenously generated and
      exogenously injected pancreatic cancer cell-derived microparticles expressing TF (PancO2),
      but not their parental tumor cells, accumulated at the site of injury in a P-selectin
      dependent manner. Their presence directly correlates with the size of the thrombus. Based on
      these data, the investigators first hypothesized that treatment with anticoagulant and / or
      antiplatelet drugs may prevent tumor progression and formation of metastasis, as well as
      thrombosis associated cancer, in addition to prevention of coagulopathy.

      Then Dubois & al compared the effect of an inhibitor of platelet activation, Clopidogrel, and
      an inhibitor of the activation of the coagulant cascade, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)
      on tumor growth and thrombosis associated with cancer. Concentrations of drugs used were
      calculated to induce a 50% reduction of thrombus formation following a laser-induced injury
      in healthy mice. A diminution of kinetics of tumor growth was observed in mice treated by the
      2 drugs in comparison with non-treated mice. Twenty days following injection of cancer cells,
      the volume of the tumor was reduced by 85% and 87% when LMHW or Clopidogrel were used,
      respectively. However, kinetics of tumor growth and volumes of tumors 20 days post-injection
      were similar in mice treated by Clopidogrel in presence or absence of pathological TF
      expressed by cancer cells.

      Cancer cell-derived microparticles are responsible for the thrombotic phenotype observed in
      mice developing a cancer via interactions between P-selectin expressed by aggregating
      platelets and activated endothelium and PSGL-1 present at the surface of cancer cell-derived
      microparticles. Before injury but after their infusion in bloodstream, exogenous labeled
      cancer cell-derived microparticles were detected in the cremaster microcirculation of
      non-treated or Clopidogrel treated mice. However, following an injury, cancer cell-derived
      microparticles were accumulating at the site of thrombus formation only in non-treated mice
      bearing a PancO2-LowTF or High TF tumor. Tissue Factor (TF) is both a main effector of the
      coagulation cascade and a protein involved in the development of solid tumors. In vivo,
      following a laser-induced injury, the activation of the endothelial wall, as well as the
      presence of activated platelets, are the main source of P-selectin. The quantity of
      P-selectin present at the site of injury was 4 fold less important in mice bearing a PancO2
      tumor and treated by Clopidogrel in comparison with non-treated mice. Interestingly, PanCO2
      cancer cell-derived microparticles express both TF and TFPI (Tissue Factor Inhibitor), a
      biological inhibitor of the coagulation cascade in an active form. To confirm that
      cancer-cell derived microparticles may participate in the inhibition of the blood coagulation
      observed when the pathological TF is shut down, the investigators compared fibrin generation
      at the site of injury in PancO2-High TF and Low-TF cancer mice in presence of absence of
      Clopidogrel.

      Fibrin formation at the site of laser-induced injury was significantly more important
      (P<0,01) in mice following injection of Panc02-High TF in comparison with wild type mice.
      Treatment of these mice by Clopidogrel diminished the production of fibrin at a level
      comparable to the ones observed in wild type mice. When the pathological TF was shut down,
      production of fibrin was strongly reduced in comparison with both the group of mice injected
      by Panc02 cells and the group of wild type mice. the investigators conclude that when cancer
      cells and cancer cell-derived microparticles express active TF, their incorporation to a
      growing thrombus participates to the generation of a thrombotic phenotype. When TF expressed
      by cancer cells is shut down, cancer cells microparticles still incorporate at the site of
      thrombus formation, but reduces activation of TF, inhibiting fibrin generation and thrombus
      formation by bringing TFPI at the site of injury.

      Based on observations, the investigators hypothesized that inhibition of platelet activation
      by reducing both thrombosis associated with cancer and tumor growth could constitute an
      interesting therapy to treated cancer and thrombosis. To test the hypothesis the
      investigators then developed a syngeneic orthoptic model of pancreatic cancer and could
      confirm that when mice were treated with Clopidogrel or Aspirin, the growth of the primary
      tumor was significantly reduced and the development of metastasis was limited (Mege et al.).
      However the benefit from aspirin was observed in mice only when treated immediately at time
      of onset of cancer, id est when injection of cancer cells were performed. On the contrary,
      the effects of clopidogrel were obtained independently of the tumor size, and tumor
      development or onset and even once cancer was at an advanced stage. Altogether with the
      action of anti-platelet drugs on thrombosis, these results indicate that Clopidogrel does
      represent a promising therapeutic drug to limit thrombosis and reduce the development of
      tumors and metastasis.

      The investigators showed in the experimental model that TF expressed by cancer cells was
      involved in thrombosis associated with a cancer and in the growth of the tumor in vivo.
      Beside its functions in coagulation, TF was also described following phosphorylation and
      binding of its cytoplasmic tail to filamin, to induce transcriptional activation of different
      growth factors, including VEGF. This intracellular pathway may also participate in the growth
      of the tumor, but also in angiogenesis. Furthermore, TF expression was also reported to
      influence motility, survival and proliferation of cancer cells via the activation of PAR-1
      and PAR-2, although in this study proliferation of Panc02 cells were not affected by
      inhibition of TF expression. Cancer cells may directly activate platelets by secreting ADP,
      Thromboxane A2 and MMP-2 (Matrix Metallo Proteinase 2) and express at their surface ligands
      to platelets, such as PSGL-1. In bloodstream, this leads to an aggregation of platelets
      around cancer cells described to protect them from destruction by the immune system, blood
      shear stress and to facilitate cancer cells interactions with the endothelium. However, the
      direct involvement of these platelet agonists was not demonstrated in vivo. When mice were
      treated with LMWH, a decrease in tumor development was observed similar to the ones obtained
      when pathological TF was shut down. Also, treatment by Clopidogrel did not significantly
      affect the growth of the tumor in the group of Panc02 miRNA TF mice or in the group of Panc02
      mice treated by LMWH. This strongly suggests that activation of platelets is involved in the
      growth of the tumor, but also that the main activator of platelet is TF expressed by cancer
      cells and nor ADP nor Thromboxane A2. These secondary agonists may be involved when secreted
      as a consequence of platelet activation generated by thrombin through a TF dependent pathway.
      Last, they may play an important role not directly in the growth of the tumor, but rather in
      the formation of metastasis when cancer cells have to be present in the bloodstream.
    
  