
    
      This is an unmasked, multisite, randomized, parallel group study comparing the effectiveness
      of three treatments [BIO; SNS; and INJ] for moderate to severe FI:

        1. Baseline: Patients will keep a daily symptom diary for two weeks to (a) document that
           they meet the minimum frequency required for inclusion in the study and (b) provide a
           reference value for assessing treatment response at the end of EMM and at 3, 6, 12, and
           24 months follow-up points.

        2. EMM: All patients meeting inclusion criteria will first be treated with EMM for 4 weeks.
           The key components of treatment are patient education about the basic physiological
           mechanisms for defecation, diet and medication to normalize stool consistency, and
           pelvic floor exercises taught by printed instructions. Additional goals of the EMM
           protocol are (a) to ensure that patients randomized to INJ or SNS meet the accepted
           criteria for those treatments by failing to respond to EMM, and (b) to document the
           efficacy and the durability of systematically applied, optimized EMM. Patients who are
           responders to EMM will be followed up 3 months later; those who remain responders will
           be continued on EMM and followed for the remaining 24 months of the study. However,
           those who are no longer responders to conservative treatment after 3 months will be
           invited to be randomized to BIO, SNS, or INJ and all outcome measures will be assessed
           at 3 months from initiation of the treatment arm to which they are randomized. They will
           be pooled with other patients randomly assigned to the same treatment for the primary
           analyses and will be assessed at 6 months.

        3. Randomly assigned treatment: Each patient who fails the EMM will be randomly assigned to
           BIO, SNS, or INJ and treated as follows:

             -  BIO will consist of 5-6 one-hour training sessions spaced at weekly intervals.
                These will occur in the first 5-6 weeks of treatment. Treatment approaches will
                include strength training in all patients, sensory training for patients with
                hyposensitivity, and/or urge-resistance training for patients with hypersensitivity
                to the sensations caused by rectal distention. Home exercises will be assigned to
                patients to practice these skills, and these will be guided by a brochure.

             -  SNS will include insertion of a barbed stimulating electrode into the region of the
                S3-S4 nerve and connection to an external, battery operated electrical stimulator
                for 10-14 days to test for reductions in FI. If the rate of FI decreases to at
                least 50% of the baseline rate, a permanent stimulator will be implanted beneath
                the skin. The patient will be scheduled to return in 2 weeks for an evaluation of
                the stimulator settings with adjustment if needed. If the initial 2-week test
                stimulation shows less than a 50% reduction in FI compared to baseline, SNS will be
                judged ineffective. The stimulator electrode may be removed at the patient's
                request or left in place.

             -  INJ will include a preparation for treatment and a treatment visit. The preparation
                will involve prophylactic antibiotics for the day of the procedure and minimal
                restrictions on food intake. On the day of the procedure, a physician will inject 1
                ml of dextranomer into each of 4 quadrants of the rectum proximal to the dentate
                line. Ten seconds will be allowed to pass before the injection needle is withdrawn
                to minimize drainage of the dextranomer. The patient will be scheduled to return in
                6 weeks for possible repeat injection of a second 4 ml of dextranomer. At this
                second appointment, if FI has improved by 75% or more compared to baseline, the
                patient will be continued without a second injection. However, if the rate of FI is
                greater than 75% of baseline, the patient will be offered a second injection of
                dextranomer.

        4. Combination therapy: The primary assessment of efficacy is at 3 months following the
           first treatment visit completed, and patients who have not achieved at least a 75%
           reduction in FI frequency compared to baseline will be classified as treatment failures;
           they will be invited to choose one of the other two treatments as adjunctive treatment
           for the remaining months of the study. One reason for this is to increase the likelihood
           that patients will consent to be randomized despite possibly having a priori preferences
           for one of the three treatments. Thus, the patients who add a second treatment and
           continue to be monitored up to 24 months will constitute a pragmatic clinical trial
           (i.e., the study design for these patients going forward emulates the clinical situation
           in which patients who have an unsatisfactory response to a treatment are offered a new
           treatment or an ancillary treatment).

        5. Long-term follow-up: An intention-to-treat analysis of efficacy will be carried out at
           6, 12 and 24 months. For these analyses, all patients randomized to treatment will be
           included in the analysis. All treatments will continue to be active after the training
           period: the SNS stimulator will continue to operate and the bulking agents injected in
           the INJ treatment will remain in place. For BIO, patients will be encouraged to continue
           to practice pelvic floor exercises and enhanced awareness of rectal sensations following
           the initial training period. Patients who withdraw from the study or who fail treatment
           at 3 months will be evaluated as treatment failures in follow-up analyses of efficacy.
           Data will be collected from patients who switch to an alternative treatment at 3 months,
           but these data will not be considered in this analysis. Safety data will be collected at
           every visit. Patients who are responders at 3 months will continue to monitor symptoms
           for an additional 21 months (2 years total) whereas patients who are non-responders at 3
           months will be retained as treatment failures in the long-term analysis of the
           comparative effectiveness of these three treatments. For longitudinal assessments of
           safety, cost, and secondary outcomes such as quality of life and FI severity scales,
           statistical models will include data from follow up time points through 24 months.

        6. Adjust for Expectation of Benefit: In a trial comparing behavioral, surgical, and
           medical therapy, patients cannot be masked. The validated Credibility/Expectancy
           Questionnaire was developed to assess the patient's expectation of benefit after initial
           exposure to treatment and was used in previous studies to determine whether there is
           equipoise between the active and control conditions in behavioral treatment trials.

        7. Characterization of Enhanced Medical Treatment - Durability of improvement and
           predictors of response: The primary purpose of treating all patients with an EMM run-in
           is to be able to exclude patients who do not require more costly interventions. However,
           the investigators will take advantage of the opportunity provided by this run-in study
           to identify predictors of response to EMM and to assess the durability of improvements.
           EMM will not be "usual care" but will follow a written protocol that is intended to
           optimize EMM, which is why this is labelled enhanced medical management. Patients who
           are treatment responders at the end of the EMM run-in will be scheduled for 3-month
           follow-up, and those who are no longer treatment responders at 3 months follow-up will
           be offered an opportunity to be randomized to one of the 3 treatments at this point.
           However, those who remain responders to EMM at 3 months follow-up will continue to be
           followed for an additional 21 months. All patients, regardless of their outcomes at the
           end of EMM, will be encouraged to continue using the treatment approaches learned during
           the EMM phase.

      Each participant will be studied for 24-27 months after completing the month of EMM and the
      anticipated duration of the study is 4.5 years from first enrollment to completion of the
      last participant. Approximately 569 adult participants, both male and female, will be
      recruited for EMM to ensure that 387 participants who did not benefit from EMM will be
      available for randomization to the three treatment arms (129 per treatment arm). The
      participants may be referred by clinicians or may respond to posted advertisements about the
      study.
    
  