
    
      This study will provide preliminary evaluation of the following:

        1. Determination of whether focal seizures can be induced with the FEAST methodology
           (unidirectional stimulation, small anterior and large posterior electrode).

             1. Focality will be assessed by the occurrence of non-motor seizures.

             2. Electroencephalographic evidence of pronounced asymmetry in frontal leads.

        2. Determination of whether the FEAST methodology results in reduced seizure threshold.

           a. Seizure threshold will be quantified at the start of the treatment course using the
           standard method of limits titration procedure and compared to threshold determinations
           in matched patients who were treated with conventional ECT methods.

        3. Characterization of dynamic impedance using the FEAST methodology.

           a. Dynamic impedance during the passage of the electrical stimulus will be quantified
           during each administration and compared to the values obtained in matched patients who
           were treated with conventional ECT methods.

        4. Characterization of the efficacy of the FEAST methods and the safety of the treatment.

             1. The primary efficacy measure will be the 24-item Hamilton Rating Scale for
                Depression. The changes in these scores from before to immediately following the
                treatment course will be compared in patients treated with the FEAST methodology
                and matched patients who were treated with conventional ECT methods.

             2. Acute, subacute, and long-term cognitive side effects following FEAST will be
                assessed with comprehensive neuropsychological batteries. The primary acute
                measures will include the time to return of orientation following seizure induction
                and retrograde amnesia for words and shapes. The primary subacute measures will
                include assessments of anterograde amnesia (forgetting over a delay) for a verbal
                list and for reproduction of a complex figure, as well as retrograde amnesia for
                autobiographical information. The primary long-term measure will be retrograde
                amnesia for autobiographical information, assessed 6-months following the FEAST
                course. The neuropsychological measures will be compared in the patients treated
                with the FEAST methodology and matched patients who were treated with conventional
                ECT methods, as well as in healthy participants who receive were administered the
                neuropsychological battery at the same intervals as the FEAST patients, but without
                Intervention.

             3. Safety will also be determined by examining the number and frequency of serious
                adverse advents and adverse events, as well as scores on the Columbia University
                ECT Side Effect Scale.
    
  