
    
      A multi-center, multinational, randomized, blinded, sham control, adjunctive to Standard of
      Care, parallel arm study and will include ongoing Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      review of accumulated safety data.

      Screening:

      Since the treatment should be initiated within 24 hours from stroke onset, the screening
      window is limited and all procedures should be performed within this window.Subjects with
      Acute Ischemic Stroke will be screened upon arrival to the hospital. Since the treatment
      should be initiated between 8 and 24 hours from stroke onset, the screening window is limited
      and all procedures should be performed as soon as possible. All screened patients will be
      identified by patient number and will sign the informed consent prior to any study procedure
      initiation.

      Period 1: Day 1-5

      Day 1- Eligible subjects will be randomized to:

        -  Group 1: Implantation and ISS Stimulation during five consecutive days & Standard of
           Care

        -  Group 2: Sham Implantation and Sham Stimulation during five consecutive days & Standard
           of Care Subjects will be transferred to the implantation procedure facility and the
           implantation/sham implantation will be performed by a trained physician.

      After implantation, active/sham stimulation will be administered in daily 4-hour sessions,
      beginning immediately following the placement procedure and continuing for 5 consecutive
      days.

      Day 5 / Day of Discharge. Following the last ISS /Sham Stimulation, explantation will be
      performed and the patients will be evaluated for safety and effectiveness.

      Subjects will continue with Standard of Care as needed and will be released from the hospital
      upon investigator's judgment.

      Period 2: Day of Discharge - 89±7 days During this period both groups (ISS Stimulation and
      Sham Control) will be treated according to Standard of Care either at the hospital,
      rehabilitation center or at home.

      Scheduled visits will be performed on day 30±7 and day 60 ±7, which will include safety and
      effectiveness assessments.

      Final Visit Day 90±7 days: The final visit will be performed at the study site and will
      include safety and effectiveness evaluations.

      Patients will be contacted by study personnel via telephone on Day 180±7 and on Day 360±7 in
      order to assess their quality of life status.
    
  