
    
      Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the most common causes of death and disability in Iran and
      account for nearly half of all-cause mortality in Iranians. Therefore, prevention of
      cardiovascular diseases is a top priority in countries with limited health system budgets
      such as Iran.

      Eighty seven to hundred percent of patients dying from CVDs have at least one risk factor for
      cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, risk factor modification might prevent death and is a
      main priority. Combination drug therapy has been proposed as a cost-effective measure to
      reduce modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease. It has been showed that
      combination drug therapy can potentially decrease ischemic heart events and strokes by 88 and
      80 percent, respectively.

      The study is designed as a pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial. The purpose of this
      study is to determine the effects of a fixed dose combination of either enalapril or
      valsartan, with hydrochlorthiazide, atorvastatin and acetylsalicylic acid (PolyPill) on
      primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in Iranian adults older than 50.
      Two formulations of Polypill tablets were used. The first formulation (Polypill-E) contained
      enalapril 5 mg. If participants developed cough, they were switched by a trained physician to
      Polypill-V, containing valsartan 40 mg instead of enalapril.

      The investigators have previously tested the same combination in a different setting in
      Golestan, Northeast of Iran. The results of the study were published in the Lancet. The
      current study enrolls participants of Pars Cohort running in Fars province, southern Iran,
      aged above 50. A total of 4415 participants (91 clusters) were recruited following inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. The study comprises two arms as follows:

      2200 randomly selected participants receive PolyPill tablets once daily and minimal care
      (which consists of direct education and pamphlet on cardiovascular risk reduction).

      2215 randomly selected participants receive only minimal care as described above.

      Endpoints include major cardiovascular events (MCVE).
    
  