
    
      Radiotherapy represents one of the primary treatment modalities for patients with limited
      stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC). With contemporary concurrent radiotherapy and
      chemotherapy, approximately 20% of patients survive 5 years. While distant metastases are
      common, local (intrathoracic) failures are common as well, occurring in 40% of treated
      patients. Reducing local failure rates may lead to improved survival for these patients.
      There appears a growing body of data, which suggests a radiation dose response relationship
      for SCLC. However, the close proximity of critical normal structures, such as the spinal cord
      and esophagus, to the primary tumour limits the prescription dose in conventional
      radiotherapy. Three Dimensional Conformal Radiotherapy (3DCRT) offers the possibility of
      reducing normal tissue irradiation and hence reducing the treatment toxicity while
      maintaining the dose of radiation to the tumour. Another strategy is accelerated
      fractionation, which shortens the treatment time by allowing less opportunity for tumour cell
      repopulation. The use of 3DCRT with larger radiation fraction size should maintain
      satisfactory treatment related toxicity while permitting the potential gains of accelerated
      fractionation and dose escalation. In this study, patients with limited stage SCLC who are
      eligible will be treated with a large field (low dose) radiotherapy followed by accelerated
      3DCRT given concurrently with standard Cisplatin Etoposide chemotherapy.

      Primary Objective: To determine the maximum tolerable dose of radiotherapy for SCLC

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To assess treatment toxicity

        2. To assess quality of life and retention of pulmonary function

        3. To assess progression-free survival on this regimen

      Schema: Eligible patients will receive 4 cycles of Cisplatin Etoposide chemotherapy. Thoracic
      radiotherapy will be given concurrently starting with cycle #2 of chemotherapy. Only one dose
      level will be open at a time. Four dose levels are planned all delivered in 25 fractions once
      daily over 5 weeks:

        1. 50 Gy (2 Gy per fraction),

        2. 58 Gy,

        3. 62 Gy,

        4. 65 Gy. Patients, who achieve a complete response at the end of chemotherapy and thoracic
           radiotherapy, will receive prophylactic cranial irradiation.

      Evaluation and Follow-up: Patients will be assessed and evaluated at least weekly during
      radiation therapy. Following treatment, patients will be seen 1 month after the completion of
      treatment, then every 3 months until 2 years, then every 6 months. Chest x-rays will be
      performed at each follow-up. CT scan of chest and pulmonary function tests will be performed
      every 6 months for the first 2 years, then yearly.
    
  