
    
      For this study, SUPR (simple unplanned palliative radiotherapy) refers to the delivery of
      radiation to the treatment area with a simple technique, either two opposed fields (parallel
      opposed pair), or a single direct field. The entire portal is exposed to the specified dose
      and therefore does not spare normal tissue. This technique requires minimal calculation, and
      typically the dose distribution is not reviewed by the radiation oncologist or medical
      physics.

      In general, the adverse event profile of RT is associated with irradiation of normal tissue
      within the treatment field. With the dose prescribed in this study, the probability of
      serious adverse effects is exceedingly low. However, fatigue, soreness, pain flare, and
      skin-redness in the irradiated area are relatively common adverse events. In addition,
      site-specific toxicity could occur, including esophagitis, nausea, or diarrhea when there is
      dose delivered to the GI tract. Avoiding this toxicity is a motivating factor for the study.

      In order to deliver 3D Conformal Radiotherapy, a computerized tomography (CT) simulation is
      used to develop the treatment plan. The goal is to deliver a conformal radiation dose to the
      target volume with maximal sparing of the normal tissue. VMAT (Volumetric Modulated Arc
      Therapy) is a type of 3D conformal RT, and delivers the radiation dose more conformally than
      SUPR, possibly reducing acute and late toxicity. The disadvantages of VMAT include more
      complex planning and quality assurance processes compared with SUPR. The complex planning
      required can be time-consuming, which can have a significant impact on departmental
      resources, and the wait time for the patient.

      Bone metastases are the most common site of distant metastases and can cause severe and
      disabling effects, including pain, spinal cord compression and pathologic fracture. These
      complications can greatly affect a patient's quality of life and cause immense suffering.

      Radiotherapy (RT) is an effective treatment for palliative patients with painful bone
      metastases. It is also efficacious in preserving function and maintaining skeletal integrity,
      while minimizing the occurrence of adverse skeletal related events. There is a significant
      amount of evidence showing that a single fraction (SF) of RT provides equivalent pain relief
      as multiple fractions (MF), which are associated with more acute toxicity, are less
      convenient for patients and costlier for the health care system. Therefore, single fraction
      radiation therapy (SFRT) is encouraged, but 20 Gy in 5 fractions is also allowed in this
      study, though should be chosen only in patients with a complicated bone metastases by
      fracture, neurological deficit (e.g. spinal cord compression), or a large soft tissue
      component. In patients with advanced disease, management strategies focus on improving
      quality of life (QOL), rather than conventional endpoints such as survival.

      Currently, the standard of care in British Columbia for palliative patients with bone
      metastases is SUPR. In other jurisdictions, however, factors such as physician remuneration
      make other complex planning techniques more popular.

      BC Cancer is publicly funded with no direct costs to patients. All RT in the province is
      provided by 6 centres where radiation oncologists receive an annual salary, which are
      independent of RT treatment technique and duration. Due to the lack of financial incentive
      associated with a more complex RT plan, BC Cancer is a unique clinical setting to assess the
      use of VMAT versus SUPR.

      As facilities providing RT have gained more experience with VMAT and improvements to VMAT
      planning software have been made, the planning time required has been reduced. Previously,
      approximately 2 weeks was required for a team at the BC Cancer to create a VMAT plan for a
      palliative patient with bone metastases; however, we hypothesize this can now be reduced to
      three days in settings with low dose prescription.

      This study will allow the investigators to determine if there is reduced toxicity associated
      with VMAT compared to SUPR with only a modest impact on resources. The investigators
      hypothesis is that VMAT will have reduced toxicity compared with SUPR for palliative patients
      with bone metastases. The investigators also hypothesize that there will be no difference
      between the two arms in terms of pain response, due to the fact that the doses are equal.
      This hypothesis is driven by the radiobiologic rationale, which defines effective RT as the
      ability of radiation to induce tumour cell death while sparing normal cells.

      The importance in determining if there is any benefit in terms of toxicity with VMAT compared
      with SUPR for palliative patients with bone metastases is obvious when consequences related
      to its adoption are considered. As previously discussed, although the planning time has been
      drastically reduced, there is still an expected modest increase in resources required to
      carry out a VMAT plan. For patients, the pre-treatment process of VMAT is more burdensome,
      i.e. patients have to wait longer before receiving VMAT as compared to SUPR, due to the
      increased plan complexity. Therefore, it is important to consider the patient experience in
      relation to the RT administration.

      In summary, evidence that either supports or refutes the hypothesis that VMAT will have
      reduced toxicity compared with SUPR for patients with bone metastases will be helpful in
      guiding future practices. We are not aware of any other randomized control trials (completed
      or ongoing) that have addressed this issue, though a London Ontario study is randomizing
      patients receiving palliative lung RT to SUPR vs VMAT. Due to the implications of VMAT on
      departmental resources and patient experience, better evidence from a randomized control
      trial is required before the widespread use of this technique can be justified.
    
  