
    
      Since 2010, A PCA service team in the investigators' hospital have collected
      multidisciplinary clinical data from all the patients who used epidural-patient controlled
      analgesia (Epi-PCA) postoperatively in aim of the assessment of clinical outcome. The
      investigators reviewed the collected data from the patients who had used Epi-PCA for pain
      control after an elective surgery under general or spinal anesthesia between Sep. 2010 and
      Nov. 2015. The need for informed consent was waived for this study. For the Epi-PCA, fentanyl
      and ropivacaine was diluted and administered to the patients according to the clinician's
      determination.

      The data of the PCA regimen which has been decided were recorded and analyzed. Demographic
      variables including age, sex, body mass index, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
      physical status and history of smoking, motion sickness, postoperative nausea/vomiting,
      hypertension and diabetes mellitus will be analyzed. Anesthesia and surgery-related variables
      including the duration of anesthesia, the type of anesthesia (general or spinal), laparoscopy
      and the operation site (categorized in abdominal, thoracic, upper & lower extremities, head &
      neck, spine and others) will be also analyzed. PCA-related variables including total dose of
      fentanyl for two days (µg/kg), use of mixed additional analgesics and antiemetics in PCA and
      discontinuation of PCA will be analyzed. Postoperative variables including the numeric rating
      scale (NRS, 0-10, 0 = no symptom; 10= unthinkable worst pain) for pain, requirements of
      rescue analgesics and antiemetics will be analyzed. In addition, the postoperative
      complications including nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, and sedation will be analyzed.
      All the recorded postoperative variables at post-anesthesia care unit, 6-12, 12-18, 18-24 and
      24-48 hrs after anesthesia will be analyzed.
    
  