
    
      All tissues of the human body require adequate perfusion to provide oxygen and nutrients to
      meet metabolic demands. It has long been known that the arterial system in bone is of
      overwhelming importance and that without blood flow, bone cannot maintain its integrity.
      Indeed, there is an extensive network of arteries, arterioles, and capillaries that supply
      human bone. Moreover, blood flow to bone is responsive to various local and systemic factors
      that can determine the overall health of bone. However, bone perfusion in humans remains
      relatively unstudied and so the underlying mechanisms that regulate bone blood flow are not
      well understood. The investigators propose to study key mechanisms that regulate bone
      perfusion in able-bodied individuals and to contrast them with spinal cord injured (SCI)
      individuals. SCI represents a human 'model' of chronic reduced loading with loss of
      sympathetic regulation below the level of injury that likely alters control of bone
      perfusion. Accordingly, our aims are to: 1) Determine the impact of compressive loading with
      and without associated muscle contractions on tibial perfusion; 2) Determine the impact of
      vascular sympathetic activity and systemic perfusion pressure on tibial perfusion; 3) Compare
      the changes in tibial perfusion in response to local and systemic factors between able-bodied
      and those with SCI.

      The majority of work in bone blood flow has been in animals and/or has focused on the
      association between adequate or inadequate perfusion and bone health. For example, inadequate
      flow has been associated with bone loss, impaired growth, and delayed fracture healing.
      However, the acute metabolic needs of bone due to loading either with or without associated
      muscle contractions increase flow substantially. Indeed, within two minutes of isolated
      muscle contractions alone, tibial perfusion has been shown to increase significantly.
      Furthermore, when there is compressive loading with associated muscle contractions, flow to
      bone can double. Similarly, skeletal unloading for as short as ten minutes cuts femoral
      perfusion by half. Although it is unclear what specific local factors (e.g., metabolic
      by-products) with loading might be responsible for regulation of blood flow, these data
      strongly suggest that perfusion to bone is highly responsive to skeletal loading. Indeed, it
      appears that similar regulatory mechanisms may be at play in control of flow to bone and
      skeletal muscle during exercise. In addition, the bone vasculature is richly innervated by
      sympathetic nerves. Application of norepinephrine decreases blood flow to both intact bone
      and isolated bone. Likewise, sympathetic stimulation decreases flow to bone via
      alpha-adrenergic receptor activation. Moreover, smooth muscle of arterioles in bone respond
      as expected to vasodilators and vasoconstrictors. Hence, sympathetic innervation of the bone
      vasculature serves a functional purpose in control of flow. If this were not the case,
      independent of the link between bone metabolism and bone flow, the arterial network in bone
      would act as a simple pressure passive system.

      A critical limitation to the study of bone flow in humans has been the lack of noninvasive
      assessments. Thus, it has been difficult to elucidate the mechanisms that control perfusion
      to bone. The dense nature of bone makes it difficult to investigate perfusion and the
      techniques used to quantify circulation in other tissues are either difficult or impossible
      to apply to bone in vivo. the investigators recently demonstrated the efficacy of a near
      infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) system to non-invasively detect changes in hemoglobin content in
      the tibia. Although our preliminary work showed the utility of NIRS, it was not designed to
      provide insight to blood flow regulation and disentangle the various possible contributors to
      bone perfusion. Here the investigators propose to study different mechanisms that control
      blood flow to bone in both able-bodied and spinal cord injured (SCI). The SCI population will
      offer valuable insights to the mechanisms of perfusion as several contributors (i.e. loading
      and vascular sympathetic control) are either reduced or disrupted.
    
  