
    
      Children with cancer are treated with complex therapies including chemotherapy, radiation,
      surgical interventions and biotherapy. Treatment with vinca alkaloids and/or narcotics
      combined with significant lifestyle changes secondary to the disease process can have a
      negative impact on the child's bowel elimination status. In trying to preserve the child's
      health and well being, constipation can be minimized or even prevented as an unwanted side
      effect of the treatments or disease condition.

      Despite the widespread knowledge that constipation is prevalent in oncology patients,
      evidence shows that cancer treatment plans often overlook constipation and reflect the lack
      of consensus for effective assessment, treatment, and management. The research literature
      provides a database for addressing particular aspects of constipation. However, few studies
      address all the factors that affect bowel function and fewer still have recruited pediatric
      populations.

      The Constipation Assessment Scale (CAS) is a valid and reliable measure found to be
      predictive of the presence and severity of constipation in the adult population, however it
      has never been tested in the pediatric population. A pilot study utilizing the CAS tool in
      children diagnosed with cancer will be conducted. The process for evaluating the presence and
      severity of constipation and the reliability and validity of the CAS tool will be tested. The
      study population will consist of inpatients and outpatients less than or equal to 21 years
      old, receiving weekly vinca alkaloids and/or narcotics greater than or equal to 2 times per
      day for pain management. Patients will be followed for 7 days after the last dose of vinca
      alkaloid and/or narcotic for a maximum of 6 weeks. Patients will be assessed on admission for
      bowel function and constipation. The admission assessment will include a nursing and
      nutrition assessment, review of the history and physical, and the administration of the CAS.
      Subsequent assessments include nursing, nutrition, administration of the CAS, and a patient
      daily bowel diary.

      All patients regardless of participation in the study will be prescribed interventions based
      on the bowel prophylaxis and management guidelines established by the NCI POB staff. These
      guidelines were generated from validated studies, using Medline's criteria for scientific
      soundness and clinical relevance, in the oncology literature as well as from the experience
      of the NCI POB staff.
    
  