
    
      Overall design. This study is a Multicenter, Open-label, Phase 2 study of Carfilzomib Weekly
      +MP in Untreated Elderly MM. Eligible patients must have a symptomatic, untreated MM with a
      measurable disease. There is a dose escalation part in the study as the MTD remained to be
      determined for carfilzomib weekly given for 4 infusions (day 1, 8, 15, 22) on a 35-days
      cycle.

      This study will thus comprise 2 parts. Step 1. To determine MTD of Carfilzomib Weekly based
      on definition of DLTs - (N=6 patients per cohort, maximum 5 cohorts of carfilzomib weekly
      +MP) The patients will be included into three cohorts at 36 mg/m², 45 mg/m², 56 mg/m² and
      70mg/m² of Carfilzomib Weekly given for 4 infusions (day 1, 8, 15, 22) +MP given on days 1 to
      4 of a 35-days cycle. Carfilzomib will be administered at a dose of 36mg/m² for the first
      cohort where the 20 mg/m² dose is administered on Day 1 of Cycle 1 only and then 36 mg/m² for
      all subsequent doses.

      If dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) occur in fewer or equal than 2 of these patients, the next
      cohort of 6 patients (cohort 2) will be opened and patients will receive a dose of 20/45
      mg/m². If DLTs occur in fewer or equal than 2 of the patients in cohort 2, the third cohort
      of 6 patients will receive a dose of 20/56 mg/m² where the 20 mg/m² dose is administered on
      Day 1 of Cycle 1 only and then 56 mg/m² for all subsequent doses. If DLTs occur in fewer or
      equal than 2 of the patients in cohort 3, the fourth and five cohort of 6 patients will
      receive a dose of 20/70 mg/m² where the 20 mg/m² dose is administered on Day 1 of Cycle 1
      only and then 70 mg/m² for all subsequent doses.

      If at any time during cycle 1 of a dose cohort, > 2 subjects experience a drug-related DLT,
      the MTD will have been exceeded, additional enrolment within the cohort will cease, and dose
      escalation will stop. The MTD will be defined as the dose level below which DLT is observed
      in > 33% (i.e. > 2 of 6) subjects in a cohort.

      The following are defined as DLTs:

        -  Any hematologic toxicity of grade 4 intensity or preventing administration of 2 or more
           of the 4 carfilzomib doses of the first treatment cycle

        -  Grade ≥ 3 febrile neutropenia

        -  Grade ≥ 3 gastrointestinal toxicities

        -  Any other grade ≥ 3 nonhematologic toxicity considered related to CMP by the principal
           investigator.

        -  Grade ≥ 3 peripheral neuropathy persisting for more than 3 weeks after discontinuation
           of study drugs.

      Exceptions are:

        1. grade 4 thrombocytopenia without bleeding lasting ≤ 7 days or

        2. grade 4 neutropenia lasting ≤ 7 days

        3. grade ≥ 3 nausea/ vomiting if the patient had not received adequate antiemetic
           prophylaxis Adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to National Cancer Institute
           Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE, version 4.0). MTD
           determination will be based on occurrence of DLTs during the first induction treatment
           cycle only.

      Step 2. Expanded Cohort (N=50 patients; Carfilzomib weekly at the MTD +MP only) After
      identification of the MTD, it is planned for the dose cohort to be expanded to include up to
      a total of 50 patients treated at the MTD of carfilzomib weekly for the step 2 of the study.
      A full treatment course is the same as for step 1, see "dosing regimen".
    
  