
    
      All potential total knee arthroplasty patients from two consultant orthopaedic surgeons at
      the Golden Jubilee National Hospital (GJNH) will be screened in relation to the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. Invitation letters and participant information sheets (PIS)
      will be sent out to suitable patients who have been referred to the GJNH for total knee
      replacement (allocated patients) prior to their pre-operative consultation with their
      surgeon. They will be approached at their consultation visit to seek consent to take part in
      the study. Patients who have been referred to the GJNH for assessment for a knee replacement
      (see and treat patients) will be approached only if they are deemed eligible for knee
      replacement by their consultant, and will be given a copy of the participant information
      sheet along with the invitation letter. They will be approached for consent to take part in
      the study at their pre-operative assessment. All patients will be given the opportunity to
      ask questions about the study before signing the consent form. Consent will be taken by the
      chief investigator or their delegate, using a signed form.

      One hundred patients will be recruited to the study. They will have their surgery performed
      by one of the participating consultants using the study implant, the Triathlon Tritanium
      cementless tibial baseplate manufactured by Stryker Corporation.

      Participants will receive their standard in-patient care and rehabilitation. Standard
      hospital care for knee arthroplasty patients is for them to return to the hospital for a
      post-operative review at 6 weeks and then 1 year and 7 years after operation. Study
      participants will also be asked to attend the GJNH for two additional research specific
      appointments at six months and five years. They will be also contacted by post or via
      telephone to complete a study questionnaire (patient satisfaction) at 3 years post operation.

      During the standard care appointments, patients will be reviewed by a member of the
      arthroplasty team who will collect routine data on the clinical and functional outcomes and
      implant stability. These data include the Oxford Knee Score (OKS), EURO Quality of life
      questionnaire (EQ-5D 5L), patient satisfaction and standard radiographic assessment of the
      implant.

      Detailed radiographic analysis will be carried out on radiographs collected as standard and
      specifically for the study. These will be post-operation at day one (standard), 6 weeks
      (standard), 6 months (study), 1 year (standard) and the 5 years (study) time points. Study
      specific radiographic assessment will consist of assessment for radiolucency and osteolysis
      at specific regions around the tibial and femoral components. Pre-operatively, a standard
      weight bearing long- leg anterior-posterior (AP) view, lateral view and a skyline view is
      obtained as per standard care. Post-operatively, standard care consists of a standard weight
      bearing long-leg AP radiograph at 6 weeks and a short AP and Lateral view at all other
      reviews.

      Study participants will also have two sessions of specialised functional assessment
      (biomechanical movement analysis and 6-minute walk test) before operation and 1 year after
      operation during their standard pre and postoperative visits. Biomechanical movement analysis
      will be carried out in an on-site movement analysis laboratory. Study participants will be
      required to wear suitable clothing (e.g. tee shirt and shorts) and be barefoot. A number of
      reflective markers will be attached to specific locations on the body using suitable double
      sided tape which can be tracked by a number of infrared cameras. participants will be asked
      to perform the following tasks; walking, stepping up, stepping down, sit-to-stand,
      stand-to-sit and single leg balance. Each task will be performed at least three times to
      enable the collection of three good sets of data. In addition, the two stepping tasks will be
      repeated for each limb. The single leg balance will be performed once for each leg and data
      will be collected for 30 seconds per limb. A motion capture system will collect limb and
      torso movements during the task performances while force plates will collect ground reaction
      forces. The 6-minute walk test requires the participant to walk around a course during a six
      minute period. They are allowed to have rest breaks for as long and as often as they require.
      They will be asked to stop walking six minutes after the start of the test and the distance
      covered during the period will be noted.
    
  