
    
      CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE AND THE BENEFIT OF BYPASSES

      Despite considerable advances in medicine, cardiovascular diseases remain the number one
      cause of death globally. In industrialized countries, coronary artery disease (CAD) is the
      leading cause of death, consequence of myocardial infarction (MI).

      In patients with acute coronary syndrome, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been
      shown to improve outcomes.2 However, in stable CAD, PCI has not been demonstrated to reduce
      the incidence of myocardial infarction or death. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was
      superior to PCI in patients with diabetes and multivessel coronary artery disease. CABG
      significantly reduced rates of death and myocardial infarction compared to PCI, but with a
      higher rate of stroke. Furthermore, in patients with advanced coronary artery disease, rates
      of myocardial infarction were more than 60% lower with CABG compared to PCI.

      Conceptually, the benefit of CABG over PCI is not surprising as PCI targets significant
      coronary lesions thought to be responsible for causing ischemia. However, the deleterious
      effects of atherosclerosis are not typically preceded by significant luminal vascular
      narrowing. The vulnerable plaque eventually becoming the culprit plaque (causing myocardial
      infarction or sudden cardiac death) is typically relatively nonstenotic. Furthermore, due to
      being multifocal and widespread, plaque vulnerability is not a target for, nor amenable to
      PCI.

      Conversely, artificial - or natural - bypasses exert a protective effect by providing an
      alternative source of blood flow to a myocardial territory potentially affected by an acute
      coronary occlusion. Coronary collaterals represent pre-existing inter-arterial anastomoses
      and as such are the natural counter-part of surgically created bypasses. In patients with
      chronic CAD, sufficient coronary collaterals have been shown to confer a significant benefits
      in terms of overall mortality and cardiovascular events.

      EXTRACARDIAC-TO-CORONARY COLLATERAL SUPPLY

      Commonly, coronary collaterals are implicitly understood to exist between coronary artery
      branches. However, the structural existence of coronary collaterals with an extracardiac
      connection has been confirmed by anatomical investigations. Pathophysiologically and with
      regard to a potential for arteriogenic stimulation, the connections from the internal mammary
      arteries, are of special interest. Indeed, before the advent of coronary bypass surgery,
      several clinical studies examined the usefulness of a minimally invasive surgery to augment
      collateral flow to the heart via these internal-mammary-to-coronary-artery connections in
      patients with angina pectoris. The performed distal bilateral ligation of the internal
      mammary arteries was thought to improve flow over naturally pre-existing anastomoses between
      the internal mammary arteries and the coronary circulation.

      In a recently published work the investigators have investigated the effect of temporary
      balloon occlusion of the distal IMA on coronary collateral function. 180 pairs of
      measurements were performed in 120 patients electively referred for coronary angiography.
      Levels of collateral function and myocardial ischemia were determined during two coronary
      balloon occlusions, the first with, the second without distal IMA balloon occlusion. Coronary
      collateral function, determined by collateral flow index (CFI) was consistently increased by
      ipsilateral, but not contralateral IMA balloon occlusion in the left anterior descending
      (LAD) coronary artery and the right coronary artery (RCA). Furthermore, these findings were
      corroborated by the observed reduction in ischemia as assessed by the sensitive tool of
      intracoronary ECG. However, there were equivocal findings for the left circumflex coronary
      artery: CFI was increased by ipsilateral IMA occlusion, but the level of myocardial ischemia
      was unchanged.

      MYOCARDIAL STEAL VIA INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERIES

      In the investigators' previous study, the coronary occlusion with simultaneous distal IMA
      occlusion was always performed first as a conservative measure against false-positive
      detection of internal-mammary-to-coronary artery connections. Repetitive coronary occlusions
      per se result in higher collateral flow by collateral recruitment and reduced ischemia by
      ischemic preconditioning and augmented collateral function. Conversely, the sensitivity of
      the employed method was reduced and might have contributed to the equivocal findings in case
      of the left circumflex artery. Moreover, the hypothesize d mechanism of localized pressure
      augmentation was not investigated.

      This study aims to further characterize the prevalence and function of natural ipsilateral
      IMA-to-coronary connections, as well as to investigate the hemodynamic mechanisms of coronary
      collateral function augmentation by distal IMA occlusion. In the investigators' last study,
      the increased coronary collateral function in response to manipulation of a potential
      coronary collateral donor (in this case, the IMA) was taken as indirect evidence for the
      existence of IMA-to-coronary-artery connections. Thus, the employed distal IMA occlusion
      served as a positive stimulus. Conceptually, additional evaluation with a negative stimulus
      could heighten the discriminatory power of the investigation. This could be in the form of a
      hyperemic stimulus affecting the collateral donor, ie in analogy to myocardial or coronary
      steal (ie, a reduction in coronary collateral supply to a collateral recipient).
    
  