
    
      Overweight and obesity are rapidly increasing in Western countries and are associated with
      increased mortality and morbidity. The increased morbidity is assumed to be mediated mainly
      by insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertension and lipid disturbances, but obesity also
      represents an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease.

      Obesity is associated with an increased risk of hypertension but the pathophysiological basis
      is not fully established. Several studies have indicated that blood pressure of obese
      patients could be more dependent on dietary sodium intake than the blood pressure of
      non-obese patients(as it is the case for patients with essential hypertension)and that this
      sodium sensitivity of blood pressure is lost after weight loss.

      To date, bariatric surgery is the only therapy resulting in substantial and durable long-term
      weight loss, and the beneficial effects on obesity-related co-morbidities have been well
      documented. Laparoscopic gastric bypass results in a remarkable improvement of glucose
      homeostasis and a resolution of diabetes, that typically occurs too fast to be accounted for
      by weight loss alone. Furthermore, an immediate reduction of blood pressure following
      laparoscopic gastric bypass has been demonstrated in morbidly obese patients with
      hypertension as early as one week after the operation. As with the rapid reduction of
      diabetes, the antihypertensive effect of the procedure might be a consequence of the
      rearrangement of the gastrointestinal anatomy.

      With this study, we want to evaluate the effect of high vs. low sodium intake on blood
      pressure and system hemodynamics in patients with morbid obesity and to evaluate the impact
      of laparoscopic gastric bypass on blood pressure, salt sensitivity and body composition in
      morbidly obese patients. Furthermore, we wants to describe the hemodynamic mechanisms
      involved in the amelioration of blood pressure during long-term weight loss. Therefore,
      patients are examined before, 4-6 weeks after and one year after laparoscopic gastric bypass.

      Before and one year after the operation, the patients are examined two times; in a five days
      period of a low dietary sodium consumption and in a five days period of a high sodium
      consumption respectively. Four-six weeks following the operation, the patients are examined
      once on their usual diet.

      The protocol comprise three sub studies:

        1. The effect of high vs low sodium intake on blood pressure and hemodynamics in the morbid
           obese patient - preoperative study.

        2. Effect of gastric bypass surgery on blood pressure, hemodynamics and salt-sensitivity -
           1 year follow-up.

        3. Effect of gastric bypass surgery on echocardiographic parameters - 1 year follow-up.
    
  