
    
      1. Objectives

             1. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficiency of "Resicard
                Prevention", which is a structured health network within a House of Education
                located outside of the hospital and based on outpatients' visits.

             2. Another purpose is to facilitate and optimize physicians and all health members
                communication around the acute coronary syndrome patients.

        2. Method

             -  After randomization, patients are directed to one of the two following groups: the
                conventional network group or the structured network group. Six and twelve months
                after their hospitalization, a blood test will be performed and their weight, blood
                pressure, waist measurement and cardiac frequency will be recorded in order to
                monitor patients' cardiovascular risk factors.In any case, patients receive optimal
                care with the participation of different health members (such as nurses, doctors,
                dietician...).

                a-The conventional network group

             -  Patients are taken care of, according to good medical practice by their usual
                general practitioner and cardiologist. The frequency of consultations is set up
                according to symptoms. The follow up of patients is optimized as they are taken
                care of by a multidisciplinary health team.

                b-The structured network group

             -  Patients in this group will have to consult their general practitioner and
                cardiologist within the first month after their hospitalization. Two forms
                summarizing their hospitalization facts and the objectives of the risk factors
                correction will be electronically sent to their general practitioner, to their
                cardiologist and to the House of Education. Patients have appointments at the House
                of Education where a multidisciplinary team (with a nurse, a dietician,...)
                welcomes them. They set up a schedule according to patients' needs:

             -  consultation for nicotinic weaning

             -  some dietary advice in order to lose weight

             -  some specific advice on diabetes and/or hypercholesteremia

             -  information about high blood pressure

             -  some advice to pursue a regular physical activity After each appointment at the
                House of Education, a form summarizing the risk factors will be provided
                electronically to patients' general practitioner and cardiologist.

        3. Conclusion -This evaluation protocol should demonstrate the efficiency of a health
           network based on the correction of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors within a House
           of Education in secondary prevention after an acute coronary syndrome.
    
  