
    
      Stage 1 will recruit 20 patients. If at least patients 8 respond after the initial 4 cycles
      of SGN-35 a further 10 patients will be recruited to stage 2.

      In all cases brentuximab vedotin will be administered at an initial dose of 1.8 mg/kg every 3
      weeks as a 30-minute outpatient i.v. infusion.

      After baseline staging (including PET and CT scans (PET0 + CT0), performed on PET scanners
      approved for the purpose by The PET Imaging Centre at St Thomas'/Guy's), all eligible and
      consenting patients will receive an initial 4 cycles of brentuximab vedotin following which
      response and continuation of brentuximab vedotin will be assessed by PET (PET4) in the first
      instance. Patients achieving CMR (Deauville score 1-3) will continue treatment. Patients
      achieving PMR (Deauville score 4,5 with uptake less than baseline) will also continue
      treatment. Patients achieving NMR (Deauville score 4,5 with no change in uptake from
      baseline) or PMD (Deauville score 4,5 with increased intensity of uptake compared to baseline
      and/or new lesions consistent with lymphoma) will stop brentuximab vedotin and be considered
      for alternative therapy.

      CT4 will be performed for future comparison with CT8, CT12 and CT 16 (to exclude Progressive
      Disease (PD) and to correlate metabolic and radiological responses) and to inform continued
      treatment. Patients not achieving Deauville score 1-3 at PET 4 will also have a PET scan at
      completion of treatment (after 16 cycles or earlier if brentuximab vedotin discontinued for
      reasons other than PD)

      In addition an exploratory PET scan will be performed after 2 cycles of brentuximab vedotin
      (PET2); investigators will be blinded to the results of PET2 which will not influence patient
      management in any way. All PET scans will be centrally reviewed for QA purposes by The PET
      Imaging Centre at St Thomas'/Guy's, under the supervision of Sally Barrington and Mike
      O'Doherty, using the framework developed for the recently completed RAPID and RATHL trials.
      CT scans after 4 cycles and at the end of treatment may also be reviewed.

      After the initial 4 cycles of brentuximab vedotin, subsequent treatment will be response
      adapted according to PET scan result the following schedule:

        -  Those with a Complete Metabolic Response (CMR, Deauville Score 1, 2 or 3) at PET 4 will
           receive up to 12 additional cycles of brentuximab vedotin (maximum of 16 cycles)
           depending on no evidence of PD by a CT scan performed after each group of 4 cycles of
           brentuximab vedotin.

        -  Patients with a Partial Metabolic Response (PMR) at PET4 will receive up to 12
           additional cycles of brentuximab vedotin (maximum of 16 cycles) depending on no evidence
           of PD on a CT scan performed after each group of 4 cycles of brentuximab vedotin.

        -  Patients with No Metabolic Response (NMR) will stop brentuximab vedotin and be
           considered for alternative therapy.

        -  Patients with progressive disease at any time as determined by either CT or PET scan
           performed after each group of 4 cycles of brentuximab vedotin or in response to clinical
           concerns will stop study treatment and receive subsequent therapy at investigator
           discretion. Clinical concerns over PD should be confirmed by either a CT or PET scan.

        -  Patients who come off treatment with brentuximab vedotin for any other reason (toxicity,
           patient decision, investigator advice) should have a CT scan performed for response
           assessment. In addition patients with Partial Metabolic Response at PET 4 should also
           have a PET scan performed.

      All patients who have not progressed irrespective of how many cycles of brentuximab vedotin
      received will be clinically assessed every 3 months and have a CT scan at months 3, 6, 9, 12.
      These scan may take place during therapy. During follow-up CT scans will be performed 15, 18,
      24 and 36 months from the start of treatment. For those still alive and disease-free after 3
      years following start of treatment, follow-up will be according to local practice but data
      recorded must include date of progressive disease, type of any subsequent therapies, date and
      cause of death.

      For patients who progress at any time, follow-up will be according to local practice but data
      must be recorded for 5 years form the start of treatment and must include date of progressive
      disease, type of any subsequent therapies, date and cause of death.
    
  