
    
      1. Objective:

      Primary objective:

      Evaluate value of HCV education in HCV screening and diagnosis in HBsAg(+) patients

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Evaluate prevalence of HCV co-infection in HBV cohort in Chongqing, China

        2. Assess awareness of HCV infection in HBV/HCV cohort and analysis of risk factors

      2. Research methods

      A. Evaluate value of HCV education in HCV screening and diagnosis in HBsAg(+) patients About
      300 patients screened for HBsAg every day in the second affiliated hospital of Chongqing
      Medcial University. So there will be about 200,000 patients tested for HBsAg for 2 years,
      among which 5% is estimated to be HBsAg (+) (n=10,000) and will be informed. All of them will
      be asked to follow-up in Infectious Disease Department of the hospital and be divided into
      two groups by 1:1 randomization. Patients in the first group will not receive any disease
      education, but the investigators will record how many patients propose to take anti-HCV test
      voluntarily after those patients know the result of HBsAg test of their own (The acceptation
      rate of anti-HCV test is A). The second group will receive education about HCV infection as
      well as HBV/HCV co-infection and then be asked whether those patients are willing to do
      anti-HCV test or not (The acceptation rate of anti-HCV test is B). Education Methods
      including video playing of HCV Introduction (disease profile, risk factors for infection,
      outcomes, HBV/HCV coinfection, reinfection, etc) for 5 min, booklets of relative information
      distribution, physicians and nurses consulting in clinic. Diagnosis rate of HCV coinfection
      is C and D for the two groups, respectively.The investigators anticipate B will be higher
      than A and D will be higher than C, which reflects impact from disease education. Considering
      some patients with HBsAg(+) might not be willing to be involved in the randomization part or
      lost to follow-up, the investigators presuppose sample size to be 3,000 for each group for
      evaluation importance of education.

      B. Evaluate prevalence of HCV co-infection in HBV Cohort in Chongqing, China Actually all
      patients with HBsAg(+) (n=10,000) will be tested for anti-HCV with blood samples and the
      positive ones will be informed and suggested to do HCV RNA test to get an actual prevalence
      of HCV co-infection in HBV cohort in Chongqing.The investigators estimate about 16% of
      patients (1600 for 2 years) with HBsAg (+) are positive for anti-HCV, among which about 1200
      patients are positive for HCV RNA test. These patients will be diagnosed as HCV infection and
      will go genotyping as well as link to care.

      C. Awareness of HCV infection in HBV/HCV Cohort and analysis of risk factors All patients who
      are HBsAg(+) will be asked to finish questionnaires, including basic information, demographic
      information, risk factors for HBV or HCV infection (dialysis, HIV infection, organ
      transplantation, sex workers, drug abuser, tattoo, piercing, blood donation, history of
      scaling or dental filling, HCV family history and so on), awareness of their own HBV or HCV
      infection, etc.

      3. Which, if any, policymakers will be engaged and how.

      A. For Government Results of this program may enable government including public health
      officials to identify where to strengthen efforts. The investigators will get evidence to
      show the difference of screening and diagnosis rate of HCV infection between HBsAg(+)
      patients who received disease education and the ones who didn't. Elimination of the HCV as
      public health threats by 2030 might need to be based on patient education.

      B. For Reimbursement Bureau So far there is not enough data on epidemiology to accurately
      assess potential HCV infection in HBsAg(+) patients. The entire hepatitis elimination effort
      depends on improving the availability of reliable data to describe the epidemiology of HCV.
      By executing this program the investigators will get the prevalence of HCV infection in
      HBsAg(+) patients in Chongqing and there is big possibility that the data is much higher than
      in general population.The investigators want to let the reimbursement bureau know anti-HCV
      and RNA test in HBsAg(+) cohort may results in better cost effectiveness in HCV diagnosis and
      treatment. Reimbursement in such population may be considered.

      C. For Other Medical Units Two press conferences will be held at the beginning and at the end
      of CHARSET program to advocate the importance of increasing HCV awareness, link-to-treatment
      and HCV elimination. The program will also be posted on social media like WEIBO/WECHAT
      (something like facebook/twitter in China) and website of the second affiliated hospital of
      Chongqing Medical University. Because of acquisition of higher HCV screening and diagnosis
      rate, this model could be generalized in other medical units to benefit more patients.

      4. Study Duration (in months) 24 months
    
  