
    
      This project tests an implementation platform-Getting To Outcomes (GTO)-designed to assist in
      the delivery of an evidence-based intervention for Veterans with co-occurring mental health
      and substance use disorders (MISSION-Vet) in the HUD-VASH program. This project will be a
      cluster randomized controlled trial that compares implementation of MISSION-Vet augmented by
      GTO to MISSION-Vet Implemented as Usual (IU) at three of the largest HUD-VASH programs in the
      country: VA Central Western Massachusetts Healthcare System (Northampton, MA), VA Capitol
      Health Care Network (Washington, D.C.), and VA Eastern Colorado Health Care System (Denver,
      CO). This project will randomly assign 150 HUD-VASH case managers and 1106 Veterans on their
      caseloads who have received HUD-VASH vouchers and case management services into these two
      groups on a 1-year rolling admission basis determined by when the Veteran receives a housing
      voucher. The control group will receive MISSION-Vet in addition to HUD-VASH case management
      services and the intervention group will receive the same as the control, however the
      HUD-VASH case manager will have access to GTO implementation support.

      To compare case managers implementing MISSION-Vet augmented with GTO to HUD-VASH case
      managers using IU strategies on the following variables: (1) fidelity to the MISSION-Vet
      intervention; (2) proportion of time the Veteran is housed; (3) mental health, substance use,
      and functional outcomes among Veterans; and (4) factors key to the successful deployment of a
      new treatment as specified by the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, &
      Maintenance (RE-AIM) model.

      Data will be collected on fidelity to MISSION-Vet in both IU and GTO groups. Data will also
      be collected on all subjects' substance use, overall mental health functioning, engagement in
      substance abuse treatment services, the length of time housed, and community participation.
      The investigators will collect data from individuals at baseline and three time points for up
      to one year. The investigators' data analysis strategy will be to use a repeated-measures
      model to test for the significance of the treatment-by-time interaction while accounting for
      the clustered design of case manager within site.

      This study intends to serve a dual function of comparing implementation of MISSION-Vet
      currently being planned through VA Office of Patient Care Services to an enhanced
      implementation approach using the GTO model. The proposed research will help to guide policy
      and practice actions to implement MISSION-Vet with fidelity and effectiveness to achieve
      maximum outcomes among homeless Veterans.
    
  