
    
      The risk of bleeding varies in different populations and according to the treatment used.
      Severe bleeding under AVK has an incidence of 0.6 to 10% per year. Fatal hemorrhage is in the
      order of 1%. The risk factors for bleeding are controversial: history of bleeding in the
      patient, instability of the International Normalized Ratio (INR) at the time of introduction
      of KVAs and during the first few months, poor patient compliance, drug combinations
      (antiplatelet, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: NSAIDs, paracetamol, etc.) or
      association with alcohol. National pharmacovigilance data indicate that serious accidents are
      not uncommon due to frequent misuse of antithrombotics in common practice.

      There are risk factors related to the patient and his or her comorbidities: history of
      bleeding, stroke, comorbidities such as age > 65 years, diabetes, cancer, chronic renal
      failure.

      Despite the various aids to therapeutic patient education (surveillance logbook, computerised
      INR monitoring), there has been no decrease in the frequency of iatrogenic accidents, either
      in hospitals or in urban medicine.

      The use of smartphone applications in the medical field is increasingly evolving among
      healthcare professionals and patients. They allow for more personalized care, and can also
      promote interaction with health professionals.

      Strengthening the link between specialist doctors and the general practitioner for joint
      patient management will improve their follow-up and reduce the risk of iatrogeny.

      In 2016, a survey was conducted in the vascular medicine department of the Groupe Hospitalier
      Paris Saint-Joseph (GHPSJ) to assess access to smartphones among patients on anti-thrombotic
      medication. Of the 100 patients enrolled, 74 were on anticoagulant or platelet aggregation
      therapy. Of these, 50 had a mobile phone and 24% used the Internet and made downloads to
      their phones.

      This raises the question of the interest that patients might have in a mobile application on
      the use of anti-thrombotics. As the profile of patients seen in hospital is different from
      those consulting in general medicine, it seems interesting to study these two populations in
      order to know if there is a difference in their attitude towards the smartphone.

      In order to find a new way to limit the iatrogeny of antithrombotic drugs, the investigators
      wanted to set up a medical application (educational tablet) for patients to provide them with
      support to better manage their treatment.
    
  