
    
      This is a prospective, observational, descriptive, clinical study.

      This is a single centre study. All patients admitted to the South West Liver Unit with
      decompensated cirrhosis will be screened according to their serum creatinine (sCr) level
      taken as part of standard of care at admission or during their hospitalization.

      All patients with AKI stage 2-3 or with stage 1 and serum Creatinine >133 µmol/L who give
      consent to participate or consent is given by legal representative. Patients should meet all
      the inclusion criteria and none exclusion criteria.

      The consent can be received by a medical doctor or by a research nurse involved in the study.
      The details will be recorded on the study delegation log.

      Patients will be followed up during admission. Decompensation episodes including development
      of hepatic encephalopathy, worsening ascites, jaundice, GI bleeding related to portal
      hypertension, and infections will be recorded during follow up. Follow up finishes when the
      patient is discharged.

      AKI is defined as an increase of at least 26 µmol/L or a percentage increase of at least 50%
      from baseline sCr value, within 48 hours. Baseline value should have occurred within the
      previous 7 days. When baseline sCr is not known investigators diagnose AKI when sCr is higher
      than 106 µmol/L.

      All patients with AKI will have the following tests taken at admission or when they develop
      AKI, as per standard of care: Full blood count; electrolytes; liver profile including
      bilirubin, GGT, ALP, AST, and ALT; coagulation screen including PT, INR and APTT; C-reactive
      protein; blood cultures; glucose; bone profile, including phosphate and calcium.

      Stages of AKI are defined as:

        -  Stage 1: increase of sCr ≥26 μmol/L or an increase in sCr ≥1.5-fold to 2-fold from
           baseline. When baseline value is not known, sCr>106 μmol/L.

        -  Stage 2: increase of sCr >2-fold to 3-fold from baseline. When baseline value is not
           known, sCr>176 μmol/L.

        -  Stage 3: increase of sCr >3-fold from baseline or sCr ≥353 μmol/L or initiation of renal
           replacement therapy. When baseline value is not known, sCr>353 μmol/L.

      Investigators will include a participant when they are diagnosed with AKI stage 2 or 3 or
      with AKI stage 1 with persistent sCr >133 µmol/despite initial measures, then baseline blood
      samples and urine sample will be taken and short synacthen test (SST) will be performed as
      per standard of care. SST consists of taking a sample for baseline total cortisol followed by
      intravenous administration of 250 µg of corticotropin followed by a new sample taken 60
      minutes later to test peak total cortisol.

      Extra blood samples will be taken when the patient is included and they include: plasma renin
      activity, aldosterone, vasopressin, norepinephrine, tumour necrosis factor-alpha,
      Interleukin-6, Interleukin-12, Interleukin-10, blood sample for detection of bacterial DNA,
      urinary sample to detect neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL).

      Samples should be taken within 48 hours of diagnosis of AKI and always before treatment with
      terlipressin is started.

      Patients will be managed according to our local guidelines and national and international
      standards. Human albumin (HAS) will be administered at 1 gram per Kilogram of weight in those
      participants with AKI stage 2-3 or those with AKI stage 1 who do not improve or progress. If
      there is no response after 48 hours of administration of HAS and HRS criteria are met, then
      vasoconstrictor treatment with terlipressin will be started.

      Response to treatment is defined as a reduction of at least 25% from pre-treatment value.
      Full response is met when sCr returns to a value lower than 26 μmol/L above the baseline
      value. Partial response is met when final sCr returns to a value higher than 26 μmol/L above
      the baseline value.

      During hospitalization vital signs and standard liver and renal tests will be recorded.

      All interventions and follow-up will be carried out during the hospitalization.
    
  