
    
      Neural tube closure defects (NTDs) are a common adverse pregnancy outcome, and one of the
      most debilitating birth defects in the United States and globally. NTDs comprise a cluster of
      neurodevelopmental conditions associated with the failure of neural tube closure during
      embryonic development. There are over 300,000 cases of NTDs each year globally, ranging from
      1 to 80 per 10,000 births. Despite prevention efforts, NTDs remain a leading cause of
      neonatal morbidity and mortality worldwide, incurring medical costs of over $500,000 per
      person. Randomized trials have established that periconceptional folic acid supplementation
      prevents the occurrence and recurrence of NTDs by up to 70%. This led to the development of
      dietary recommendations for women of childbearing age in the U.S. and folic acid
      fortification of wheat and maize flour in over 80 countries.

      Fortification of food staples is a sustainable intervention to improve micronutrient status
      in populations, and fortification of flour with folic acid is considered one of the most
      efficacious and cost-effective public health interventions to date. However, current folic
      acid fortification programs have not eliminated NTDs, and are constrained by suboptimal
      coverage and lack of consumption of targeted staple foods by at-risk populations.
      Fortification efforts to date have mainly targeted wheat and maize flour, which are not
      primary staples in some settings with the highest NTD burden, such as Southern India. It is
      estimated that India alone accounts for over one-third of all NTDs globally. In Southern
      India, the site of this randomized trial, rice is the primary staple, and the persistent
      burden of micronutrient deficiencies underscores the need to innovate additional strategies
      to deliver folic acid to at-risk populations.

      Salt fortification is a promising strategy to prevent multiple micronutrient deficiencies, as
      it utilizes a widely consumed and affordable food and has existing production and
      distribution systems. In India, salt is one of the most widely consumed fortifiable staples.
      Previous studies demonstrated that double-fortified salt (DFS) with iron and iodine
      significantly improved iron status in women of reproductive age and schoolchildren. However,
      the high baseline prevalence of anemia and micronutrient deficiencies of folate and vitamin
      B12 persisted, highlighting a need for additional interventions to target multiple
      micronutrient deficiencies. Recent technological advances have informed the development of a
      low-cost formulation of quadruple-fortified salt (QFS) - i.e., iron, iodine, folic acid, and
      vitamin B12 (Diosady, Mannar). This QFS is formulated to prevent chemical interactions of
      micronutrients and maintain stability in tropical conditions, and is ready for use in
      randomized efficacy trials in human populations.

      The objectives of this randomized controlled trial are to determine the efficacy of
      quadruple-fortified salt (QFS) - i.e., iron, iodine, folic acid, and vitamin B12 - on 1)
      folate status (erythrocyte and serum folate concentrations; folate deficiency and
      insufficiency), 2) hemoglobin concentrations and anemia, and 3) vitamin B12 status (vitamin
      B12 concentrations; vitamin B12 deficiency and insufficiency), among women of reproductive
      age in Southern India.

      If proven to be efficacious, QFS could represent a low-cost and sustainable strategy to
      prevent anemia and micronutrient deficiencies and improve the the health of vulnerable
      populations, including women and young children.
    
  