
    
      Vasomotor response is an important marker of cardiovascular health and has been related to
      cardiovascular co-morbidity. An alteration of vasomotor response, indeed, often precedes an
      increase in arterial stiffness. By improving and/or maintaining this vascular function,
      therefore, plays a pivotal role in the prevention of cardiovascular disease. The overall
      control of the vasomotor response and, in turn, of blood flow distribution in the human body
      is regulated by two main mechanisms: a systemic control given by the sympathetic nervous
      system that acts on the arterial smooth muscle fibers causing vasoconstriction, and a local
      action of vasoactive molecules released by the endothelial cells, such as nitric oxide (NO),
      leading to vasodilation.

      Recent studies report that acute passive stretching (PS), a well-established practice in
      rehabilitation and sport environments to increase range of motion, may influence the
      vasomotor response. Specifically, PS provokes two conflicting events: (i) a vasoconstriction
      with blood flow reduction in the feeding artery of the stretched muscle, triggered by the
      systemic increase in sympathetic neural tone due to the PS-induced stress on the muscle
      mechano- and metaboreceptors, and (ii) a vasodilation and subsequent increase in blood flow
      in the feeding artery due to the prevalence of local vasoactive factors release as a result
      of the stretch-induced stress applied to the vessel wall, which overwhelms the systemic
      sympathetic activation. Interestingly, throughout several stretch-shortening cycles, the
      first acute hyperemic response to stretch described above seems to progressively attenuate
      until its disappearance during the subsequent stretching cycles, possibly due to NO and other
      vasoactive molecules depletion.

      The shortening phase in between two stretch bouts, instead, is always characterized by
      hyperemia due to a reduction in the peripheral vascular resistance after the stretch-induced
      vessels deformation. Possible explanation of these phenomena involves the shear rate, which
      is the frictional or drag force acting on the inner lumen of the vessels that can trigger a
      chain of reactions, possibly leading to higher endothelial NO-synthase activity. Continuous
      and repetitive increases in shear rate induced by PS have been observed to act as vascular
      training to modulate endothelium remodeling and to improve vasomotor response.

      Interestingly, during an acute PS administration, a reduction in blood flow during stretching
      was described in the contralateral, no-stretched limb. Such a reduction was promptly
      recovered during the shortening phase. The authors suggested that this occurrence was induced
      by a systemic sympathetic-mediated vasoconstriction, which was activated by the
      stretch-induced mechanoreflex.

      However, whether chronic PS administration may also affect the vasomotor response in the
      feeding artery of the contralateral muscle, which was not directly involved in the stretching
      maneuver, is still an open question.

      Together with the changes in local control mechanisms, also possible PS-induced changes in
      the systemic autonomic control of blood flow has been reported (i.e., reduction in blood
      pressure and aortic wave reflection magnitude, although its effectiveness remains a matter of
      debate With this in mind, this study aimed to investigate the effect of PS on the vasomotor
      response and the stiffness of the arteries directly involved (i.e., femoral and popliteal
      arteries) and not directly involved (i.e., contralateral femoral and popliteal arteries and
      brachial artery) with the maneuver applied on the plantar flexors, knee extensor and hip
      flexor muscles. To this purpose, vasomotor response and arterial stiffness were assessed by
      Doppler ultrasounds and applanation tonometry, respectively, before and after 12 weeks of PS
      administration. Hypothesis has been made that repetitive PS bouts, with consequent changes in
      blood flow and shear rate, may be an effective stimulus to (i) enhance local vasoactive
      molecules bioavailability in the arteries involved with PS; and (ii) induce a systemic
      re-modulation of the sympathetic autonomic activity, thus improving arterial compliance and
      vasomotor response even in those districts not directly involved with PS.
    
  