
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the effects of a multi-component physical activity intervention including a
      Fitbit, individualized goal setting, and a social media peer support group compared to the
      control condition (Fitbit only) on physical activity among adolescent and young adult
      survivors of childhood cancer (AYA survivors) who do not meet physical activity guidelines.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effects of a multi-component physical activity intervention including a
      Fitbit, individualized goal setting, and a social media peer support group compared to the
      control condition (Fitbit only) on biomarkers predictive of cardiometabolic health among
      adolescent and young adult survivors of childhood cancer (AYA survivors) who do not meet
      physical activity guidelines.

      II. To evaluate the effects of a multi-component physical activity intervention including a
      Fitbit, individualized goal setting, and a social media peer support group compared to the
      control condition (Fitbit only) on health-related quality of life among adolescent and young
      adult survivors of childhood cancer (AYA survivors) who do not meet physical activity
      guidelines.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      INTERVENTION GROUP: Participants receive educational materials about physical activity.

      INTENSIVE PHASE (24 WEEKS): Participants wear a physical activity tracker (Fitbit) daily as
      well as receiving weekly reminders from study staff to wear it. They also receive goal
      setting sessions each week (by text, phone call, etc.) to set personalized step count goals
      using the Fitbit application (app). Lastly, participants receive an invitation to follow and
      post on an online social media peer support group (Instagram), where study staff provide
      encouraging advice and messages about physical activity 2-3 times per week, announce
      badges/awards every week, and moderate a forum to discuss physical activity and use of the
      Fitbit.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE (24 WEEKS): Participants wear a Fitbit daily but do not receive reminders
      to wear it. They also set their own step count goals weekly and check in with study staff
      monthly for assistance with goal setting. Participants take the lead posting content on the
      Instagram account moderated by the study staff. Study staff only post once per week with
      general physical activity-related questions and provide no badges.

      CONTROL GROUP: Participants receive educational materials about physical activity and wear a
      Fitbit daily for 48 weeks.
    
  