
    
      To achieve the proposed objective it will be performed a multi-center, randomized,
      triple-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, with voluntary patients with lateral epicondylitis.
      Fifty patients will be randomly allocated to two treatment groups: 1. Active PBMT-sMF (MR5®
      Prototype Device) or Placebo PBMT-sMF (MR5® Prototype Device). The patients will be treated
      by a blinded therapist.

      The patients randomly allocated to the different groups will be subjected to treatment two
      times a week for three consecutive weeks, each procedure administration three to four days
      apart.

      The study will contain five phases: 1) pre-procedure activities; 2) pre-procedure assessment
      phase; 3) procedure administration phase; 4) procedure administration phase measures; 5)
      post-procedure administration phase.

      The outcomes measured will be: degree of pain, forearm pain and disability, grip strength,
      TNF-α levels, subject satisfaction with overall outcome rating, perceived group assignment
      and adverse events.

      The outcomes will be obtained at the stabilization phase (pre-procedure activities), baseline
      (pre-procedure assessment phase), 24 hours after the end of the treatment (procedure
      administration phase measures), and 30 days after the end of the treatment (post-procedure
      administration phase).

      Statistical analysis:

        1. The primary statistical method to analyze the primary endpoint will be Fisher's exact
           test to compare the proportion of success between the test (Active PBMT-sMF) and the
           control (Placebo PBMT-sMF) groups, considering that randomization has been diligently
           conducted and important covariates between the two groups are well balanced. Statistical
           significance will be set at p<0.05.

        2. The secondary outcomes that are continuous variables will be analyzed through parametric
           analysis using ANCOVA. Statistical significance will be set at p<0.05.

        3. For patient satisfaction, measured through a Likert Scale, the data will be reduced to
           the nominal level by combining all agree and disagree responses into two categories of
           "accept" and "reject". Differences in satisfaction with Study Outcome Ratings between
           procedure groups at both evaluated time-points, and any change between. The chi-square
           will be used after this transformation. Statistical significance will be set at p<0.05.
    
  