
    
      The effects of overweight and obesity during pregnancy on maternal and child health can be
      serious and long lasting. Overweight and obese women are more likely to develop gestational
      diabetes or pre-eclampsia (high blood pressure and proteinuria) during pregnancy and type 2
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease after pregnancy. Also, children born to these women have
      an increased risk of obesity, diabetes, and high blood pressure later in life. The increased
      risk of these diseases and conditions may occur because overweight and obese pregnant women
      have decreased insulin sensitivity and increased inflammation. The nutrient DHA is an omega-3
      fatty acid that is important for brain function, the development of the central nervous
      system, and visual function in infants. DHA may also benefit both pregnant women and their
      babies by improving insulin sensitivity and decreasing inflammation, thereby decreasing the
      risk of gestational diabetes and pre-eclampsia during pregnancy. The purpose of this study is
      to evaluate the effect of DHA supplementation on insulin sensitivity, inflammation, and fetal
      growth in overweight and obese pregnant women.

      This study will enroll women at 24 to 28 weeks of pregnancy. They will be followed until
      delivery. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either DHA supplements or placebo
      on a daily basis until the end of their pregnancies. At a baseline study visit, a blood
      sample will be collected; height, weight, and skinfold thickness will be measured; and
      questionnaires to assess diet and medical history will be given. Participants will complete
      three diet recalls in the days after the visit, in which they will answer questions about
      their diet in the previous 24 hours. At a second study visit that will occur at 30 to 32
      weeks of pregnancy, a blood sample will be collected. At a third study visit that will occur
      at 34 to 36 weeks of pregnancy, a blood sample will be collected and repeat body measurements
      will occur. Three diet recalls will then be completed, and participants will take part in a
      meal challenge, in which blood will be collected at different times after eating a
      study-provided breakfast. Researchers will review participants' medical records after the
      birth occurs.
    
  