
    
      Malignant brain tumors now represent the most frequent cause of cancer death in children.
      Despite aggressive and highly toxic multi-modality therapy including surgery, craniospinal
      radiation, and high-dose chemotherapy coupled with peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation, almost half the children diagnosed with the most common malignant brain
      tumors, medulloblastoma (MB) and primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET), will still die from
      recurrent disease. Furthermore, survivors are often left with severe and lifelong
      treatment-associated cognitive and motor deficits. The development of more effective and
      tumor-specific therapies that will not add further toxicity to existing treatments is
      paramount in improving clinical outcomes for children affected by MB/PNETs. Immunotherapy
      targeting tumor-specific antigens expressed within brain tumors is a modality potentially
      capable of meeting this clear and urgent need.

      Despite considerable advancements and promising clinical results observed in immunotherapy
      trials directed against adult malignant brain tumors, efforts in the immunologic treatment of
      pediatric brain tumors have been limited to relatively few notable studies. This is due, at
      least in part, to the often limited viable tumor tissue available for tumor cell-based
      vaccine preparations, and the lack of identification of consistently expressed tumor-specific
      antigens within these cancers.

      The use of total tumor RNA (TTRNA)-loaded dendritic cells (DCs) was pioneered at Duke
      University, as a novel platform for inducing potent immunologic responses against the variety
      of uncharacterized and patient-specific antigens present within malignant tumor cells. Duke
      demonstrated that sufficient RNA for clinical vaccine preparations can be amplified with high
      fidelity using existing molecular technologies from as few as 500 isolated pediatric and
      adult brain tumor cells, thus allowing vaccine preparation from surgical biopsies and even
      microdissected archival tumor specimens. In this study, the investigators will treat
      recurrent MB/PNETs during hematopoietic recovery from chemotherapy.

      Immunotherapy administered during recovery from chemotherapy may have tremendous advantages,
      as adoptive cellular therapy following lymphodepletive conditioning regimens has emerged as
      the most effective treatment strategy for advanced and refractory melanoma. Our hypothesis is
      that DC + ex vivo expanded Autologous Lymphocyte Transfer (xALT) therapy targeting recurrent
      MB/PNETs during recovery from myeloablative chemotherapy will be safe and will prolong
      survival in children and young adults with recurrent MB/PNETs.
    
  