
    
      CURRARINO syndrome (CS) (OMIM 176450) is a rare congenital disease described in 1981, as the
      association of, at least, three main clinical features: typical sacral malformation
      (sickled-shape sacrum or total sacral agenesis below S2), hindgut anomalies and pre-sacral
      tumor. To date, neurological defects, as tethered cord and/or lipoma of the filum or the
      conus, are up lighted to be as a fourth major clinical sign.In half of cases, CS is ascribed
      to heterozygous mutations of the HLXB9 gene (or MNX1 gene, OMIM 142994) located at 7q36, with
      an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. The HLXB9 gene is involved in motoneurons and
      caudal development of the embryo. However, genetic heterogeneity is suspected, since patients
      without HLXB9 mutation harbour subtle phenotypic variations. Presently, no other locus has
      been identified. The pre-sacral tumor develops in almost 80% of CS. When it is a teratoma
      (30% of cases), it may turn into malignancy in 1 to 4 % of cases, according to literature. As
      far as we know, no clinical, molecular or pathological marker is operational to predict
      tumoral evolution and give any prognosis. Major aim of this study is to find out any
      correlation between clinical signs, constitutional and somatic genetic anomalies of HLXB9
      gene and other candidate genes, and/or pathological features and tumoral evolution in CS.
      Evaluation of the pre-sacral tumor evolution is based on local recurrence or distance
      metastasis after surgical removal. Annual serum alpha-foeto-protein level monitoring is also
      performed, as the unique marker of teratoma.This study specifically required annual clinical
      examination and lumbar-sacral MRI imaging, three blood samples at inclusion and an annual
      blood sample.This multicentric study will last for at least 6 years. Eighty patients will be
      included and follow up for at least 3 years. Finally, this study may help identify a group of
      at-risk patients for tumor development and malignant transformation if pre-sacral teratoma.
      It will also help define objective clinical, radiological, molecular, pathological and/or
      biological criteria for long lasting survey. In general, it may also contribute to support
      hypothesis of close relationships between genes involve in oncogenesis and those involve in
      embryological development.
    
  