
    
      Pre intervention screening: Each patient was screened by a clinical nurse specialist prior to
      participating in the study. Before baseline and post test the patient was screened by a
      research physiotherapist and/or human physiology students. If one of the following criteria
      were met, the patient was prohibited from being tested on that day: diastolic blood pressure
      <45 or >95, heart rate (HR) at rest >115/min, temperature > 38 0C, respiratory rate at rest
      >30/min, infection requiring treatment, fresh bleeding, total leucocyte count <1.0 109/L or
      platelets <50 109/L.

      Control - Usual care: The patients randomized to the control group received no training but
      conducted baseline and post test (6MWD, spirometry, VO2peak and questionnaires) just as the
      intervention group. Furthermore, patients in control were equipped with a Garmin vivo-smart
      HR® activity tracker every day in 24h during the course of radiotherapy treatment.

      Intervention - The patients randomized to the intervention group received daily training and
      conducted baseline and post test (6MWD, spirometry, VO2peak and questionnaires). Furthermore,
      patients were equipped with a Garmin vivo-smart HR® activity tracker every day in 24h during
      the course of radiotherapy treatment.

      The supervised daily training was carried out individually and each session had a duration of
      20 minutes before patients individual prescribed radiotherapy. Training was conducted at
      National Hospital of Denmark: Department of Radiation Oncology , section 3981, entry 39.
      supervised by a research physiotherapist and/or human physiology students.

      Statistical analysis sample size: According to the sample size the calculation is performed
      on the basis of alteration in VO2peak from the study "EXHALE" (55 patients who completed a 6
      weeks training period). The calculation is based on an increase of 200 ml/min in VO2peak for
      patients in the intervention group (SD = 2,48) and it is assumed that the patients in the
      control group will have a reduction of 100 ml/min (SD = 2,48). Assumptions for calculation of
      patient numbers are as follows: Type 1 error 0.05, type 2 error 0.20, SD 2.48.

      This leads to a total number of 24 patients (12 in each arm). A drop-out rate of 40% is
      included. Therefore another 16 patients is added, which gives a sample size of 40 patients
      (20 in each arm).

      Data entry is carried out in the Open Clinica and data analyses will be performed using the
      computer programs R-Studio/R and SPSS. Data from questionnaires will be analyzed by SPSS. All
      other data will be analyzed by R.

      Differences between groups will be analyzed by an unparried t-test whereas differences within
      groups will be analyzed by a parried t-test. All categorical data are analyzed using the
      Pearson χ2 tests. Other data (e.g., from questionnaires) are analyzed using logistic
      regression and chi square or Mantel Haenzel test. Significance level is set at 0.05.
    
  