
    
      Minimally invasive surgery is becoming a widely accepted method of surgery for many
      urological conditions. This includes both laparoscopy and robotic assisted laparoscopic
      surgery. In adult urology, there is discussion of laparoscopic pyeloplasty replacing open
      surgery as the gold standard in the treatment of ureteropelvic junction obstruction. Although
      at a slower rate, minimally invasive surgery is also becoming a standard method of treatment
      in the pediatric setting. Some urological surgeons are predicting that laparoscopy will
      become the standard of treatment in the straightforward pediatric nephrectomy. Benefits of
      laparoscopic surgery include improved cosmesis, reduced postoperative pain issues, and
      reduced length of stay. However, laparoscopic use for more delicate or complicated procedures
      has been limited due to 2-dimensional imaging, rigid non-articulating instruments, and the
      time and expense required for surgeons to master these techniques.

      The advent of robotic surgery minimizes or eliminates many of these issues. Hand and wrist
      movements with the robot more closely mimic the actual hand and wrist movements in open
      surgery. Three-dimensional imaging provides the surgeon with necessary depth perception,
      articulating instruments with six degrees of freedom allow the surgeon to tie knots and
      suture more easily, and the learning curve has been reduced. Robotic surgery has the added
      benefit over laparoscopy with the introduction of tremor-filtering instruments and movement
      scaling. As of 2006, there were about 400 robots worldwide, and most were used primarily for
      urological surgery.

      Currently, the most common procedure in pediatric robotic surgery is pyeloplasty, followed by
      fundoplication, and patent ductus arteriosus ligation. However, robotic surgery can be used
      in more difficult reconstructive surgeries, such as appendicovesicostomy and bladder
      augmentation in the pediatric population. The major impediment to widespread applications of
      minimally invasive surgery in pediatric procedures has been laparoscopic suturing. With
      increased accuracy, the advent of smaller instruments, and three-dimensional imaging,
      robotics is now a premier surgical advancement, and has allowed minimally invasive surgery to
      become a viable treatment method to a wider range of procedures and surgeons.

      The first report of pediatric robotic surgery was published in 2002 and described successful
      surgeries of fundoplication, cholecystectomy, and salpingoophorectomy using the da Vinci
      robotic system. Two recent literature reviews of pediatric robotic surgery report that the
      majority of studies published in this area are either case report or case series.6 , One of
      the systematic reports was published in Spanish, so only the translated abstract was
      available to this department. The second systematic review reported that as of October 2007,
      there were 31 studies published describing 566 patients. Only four studies were case control,
      comparing robotic surgery with either laparoscopic or open procedures. Two of these case
      control reports described robotic assisted pyeloplasty in children compared to open surgery.
      As can be seen from these meta-analysis, published studies on robotic surgery is in its
      infancy and additional studies are necessary.

      The purpose of this research is to provide a clearer understanding of the urology
      department's robotic pyeloplasty quality and outcomes measures. This will be accomplished by
      developing a database for research.

      Specific Aim 1: To consistently collect performance and outcomes data for robotic pyeloplasty
      procedures in order to increase internal understanding of these procedures.

      Specific Aim2: To consistently collect performance and outcomes data for robotic pyeloplasty
      procedures in order to perform more valuable clinical analysis for publication.

      Hypothesis will be defined before data analysis is performed. Amendments specifying future
      hypothesis will be submitted the IRB at the appropriate time.
    
  