
    
      The current study involving human subjects consists of a Randomized Controlled Trial to test
      the feasibility, effectiveness, and implementation of the TASC intervention as compared to a
      treatment as usual group. A total of up to 70 adolescents with moderate or severe persistent
      asthma between the ages of 12-18 years will be randomized to TASC (n=35) or treatment as
      usual (n = 35). After adolescent participants have met inclusion criteria, completed baseline
      assessments, and have been enrolled in the feasibility RCT, they will be randomized to either
      TASC or Treatment As Usual (TAU). Outcomes measures (adherence and disease severity) will be
      assessed at baseline, monthly during active treatment, and at post-treatment, with the
      primary endpoint being post-treatment. Participants will be enrolled in the study for a
      duration of six months. The TASC intervention will be delivered using technology so that
      participants do not need any resources to travel to appointments. Step 1 (Information) will
      include electronic educational information related to asthma symptoms and triggers, attacks,
      self-monitoring, treatments, action plans, and automated text message medication reminders.
      Step 1 will be provided to all adolescents. Adherence will be electronically monitored, but
      feedback will not be provided. Step 2 (Motivation) will include electronic monitoring of
      adherence and personally tailored feedback via text messages. Adolescents will be given
      access to the adherence tracking smartphone app and graphs of their inhaler adherence.
      Adolescents will also receive brief, personalized text messages that provide supportive
      motivation and directive, tangible actions. Step 3 (Behavioral) will include problem-solving
      telehealth intervention with a trained clinician. Four telehealth sessions individually
      tailored to the unique needs and barriers of the adolescent will be provided. These will be
      based on a functional analysis via objective adherence data, graphical feedback, and
      discussion of adherence patterns allowing for a comprehensive understanding of specific
      behavioral factors interfering with adherence. Behavioral treatment plans will be modified
      based on a patient's progress in treatmentand ability to achieve short-term adherence goals.
      Patients will also be contacted via text messaging to assess success with specific adherence
      plans between sessions based on objective data. This telehealth intervention will be
      delivered to adolescents' cell phones via video conferencing software.

      All participants will complete baseline questionnaires related to demographic, and clinical
      predictors of adherence and asthma. They will be randomized following completion of baseline
      measures. Inhaler adherence caps will also be provided to all participants and utilized for 2
      months without feedback to obtain baseline adherence. In addition, all participants receive a
      mobile spirometer to track their lung function throughout the study. The spirometer connects
      to an app via Bluetooth. This app allows the participant to perform pulmonary function tests
      (PFTs) and view the results of these tests, such as their forced expiratory volume (FEV1) as
      well as other lung function parameters. All participants will be asked to use the spirometer
      at least once a month when completing study visits over the phone with a study team member.
      Following the baseline visit, an 8 week run-in phase will be completed to assess baseline
      adherence using electronic inhaler monitoring. After obtaining 4 weeks of adherence data, the
      coordinator will call the participants in TASC and TAU for their first monthly phone call.
      After an additional 4 weeks of adherence data, the coordinator will call the participants in
      the TASC and TAU for their second monthly phone call. The coordinator will calculate baseline
      adherence and obtain data for asthma severity and asthma control for TASC and TAU
      participants. For TASC participants only, the coordinator will introduce Step 1 of the
      intervention for all participants. Adherence checks will continue to occur every four weeks
      for the duration of the study for all participants and adherence <68% will prompt movement
      from one level of treatment to the next for TASC participants only. The study coordinator
      will calculate TASC participant's adherence percentage prior to the monthly telephone call.
      During the call, the coordinator will tell the participant if they will get moved up to the
      next step and explain what they will be doing during that step. TASC participants may remain
      at a treatment level for more than four weeks and may complete 1, 2, or 3 interventions steps
      during the 5 month study depending on the adolescent's adherence. Brief measures will be
      completed by all participants online via REDCap. Participant specific data such as asthma
      severity, lung function, and adherence will be collected through the mobile phone application
      and via telephone. Clinical chart reviews will be conducted by study staff to provide an
      accurate estimate of lung function and disease severity from the date of consent to the end
      of study date.
    
  