
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled in Part 1 of
      the study, and up to 24 participants will be enrolled in Part 2.

      All participants will receive the same dose of pembrolizumab.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle is 21 days.

      You will receive pembrolizumab by vein over about 30 minutes on Day 1 of every Cycle.

      Length of Study:

      You may take the study drug for up to 2 years. You will no longer be able to take the study
      drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Your participation in this study will be over after the follow-ups.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each Cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4-6 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. At Cycle 1, this blood
           sample will also be used for antibody testing. Antibodies are created by the immune
           system and may attack foreign cells or substances, such as the study drug.

      Every 6 weeks, you will have an MRI and/or CT scan to check the status of the disease.

      End of Dosing Visits:

      After you stop receiving the study drug, and then again 30 days after that:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If it has been more than 8 weeks since your last scan, you may have an MRI and/or CT
           scan.

      Follow-Up:

      If you stopped receiving the study drug for reasons other than the disease getting worse, you
      will continue to have MRI and/or CT scans every 6 weeks. After 1 year, this will be reduced
      to every 9 weeks. These scans will continue unless the disease gets worse or you start a new
      anti-cancer therapy.

      You will be called every 3 months for up to 3 years and asked about any cancer treatments you
      may be receiving. This phone call should take about 10 minutes.

      Your medical record will also be reviewed every 8 weeks to check for changes in your health.

      Re-Treatment:

      If the disease appears to be getting worse or the tumors appear to be getting larger after
      you stop study treatment, you may still be able to receive the study drug if you and your
      doctor decide it is in your best interest. Sometimes the disease appears to get worse but the
      study drug is actually working.

      However, there are risks of continuing to receive the study drug because the disease may
      actually be getting worse. You are still at risk for side effects due to the study drug. This
      could also delay starting other treatments. The disease may get worse to the point that you
      are no longer able to receive other treatments.

      If you choose to receive the study drug after the disease gets worse, you will continue to
      have study visits as described above. The study doctor will discuss this option with you.
    
  