
    
      At term 2 to 3% of singleton pregnancies are in breech presentation. Many of these deliveries
      are managed by cesarean delivery due to higher neonatal morbidity associated with vaginal
      breech delivery. However, cesarean delivery, the safer option for the baby, is associated
      with a higher incidence of maternal complications for both the current and subsequent
      pregnancies. External cephalic version (ECV) is a procedure commonly used to attempt to
      manually rotate the fetus into vertex position. This facilitates vaginal delivery and thus
      avoids higher maternal and/or neonatal complications. (Hofmeyr Cochrane Review) Obstetricians
      generally perform versions after 36 weeks gestational age with a reportable success rate of
      50-80%, depending on several factors, including patient characteristics. (Fortunato, Zhang,
      ACOG 1997 ECV) The most common technique involves external manipulation of the fetal position
      preceded by pharmacologic uterine relaxation. Until recently, pain relief was generally
      provided in the form of intravenous opioids such as fentanyl. A more efficacious form of
      analgesia is the use of neuraxial opioids and local anesthetics (neuraxial analgesia), a
      technique commonly used for labor and delivery analgesia.

      Two non-randomized studies of neuraxial analgesia compared to systemic analgesia found
      improved success of external cephalic version in the neuraxial analgesia groups.(Carlan,
      Birnbach) Three randomized trials have conflicting results: 2 demonstrate an increase in
      success, one shows no difference. (Dugoff, Schorr, Mancuso) None of these studies have
      blinded the obstetrician performing the version. In 2010, Lavoie and colleagues completed a
      meta-analysis looking at ECV performed under analgesic and anesthetic neuraxial doses. The
      analgesic dose included spinal bupivacaine and epidural dosing. The anesthestic groups gave
      higher doses of spinal or epidural bupivacaine. This meta-analysis suggested that those
      patients who had received an anesthetic dose of had more successful ECV. All published
      studies examining pain outcomes have demonstrated that neuraxial analgesia results in greater
      patient comfort during this procedure.

      The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) has stated, "Currently there
      is not enough evidence to make a recommendation favoring or opposing anesthesia during ECV
      (external cephalic version) attempts."
    
  