
    
      Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is one of the most common infectious diseases in the
      emergency department (ED). In Denmark, the incidence of hospitalization is 809 per 100,000
      and 30-day mortality is 13%. In 2018, 29.5 per 100.000 people died of pneumonia. An increase
      from 27.7 per 100,000 in 2017. CAP is usually suspected in patients with dyspnea, cough and
      fever, without other probable explanations or when other differential diagnosis is less
      likely. However often patients present with vague and uncharacteristic symptoms such as
      altered state of consciousness, gastrointestinal symptoms or pain. Likewise is fever not
      always present in the elderly. The most common CAP pathogens are Streptococcus pneumoniae,
      Haemophilus influenzae, and gram-negative bacilli. Other notable microbiological pathogens
      include viruses such as Influenza, COVID-19, parainfluenza and respiratory syncytial virus.
      Viruses are associated with bacterial co-infections, leading to increase mortality and
      complications such as admission to the ICU. Normally, when a pulmonary infection is
      suspected, a chest X-ray is performed. Chest x-rays have a sensitivity of 43,5% (39,4-50,8)
      and a specificity of 93% (92.1-93.9) for pulmonary opacities compared to CT. A chest x-ray
      has a sensitivity of 79% for pneumonia. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the thorax has
      higher diagnostic precision and results improve management but result in a correspondingly
      increased amount of radiation compared to chest X-ray. An ultra-low-dose CT (ULD-CT) scan of
      the thorax may be an alternative to CT scan. ULD-CT has a radiation dose of approx. 1.5 times
      greater than the radiation dose of a chest X-ray and approx. 1.5% of a CT scan. ULD-CT has
      shown better image quality than chest X-ray, and for acutely admitted patients with dyspnea,
      it has a clinical effect on both diagnosis and treatment. Like chest X-rays, basic findings
      on ULD-CT of the thorax can be interpreted by trained clinicians.

      Ultrasound is a fast non-invasive diagnostic test, without radiation. LUS has high
      sensitivity and specificity, with the area under ROC (AUC) of 0.95-0.98 for pneumonia. A
      meta-study for the use of LUS in the diagnosis of pneumonia in the ED has shown a sensitivity
      of 92% (87-96%) and a specificity of 94% (87-97%). AUC was calculated at 0.97. The ultrasound
      operators in the meta-study were all experienced ultrasound operators. Ultrasound is an
      operator-dependent tool and in children, it has been demonstrated that LUS diagnostic
      accuracy for pneumonia, is significantly lower when performed by a novice sonographer
      compared to an advanced sonographer. There are few if any studies that have investigated the
      diagnostic accuracy of novice LUS operator, in the ED, for pneumonia.

      Study goals and objectives The project is divided into two, a ULD-CT study and an LUS study.
      The study will aim to investigate their diagnostic capabilities in at emergency department
      setting.

      The main objective of the ULD-CT study is to investigate and answer:

        -  Can ULD-CT be used to diagnose pneumonia in the emergency department?

        -  How is the agreement between the results from ULD-CT and results from HR-CT

        -  Is ULDCT more sensitive and specific than standard chest x-ray in the diagnosis of
           pneumonia?

      The investigators hypothesize that ULD-CT can be used in the evaluation of patients with
      pneumonia and the sensitivity, specificity and area under the curve (AUC ) of ULD-CT is
      higher than a chest x-ray. The null-hypothesis is that ULD-CT is not an accurate diagnostic
      tool for pneumonia in the emergency department.

      The main objective of the LUS study is to investigate and answer:

        -  Can LUS be used to diagnose pneumonia in the emergency department, with newly certified
           LUS operators?

        -  How is the agreement between the results from LUS and the results from HR-CT

        -  Is LUS more sensitive and specific than standard chest x-ray in the diagnosis of
           pneumonia?

      The investigators hypothesize that LUS can be used in the evaluation of patients with
      pneumonia by recently certified operators and the sensitivity, specificity and AUC of LUS is
      higher than chest x-ray in an emergency department setting. The null-hypothesis is that LUS
      performed by recently certified operators is not an accurate diagnostic tool for pneumonia in
      the emergency department.
    
  