
    
      The primary objective of the project is to develop a valid, reliable, better standardized and
      more efficient test of visual acuity for use in clinical trials. Accuracy, precision,
      stability, and utility of the test will be assessed for non-inferiority with Early Treatment
      for Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) protocol, the gold standard for acuity testing in
      clinical trials.

      The experimental protocol (EVA-MOBS {Electronic Visual Acuity - Modified Binary Search})
      utilizes a testing strategy that would appear to increase the efficiency and standardization
      of acuity threshold determination. A more efficient test is justified on the basis of
      reducing subject burden. Increased measurement efficiency may also reduce both subject- and
      tester-based bias, while allowing a better means to assess measurement stability through the
      collection of repeated measures data.

      As part of the standard eye examination, replicated visual acuity assessments will be made
      during regularly-scheduled Clinic visits. Up to 500 opportunistically-sampled subjects from
      the National Eye Institute will be tested both with the ETDRS and EVA-MOBS protocols over a
      12 month study period. Similar testing will take place at two other institutions (Devers Eye
      Institute, Portland, OR; The Retina Foundation of the Southwest, Dallas, TX) and the data
      from all three institutions will be combined and analyzed at the JAEB Center (Tampa, FL).
      Subjects will range in age from 7 years to 90 years and will be classified by clinical
      diagnosis (normal, high refractive error, age-related macular degeneration, cataract, optic
      nerve abnormality, corneal abnormality, uveitis, glaucoma, retinal/choroid abnormality,
      amblyopia and other criteria). First, those with poor acuity will be oversampled by
      increasing the chance that they will be selected for this testing. Second, patients will only
      be selected for this extra testing if it will not seriously delay clinic operations on any
      given day. Order of acuity test type will be randomized. It is estimated that up to 10
      patients per day can have this testing performed without compromising clinic operations.

      The experimental protocol runs on a Palm handheld that is used to provide instructions to the
      tester, record the subject's responses, and communicate with a PC/monitor at a test distance
      of 3 meters. Stimuli are high contrast black-and-white ETDRS letters presented on an ultra
      high resolution FD Trinitron monitor, that subtend 2.5 to 200 min of arc; each letter appears
      in isolation under equiluminant conditions, and is flanked with black bars to simulate visual
      crowding.

      Acuity scores will be compared, with the ETDRS score serving as the reference standard.
      Stability of the acuity estimates from the EVA-MOBS protocol will be assessed with data from
      repeated measures. A short questionnaire will be administered, following the last acuity
      test, to determine whether a test type preference exists.

      If results indicate that the protocol is well tolerated by clinical populations and that
      thresholds are accurate, precise, and stable, the method will be standardized for use in
      future trials. Use of stimuli to test visual resolution acuity, such as the Landolt-C, may
      subsequently be evaluated.
    
  