
    
      The intervention will consist of a combination of individual and group-based sessions in
      which the youth will participate. This combination allows for more intensive individualized
      attention as well as supportive group sessions. Youth will first participate in two
      individual sessions, followed by nine group sessions, and end with one additional individual
      session.

      Individual Session I: Orientation I

      Part A - meet with interventionist for ecological assessment, rapport building, and
      preparation for meeting with medical provider Part B - meet with medical provider to answer
      HIV specific medical questions (i.e., transmission information, viral load/t-cells,
      opportunistic infections,etc.). The interventionist will be present in Part B as well.

      Individual Session II: Orientation II

      Part A - meet with interventionist for continued debriefing, question/answer, preparation for
      group participation.

      Part B - meet with peer facilitator to discuss individual experiences living with HIV,
      rapport building, peer-specific questions. The interventionist will be present in Part B as
      well.

      Individual session III: Wrap-up and Action Planning (to take place after group sessions are
      complete)

      Part A - action plan with linkage to identified agencies via facilitated referrals Part B -
      (optional) support building - participants may bring parents, partner, friend, or other
      potential source of support for question/answer session with interventionist

      Session I: Developing Group Cohesion

      - Icebreaker, team building, group rules, facilitation of group "ownership" by participants.

      Session II: Disclosure, Stigma & Relationships

        -  Disclosure to family, friends, peers and co-workers as well as dealing with stigma
           associated with HIV/AIDS;

        -  Concerns about current or future romantic and/or sexual relationships, including
           discussion of safer sex, condom use, sero-discordant couples.

      Session III: Preparing for Medical Intervention

      - Working with medical providers, an overview of clinic appointments and expectations
      surrounding attendance, a preliminary discussion of medications, side effects, and medical
      management as well as strategies for adherence.

      Session IV: Healthy Living

        -  Issues related to drugs and alcohol;

        -  Leisure activities such as sports and entertainment;

        -  Self-care including nutrition and exercise;

        -  The importance of school and work.

      Session V: Stress Reduction/Relaxation & Spirituality

        -  Techniques including deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, visualization,
           meditation and self-hypnosis;

        -  Self-care including complimentary therapies such as massage and acupuncture

        -  Spirituality;

        -  Planning social outings and activities.

      Session VI: Gender Specific

        -  Males: issues surrounding sexuality and sexual orientation, male role of caring for
           self, loved ones, and the community;

        -  Females: issues surrounding sexuality, pregnancy and parenting, female role of caring
           for self, loved ones, and the community.

      Session VII: Self-Esteem/Self-Worth

      - Strategies to improve self-esteem and self-worth;

      Session VIII: Legal Issues/Advocacy

        -  Legal rights and advocacy;

        -  Linkage to community advocacy groups;

        -  Preparing to become a speaker/advocate;

        -  Health insurance/life insurance.

      Session IX: Future Planning

      - Planning for the future including issues related to work and school (e.g., job application
      process, applying for financial aid), job training and career choices.
    
  