
    
      This cross sectional study was approved by the research and ethics committees in both
      institutional and national levels. This project was registered under National Medical
      Research Register (NMRR), Ministry of Health Malaysia.

      Patients who underwent MAC from July 2015 - June 2017 in Hospital Kuala Lumpur (HKL) were
      recruited. In order to standardize surgical technique and reduce confounding factors, case
      selection was only limited to unilateral MAC. Other breast cancer surgeries, such as wide
      local excision, modified radical mastectomy (MRM) and lumpectomy, were excluded. Patients
      with the following characteristics and problems were excluded from our study - past history
      of chronic pain and on regular analgesics, chemotherapy or radiotherapy before surgery,
      surgical complications (such as infection or wound breakdown) or cancer recurrence, history
      of psychiatric illness, inability to be contacted, inability or unwillingness to participate
      in the study.

      There is currently no standard definition for this chronic pain syndrome. Depending on the
      definitions applied, patient selection and methods used, the incidence varies. The definition
      of PMPS used in this study was modified from International Association for the Study of
      Pain19 (IASP) and other studies.9,20 In our study, PMPS is taken as chronic post surgical
      pain in the anterior aspect of the thorax, axilla, and/or upper half of the arm beginning
      after mastectomy, without objective evidence of local abnormality, persisting either
      continuously or intermittently for more than three months after surgery, and may be
      associated with allodynia or sensory loss.

      Questionnaire used in this study was obtained with permission from Dr Manoj Kumar Karmakar,
      the author of a previous study on the effect of thoracic paravertebral block (TPVB) on
      chronic pain post mastectomy.21 It was prepared in both English and Malay versions (Appendix
      1) to cater for our local population. The English version was translated to Malay using
      forward and retrograde translation methods to check the reliability and precision of the
      words by four independent translators who were bicultural Malay speakers with a good command
      of English. The translation was further evaluated by a panel of experts in the field of
      Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management to verify the idiomatic and cross-cultural
      equivalence to the English version. Seven respondents were then recruited to assess face
      validity of the questionnaire. Repeat evaluation was done until respondents understood all
      the questions in the process of content validation. No modification was needed as the first
      draft of questionnaire was well understood by all respondents. Internal consistency
      reliability and construct validation was done using Cronbach's alpha, Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin
      (KMO) test and Bartlett's test of sphericity.22 The KMO value of 0.56 and the significant
      Bartlett's test of sphericity (P< 0.001) in this validation was acceptable. Cronbach's alpha
      was 0.736, indicating good internal consistency.

      Personal details, medical history and contact number of all patients who underwent MAC within
      the specified period were collected from patient's medical records with the permission from
      the Head of Breast and Endocrine Unit, Department of General Surgery, HKL. Each patient who
      fulfilled the selection criteria was assigned a study number and grouped into either
      conventional analgesic therapy (Group A) or Pecs II block (Group B).

      All patients included in this study had undergone MAC under GA with regular method of
      induction and maintenance inhalational anesthesia. Those who received Pecs II block had the
      procedure done before induction of anesthesia by a team of experienced regional
      anesthesiologists. Both groups received appropriate doses of opioid and nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) for intraoperative analgesia. Post operatively, all patients
      received standardized oral analgesics for pain control.

      The survey was conducted by a single investigator. Recruited patients were seen in the
      surgical outpatient clinic to obtain consent and complete the questionnaire. Patients who
      were not seen in the clinic were contacted by telephone to obtain verbal consent and answer
      the questionnaire according to the template prepared (Appendix 2). A series of questions
      related to chronic pain of PMPS were asked as per questionnaire.

      Using Krejcie and Morgan formula,24 sample size was calculated based on the incidence of
      PMPS, which was our primary outcome variable. Published data showed that the incidence of
      PMPS ranges from 11% to 60%.7-10 With expected incidence of 60%, using 2 proportions sample
      test, we calculated that a minimum of 95 patients per study group would provide 80% power (α
      = 0.05).

      Data were analyzed using SPSS version 23.0 software. Continuous variables are presented as
      mean ± standard deviations or median (interquartile range) where appropriate. Categorical
      data is shown as numbers and percentages. Comparison of continuous data between groups was
      performed by Student's
    
  