
    
      The treatment of proximal hamstrings avulsions is controversial and patients with this injury
      will get treatment recommendations based not on scientific evidence but on personal
      preferences of their surgeon. The literature is totally devoid of studies comparing the two
      treatment options; non-operative and operative treatment. In Sweden, it is probably more
      common to treat these injuries nonoperatively. This is in contrast to existing literature
      that suggests that better outcomes are expected with operative treatment. However, there is a
      very clear publication bias in the literature. In fact, of the more than 40 published
      clinical studies, only a handful mentions the results of non-operatively treated injuries.

      In a systematic review examining 13 original studies, patient satisfaction ranged from 88% to
      100% after surgical treatment. In nine of the studies strength of hamstrings were reported
      and ranged from 78% to 101% of the uninjured side. However, residual pain is common, ranging
      from 8 to 61% in a group of 203 patients and in a recent unpublished study the lower
      extremity functional score were similar in patients treated by either modality. Additionally,
      serious nerve injuries after surgery have been reported and infection, anchor failure and
      re-rupture occur. The reoperation rate in a study by Sarimo et al. was 12%.

      This study is a prospective, multicentre, preference-tolerant, randomized controlled trial
      comparing operative to non-operative treatment of proximal hamstrings avulsions. The study
      will include a concurrent prospective cohort observational study.

      The eligible study population will consist of patients with an acute, avulsion of hamstrings
      tendons diagnosed in a hospital in Sweden, Norway or Finland and subsequently referred to one
      of the study sites. All patients fulfilling the inclusion and not meeting the exclusion
      criteria will be asked to participate in the study. After the patient´s enrolment has been
      confirmed and informed consent is obtained a set of questionnaires is provided for background
      data on medical history, activity levels and a recall assessment of the pre-injury functional
      status. When these questionnaires are completed, the patient is randomized.

      If the patient is randomized to non-operative treatment an appointment with a physiotherapist
      follows and the study rehabilitation protocol is explained. If the patient is randomized to
      surgery, the procedure is scheduled at the earliest convenient time but no later than 2 weeks
      from inclusion. The surgical procedure and rehabilitation protocol is standardized among
      sites. The same rehabilitation protocol is used for both treatment groups.

      Participation in this study will last 24 months. In-person participant follow-up visits will
      occur at enrollment (baseline), at-surgery, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months
      post-surgery. Data for outcomes and radiographs will be collected at follow-up visit.
    
  