
    
      Diabetes impairs immune defenses such that the ability to fight wound infection is weakened.
      Thus, infection is a major problem in diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) . Biofilms are estimated to
      account for 60% of chronic wound infections6. In biofilm bacteria are encased within extra
      polymeric substance (EPS) and become recalcitrant to antimicrobials and host defenses.In the
      biofilm form, bacteria may not form colony. Thus, standard clinical techniques like CFU to
      detect infection may not detect biofilm infection. Thus, biofilm infection may be viewed as a
      silent threat in wound care. Using a preclinical swine model of mixed species wound biofilm
      infection, we struck an unusual observation. Although biofilm infection may or may not
      influence the rate of wound closure as measured by standard planimetry, it inevitably
      compromises the functional property of the repaired skin. The wound may close as evaluated
      visually, but that closed wound lacks barrier function. Such pathology is caused by the
      perturbation of epithelial junctional proteins in response to biofilm infection. While
      detecting the biofilm directly is readily not possible at present in the wound clinics,
      compromised barrier function of the repaired skin can be detected at the point of care of the
      measurement of trans-epidermal water loss (TEWL). This pilot study, we propose, many DFUs
      that are currently served with a CLOSED clinical decision may have had a history of biofilm
      infection and therefore remained functionally open.

      Considering that such incomplete wound closure may have a higher risk of wound recidivism, it
      becomes critically important that wound closure decisions be guided by functional tests in
      addition to factors currently considered. Importantly, substantial change in health impact
      may be achieved by a simple functional test as implemented by the measurement of trans
      epidermal water loss (TEWL). TEWL can be performed by clinical staff at the point of care
      within 15 minutes with minimum training using inexpensive hand- held pen like commercial
      gadgets approved for clinical use.
    
  