
    
      Although conventionally fractionated radiation therapy has been utilized for decades, the
      rates of complete pain relief and local control for complex tumors are sub-optimal. The
      management of patients with spine metastasis has undergone a great deal of change in the past
      5 years. Improvements in neuroimaging, computer-assisted treatment planning, and radiation
      therapy techniques have led to the development of extracranial radiosurgery.

      SSRS is rapidly being adopted in the clinic as preliminary applications of SSRS appears
      promising. However, the role of SSRS remains in its infancy and lacked high-quality evidence
      about the treatment schedule and lacked a solid understanding of the adverse events. The
      Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 0631 phase 2/3 study was initiated to determine
      whether a more intensive radiation dose delivered by image guided 16-Gy dose single fraction
      SRS could improve pain control and quality of life as compared with conventional
      external-beam radiotherapy in patients with localized spine metastases . While other group
      used treatment schedule in a total dose of 27-30 Gy in three fractions.

      Serious adverse events such as vertebral compression fracture (VCF) is a fairly low-risk
      adverse event after conventional radiotherapy, nevertheless, the crude risk estimates for VCF
      after spinal stereotactic body radiation therapy is relative more frequent. Previous reports
      has raised the caution about the given dose and predictive factors, however; whether these
      two most widely used SSRS schedule (ie. single fraction versus three fractions) provide
      equivalent pain control and minimal side effects remained to be answered.

      There was no randomized trials to assess the SSRS treatment response and SSRS induced grade 3
      or higher adverse events between the two most widely adopted scheme. Thus, the investigators
      proposed the randomized study to determine the feasibility of delivering a single 16-Gy SRS
      dose versus 3 fractions 24-Gy SRS dose and tried to evaluate the toxicity profile and gain
      robust data as well as predictive factors regarding the risk of complications after SSRS,
      including VCF. The investigators will incorporate the recently developed and reported
      reliable Spinal Instability Neoplastic Scoring (SINS) system and well-designed patient
      reported outcome measures (PROMs) into the protocol to predict the adverse event and quality
      of life of each participant. The researchers also tried to investigate the possible
      associations of the potential bone biomarkers for the risk assessment of SSRS-related adverse
      bone events.

      Since the patients were randomized for treatment arms, the effectiveness of SSRS treatment
      scheme and adverse profile can be investigated more properly in the present study.
    
  