
    
      Rationale:

      Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is the leading cause of death worldwide. To improve
      cardiovascular care, research is needed. Current guidelines are mainly based on well
      controlled RCT's, though evaluation of the impact of such RCT's in the real world is missing.
      Different clinical settings, non-ideal therapy adherence and broader patient populations in
      the real world than those studied in traditional RCTs may however provide different results.
      Furthermore, RCTs are intrinsically limited to answer questions about a specific population
      of interest, require substantial resource investments and may have limitations in
      investigating certain issues for ethical reasons.

      In order to evaluate the impact and to overcome certain limitations of RCT's, a more
      practical approach is required. In this sense the use of nonrandomized observational studies
      is an important tool for determining the effectiveness of a therapy in routine clinical
      practice. One way to gain insight in characteristics of patients presenting in daily clinical
      practice, is to simply register these characteristics in a prospective manner with adequate
      follow up. These characteristics may include clinical parameters but also possibly genetic
      information. Such a detailed registry is now possible due to improvements in information
      technology, as electronic patient records permit more (semi-) automatic and uniform capture
      of clinical parameters and outcomes. While observational studies may often be limited in
      their ability to account for confounding and bias due to patient selection, recent evidence
      has shown that by careful use of advanced statistical analytical methods and open reporting
      paradigms the quality of the level of evidence is excellent.

      Objectives:

        1. To create a database for future research, especially in the view of personalized
           medicine, and quality of care.

        2. To evaluate clinical long-term impact of medication, devices and diagnostic tools used
           for patients with an ACS.

        3. To test the efficacy and safety of any new drug/device versus the current treatment and
           the results of any drug/device in daily practice versus in trials

        4. To evaluate routine follow-up and current health-care pathways in patients with acute
           coronary syndrome in the Dutch healthcare system in terms of mortality, recurrent
           ischemic events, recurrent hospital admissions and quality of life

        5. To evaluate the use of risk scores (e.g. PRECISE-DAPT score, DAPT-score) to define the
           optimal duration of antiplatelet drugs

        6. To evaluate follow-up of patients referred to general practitioners as compared to of
           patients continued to be treated by cardiologists

        7. To increase adherence to current guidelines, taking into account the ongoing
           improvements of modern patient care and future changes of treatment guidelines in
           patients with ACS in order to improve secondary prevention in terms of reducing
           recurrent ischemic events and preventing adverse outcomes, such as bleeding
    
  