
    
      Background:

      Remote ischaemic conditioning (RIC) using transient limb ischaemia and reperfusion has been
      shown to reduce myocardial infarct size in animal studies and small proof-of-concept clinical
      studies in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients. However, RIC failed
      to improve clinical outcomes in the large European CONDI-2/ERIC-PPCI multi-centre randomised
      clinical trial. Potential reasons for this failure include the low-risk patients recruited
      into the study and the fact that patients received timely and optimal reperfusion therapy by
      primary percutaneous coronary intervention. The RIC-AFRICA trial will investigate whether RIC
      can improve clinical outcomes in higher-risk STEMI patients treated by thrombolysis in
      sub-Saharan Africa.

      Study design:

      The RIC-AFRICA study is a sub-Saharan Africa multi-centre, randomised sham-controlled
      clinical trial. The investigators aim to recruit 1200 adult STEMI patients who are both
      eligible (<12 hours chest pain onset) or ineligible (>12 hours but <24 hours chest pain
      onset) for thrombolytic therapy via 18 sites across South Africa, Sudan, Kenya and Uganda.
      Patients will be randomised to receive either RIC or sham control initiated prior to
      thrombolysis and applied daily for the next 2 days. The RIC protocol will comprise four
      5-minute cycles of inflation (to 20mmHg above systolic blood pressure) and deflation of an
      automated pneumatic cuff placed on the upper arm. The sham control protocol will comprise
      four 5-minute cycles of low-pressure inflation (to 20mmHg) and deflation by a visually
      identical pneumatic cuff. The primary composite endpoint will be all-cause death and
      new-onset heart failure at 30-days post STEMI.

      Implications:

      The RIC-AFRICA trial will determine whether RIC can reduce rates of death and prevent heart
      failure in higher-risk STEMI patients treated by thrombolytic therapy in sub-Saharan Africa,
      thereby potentially providing a low-cost, non-invasive therapy for improving health outcomes.
    
  