
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the most common cardiac arrhythmia, complications of AF
      such as stroke, thromboembolism and heart failure will bring high disable rate and mortality
      , which will be serious influence on people's health and aggrandize medical financial burden,
      however, treatment for AF is not ideal. The affection of traditional antiarrhythmia drugs is
      not enough good, due to extra-heart bad reaction and potential arrhythmogenic substrate
      function restricted; rate control strategy applied quite abroad, however, anticoagulated
      medicine were not applied enough, Radiofrequency catheter ablation of AF has developed
      rapidly in recent years, But it's station is also disputed and its success rate is low and
      recrudescence is very high. meanwhile, serious complications will be caused. So far,
      hypertension is the most risk factor of AF. Long-term hypertension will change left-ventricle
      structure, through variability of pressure loading and capacity loading, damage diastolic
      function of left-ventricle. Increase of diastolic pressure in left-ventricle and atrial
      pressure will gradually result in atrial enlargement and fibrosis, so it will cause atrial
      fibrillation, repeating paroxysm or slow maintaining. Investigation indicated
      anti-hypertension therapy can decrease occurrence ratio and reoccurrence ratio of AF.
      Recently, many clinical researches have verified that renal sympathetic denervation acquired
      exact and sustained hypotension effect, In addition, Renal sympathetic denervation can reduce
      left ventricular hypertrophy, improve glucose metabolization and obstructive sleep,
      meanwhile, it reduce the level of nonepinephrine for both partial and whole-body. While left
      ventricle hypertrophy, left atrium enlarge，epinephrine over release itself and breath sleep
      obstacle are the independent dangerous factors of emerging AF. So ,we design this randomized
      parallel control multi center clinical study to demonstrate that renal sympathetic
      denervation is a safe and effective treatment for patients with hypertension and paroxysmal
      atrial fibrillation.
    
  