
    
      An increasing number of elderly women are undergoing surgical treatment for pelvic organ
      prolapse (POP). Based on US Census data1 and the estimated prevalence of pelvic organ
      prolapse in women 60 and over, an estimated 1.6 million women over 60 are currently affected
      with pelvic organ prolapse (POP). This number is expected to increase to 3.4 million by 2050.
      Prior studies show that geriatric patients have unique physiologic vulnerability, and elderly
      women undergoing surgery are at risk for worse post-operative outcomes than younger women.
      However, data from the urogynecology literature are conflicting. Some studies show an
      increased risk for complications as women age while other studies show no significant
      increased risk. Other evidence suggests that elderly women still are below their baseline
      quality-of-life status 6 weeks post-operatively. Return to baseline functional status at 6
      weeks post-operatively was not improved when these women were randomized to enhanced
      pre-operative geriatric assessment versus routine care. These studies were limited by low
      numbers of very old women and women undergoing obliterative surgery, usually recommended for
      women with higher co-morbidities and lower functional status.

      Post-operative outcomes have been traditionally measured in terms of medically documented
      complications such as infection, organ injury, cardiac and pulmonary complications. However,
      studies from other surgical specialties suggest that older subjects undergoing surgery can
      suffer from significant worsening of functional status resulting in disability, need for
      long-term care, and dependency at home. Objective markers of functional status, co-morbidity
      and frailty are potential useful predictors of post-operative complications following surgery
      in the elderly. However, there is lack of data on the functional status of elderly women
      undergoing POP surgery, as well as on factors influencing recovery from surgery. The goal of
      our study is to explore the utility of pre-operative markers of functional status,
      co-morbidities and frailty to explain post-operative morbidities in elderly women undergoing
      surgical treatment for pelvic organ prolapse.
    
  