
    
      Many bone marrow failure syndromes in humans are now recognized to result from immunological
      mechanisms. These diseases include aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia, and some types of
      myelodysplasia. Patients with these conditions, who may suffer variable degrees of anemia,
      leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia, alone or in combination, have been shown to respond to a
      wide variety of immunosuppressive agents, ranging from corticosteroids to cyclosporine (CsA)
      and horse antithymocyte globulin (h-ATG). However, non-response and relapse continues to be a
      problem. Why some patients do not respond initially or others respond and then relapse is
      unclear. Autoreactive T cells may be resistant to the effect of h-ATG/CsA (non-responders),
      while in others, residual autoreactive T cells expand post-treatment leading to hematopoietic
      stem cell destruction and recurrent pancytopenia (relapse). Therefore, novel, less toxic
      immunosuppressive regimens that increase response rates and hematologic recovery and decrease
      relapse rates are needed.

      One such novel therapy, alemtuzumab (Campath[R]) is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody
      directed against the CD52 protein, which is highly expressed on all lymphoid cells and
      monocytes. Alemtuzumab (Campath[R]), produces profound and persistent lymphopenia, affecting
      predominantly the CD4+ T cell subset. This property has made it attractive in the treatment
      of a wide range of diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, ocular
      inflammatory disease, lymphoid malignancies, organ allograft rejection, and in conditioning
      regimens in stem cell transplantation to prevent graft failure and graft-versus-host disease.

      We therefore propose a non-randomized, off label, pilot, Phase I/II study of alemtuzumab
      (Campath) in MDS patients who are likely to respond to immunosuppression.

      Primary endpoints will be changes in peripheral blood counts (platelets, absolute neutrophil
      count, reticulocyte count, hemoglobin). Secondary endpoints (in transfusion-dependent
      patients) include improvement in the transfusion requirements (measured as decrease in the
      number of transfusion administered on as needed basis), duration of response, late effects of
      treatment, relapse and survival.
    
  