
    
      As part of improving the quality of care, the paramedic team has developed an evaluation grid
      quantitative parameters of the early warning score, the Glasgow Coma Score modified and signs
      suggestive of hepatic encephalopathy.A course of action was later formalized as a function of
      score when using the grid monitoring.

      The aim of the study is to demonstrate that the standardization of monitoring by a
      quantitative evaluation grid reduces the complications of hepatic encephalopathy. For this,
      investigator's team will study a before / after standardization by comparing two groups of
      patients, ICU liver - digestive BEAUJON hospital, and suffering from hepatic encephalopathy
      associated with liver cirrhosis and therapeutic care project formalized. For the first group
      have been no specific nursing practice, investigator's team will take a retrospective study.
      For the second group have been monitoring a standard, investigator's team will take a
      prospective study.

      The total number of patients in each group will be 121 a total of 242. The frequency of
      pneumonia is the primary outcome. Secondary endpoints were the occurrence of ventilatory
      disorders, the presence of shock and premature death of the patient during his
      hospitalization. investigator's team will compare the frequency of occurrence of these
      complications in both groups.

      Data will be collected using a questionnaire based on information from the software and
      GILDAE DXCARE.

      The prospective study will last 26 months. For the retrospective study, the MSI will publish
      a list of all patients meeting the inclusion criteria and ICU liver - digestive in the 26
      months preceding the start of the study.

      The interest of this work is to formalize an objective tool for assessing hepatic
      encephalopathy and improve communication among caregivers.
    
  