
    
      BACKGROUND: Despite improvements in detection and treatment, a cancer diagnosis is appraised
      as a negative event not only by the person diagnosed, but also by their family caregivers.
      Cancer is the second most common condition in Canada requiring assistance from caregivers,
      and caregivers are now taking on more than ever complex illness management roles
      traditionally performed by health care professionals (HCPs). This is in part attributed to
      the cost containment climate of the current health care system; there is an increased
      reliance on community-based care to manage the burden of cancer care on formal care settings.
      Caregivers' support reduces demands on the formal health care system and positively impacts
      on patients' adjustment. However, caregivers often take on their roles with little formal
      support. This results in high anxiety and low quality of life (QOL). In recognition of this,
      numerous interventions have been developed and found to be efficacious in reducing
      caregivers' anxiety and increasing their QOL. Unfortunately, these interventions are often
      time- and resource-intensive, making them too costly for integration in routine care. As more
      sustainable modes of intervention delivery are required, one format that holds promise is to
      use a self-directed format (i.e., low-intensity intervention). However, previous research by
      the team has shown that up to 60% of caregivers do not respond to these types of
      interventions alone and require additional support. An innovative trial design to developing
      time-varying, adaptive interventions to maximize clinical effectiveness is the Sequential
      multiple assignment randomized trials (SMARTs). However, despite increasing popularity,
      SMARTs remain relatively new to intervention researchers.

      OBJECTIVES: The goal of this pilot SMART is to inform the planning of a subsequent larger
      SMART to evaluate an adaptive dyadic coping and self-management skill training intervention
      that follows a stepped-care model for caregivers of individuals with cancer. The primary
      objective of this pilot SMART is to examine the (a) feasibility of the trial procedures and
      of offering different levels and types of support alongside a self-directed coping and
      self-management skills training intervention and (b) acceptability of the combinations of the
      intervention according to patients and their caregivers. The secondary objective is to
      estimate the clinical significance of adapting the type and level of support provided on the
      primary and secondary outcomes.

      METHODOLOGY: Study activities will be coordinated out of St Mary's Research Centre in
      Montreal. Weekly, at the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC), St. Mary's Hospital Center,
      and Ottawa Hospital, a research assistant (RA), along with the treating clinician, will
      screen new patient records and identify those who meet the medical inclusion criteria. At the
      time of their scheduled appointment, clinicians will introduce the study to eligible patients
      and obtain permission for a RA to approach them. The RA will then either complete the
      screening interview with patients and their caregivers on site, or follow up by telephone to
      complete the interview. Those eligible will be emailed the link to the consent form and
      baseline (T0) questionnaire. At BC Cancer Agency and Princess Margaret Cancer Care Centre,
      posters will be displayed and patients/caregivers will be informed of the study by the
      Patient and Family Counseling Services team and other health care team members. Patients will
      be invited to self-refer by calling the RA directly using the toll free number provided.
      Community-based recruitment will include advertising the study through social media. This
      strategy will be led by the Environics Research Group who recruited participants for a
      previous CIHR team grant.

      Investigators aim to recruit 56 patients with a primary breast, prostate, or colorectal
      cancer diagnosis in the previous 6 months.

      Inclusion criteria are:

        -  receiving/planning to receive treatment,

        -  having a caregiver willing to participate

        -  access to the internet,

        -  patient or caregiver screening positive for anxiety.

      Patient-caregiver dyads returning their consent forms and baseline questionnaires (T0) will
      be randomized by the study coordinator to either: (a) Coping-Together - a 6-week
      self-directed, dyadic coping and self-management skills training intervention or (b)
      Coping-Together plus professionally-led, online, text-based group coaching via Cancer Chat
      Canada. At the end of 6 weeks, intervention response will be assessed by the RA (T1) based on
      the change in patients' and caregivers' anxiety (primary tailoring variable). Across both
      groups, non-responders will then be randomized a second time to either (a) continue with
      their first stage intervention or (b) begin telephone-based self-management counseling for
      another 6 weeks. Responders will continue with usual care. All participants will then
      complete their follow-up questionnaire (T2) to examine changes in anxiety and QOL (primary
      outcomes), depression, self-management skills, illness appraisal, and coping (secondary
      outcomes). Acceptability will also be assessed in this questionnaire and further explored
      during an exit interview with dyads. Feasibility measures will focus on the characteristics
      of the dyads reached, protocol fidelity, percent of missing data, and recruitment and
      retention rates.

      SIGNIFICANCE: The ability of caregivers to maintain their QOL despite the stressors they face
      is undermined by limited access to the support needed. This study will develop and evaluate
      the first adaptive interventions for this population, and address a significant research gap
      by documenting its acceptability, feasibility, and clinical significance. Despite advocacy
      for caregiver support, no other Canadian study has examined how potentially cost-effective
      interventions can be combined to meet caregivers' needs. Collaboration with six cancer
      centers will accelerate the uptake of findings.
    
  