
    
      This is a two armed prospective randomized controlled study deformational plagiocephaly
      patients who will be treated with orthotic helmet vs. repositional therapy. The patients in
      the study will be further subdivided into 3 groups: Isolated plagiocephaly (CVA >6; 75 < CI <
      90), isolated brachycephaly (CVA<6; CI > 90), and mixed brachy/ plagiocephaly (CVA > 6; CI >
      90). Both two armed groups will include patients with mild, moderate, and severe
      plagiocephaly. Randomization will be completed by a blinded third party biostatistician.

      Asymmetric plagiocephaly is defined by cranial vault index (CVA). CVA is the difference
      between two diagonal cranial diameters (CVA= Longer diagonal-shorter diagonal). Cranial
      diameters are measured from orbitale superius suture to orbitale superius rear (see Appendix
      1). Normal CVA is <6mm, mild CVA is 6-10mm, moderate CVA is 11-15mm, and severe CVA is >15mm.
      Brachycephaly is defined by the cephalic index (CI). This measurement is the width/length of
      cranium x100. Length of cranium is measured from glabella to opisthocranion and width is
      measured from eurion to eurion. Normal CI is 75-90%, mild brachycephaly is 90.1-95%, moderate
      brachycephaly is 95.1-100%, severe brachycephaly is >100%.

      The principal investigator will recruit from patients seen at the Florida Craniofacial
      Institute in Tampa, Florida. If the parent expresses interest in participating in this study,
      and meet the criteria, they will be enrolled. During that time, the purpose and procedures as
      well as the details, risks, and expectations from the study will be explained. At this time,
      parents will also have an opportunity to ask any questions they may have regarding the
      experimental procedures, data collection, confidentiality, their rights as a patient, and any
      other questions they may have. They will be informed that their decision to either
      participate or not participate in the study will not affect their therapy. Treatment will
      begin after the parent signs a written informed consent form. During the study, data will be
      collected from general in-take forms by staff seeing the patients and from patient
      questionnaire.
    
  