
    
      Pre-diabetes is a condition that is characterized by elevated fasting blood glucose levels
      secondary to insulin resistance; however, fasting blood glucose levels are not elevated to
      the extent where it can be classified as type II-diabetes. Pre-diabetes may lead to type
      II-diabetes and is estimated to do so at an annual rate of approximately 10% in the United
      States (US) where approximately 79 million individuals have been diagnosed with pre-diabetes.
      In addition, most of the individuals presenting with pre-diabetes are overweight or obese,
      which makes long-term weight management an essential component in reducing the development of
      diabetes. Eggs are a rich source of important nutrients such as vitamins, minerals, proteins,
      carotenoids, choline, and lecithin. Many of the nutrients found in eggs function as
      antioxidants or as an essential component of antioxidants. Several studies have demonstrated
      that the onset and progression of diabetes are associated with increased oxidative stress. In
      vitro studies have shown that high-density lipoprotein (HDL) acts as a buffer mechanism for
      oxidative stress and inflammation due to its antioxidant effects. Thus, high blood levels of
      HDL may reduce insulin resistance and subsequently the development of type II-diabetes
      through its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. Additionally, HDL can exert beneficial
      effects on glucose levels through the apolipoprotein A-1 (Apo A) action which increases
      glucose uptake by increasing insulin secretion in pancreatic beta cells. Because the
      development of diabetes involves an interaction between genetic predisposition and
      environmental factors including and excessive body weight, and eggs have been shown to
      positively influence body composition, we believe that eggs can improve glycemic control,
      insulin sensitivity, and lipid profiles through improvements in weight and body composition.
      To our knowledge, there have not been any studies investigating the effects of dietary egg
      consumption on improving glycemic control, insulin sensitivity, lipid profiles, and body
      composition in overweight and obese adults with pre- and type II-diabetics. Our long-term
      goal is to bring forth evidence that the regular consumption of eggs is effective in reducing
      insulin resistance and subsequently the incidence of pre-diabetes and type II-diabetes.
    
  