
    
      It is estimated that 1 in 500 women of reproductive age have congenital or acquired uterine
      factor infertility (UFI).

      The solution for such patients who wish to have a child is either to adopt or use a
      surrogate. The latter is illegal in France .Uterine transplantation (UT) could be a
      beneficial medical alternative.

      Over the last 13 years, about 30 experimental studies have been conducted on rodents,
      rabbits, pigs, sheeps and monkeys. They have shown TU to be feasible, with a number of births
      achieved after uterus auto-transplantation, syngeneic transplantation and
      allotransplantation. However, animal experiments are not able to provide a definitive answer
      to the question of the feasibility of UT in women due to the specific characteristics of each
      species and a lower degree of control of immunosuppression and in vitro fertilisation
      techniques in animals. Thus, the information from animal experiments and the present
      knowledge on immunosuppression in women, based on experiments in other solid organ
      transplantation, explain the willingness to take the step of undergoing clinical UT. The
      recent human data and the first births after UT obtained by a Swedish team are reassuring and
      confirmed the feasibility of the procedure. The data gathered over 50 years of pregnancies in
      patients who have received kidney, liver or heart transplants is reassuring, with over 20,000
      births recorded and recommendations for the start of the pregnancy, patient follow-up and
      immunosuppressive drugs (ISD) handling are currently relatively well-established.

      As compared to other solid organ transplantations, UT is particular in being temporary (the
      graft will be removed once the child is born or in case of safety issue) and the period of
      exposure to immunosuppressants is thus reduced.

      Our team has recognised experience in the field of female fertility preservation and ovarian
      grafting. Work begun in animals at the end of the 1990s led to the first pregnancies in
      France after an ovarian autograft in 2010. With regard to uterus grafting, the investigators
      have published work on uterine allotransplantation involving ewes and the evaluation of the
      graft by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Clinically, the investigator began by working on
      cadavers and conducted a study in 2012-2013, which was supported by the French Biomedical
      Agency (Agence de la biomédecine), on the feasibility of uterus retrieving as part of a
      multi-organ retrieval (MOR) procedure. In this preliminary clinical study, the investigators
      were able to show that the technique of uterus retrieval in brain-dead donors can be
      reproduced. Acceptance of the retrieval by the relatives of the brain-dead patient was good
      (no refusal).

      In the present protocol, the investigators propose a pilot study of UT in women with grafts
      from brain-dead female donors.

      In humans, UT can be envisaged with grafts from either living or deceased donors. In Turkey,
      a UT with a brain-dead donor, performed in 2011, was the first to achieve a pregnancy. This
      pregnancy was, unfortunately, non-progressive. In Sweden, the team of Prof. Brannström
      performed nine UTs in 2012 and 2013 with living donors. One donor suffered a utero-vaginal
      fistula, thus confirming the potential surgical risk of such a procedure for living donors.
      Conversely, for the recipients, the success rate of UT after six months was 78% (seven
      successful transplantations, with a menstrual period occurring in the first six months, out
      of the nine transplantations performed).

      Unlike the Swedish team, the investigators are planning to use grafts from brain-dead donors
      in order to avoid the potential surgical risks with alive donors. In addition, according to
      the French Biomedical Agency, there are around 220 brain-dead female donors below 50 years
      each year in France.

      The recipients will be selected according to the inclusion criteria. They will be asked to
      promise to live close to Limoges University Hospital during the 3 months post uterus
      transplantation. Inclusion will be confirmed if none of the primary, secondary or tertiary
      exclusion criteria is present and if at least 10 embryos are obtained via IVF conducted at
      Limoges University Hospital. The patients will then be registered on a transplant waiting
      list. Since the aim of the project is to perform eight UTs, any patient who has signed the
      consent form can be replaced if she is secondarily excluded or wishes to withdraw from the
      study.

      The uterine retrievals will be performed by the surgical team of Limoges University Hospital
      in four retrieval centres in the central-western part of France.

      Uterine transplantation will be performed in Limoges University Hospital by the vascular and
      gynaecological surgery teams. Patients will then be monitored jointly by the gynaecology,
      renal transplantation and psychiatric teams. The immunosuppressive treatment will include an
      induction (anti-CD25 antibodies), tacrolimus, antimetabolites (mycophenolate mofetil followed
      by azathioprine before and during pregnancy) and an initial corticotherapy. The graft will be
      monitored by imaging (MRI, ultrasound), biopsy of the cervix and therapeutic drug monitoring.
      Rejection will be determined according to the criteria of Johannesson.

      The success of transplantation will be confirmed by the occurrence of a menstrual period
      during the first year.

      In successful cases, embryo transfers will begin on the second year of transplantation. In
      the absence of a successful pregnancy, the transfer attempts will continue each month until
      there are no available embryos left, and for a maximum period of 18 months. The embryos that
      have not been used will be managed in accordance with the French law on bioethics. The
      patient will receive close multidisciplinary follow-up throughout the pregnancy. The delivery
      will be done by caesarean section. The graft will be explanted immediately following the
      caesarean when possible or 2 months post partum.

      If the UT fails (no menstrual period in one year), the graft will be explanted. The graft
      will also be explanted in the following situations: uterine necrosis, corticoresistant
      rejection, serious adverse effects attributable to immunosuppressive drugs, severe infectious
      complications, haemorrhagic complications, the absence of a progressive pregnancy after a
      maximum period of 18 months of embryo transfer attempts, separation of the couple.

      The children will receive follow-up from a paediatrician in accordance with common practice.
      All live attenuated vaccines will be contraindicated in the first six months following birth.
    
  