
    
      The purpose of this study is to correlate the clinical outcomes of patients who have had the
      MICK assay with tumor type, physician attitudes towards the assay, and how physicians used
      the assay by using data in patient charts, and surveying physician attitudes.

      Study Objectives:

        1. To determine how often physicians use the MiCK assay results in developing a treatment
           plan, and which drugs the physician used in treatment. This will be correlated with
           patient and tumor demographics.

        2. To determine physician attitudes towards the MiCK assay.

        3. To determine the clinical outcomes (response rates, time to progression, and overall
           survival) in patients who have had a MiCK assay. This will be correlated with pattern of
           physician use of the assay.

      Treatment Plan:

        1. The treating oncologist will provide demographic information (patient identifying
           number, sex, age, number of prior lines of therapy, performance status) and tumor
           information (cell type, stage, metastatic sites, goal of therapy, pre-assay planned
           therapy, and post-assay therapy chosen for

        2. Tumor response, patient symptom response, time to progression on each chemotherapy
           regimen, and overall survival will be determined from the patient chart and will be
           correlated with MICK assay results.

        3. Physicians will complete a questionnaire on attitudes towards usefulness of the assay.

      Statistics

        1. Investigators will correlate tumor response, symptom response, time to progression and
           overall survival with drug therapy with drug response in MICK assay for first chemo
           regimen after assay, and according to pattern of physician use of the assay.

        2. We will accumulate physician attitudes toward usefulness of the assay.

      Informed Consent Since this study has no risk to the patient, informed consent will not be
      needed. Physicians will have the option of participating, or not participating, in each
      patient. Physicians will be compensated for completing chart review and submitting data after
      the MiCK assay has been performed, and at 6,12 and 24 months after MiCK assay.

      Data Collection from Physicians Data will include demographics and tumor characteristics and
      physician attitudes: I used the test to develop a treatment plan yes/no, I found the test
      useful yes/no, I found the test to be helpful in planning for palliative care yes/no, I found
      the test to be helpful in planning for hospice yes/no. I have these suggestions for
      improvement (free text response). Data will include at 6,12 and 24 months clinical outcomes
      as judged by the physician: Complete, Partial, Stable, Death, symptomatic improvement patient
      felt better same or worse. Data will include at time of progression, did doctor use the MiCK
      assay to plan the next treatment, try to get another MiCK assay, or use the assay to plan for
      palliative care or hospice.
    
  