
    
      A factorial longitudinal study will be undertaken in adults with cystic fibrosis. Results
      will be compared with age matched healthy controls. It is not deemed appropriate to randomise
      patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux(GOR) to a treatment versus no treatment group as
      immediate treatment for GOR once diagnosed is regarded as obligatory.

      Subjects: 180 adults with CF will be recruited from the Adult Cystic Fibrosis Unit at the
      Alfred Hospital to participate in the study. The ambulatory studies will be undertaken during
      baseline state in the outpatient setting. Fifteen age matched control subjects will be
      recruited from the general population.

      Subjects who give their consent for participation in the study will undertake the following
      outcome measures:

        1. Demographic data including age, gender, BMI, prescribed medication at the time of the
           study, lung function tests including FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC ratio and MMEF, genotype, pH of
           saliva and sputum.

        2. Structured symptom questionnaire using a reliable valid measure developed by Carlsson et
           al 1998 will be used to assess patient's symptom scores.

        3. Dual-channel 24hour oesophageal pH monitoring will be undertaken using a digitrapper
           (Medtronic, Sweden)and dual antimony tipped probe (Synectics, Sweden). Following
           calibration of the probes the distal antimony tip is positioned 5cm above the upper
           border of the lower oesophageal sphincter and the proximal probe 15 cm above the distal
           probe in the upper oesophagus.The patient will be instructed in using the three event
           buttons on the digitrapper recording start and finish time of meals, upright versus
           supine positioning and reflux episodes. The subject will be provided with a detailed
           24hr 'Activity Diary' to record all meals (including percutaneous gastrostomy feeds),
           positions and activities including usual chest physiotherapy and physical exercise.The
           recorded pH information is downloaded into a computer program for analysis. The
           following indices will be measured in the distal and proximal oesophagus:

             -  Number of reflux episodes

             -  Fraction of reflux time

             -  Number of reflux episodes with duration longer than 5 minutes

             -  Duration of longest episodes in minutes

             -  DeMeester score (an overall weighted score of gastro-oesophageal function).

        4. Quality of life questionnaires: SF36, Quittner CF Questionnaire (CFQ), Dietary and Bowel
           Symptom Questionnaires.

        5. Chest radiographs
    
  