
    
      RTA 402 is a new man-made drug that is designed to inhibit (turn off) genes that may activate
      your cancer cells and cause them to grow. This drug has not been tested in humans.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take RTA 402 by mouth
      (several capsules a day) in the morning with a glass of water (before eating) on the dose
      level that will be assigned to you. The dose level you receive will depend on when you begin
      on this study. You will receive the study drug for 21 days in a row. You will not take the
      study drug for the next 7 days. This is considered a rest period. These 28 days equal 1
      cycle. You should take your study drug as instructed. If a dose is missed or vomited, it will
      not be replaced either on that day or at the end of the 21-day treatment period.

      At the beginning of the study, one to three patients may be enrolled at each dose level, and
      dose will be doubled between groups until the first occurrence of intolerable side effects
      during Cycle 1. At the first occurrence of less severe side effects, groups will be expanded
      to 3-4 patients. Dose escalation (increasing) will continue in this way until researchers
      learn the highest dose that is best tolerated. You will remain at the same dose level that
      you started on for at least 2 cycles. After at least 2 cycles, your dose may be increased to
      another dose that has been determined to be safe. If your disease gets worse or you
      experience any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off this study.

      On Cycle 1 on Days 1 and 21, you will be asked to go to the Clinical and Translational
      Research Center for your dose of the study drug. You will be asked about how you are feeling,
      and about any medications you may be taking including any over the counter medication, herbs,
      and alcohol. You will be asked to report any bad side effects you may experience from the
      study drug. You will have blood draws (about 1 1/2 teaspoons each time) for PK studies. You
      will have these PK blood draws before you take RTA 402 at 15 minutes, 30 minutes, and 1, 2,
      4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after you take the study drug. You will have your vital signs measured
      at 2, 4, and 8 hours after taking RTA 402. You will have your urine collected over a 24-hour
      period. The study staff will provide the urine sample container and explain how to collect
      your urine.

      During Cycle 1, you will return to the clinic every week to have routine blood drawn (about 2
      teaspoons) to check the status of your disease. You will be asked how you are feeling and
      about any medications you may be taking including any over the counter medication, herbs, and
      alcohol.

      Each week during Cycle 1 and on Day 28 of each additional cycle, you will complete 2
      questionnaires that will take about 15 minutes to complete. You will also have your body
      weight measured and be asked about your normal food intake. Your body composition will be
      measured using measurements that include body weight and height, skin fold thickness, and
      bioelectrical impedance using the Tanita body composition monitoring scale. This is a
      non-invasive method to measure total body water, total body fat, and total body lean mass.
      Researchers will measure how much energy your body uses while at rest. You will also have
      timed test that will involve your participation where at your fastest speed you will be asked
      to walk 25 feet and walk back.

      After Cycle 1, you will return to the clinic every other week for up to 18 cycles (about 18
      months) as long as your health does not get worse and you do not experience any intolerable
      side effects.

      During every other cycle starting with Cycle 2, you will be evaluated to check the status of
      your cancer. You will have routine imaging studies, such as x-rays, CT scans, or MRIs to
      measure your tumor. You will have a bone marrow biopsy (if you have lymphoid disease) to
      measure your disease. On Day 1 of the next cycle, you will return to your doctor's office for
      your next physical exam and to begin the next cycle of the study drug.

      While on this study, you will not be allowed to take any other investigational agent,
      chemotherapy, biologic therapy, immunotherapy, or anti-cancer treatments. You will not be
      allowed to take medicine that can help increase your white blood cell count.

      Once you have completed all cycles of the study drug, you will have an end-of-study visit.
      During this visit, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.
      You will have blood drawn (about 1 1/2 teaspoons) for routine tests, and a urine sample will
      be collected. You will have a bone marrow biopsy (if you have lymphoid disease) to measure
      your disease. You will have imaging studies, such as x-rays, CT scans, or MRIs to measure
      your tumor. You will be asked to report any side effects or new medications that you may be
      taking including any over the counter medication, herbs, and alcohol.

      You will be followed (30 days after you are off study) and asked to report any side effects
      you may be experiencing, or new medications that you may be taking. You will also have a
      physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs. If your doctor thinks that you
      should continue taking RTA 402 (after 18 cycles or 18 months), you will be asked to
      participate in an extended study.

      This is an investigational study. RTA 402 has been authorized by the FDA for use in research
      only. Up to 45 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 42 will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  