
    
      A family history of osteoporosis will be noted. Data on the factors that affect estrogen
      exposure such as age at menarche, average number of periods per year during the reproductive
      years, number of years of birth control pill use, total number of pregnancies, number of
      pregnancies to term, months of lactation and age at menopause will be recorded. These data
      will be collected at baseline. Current medications and other medical problems will be
      recorded at baseline and during follow-up visits. New medical problems and new medications
      will be noted on follow-up.

      Physical examination will be done at baseline and during follow-up visits. Body mass index
      calculated as weight (kg) divided by the square of the height (m2) will be obtained every
      visit. Height will be obtained using a standard stadiometer and weight will be taken using a
      standard weighing scale.

      Dietary calcium and Vitamin D intake will be estimated from a 7-day dietary recall at
      baseline and adjusted to a daily intake of 1200-1500 mg of calcium per day. Vitamin D intake
      will also be adjusted to 800 IU per day.

      Biochemical Analysis. Routine serum comprehensive metabolic profile (CMP) will be measured by
      standard autoanalyzer technique, serum 25-hydoxyvitamin D by double-antibody radioimmunoassay
      (Incstar Corp., Stillwater, Minnesota), and FSH by chemiluminescent assay (Bayer, NY) in
      those cases when the last menstrual period occurred less than 12 months before the signing of
      the informed consent. These measurements will be done through the Barnes-Jewish Hospital
      Laboratory. Serum estradiol will be measured by radioimmunoassay (Diagnostic Systems
      Laboratories Inc.), and sex hormone binding globulin by double antibody radioimmunoassay
      (Diagnostic Laboratories Inc). Serum estradiol measurements will be done at the Core
      Laboratory of the General Clinical Research Center (GCRC) of Washington University School of
      Medicine while the sex hormone binding globulin assay will be done at Dr. Villareal's
      laboratory. The inter- and intra-assay coefficients of variation for these assays are all <
      10%. In order to improve accuracy of the analysis the biochemical tests (except for 25-OH
      Vitamin D) will be performed at the end of the study and will be run by the same operator and
      plate (run in batch).

      Bone Mineral Density (BMD) BMD of the total body, lumbar spine and the proximal left femur
      will be measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) using Hologic QDR 4500 (Hologic
      Inc., Waltham Ma, U.S.A.). Measurements will be done at month 0, 6 and 12 (see Visits and
      Testing Schedule). To guarantee the necessary flexibility for the patients who can not be
      seen at the exact date for the follow up a window of 1 month earlier and 2 months of late
      will be considered. BMD of the lumbar spine will be measured from L1 to L4. The non-dominant
      hip will be used for studies on the proximal femur. The main regions of interest on the
      proximal femur will be the total femur, femoral neck and femoral trochanter. The coefficient
      of variability for these repeated measurements in our institution is1.09% for the lumbar
      spine and 1.2% for the total femur in our center.

      Bone Turnover Markers will be obtained at month 0, 6 and 12. We will follow a marker of bone
      resorption (urine cross-linked N- telopeptide of type I collagen [urine NTx] or, when a
      proper 24 hour urine collection is not done, serum cross-linked telopeptide of type I
      collagen [serum CTx) will be analyzed) and one marker of bone formation (serum bone specific
      alkaline phosphatase {BSAP). Due to the diurnal pattern of bone markers, all serum specimens
      will be collected in the fasting state while urinary NTx will measured on 24-hour urine
      collection. These markers will be measured by ELISA at the Core laboratory for Clinical
      Studies at Washington University as follows: Urine NTX (Osteomark, Ostex International, Inc.,
      Seattle, WA), serum CTX (serum crosslaps, Osteometer, Hawthorne, CA) and serum BSAP
      (Alkphase-B, Metra Biosystems, Inc., Mountain View, CA). Intra-assay coefficients of
      variations are in the range of 4-7% (32;33). In order to improve accuracy of the analysis
      biochemical tests will be performed at the end of the study and will be run by the same
      operator and plate (conducted in batch).

      Vertebral Fracture Evaluation. We will evaluate vertebral fractures using the vertebral
      fracture assessment (VFA) method performed by the same DEXA machine used to measure the bone
      mineral density. Those patients whose VFA is suspicious for a fracture will undergo a lateral
      spine X-ray. Vertebral fractures will be identified by visual inspection of lateral spine
      radiographs of the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, from T4 to L5. Interpretation of
      radiographs will be done by the PI, who is an endocrinologist specializing in bone disease
      and the Medical Director of the Bone Health Program in the Division of Bone and Mineral
      Diseases at Washington University School of Medicine. If the PI will have some doubts, she
      can easily ask the opinion from the bone radiologists at the Department of Radiology at
      Washington University School of Medicine.

      Menopausal symptom evaluation. Symptoms related to menopause will be evaluated using a
      modified Leuven menopause questionnaire. This is a straightforward menopause-specific
      questionnaire which covers vasomotor, gynecologic, psychological, cognitive and somatic
      symptoms which was developed and validated in a previous study (Anti-Cancer Drugs 2004
      15:753-760). The Leuven questionnaire includes definitions of each menopausal symptoms and
      rated as: 1 (no symptom), 2 (mild) up to 5 (intolerable). This questionnaire will be
      administered at month 0, 3, 6 and 12. This questionnaire will be administered during the
      patient visits at month 0, 6 and 12, and it will be sent by mail approximately two weeks
      prior to month 3. A phone call will also be made to the patients to prompt them to complete
      the questionnaire approximately at the time they should receive it by mail (month 3). Those
      who will fail to send the questionnaire within 1 week after the indicated dates will be
      contacted by phone. A log will be kept to document phone call attempts and dates of mailings
      to document persistence with compliance. A symptom score will be estimated for each
      participant. The number of symptomatic subject in each genotype will also be estimated.

      Psychometric testing: In the current project we will assess the cognitive impairment using
      the mini mental state examination test (normal range of > 72 for women < 8 years of formal
      education and > 76 for those who have > 9 years of formal education) and attention and
      executive functions using Trail making tests A and B (the score is the number of seconds
      spent in connecting 25 numbered circles in sequential order [trail A] or the seconds spent in
      connecting numbered circles (1-13) alternately to letters of the alphabet (A-L) in sequential
      order [Trail B]. In both tests a maximum of 180 seconds is allowed). A fluency test will be
      performed asking to the subjects to name as many animals as they can during 1 minute.
      Additionally the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) will be performed in order to exclude and
      to assess eventual depression. This test implies 30 questions, each one corresponding to a
      score of 0 or 1. According to the final score a patient is classified normal with a score
      ranging from 0 to 9, mildly depressed if from 10 to 20, and severely depressed if the score
      is higher than 20. These tests will be administered during the patient visits at month 0, 6
      and 12.

      Rationale. To date, 4 polymorphisms of the aromatase gene have been associated with
      significant differences in BMD and fracture risk (16-18), age-related bone loss (18;29) a few
      of which have also been found to be associated with differences in breast cancer risk (30).
      Functional in-vitro analysis suggests an altered enzymatic activity in certain variants for
      this gene perhaps accounting for differences in the risk of breast cancer and osteoporosis.
      Variants with increased aromatase activity (18), as in those with higher number of TTTA
      repeats, have higher BMD but higher risk for breast cancer (30) possibly a consequence of
      higher estrogen levels. Because these variants have increased enzyme activity, it is possible
      that this select group of women will have increased sensitivity to aromatase inhibition and
      would experienced more bone loss than those with lower aromatase activity. On the contrary,
      it is also possible that women with these variant alleles will be relatively resistant to
      aromatase inhibition compared to variants with lower enzymatic activity and will continue to
      synthesize estrogen from precursors and, therefore, will not develop rapid bone loss. This
      proposal will address this important question by comparing the variants of the different
      polymorphisms described below.
    
  