
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the biological efficacy of pravastatin in leukemia cells, in terms of
           measuring surrogate endpoints, including cellular cholesterol, messenger RNA encoding
           cholesterol synthesis, cholesterol import regulators, and specific protein
           farnesylation, in patients with acute myeloid leukemia.

        -  Determine whether increasing doses of pravastatin, when administered with idarubicin and
           high-dose cytarabine, produce increased apoptosis in leukemia cells of these patients.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pravastatin when administered with
           idarubicin and high-dose cytarabine in these patients.

        -  Determine whether the MTD of pravastatin is required to achieve the maximal biological
           effect on cholesterol metabolism in leukemia cells of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of pravastatin.

      Patients receive oral pravastatin once daily on days 1-8, idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on
      days 4-6, and high-dose cytarabine IV continuously on days 4-7. Treatment repeats every 28-42
      days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients achieving a complete remission (CR) may receive additional treatment with the same
      doses of study drugs over fewer days. These patients receive oral pravastatin once daily on
      days 1-6 and idarubicin IV over 30 minutes and high-dose cytarabine IV continuously on days 4
      and 5. Patients experiencing disease response with severe side effects may receive additional
      treatment at a lower dose of the study drug causing the side effects.

      Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of pravastatin until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD)* is determined or a predetermined maximum dose is reached.

      NOTE: *Patients achieving a CR with a dose of pravastatin that is subsequently determined to
      be above the MTD receive pravastatin at the MTD for all subsequent courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least every 3 months for 2
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  