
    
      Uric acid is the end product of purine degradation in humans. Hyperuricemia, a urate
      concentration in serum exceeding the limit of urate solubility (approximately 7.0 milligrams
      per deciliter [mg/dL]), is a common biochemical abnormality. Aberrations in any of the
      multiple mechanisms involved in the production and/or excretion of uric acid may increase
      serum urate concentrations, with persistent hyperuricemia as a marker for extracellular fluid
      monosodium urate supersaturation. As such, hyperuricemia is a necessary (but often not
      sufficient) risk factor for monosodium urate crystal deposition in tissues and is the
      fundamental pathophysiological process underlying the clinical manifestations of gout, which
      is a chronic disease characterized by urate crystal formation and deposition in joints and
      bones. Gout may progress from episodic attacks of acute inflammatory arthritis to a disabling
      chronic disorder characterized by deforming arthropathy; destructive deposits of urate
      crystals (tophi) in bones, joints, and other organs; structural and functional renal
      impairment due to interstitial urate crystal deposition; and urinary tract stones composed
      entirely or in part of uric acid crystals. Management of gout requires chronic treatment
      aimed at lowering serum urate into a subsaturating range (usually <6.0 mg/dL) in which
      crystal formation and deposition are prevented or reversed.

      Febuxostat (TMX-67) is a non-purine selective xanthine oxidase inhibitor being developed as
      an orally administered agent for management of hyperuricemia in patients with gout.

      Subjects who want to participate in this study will have successfully completed study
      TMX-00-004 (NCT00174967).

      All participants will initially receive an 80 mg dose. Dose titrations will occur in order to
      obtain and maintain clinically acceptable serum urate levels.
    
  