
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Investigate the toxicity of and response rate to an intensification of an induction
           chemotherapy regimen (regimen A: cisplatin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and
           etoposide) by incorporation of high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin calcium rescue in
           patients with primitive neuroectodermal tumors and evidence of leptomeningeal
           dissemination (M1, M2, or M3).

        -  Investigate the toxicity of and response rate to a new dose intensive induction
           chemotherapy regimen (regimen C: vincristine, carboplatin, and temozolomide) in children
           under ten years of age who are newly diagnosed with either high grade gliomas or diffuse
           intrinsic pontine tumors. (Regimen B closed to accrual effective 3/30/2000; regimen C
           open to accrual effective 7/21/2000)

        -  Investigate the feasibility of utilizing regimen C chemotherapy followed by
           consolidation with myeloablative chemotherapy and autologous stem cell (either bone
           marrow and/or peripheral blood) rescue in these patients. (Regimen B closed to accrual
           effective 3/30/2000; regimen C open to accrual effective 7/21/2000)

        -  Investigate the toxicity of and response rate to an intensification of induction regimen
           A chemotherapy by incorporation of high-dose methotrexate with leucovorin calcium rescue
           in patients with primitive neuroectodermal tumors and evidence of leptomeningeal
           dissemination (M1, M2, or M3).

        -  Estimate the time to disease progression and the pattern of relapse in patients who do
           not have radiographic or cytologic evidence of residual disease at the time of
           consolidation chemotherapy and who, therefore, do not receive post consolidation
           irradiation.

        -  Estimate the time to disease progression and the pattern of relapse in patients who have
           radiographic or cytologic evidence of residual disease at the time of consolidation
           chemotherapy and who, therefore, receive post consolidation irradiation.

        -  Assess the morbidity and mortality of the consolidation chemotherapy regimen following
           either regimen C or the intensified regimen A in these patients. (Regimen B closed to
           accrual effective 3/30/2000; regimen C open to accrual effective 7/21/2000)

        -  Assess the impact that irradiation avoidance or the administration of reduced volume
           craniospinal and/or focused field local irradiation has on neuropsychometric,
           endocrinological functions, and physical growth.

      OUTLINE: This is a two regimen study based on disease characteristics.

      Patients in regimens A, B, and C undergo leukapheresis after receiving filgrastim (G-CSF) by
      subcutaneous (SC) injections.

        -  Regimen A: Patients without evidence of neuraxis dissemination receive five 21 day
           courses of the following chemotherapy: cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 0; etoposide and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2; vincristine IV on days 0, 7, and 14 of
           courses 1, 2, and 3; and G-CSF SC beginning on day 3 of each course and continuing until
           blood counts recover or up to 48 hours before the start of the next course. Patients
           with evidence of neuraxis dissemination also receive high-dose methotrexate IV over 4
           hours on day 3 and leucovorin calcium orally or by IV bolus starting 24 hours prior to
           methotrexate and continuing every 6 hours until methotrexate levels have diminished.

        -  Regimen B (closed to accrual effective 3/30/2000): Patients receive three 21-28 day
           courses of the following chemotherapy: vincristine IV on days 0, 7, and 14 of each
           course; carboplatin IV over 4 hours on days 3 and 4 of each course; oral procarbazine
           daily on days 0-4; oral lomustine on days 3 and 4; and G-CSF SC daily beginning 24 hours
           following the last dose of carboplatin and continuing until blood counts recover or up
           to 48 hours before the start of the next course. On day 7 of each course, patients also
           receive peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) reinfusion following chemotherapy. Oral
           lomustine is administered only for the first two courses.

        -  Regimen C (open to accrual effective 07/21/2000): Patients receive four 28 day courses
           of the following chemotherapy: carboplatin IV over 4 hours on days 0 and 1 of each
           course; vincristine IV on days 0, 7, and 14 of the first three courses only; oral
           temozolomide daily on days 0-4; and G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 5 and continuing
           until blood counts recover.

      After regimen A, B, or C and in the absence of disease progression, patients undergo
      consolidation myeloablative chemotherapy by receiving carboplatin IV over 4 hours on days -8,
      -7, and -6, and then thiotepa IV over 3 hours followed by etoposide IV on days -5, -4, and
      -3. Patients with malignant gliomas or unbiopsied diffuse intrinsic pontine tumors do not
      receive etoposide. On day 0, patients are reinfused with autologous PBSC. Following recovery
      from consolidation chemotherapy, patients with radiographic or cytologic evidence of residual
      disease undergo radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed at 3 months, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every 6
      months for years 2-4, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 96 patients (73 for regimen A and 23 for regimen C) will be
      accrued for this study. (Regimen B closed to accrual effective 3/30/2000.)
    
  