
    
      There is a burgeoning literature involving nonhuman animal and human studies linking the
      microbiota environment in the gut to brain-behaviour relations. For example, animal studies
      demonstrate that germ-free rodents show heightened HPA-axis responses to stress compared to
      gnotobiotic animals. There are also a number of nonhuman and human studies that show positive
      effects of reducing stress after being treated with different probiotics. For example, in one
      recent double blind study in humans using standardized questionnaires indicated a greater
      reduction of stress and anxiety symptoms after one month of supplementation with a probiotic
      formulation compared to placebo. The groups were also differentiated by urinary cortisol
      levels after treatment. Other studies have found positive effects of probiotic treatment and
      stress reduction using other probiotics. Accordingly, there is accumulating empirical
      evidence from animal and human studies of the positive effects of probiotic treatment on
      stress reduction.

      In this study, the investigators will investigate the stress reduction effects of the
      Lallemand Health Solutions (LHS) Probio'Stick® on healthy undergraduate students. The study
      will be conducted at the McMaster LIVELab, which is capable of collecting both physiological
      and behavioural measures from groups of up to 100 participants at a time.

      Registration into this clinical trial will require students be screened via McMaster's SONA
      system (mcmaster.sona-systems.com). After the screening, participants that are eligible to
      participate will be given the option to register for an information meeting at which point
      one may opt to enrol in the study or not.

      Once in the study, participants will undergo an initial screening in the LIVELab where they
      will be exposed to auditory, visual, and performance based stressors to measure a baseline.
      After such point, they will be randomized to receive Probio'Stick® or placebo for a 6-week,
      once daily, probiotic treatment at home. Following the 6 week intervention, participants will
      return to the lab for a second testing using the same procedures to establish a change from
      baseline.
    
  