
    
      All patients with urodynamically proven SUI, who have failed/declined conservative therapies
      and their history suggests mild to moderate SUI, will be informed about the study and
      consented if they wish.

      They will be invited to attend a screening visit. At this visit, they will be asked to
      perform a standardised 1 hour pad test. Their medical history will be checked and they will
      undergo a clinical and vaginal examination, pregnancy test and dip stick urinalysis.If their
      1 hour pad weight is >2g and <25g and they meet all other inclusion / exclusion criteria,
      they will be eligible for inclusion.

      At the Baseline visit, the patient will have medical history confirmed, and be asked to
      complete a standing and supine (lying) cough test. They will be given the International
      Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire Short Form (ICIQ-SF) and Pelvic Organ
      Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Function Questionnaire (PISQ-12) questionnaire. Patients
      will be randomised using a computer randomisation programme and blinded to their allocated
      arm: active treatment or sham treatment.

      Patients will then undergo 3 outpatient treatment visits. The timing of visits will be 1
      month apart. At each visit they will be asked if they have any further questions and if they
      are happy to continue to participate in the study. If happy to participate, they will have
      their urine tested for infection (dipstick urinalysis) and pregnancy test at each treatment
      appointment. If urinalysis is negative, they will receive an outpatient Incontilase laser
      treatment. At each of their 3 outpatient appointments, they will be asked about any
      deleterious effects since their last appointment and asked to complete an ICIQ-SF and Patient
      Global Impression of Improvement questionnaire (treatment 2 onwards). Patients will receive 3
      treatments in total.

      Patients will be invited to attend a follow up visits 6 & 12 months after the 3rd treatment
      and asked to complete ICIQ-SF, PISQ-12 and PGI-I symptom questionnaires and undergo a
      clinical examination. They will be asked to perform a cough test supine (lying) and standing
      and at 6 and 12 months also perform a 1 hour pad test as described earlier (see appendices).
      Patients randomised to the Sham arm will be un-blinded at 6 months and offered the treatment
      if they wish and followed up for six months.
    
  