
    
      The current treatment option for chronic MLBP involves; Physiotherapy, Medication, then
      Surgery, however, Drugs are generally regarded as a reasonable option for some episodes of
      acute back pain, but the evidence for use in chronic low back pain is unclear. although drugs
      can provide short-term relief in some patients with chronic low back pain, their long-term
      benefits remain unproven. Surgical interventions are indicated for Chronic MLBP patients with
      persistent radiculopathy resulting from common degenerative conditions, the surgery can
      reduce pain, prevent deformity and improve function.Physiotherapy remains the best treatment
      of choice for gaining relief from CMLBP, this is because exercise therapy is effective in
      decreasing pain and improving function, it also helps decrease the rate of recurrence to
      about six months after the program. Muscles Energy Technique as a physiotherapy procedure was
      found to be effective to be effective in the management of acute and subacute Mechanical Low
      Back Pain, however, its effectiveness in CMLBP is yet to established in terms of preventing
      recurrence, reducing pain, improving trunk stability, Quality of Life, Functional
      Disabilities, activity limitation and Participation restriction associated with CMLBP. The
      technique is classified as an active technique in which the patient voluntarily uses his
      muscles from a precisely controlled position in a specific direction, against a distinctly
      executed counterforce by the therapist. MET may be used to lengthen a shortened or spastic
      muscle, to strengthen weakened muscles, to reduce localized edema, or to mobilize restricted
      joint motion of the body. The function of any joint in the body which can be moved by
      voluntary muscle action, directly or indirectly, can be influenced by MET. Although, the
      physiological mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of MET are unclear, but may
      involve a variety of neurological and biomechanical mechanisms, including hypoalgesia,
      altered proprioception, motor programming and control, and changes in tissue fluid.Therefore
      the purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of MET, its influence on the
      reducing level of pain perception, Stability of Spine, quality of life, functional
      disability, activity limitation and participation restriction of patients with the chronic
      MLBP, by comparing it with another well-researched physiotherapy procedure called Core
      Stabilization Exercise (CSE).

      Several studies have researched the effectiveness of MET alone or by comparing it with
      another well-known Physiotherapy procedure for the treatment of MLBP and reported promising
      results. Although the studies used similar intervention protocols as intended by this study,
      however the recent Cochrane review by Franke and core workers reported that the quality of
      researchers related to testing the effectiveness of MET is poor due methodological
      deficiencies, hence low-quality evidence. Therefore the uniqueness of this study in relation
      to the previous ones is that; this intends to use robust methodology especially in the area
      of sample size, sample selection, a risk of bias, treatment protocol, and follow-up period.
      Additionally, the study intends use recent advance outcome measuring tools in musculoskeletal
      physiotherapy e.g. Electromyography, Sonography, Optoelectronic stereo-photogrammetry, Trunk
      dynamometer etc. The outcome will effectively help in a quantitative subject-specific
      analysis which is useful in the prevention, early diagnosis (e.g. monitoring of the
      functional status of MLBP patients), intervention (e.g. prognosis, therapeutic programming,
      workplace optimization, physical training) and for quantifying the effect of the treatment
      and patients outcomes. To achieve the aim of the study, its segmented into three phases of
      Objectives viz; Phase 1: 1) To establish the Sociodemographic Profile MLBP inJigawa state
      Northwest Nigeria. 2)To determine the nature and extent of MLBP management. 3) To explore the
      current treatment plans of MLBP by Interviewing Physiotherapist in the State. 4) To
      review/appraise the literature on MET procedure currently used for the treatment of MLBP
      (scoping review). 5)To design and test MET procedure that addresses Spinal instability,
      functional disability, QoL, activity limitations and participation restrictions in patients
      with CMLBP using Delphi Technique. 6)Implementation of the protocol (Pilot and Main
      Intervention). 7) To determine the effectiveness of the MET protocol in addressing spinal
      instability, functional disability and QoL at 6 and 12weeks of Intervention by assessment
      using outcometools. 8) To compare the effectiveness of MET vs CSE, MET vs MET plus CSE, MET
      vs control group at baseline, 6weeks and 12weeks. 9)To determine the effect of MET on
      activity limitations and participation restrictions at 3 and 6month post interventions. 10)
      To evaluate the MET protocol and establish its success, or otherwise, any factor that limits
      its effectiveness can be identified. The result of this study will help provide a wealth of
      information that will add value to the existing literature in the management of chronic MLBP.
      Similarly, the study will help clinician in clinical decision making for the appropriate
      management protocol of chronic MLBP in which the efficacy will be tested and confirmed using
      standard research methodology that will improve patients' quality of life and functional
      disability. Additionally, it will serve as a resource material, reference or guide that
      future researchers can use and obtain useful information about manual therapy in the
      rehabilitation of chronic MLBP and other related musculoskeletal conditions.
    
  