
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the U.S. - about 1 in 8 women will
      develop the disease in their lifetime. Although tremendous strides have been made in its
      treatment, more than 40,000 deaths will be attributed to the disease in 2005 alone. These
      sobering and well-recognized risks are a major source of distress among women free from the
      disease, and among those who have completed treatment for new onset disease. Regarding the
      latter, clinical interventions are virtually absent during the highly stressful transitional
      period in coming off treatment to becoming a breast cancer survivor, and no studies have
      tested interventions to reduce distress, particularly fear of recurrence, and improve quality
      of life during this time. Therefore, we proposed to conduct a two-armed randomized wait-list
      controlled study on use of a mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) intervention among 100
      female breast cancer patients (stages 0-III) who have recently completed treatment with
      surgery, radiation and/or chemotherapy. Specifically, we investigated: (i) whether MBSR
      favorably influences psychological status, quality of life, stress hormones, and immune
      status; and (ii) possible mechanisms by which MBSR may work, in particular, through a
      reduction in fear of breast cancer recurrence. Both objectives were studied at the critical
      transition time following completion of surgical and adjuvant therapies (end of treatment to
      18 months thereafter) for breast cancer. The MBSR intervention included 6 weeks of class
      sessions according to the curriculum established by Kabat Zinn and Santorelli. Analysis of
      covariance models are being used to assess whether change in the above-defined outcomes
      varies by random assignment (MBSR or wait-list), per the intention-to-treat principle.
      Moreover, change (reduction) in fear of recurrence attributed to MBSR is being investigated
      as a mediator. If this R21 exploratory study shows that MBSR improves patient proximal
      outcomes following completion of breast cancer treatment, the science will be mature enough
      for future large-scale evaluation of MBSR as a potential therapy to reduce long-term
      morbidity and mortality in breast cancer patient populations.
    
  