
    
      Bladder cancer is the 9th most common cancer worldwide, with around 429.800 new cases
      diagnosed in 2012 and the 5th most common cancer in Europe, with more than 151.000 new cases
      diagnosed in 2012. Relating mortality figures, bladder cancer is the 13th most common cause
      of cancer death worldwide, with around 165.100 deaths from bladder cancer in 2012 and the 9th
      in Europe, with around 52.400.

      Cisplatin-based chemotherapy remains the standard treatment in patients with metastatic
      urothelial carcinoma (UC).This regimen has been associated with a median survival of 14-15
      months. The prognosis of patients who progress after a platinum-based regimen is dismal.
      Several chemotherapy drugs tested in the second-line setting, such as taxanes, vinflunine and
      pemetrexed, have demonstrated limited activity, with response rates of 5-20%, median
      progression-free survival (PFS) of 2-4 months, and median survival of 6-8 months. Thus, there
      are significant unmet medical needs in the second-line setting. New therapeutic targets
      should be tested in urothelial carcinoma to improve these results.

      Therapies targeting DNA repair pathways can exploit DNA repair defects in cancer cells to
      generate synthetic lethality. Alterations in DNA repair pathways have been associated with
      response to DNA-damaging agents. For example, defective homologous recombination (HR) plays a
      crucial role in tumors where platinum agents are involved in therapeutic management, as well
      as in those treated with PARP inhibitors, which have synthetic lethal effects when applied to
      cells with defective HR. Targeted mutational profiling of HR genes using next-generation
      sequencing has been used to identify mutations of key HR genes. Furthermore, HR-defective
      tumors exhibit genomic instability, including loss of heterozygosity (LOH), telomeric allelic
      imbalance (TAI) and large-scale state transitions (LST). A combined HR deficiency score
      (myChoice homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) test from Myriad Genetics) defined as the
      sum of LOH, TAI and LST has been developed. This score has been associated with response to
      platinum-based chemotherapy and in ovarian cancer with the efficacy of niraparib in patients
      without germline breast cancer gene (gBRCA) mutations.

      In patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), the Cancer Genome Atlas project found
      31% of alterations in BRCA1-2 genes, mainly related to copy number and overexpression. In
      addition, a high percentage of tumors had alterations in other DNA repair genes. Recently, in
      platinum-treated UC patients, 47% of mutations in DNA repair genes have been found, including
      50% of mutations in HR, Fanconi anemia, and DNA-damage-response checkpoint pathways. The
      presence of these mutations has been associated with survival. These results suggest a
      potential role for PARP inhibitors in UC. Niraparib is a highly selective inhibitor of poly
      (adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase (PARP)1/2 nuclear protein. PARP enzymes are
      involved in DNA repair through activation of the base excision repair (BER) pathway and
      alternative end-joining pathways and inhibition of non-homologous end-joining. PARP
      inhibition in cells with HR deficiency causes accumulation of unrepaired DNA double-strand
      breaks, leading to cell death. For these reasons, PARP inhibitors are selectively lethal in
      tumor cells with defective HR. Niraparib at the recommended oral dose of 300 mg daily has
      demonstrated efficacy in platinum- sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer with defective HR. The
      most significant toxicity was hematologic (thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and anemia). Among
      non-hematologic toxicities, hypertension was detected in 8% of patients.

      c-Met receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) is activated by its ligand, hepatocyte growth factor
      (HGF), and induces increased proliferation, migration, motility, and invasion of bladder
      cancer cells. c-Met is overexpressed in more than 60% of metastatic bladder cancer patients
      and is linked to poor outcome. Furthermore, in bladder cancer, c-Met is co-expressed with
      other RTKs, such as AXL and PDGFR. Some evidence suggests a relationship between c-Met and
      AXL expression with DNA damage response and resistance to chemotherapy. For example, Balaji
      et al have demonstrated that AXL inhibition leads to a defect in the HR pathway, sensitizing
      cells to PARP inhibition. In a recently published study, a significant interaction between
      c-Met and Poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (PARP1) was detected in breast cancer cell lines.
      c-Met activity can decrease response to PARP inhibitors, whereas treatment with c-Met
      inhibitors renders cells more sensitive to PARP inhibition. Likewise, in in vivo models with
      xenograft tumors, the combination of c-Met and PARP inhibitors showed a significant reduction
      in tumor growth compared to either inhibitor alone. This interaction can be explained because
      c-Met mediates PARP1 function through phosphorylation of PARP1 at Y907. These results raise
      the possibility that bladder cancer patients with tumors overexpressing c-Met can benefit
      from the combination of c-Met inhibitors and PARP inhibitors.

      Cabozantinib is an oral, small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Its primary targets are
      MET, VEGFR1-3, RET, AXL, FLT3 and KIT. Cabozantinib has been approved by the FDA for clinical
      treatment of progressive, metastatic medullary thyroid cancer. The recommended dose of
      cabozantinib has been established in phase I trials at 60 mg/day in 28-day cycles. Recently
      published trials have demonstrated activity for cabozantinib in patients with advanced renal
      cell carcinoma and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Furthermore, in
      preclinical models of UC of the bladder, cabozantinib has demonstrated the ability to inhibit
      tumor xenograft growth. It has been suggested that levels of soluble Met ectodomain (sMet)
      can be measured in the urine as a useful biomarker to monitor the efficacy of c-Met therapy
      in bladder cancer patients. Moreover, cabozantinib has demonstrated activity in heavily
      pretreated, advanced bladder cancer patients, with a response rate of 19.5% and manageable
      toxicities.

      In the phase I of this study it is proposed to evaluate DLTs of niraparib and cabozantinib
      combination and determine MTD in patients with advanced urothelial or renal cell carcinoma.
      In the phase II it is proposed to make a preliminary evaluation of the efficacy of this
      combination in patients with urothelial cell carcinoma. Efficacy results will be correlated
      with genomic alterations related to c-Met and PARP inhibitor activity.
    
  