
    
      The lead researcher is a cardiovascular nurse specialist with 10 years of experience in the
      care of patients with heart disease and she will be responsible for the application of the
      Motivational Interviewing (MI) technique in the appointments for the intervention group. She
      also participated in an intensive workshop about MI, which followed the recommendations of
      the Motivational Interviewing Network of Trainers19 in 2013, and more recently, in 2015 and
      2016, she participated in two workshops on advanced MI techniques. During the study there
      will be monthly supervision with another specialist. The training and the supervision will be
      the responsibility of a PhD researcher in Psychiatry with consistent experience on
      Motivational Interviewing and training conducted in the United States with Miller and
      Rollnick.

      The sample size was calculated with WinPepi 11.20 software. Sample size was estimated in 100
      patients, 50 in the intervention group (IG) and 50 in the control group (CG), considering a
      difference of 8 mmHg between groups, standard deviation of 14 mmHg, 80% power, and alpha of
      0.05. Adding 20% of losses the sample will have 120 patients, 60 for each group.

      Hypertension outpatients of Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA) will be identified by
      the appointment book and invited to participate in the study through telephone calls. The
      first appointment will consist in obtaining the ICF and confirmation of eligibility. After
      ICF's signing and confirmation of eligibility, the patient will be randomized to one of the
      groups. Participants of both groups will attend monthly appointments: first appointment (D0),
      appointment of 30, 60, 90, 120, and 150 days, totaling six individual encounters, previously
      arranged in the Clinical Research Center (CRC) of HCPA, with an average duration of 30
      minutes.

      The randomization list was generated through the website www.randomization.com. The list will
      be in possession of a professional of the research group, however non-participant of this
      project. The allocation group of each patient will be hidden by opaque envelopes of identical
      appearance.

      The researcher responsible for the application of the MI technique and the one responsible
      for the conduct of conventional appointments will be blinded to the outcomes of the study;
      therefore, the application of structured questionnaires, scales, and assessment of other
      variables of the study will be carried out by a researcher unblinded to the outcomes.

      Statistical analysis:

      Continuous variables will be expressed as mean standard deviation or median and interquartile
      range (25 and 75 percentile). Categorical variables will be expressed in absolute and
      percentage numbers. Chi-square will be used for associations between sociodemographic and
      clinical variables with the scores of the Self-Care Scale. The comparison of the quantitative
      variables between groups will be conducted by the Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney test,
      according to data's distribution. The values of systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic
      blood pressure (DBP) during the study, as well as the scores of the Self-Care Scale will be
      analyzed by the Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) with Bonferroni correction. The
      pressure differences between both groups during the treatment will be analyzed by ANOVA test
      for repeated measurements. Analysis of Covariance will be conducted to adjust possible
      differences regarding the basal pressure. The 5% level of significance will be adopted and
      the data will be analyzed in the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) v.20
      (Chicago, Illinois, USA).
    
  