
    
      Bone is the most common site of breast cancer metastasis, and the skeletal-related events
      (SRE) of bone metastasis such as pathologic fractures, cord compression, hypercalcemia and
      severe pain, accounting for poor quality of life in the terminal stage of the afflicted
      patients. Since previous SREs are the major risk factors for subsequent SREs related to
      serious morbidity and mortality, the early detection of bone metastasis prior to clinical
      symptoms is essential to the better management of breast cancer patients. Currently,
      diagnosis of bone metastasis is dependent on imaging modalities such as whole-body bone
      scintigraphy (WBBS). However, detectability of radionuclide activity in the WBBS depends on
      gross structural bone destruction resulting from considerable progression of
      macro-metastasis.

      Circulating osteoprogenitor cells that is defined a small monocytic cells expressing
      osteocalcin, a late osteoblast differentiation marker, had been identified in human
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Flow cytometric analyses of the PBMCs using
      anti-osteocalcin antibody demonstrated that adolescents who are in the period of rapid bone
      growth showed higher fractions of osteocalcin-positive cells than adults. Moreover, these
      cells also positively correlated with pathologic changes of bone turnover in such conditions
      as fracture, hypoparathyroidism, or diabetes. Collectively, circulating osteoprogenitor cells
      reflects changes of bone turnover in either physiologic or pathologic status.

      The scientific hypothesis of this study is that circulating osteoprogenitor cells increases
      in the early phase of bone micro-metastasis, and the aim of this clinical study is to
      investigate the difference of circulating osteoprogenitor cells in metastatic breast cancer
      with or without bone metastasis. This study will also examine whether the patients who have
      higher number of osteocalcin-positive cells develop bone metastasis at an earlier time point,
      to validate the value of circulating osteoprogenitor cells in monitoring and/or predictinng
      the progression of bone metastasis.
    
  