
    
      Nitroglycerin is widely used for treatment of chest pain of suspected cardiac etiology in the
      field. While there are a few studies from the pre-reperfusion era that demonstrate some
      benefit of nitroglycerin administration in patients with myocardial infarction, there are no
      studies establishing its benefit and safety in patients with STEMI in the emergency
      department or prehospital settings.

      It is unclear if the current practice of administration of nitroglycerin in all patients with
      suspected cardiac chest pain in the field is of benefit. Furthermore, the risk to the patient
      with STEMI has not been established. The American Heart Association 2010 International
      Consensus on Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care states that
      "there is insufficient evidence to determine the benefit or harm of initiating nitroglycerin
      treatment in the prehospital setting or ED." By quantifying the risk of nitroglycerin use for
      treatment of suspected STEMI in the field and the benefit to pain relief, one can determine
      if the continued use of this medication for cardiac chest pain in the field is appropriate.

      This study will be conducted at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, UCLA Ronald Reagan Medical
      Center, and Cedar-Sinai Medical Center. Participants will be identified in the emergency
      department at all sites. There will be no interventions performed. The study is limited to
      observational data gathering only.

      Los Angeles County established regionalized cardiac care in 2006 with a total of 34
      designated STEMI receiving centers (SRC) throughout the county. Harbor-UCLA, UCLA Ronald
      Reagan Medical Center, and Cedar-Sinai Medical Center are designated SRC. As such, patients
      with possible STEMI, identified via ECG software interpretation of acute MI in the field, are
      directed to these centers by EMS.

      LA County protocol requires paramedic units to contact the Base Station for all patients with
      suspected STEMI. There is a dedicated mobile intensive care nurse (MICN) or Base Physician
      24-hours per day answering the radio, providing on-line medical direction, and maintaining a
      log of all patients. Outcome data is collected and available for quality improvement (QI)
      purposes. From the 2013 QI data, the investigators expect that approximately 70% of these
      patients will have a culprit lesion on catheterization, confirming a STEMI.

      The MICN or research assistant will identify study subjects. A study investigator will review
      the log on a weekly basis to ensure no patient is missed. Patients will be eligible for
      enrollment in the study if they are identified by paramedics as having a STEMI and
      transported to a study site. The patient will be identified by the MICN or research assistant
      at the time of base contact or arrival to the hospital with a prehospital diagnosis of STEMI.
      Patients will be excluded if they are under 18 years of age, if the primary complaint is
      trauma, if they are in cardiac arrest at the time of paramedic arrival or if they are
      transported to a non-study site.

      The primary outcome is frequency of hypotension (SBP<100) on initial ED vital signs after
      treatment with nitroglycerin for suspected STEMI in the field. The onset of action of
      sublingual nitroglycerin is 2-5 minutes, with a duration of 60 minutes. Average transport
      times in LA County are approximately 15 minutes. Therefore, the primary outcome will be
      measured upon ED arrival, after completion of field care and prior to any ED intervention.

      Secondary outcomes will be change in chest pain score for patients treated for STEMI in the
      field and in-hospital mortality. Chest pain is assessed on a 11-point Numeric Rating Scale
      (NRS). The initial pain score is assessed and documented by paramedics. The same NRS is used
      by the triage nurse upon ED arrival. A priori, a decrease of 1.39 will be considered the
      minimum clinically significant difference (MCSD) based on prior literature. Planned subgroup
      analysis for these outcomes will be patients requiring PCI for proximal right coronary artery
      lesion on catheterization.

      After patient arrival, the MICN or research assistant will log patient and retain paramedic
      and base record for the study investigator. The following information will be obtained
      regarding patient EMS and ED phase: patient sequence number and medical record number, age,
      gender, race, initial prehospital vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, pain scale),
      treatment with nitroglycerin in the field (number of doses), initial triage vital signs
      (heart rate, blood pressure, pain scale), ECG findings (location of ST elevations if
      present), disposition to the cath lab (yes/no). On follow up, a study investigator will enter
      whether percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was performed, the location of the culprit
      lesion(s) for patients treated in the cath lab, and final diagnosis and disposition for all
      patients. This information will be obtained via chart review and discussion with the cath lab
      team as required. There will be no follow-up of patients beyond hospital discharge. A second
      investigator will review a random 10% sample of records for key data elements.

      During data entry, all information will be maintained in SherlockMD, a HIPAA-complaint
      electronic secure database with access only to the principal investigator. At study
      completion, de-identified data will be exported into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet (Microsoft
      Corporation, Redmond WA). Statistical analyses will be performed using SAS 9.4 (SAS
      Institute, Cary, NC). The study outcomes will be presented as proportions with exact binomial
      confidence intervals. P-values for univariate associations will be calculated using
      Chi-square or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. Adjusted outcome estimates will be
      determined using multiple logistic regression. A power analysis is not applicable to the
      primary outcome: proportion of hypotensive episodes related to nitroglycerin use for STEMI in
      the field, with no comparative group. For the secondary outcome of pain relief, the
      investigators determined a sample size of 73 patients per group to achieve 90% power to
      detect the minimum clinically significant difference of 1.39, assuming, base on prior
      literature, an average pain score of 6.6 and standard deviation of 2.58. Kappa statistic will
      be used to assess agreement between data abstractors.
    
  