
    
      Uterine transplantation was developed as a surgical/medical procedure to ameliorate the
      condition of absolute uterine factor infertility. As a condition, the congenital or acquired
      state renders fertile-age women the inability to have a child via conventional birth. It is
      estimated that this condition may affect near 1 in 500 women. The alternative, namely
      gestational surrogacy or adoption, can be fraught with legal, ethical, or religious issues.
      Significant research and progress has been obtained in Europe (namely Sweden) in facilitating
      uterine transplantation. Recently, they were able to obtain a successful live childbirth
      using a donated uterus from a living relative. Based on significant background research
      already performed, the aim of this research study is to expand upon their gains by
      successfully establishing a deceased donor uterus transplantation program at UNMC.

      Prior to the success of the Swedish team, two other European/Asian medical research groups
      have attempted deceased donor uterus transplantation. The first resulted in organ failure
      from unclear pathology. The second was a successful transplant, but failed to yield a
      childbirth due to multiple miscarriages. In 2004 however, the team from the Sahlgrenska
      Institute in Gothenburg instituted a rigorous research undertaking in order to study the
      phenomenon and to obtain a childbirth. Using established immunological knowledge, and
      practical experience using animal models, the investigators were able over a course of a
      decade, to start an active transplant program.

      From a medical/obstetrics and gynecology standpoint, potential subjects were screened using a
      rigorous physical and psychosocial evaluation. This involved meeting with multiple members of
      the research team, in addition to independent monitors familiar with the field and the risks
      and benefits of participation. To facilitate success, all women and their partners underwent
      investigation to rule out any sterility factors that could have been related to fertility.
      Next, egg harvesting and embryo transfer was undertaken according to currently accepted
      protocols. Of note, all women who had uterine agenesis had some type of neo-vaginal
      recreation in order to facilitate IVF. Finally, donor and recipient HLA matching was done
      using standard transplantation methods in order to avoid unacceptable matches.

      During surgery, the donor underwent an extensive procedure in order to successfully dissect
      out the artery and venous supply of the organ. The vagina was transected caudal to the
      fornix, thus allowing a donor specimen which was attached by only the vascular pedicles. (The
      process of removing a uterus from a living donor is infinitely more complex than that of a
      deceased donor, hence our initial plan at UNMC is to focus on organs derived from the
      latter.) Once the organ was removed, it was flushed with preservation solution using standard
      transplantation protocols. The recipient surgery was also performed in standard fashion, with
      the donor iliac vessels anastomosed to the recipients. The vaginal rim of the graft was
      sutured to the recipient's vagina in standard fashion. Routine intra-operative examinations
      with Doppler (to assess blood flow) were then performed prior to the termination of the
      operation.

      Maintenance immunosuppression was given to the recipients using standard accepted protocols
      with close monitoring of drug levels. Serial Doppler US were done both during hospitalization
      and in follow up to assess uterine viability. Clinical examination from an obstetrician was
      performed at pre-determined intervals and biopsies of uterine tissue were taken to assess for
      organ viability and to rule out rejection. Those few patients who did have rejection were
      treated with standard transplantation protocols with increased steroids only.

      Embryo transfer was done at approximately 1 year post transplant, in order to ensure
      continued viability and normal menstruation of the organ. Post transfer, hormonal stimulation
      was done using standard reproductive endocrinology protocols. Serial monitoring of the fetus
      was done at routine intervals through the 9 month gestational period. Finally, a caesarean
      section was performed in routine fashion at time of birth.

      Our groups rationale at UNMC is to continue to build on the accepted protocols developed by
      the Swedish team and apply them to deceased donors. The investigators believe our vast
      experience in transplant and obstetrics/gynecology combined with reproductive endocrinology
      facilitates undergoing this exciting new medical and surgical therapy.
    
  