
    
      The number of patients in Thailand with end stage renal disease on peritoneal dialysis (PD)
      is growing rapidly. Thai nephrologists have identified a critical gap in the current
      management of PD patients: a lack of timely information about fluid (hydration) status. Real
      time access to this information creates the opportunity for the early treatment of
      overhydration - the most common cause of complications and hospitalization in this
      population. Early treatment of overhydration in PD patients can decrease the incidence of
      complications, improve quality of life, and decrease health care costs.

      This research project aims to improve the monitoring of fluid status in PD patients from a
      bimonthly, in-clinic review of handwritten log books to a smart phone based app ("CKD-PD")
      with digitized data. This allows for near real time data visualization, hydration status
      monitoring, outlier notifications, and more timely treatment interventions for overhydration.
      Data from home monitoring equipment to transferred to the CKD-PD app. Hydration metrics are
      uploaded to "CKDNET" (Chronic Kidney Disease NorthEast Thailand) database in the Thai Care
      Cloud - Thailand's national health database, merging patient collected data with hospital and
      clinic records.

      The objective of this study is to determine if use of the CKD-PD app can improve early
      treatment of overhydration in PD patients. The investigators will conduct a randomized
      clinical trial comparing the incidence of clinical interventions for treatment of
      overhydration. PD patients from 3 facilities in Northeast Thailand - Srinagarind Hospital at
      Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen Hospital and Chaiyaphum Hospital - (N=200) will be randomized
      into two groups - one using the CKD-PD app, and one receiving usual management. The primary
      outcome will be the incidence of clinical intervention to treat overhydration as an
      intermediate outcome related to the secondary outcomes: complications, hospitalizations, and
      mortality related to fluid overload.
    
  