
    
      Severe sepsis and septic shock are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in
      patients admitted in the ICU, being responsible for approximately 200000 deaths/year in the
      USA and 150000 in Europe . Recognizing the early signs of sepsis and the different stages of
      this condition may lower the associated morbidity and mortality.

      The hemodynamic profile of the septic shock is characterized by the presence of the
      distributive shock, on which we can add elements from the hypovolemic and cardiogenic shocks.
      The persistence of hypotension after adequate fluid load is the result of low vascular
      resistance and myocardial dysfunction and calls for certain specific correctional measures.

      The diffrent hemodynamic profiles which can be found in the different stages of the septic
      shock and their dificult clinical identification led to the development of varoius
      hemodynamic monitoring techniques and devices. These techniques can be classified into
      invasive and minimally invasive, calibrated and uncalibrated. The major diffrences among
      these tecniques is the easyness of utilisation and the acuracy of the data obtained.

      Inclusion Criteria: severe sepsis and septic shock (acording to the Sepsis Campaign 2013
      crieria) patients with medical or surgical pathology which are admitted in the ICU unit in
      the first six hours after the onset of the severe sepsis/septic shock. The exclusion criteria
      of the patients are age less then 18 and more then 75, cardiac valvular pathology with
      hemodynamic importance, cardiac failure NYHA III și IV, primary or secondary pulmonary
      hypertension with hemodymanic impact with onset before the onset of the septic
      pathology,severe liver failure (Child-Pugh C), anuric renal failure, pregnant women, patient
      who refuse blood products adminitration, end-stage cancer.

      The objecive of this study is to optimize the volemic resuscitation of the severe septic and
      of the septic shock patient using two minimally invasive methods of hemdynamic monitoring
      which both use the same device (Edwards Lifescience). In the same time hemodinamic data will
      be colected by mesuring the inferior vena cava diameter.

      The primary outcome is the adecuacy of tissue perfusion at six hours (urinary output, blood
      pressure, lactate clearance, skin aspect). The secondary oucomes are duration of
      cardiovascular failure at the end of the 6 hours resuscitation period/ number of days,
      duration of respiratory failure (need of mechanical ventilation, number of days), duration of
      acute renal failure (need of dialysis) at ICU discharge/10/30/60 days, duration of ICU stay
      and in hospital stay, discharge status at 60 days (not discharged ,discharge to another acute
      care hospital, discharged to nursing home, discharged home ,other or unknown and all cause
      mortality at 60 days.
    
  