
    
      Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is a very common complaint in younger population with still unclear
      and controversial etiology. It was suggested that a combination of intrinsic and extrinsic
      factors cause PFP. The strain of the retropatellar subcondral bone caused by excessive
      lateral patellar tracking is known to be the one among intrinsic factors (Thomee R.1999).
      Imbalance of the dynamics between knee extensor muscles, Vastus Medialis (VM) and Vastus
      Lateralis (VL), has also received a great research interest during last 10 years. However,
      uneven timing between onsets of counterpart knee flexor muscles, Lateral and Medial
      hamstring, were just considered as a possible etiological factor of the PFP (Patil S.2011),
      yet this hypothesis remains to be proven. The investigators aimed to investigate whether
      there is a relative time delays of the LH (biceps femoris, BF) and MH (semitendinosus, ST)
      during the walking at the self-selected speed in patients with patellofemoral pain. Even
      though dynamic EMG investigations are challenging because of cross-talks between muscles,
      hence difficult to determine clearly onset times, the investigators think that any
      information acquired during walking would be highly important because patellofemoral pain is
      mainly exaggerated by dynamic activities.

      15 patients who were diagnosed with PFP (age 28.73±7.44, height 169.73±7.09, weight
      67.47±14.31) and 15 asymptomatic subjects (age 30.47±6.22, height 167.87±7.81, weight
      67.87±13.48) were recruited in the study. The inclusion criteria for PFP subjects was
      presence of the anterior and retropatellar pain for minimum 2 months scaled as 3 in
      accordance with Numeric Analog Scale during at least two of the following activities: stair
      descending, ascending, squatting, prolonged sitting, jumping, sitting on the knees. Surface
      EMG was recorded from Medial Hamstring and Lateral Hamstring muscles at 1000 Hz sampling rate
      during walking at participants' normal walking speed. EMG data obtained from 5 gait trials
      were evaluated. The EMG traces were full wave rectified and low pass filtered at 50 Hz. Delay
      in timing before heel strikes between MH and LH was calculated. Statistical significance
      between differences in time delays was analysed using "paired sample t-test".
    
  