
    
      Study Design:

      A multi-center, double-blinded pilot study to determine if extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) has
      a positive effect on HDL cholesterol levels and anti-inflammatory markers for subjects
      diagnosed with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and to determine if the polyphenol concentration
      is proportional to those effects. Subjects will complete consecutive 28-day periods (with a
      14-day washout between) in which they will either consume the low polyphenol concentration
      EVOO daily or the high polyphenol concentration EVOO. In a double-blinded manner, each
      subject will be his or her own control with a 14-day washout between study periods.

      Hypothesis:

      Subjects will demonstrate greater improvements in HDL cholesterol levels, other lipid
      parameters, and inflammatory markers by adding EVOO to their diets. Consumption of EVOO with
      high polyphenol concentration will improve these parameters more than consumption of EVOO
      with low polyphenol concentration.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To determine if daily consumption of EVOO will increase HDL cholesterol levels after 28
           days.

        2. To determine if daily consumption of high polyphenol concentration EVOO increases HDL
           cholesterol levels more than EVOO with a low polyphenol concentration (same dosing).

        3. To determine the feasibility of this type of study and the possibility of a larger study
           over a longer time period.

      Study Methods:

      Prior to enrolling subjects, the study staff will order a generic brand EVOO through the
      hospital nutritional services department. At the same time, EVOO with a reported high
      polyphenol concentration will be ordered from a local olive oil specialty store.

      Olive oil testing: Eurofins Microbiology Laboratories, Inc. will test a sample of each batch
      of olive oil for polyphenol concentration prior to dispensing. The method is based on direct
      extraction of the biophenolic minor polar compounds from olive oil by means of a methanol
      solution and subsequent quantification by HPLC-MS/MS. Commercially available polyphenol
      standards are used to identify and quantify individual phenolic compounds, focusing on those
      most abundant in olive oils.

      Study subject blood testing: Approximately 20 ml of blood will be obtained at five different
      study visits for a total of 100 ml of blood over 12 weeks.

      Baseline serum and plasma blood samples will be taken prior to olive oil supplementation.
      Follow-up blood samples will be taken at four other times points.

      Serum total lipid profiles will be evaluated in the mass spectrometry core at the Maine
      Medical Center Research Institute (MMCRI). Additionally, inflammatory markers, including CRP,
      IL-6 and TNFalpha, will be determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Serum
      will be prepared by collecting 10 ml of blood into red cap tubes. Blood will be allowed to
      coagulate for 15-20 minutes at room temperature and then centrifuged at 1500 - 2000g, and the
      supernatant pipetted off and stored frozen at -65ºC. Plasma samples will be prepared from 6
      ml of blood collected into 10 ml ACD (Acid Citrate Dextrose) anticoagulant tubes and
      processed within 1h. The white blood cell fraction will be prepared by centrifugation at
      1,500-2000g for 15 minutes. The middle layer of white cells will be pipetted off and stored
      frozen at -60ºC. The investigators will determine the lipidomic profiles of white blood cells
      as well as caveolin-1 protein levels.

      Lipid panels, which test total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, and triglycerides, will be run on
      remaining blood samples at the local laboratory. All blood testing- associated costs will be
      paid for with study funds from the MaineHealth Cardiology Service Line.

      Other study measures: Vital signs including body weight, blood pressure and heart rate will
      be measured at each visit.

      Subjects will maintain a study diary documenting each dose of EVOO. They will be asked to
      measure out 1 ounce of olive oil in a cup given to them by the study team, and consume it
      with bread, in a smoothie, or by drinking it plain. Compliance with EVOO consumption will be
      calculated from the diary (%). Study compliance will also be measured by ounces of product
      returned (%). Subjects receive 30 ounces of EVOO to cover 28 days, therefore, 2 ounces of
      returned olive oil after each study arm will be counted as 100% compliance.

      Sample Size Considerations:

      As this is a pilot study, the investigators utilized data available in the literature to
      estimate sample size. A study evaluating the effect of HDL on older age life expectancy
      reported a mean HDL of 47.5 with a standard deviation of 12.1 among subjects who lived to be
      older than 85 years. Using this estimate, and anticipating to find a 3 point difference in
      HDL among the two study groups, the investigators need to recruit 276 participants. However,
      as this is a pilot study and the investigators have limited funding, they will start by
      recruiting 90 subjects. With additional funding secured from a grant in the future, the study
      could be expanded in order to achieve the desired power of 80%.

      Data Analysis:

      For the purpose of this study, the investigators will attempt to detect differences in HDL
      and other biomarkers of cardiovascular health in subjects who consumed both low polyphenol
      concentration vs. high polyphenol concentration EVOO. Medical record numbers will not be
      included in the dataset for analysis. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the
      demographic and clinical characteristics of subjects included in the study, with continuous
      variables presented as a mean +- standard deviation and categorical variables as
      frequencies/percentages of the total. Student t tests and chi-squared tests will be conducted
      to compare data between the low vs. high polyphenol EVOO groups. A time series plot will be
      generated in order to demonstrate the change in HDL over time by level of polyphenol
      consumed.
    
  