
    
      Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is first genetic kidney disease and
      fourth etiology of end stage renal disease in the world. Peritoneal dialysis is underuse in
      this population. Indeed in this pathology, behind big kidneys and big liver, a hyper pressure
      is feared with technical failure. The lack of abdominal space could generate increase of
      peritoneal pressure. Hyper pressure is already known to be a risk factor of technical failure
      and over mortality in peritoneal dialysis patients (all nephropathies included). It depends
      on body mass index and body surface modulating injected volume for each patient. Anticipate
      peritoneal pressure in this population ADPKD could be an important information for
      distinguish those who can use peritoneal dialysis without fear and those at risk of technical
      failure.

      The primary objective is to create and validate prediction score for intra-peritoneal
      pressure, in peritoneal dialysis for ADPKD patients thanks to clinical and radiological
      values.

      The secondary objectives are to study the association between intra-peritoneal pressure and
      patient's outcome (global survival and technical survival).

      Retrospective, multicentric, national, cohort study will be performed. For the first step
      (score creation): ADPKD patients starting peritoneal dialysis for end stage renal failure
      between 01/01/2010 and 31/12/2015 with tomodensitometry between one year before beginning and
      one year after will be included.

      For the second step (score validation): ADPKD patients starting peritoneal dialysis for end
      stage renal failure between 01/01/2016 and 31/12/2017 with tomodensitometry between one year
      before beginning and one year after will be included.

      Data regarding organ volume and clinical data wich can influence pressure and patient's
      outcome (global survival and technical survival) will be recorded.

      A bivariate analysis will be performed to study the association between intra-peritoneal
      pressure and clinical data. A multivariate analysis by multiple linear regressions will be
      performed to create the score. Survival analysis by log rank test and cox regression model
      will be performed for global survival and technical survival.
    
  