
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      The novel coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19) pandemic has affected the globe, with Italy
      leading many reports of the incidence and mortalities. Recently reported studies have
      described the clinical characteristics and overall outcomes of patients with COVID-19 and the
      effects of treating these patients on the healthcare system.Two studies have reported
      associated coagulopathy disorders. These reports have highlighted the presence of a
      coexisting hypercoagulable state in patients with COVID-19, which might be associated with
      higher mortality.

      The COVID-19 pandemic has had many impacts, both seen and unforeseen, all over the world. As
      expected, elective endovascular procedures have been halted, with a significant decrease in
      urgent/emergent procedures. This could reflect an understandable unwillingness on the part of
      patients who continue to self-isolate at home to come in for treatments, including those with
      Critical limb threatening ischemia. Also impacts on the supply chain side of performing
      interventions, had been reported, it is challenging to be in the middle of a complex CLTI
      (Critical limb threatening ischemia) case and request a routine device only to find out it is
      unavailable.

      Aim of the work Evaluation the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on emergency vascular practice and
      critical limb ischemia.

      Outcome

      Primary outcomes:

        -  Frequencies of patients admitted at the Vascular.

        -  Predisposing Factors.

        -  Number of ICU admission.

      Secondary outcomes:

      • Mortality rates

      Patients and methods Study location: The study will be conducted at the department of
      vascular surgery in Mansoura university hospitals Type of study: Observational analytical
      study Study duration: 2019-2020 Sample size: It will include all patients presented to our
      department at the first 6 months of 2019 and first 6 months of 2020. sample size will be
      140-400 patients Inclusion criteria: all patients admitted to our department at that periods
      Exclusion criteria

        1. Patients can't give consent (unconscious).

        2. Those with mental or behavioral disorders will be excluded. Consent: Patients after
           signing informed consent that possible complication from the procedure ought to happen
           and what are the alternatives.

      Data collection:

        -  All patients with complete medical records available will be documented

        -  Each patient's record will be analyzed to determine preexisting illnesses, admitting
           symptoms (including length of time to accessing medical care), admission physical
           findings, laboratory and results.

        -  Also, the type and duration of antibiotic therapy, the frequency and type of operative
           procedures performed and subsequent complications.

        -  Supporting modalities such as dialysis, blood product transfusion, and mechanical
           ventilation will be were reviewed.

        -  Each patient's premorbid medical profile, condition at admission, and subsequent
           treatment also will be analyzed to assess effect on mortality and development of
           complications.

        -  Standard treatment after admission including cardiovascular stabilization and assessment
           of extent of infection. Broad-spectrum antibiotics were administered to cover
           gram-positive cocci, gram-negative enteric rods, and anaerobic flora will be also
           reported.

        -  The procedure of Surgical Management will be described.

      Statistical analysis

      · The data will be analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences. The numerical
      outcomes e.g. age is calculated as median. Gender will be recorded as frequency and
      percentage. Chi Square test is applied to assess the association of various parameters. The
      results will be considered statistically significant if the p-value is found to be less than
      or equal to 0.05. To assess possible risk factors for mortality, univariate analyses will be
      completed initially to aid in determining the variables that should be included in a stepwise
      logistic regression model.
    
  