
    
      Background Information

      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is a
      formidable risk in view of various predisposing factors including restriction of activity,
      history of myocardial infarctions in such patients, presence of multiple predisposing
      baseline demographic characteristics and risk factors including advanced age and smoking. The
      reported incidence of asymptomatic deep vein thrombosis (DVT) using duplex ultrasound (DUS)
      is significant and varies from 16 to 48%, most of the thrombi being calf vein. (1,2,3) The
      incidence of symptomatic VTE based chiefly on retrospective data ranges from 0.5 to 3.9% for
      VTE, 0.3 to 0.5% for DVT, 0.2 to 3.9% for PE, and 0.06 to 0.7% for fatal PE. (2-10)The
      absolute number of affected patients may be significant since the number of such procedures
      performed every year in the US alone is huge. According to the American Heart Association's
      Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics - 2008 Update, 469,000 surgical revascularizations were
      done in the US in 2005.

      The benefits of thromboprophylaxis in medically ill patients including those with congestive
      heart failure have been well demonstrated with up to 60% reduction in VTE risk. (11) The
      patients who undergo CABG have similar risk profiles and hence should be evaluated with
      pharmacokinetic thromboprophylacic strategy.

      In CABG patients, the American College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical Practice
      Guidelines (8th Edition), 2008, (12) does recommend routine prophylaxis with low molecular
      weight heparin (LMWH), low dose unfractionated heparin (LDUH), or optimally used bilateral
      graduated compression stockings (GCS) or intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC). The
      guidelines are based on moderate to low quality evidence and the strength of these
      recommendations is weak as there have been no randomized controlled trials.

      Rationale In CABG patients, the American College of Chest Physicians Evidence-Based Clinical
      Practice Guidelines (8th Edition), 2008,(12) recommend routine prophylaxis with LMWH, LDUH,
      or optimally used bilateral GCS or IPC. The guidelines are based on moderate to low quality
      evidence and the strength of the recommendation is weak as there have been no randomized
      controlled trials. Optimally used stockings may not be applicable to many CABG patients
      because of saphenous vein harvesting and hence pharmacologic means are preferable.

      Fondaparinux is a pentasaccharide with an efficacy and safeties shown to be equal to or
      better than LMWH and thus may be a preferred agent for VTE prophylaxis. (13-18)

      OBJECTIVES The primary goal of this study is to demonstrate the superiority of Fondaparinux
      Sodium over placebo for the prevention of VTE in Patients undergoing Coronary Bypass Graft
      Surgery (CABG).

      Primary Efficacy Endpoint:

      • Cumulative incidence of all VTE (defined as symptomatic and asymptomatic deep-vein
      thrombosis, fatal and non-fatal pulmonary embolism, or both) up to day 11

      Secondary Efficacy Endpoints:

      • Primary efficacy end-point and VTE up to day 35

      Primary Safety Endpoints:

      • Major bleeding event up to day 11

      Secondary Safety Endpoints:

        -  Cumulative major and minor bleeding event up to day 11

        -  Deaths, requirement of transfusions and other adverse events up to day 35

      STUDY DESIGN This trial is a phase II, prospective, single-center, assessor and
      patient-blinded, placebo controlled, randomized study to demonstrate the superior
      thromboprophylactic efficacy of Fondaparinux Sodium subcutaneous injections in patients
      undergoing CABG surgery versus placebo.

      OBJECTIVES The primary efficacy objectives include an assessment of the cumulative rate of
      all VTE (defined as DVT or fatal or non-fatal pulmonary embolism or both) up to 11 days post
      CABG. The primary safety objectives include the assessment of the frequency and occurrence of
      all major bleeding events post-operatively up to day 3-11. Finally, the secondary efficacy
      objective will include cumulative VTE events and assessment of the components of VTE while
      the secondary safety objective will include an assessment of the frequency of non-major
      bleeding events up to day 3-11 as well as all cause deaths, need for transfusion and other
      monitored adverse events till day 35. The inclusion of safety is mainly for descriptive
      purposes because the study is not be powered for safety end points.

      The safety and efficacy endpoints will determine Fondaparinux Sodium's ability over placebo
      to prevent VTE while assessing the bleeding risk in this study population. A randomized
      control is needed because a head to head comparison of Fondaparinux Sodium and placebo is
      being planned.

      Approximate time to complete study enrollment is 2 years. This estimation is based on the
      number of subjects needed for the study and the rate of CABG surgery performed at the
      institution.
    
  