
    
      The prospective randomized study is carried out at orthopaedic and traumatology, haematology
      and radiology departments. 50 patients were included in the study. Of the 25 patients in both
      groups, Group I (received the concentrate of marrow MSCs into the tendon- bone contact point
      at the site of the suture during surgery ) consisted of 7 women and 18 men ( mean age 51,2
      years ), Group II ( without the use of MSCs ) consisted of 15 women and 10 men ( mean age
      50,5 years ). Selection of patients into both groups was performed using permutation block
      randomization computer software Random Number Generator Software 7.0. All of
      radiographs/MRI/CT results were evaluated by an experienced radiologist specialized in
      musculoskeletal pathologies, that was blinded to the both groups of patients. Before entering
      the study, patients signed an informed consent created by the Ethical Committee of local
      hospital and were randomly assigned to one of the treatment possibilities with use of the
      Random Number Generator Software 7.0 by the method 1:1.

      Before the surgical treatment, patients completed a questionnaire with VAS score, ASES score
      ( American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Standardized Shoulder Assessment Form ) and the
      Constant score. Further clinical control with completing these questionnaires is 6 months
      after surgery, 1 year after surgical treatment, 2, 5 and ten years postoperatively. Two years
      after the surgery MRI examination of the shoulder joint is performed. All of the outpatient
      clinical evaluations during the study were performed by the orthopaedic surgeon blinded to
      the both groups of patients.

      The actual therapy was as follows: open surgery was preceded by a standard diagnostic
      arthroscopy, which was performed from the posterior portal for optics and anterior portal for
      arthroscopic instruments. The tendons of the rotator cuff were assessed from both sides -
      intraarticular and subacromial. To evaluate cuff tendon injury perioperatively and to measure
      the rupture width, a special arthroscopic hook calibrated in 1 mm was used. To evaluate the
      shape of the rupture, the classification of Ellman - Gartsman was used. Surgical treatment of
      injured tendons of the rotator cuff was performed in the beach chair position of the patient,
      by the deltoid muscle split approach. After evaluation of the extent and location of the cuff
      tendon lesion the aspiration of 10 ml of bone marrow blood was done ( from the humeral head
      through the same surgical approach ) into a 20 mL syringe prefilled with 0.5 ml of heparin
      with the Yamshidi needle. Aspiration of the bone marrow was performed by surgeon. From one
      bone puncture was aspirated maximally 3 ml of marrow blood. Centrifugation of the aspirate in
      10 ml test-tube Monovette filled with citrate followed. Selected centrifugation regime
      consisted of gradient 15 minute centrifugation at 200 g RCF ( relative centrifugal force ).
      After such a centrifugation the tube contents is divided into three parts. The upper layer
      consists of the platelet-rich plasma (PRP), the middle layer of the buffy coat with the
      dominant proportion of leukocytes, and the lower layer is formed by sedimented erythrocytes.
      Using a sterile laboratory pipette, a collection of the buffy coat was performed. MSCs
      represented 0.01 to 0.02 % of all nuclear elements of the buffy coat, that is about 10 x 106
      / l. The MSCs concentrate ( similar to synovial fluid in consistency and colour ) was
      impregnated into the collagen patch Hypro-Sorb F ( Otrokovice, Czech Republic ) of dimensions
      1x2 cm. The collagen patch as a carrier of the MSCs concentrate was used to ensure its
      retention in desired place. This material was then inserted between the tendon and bone, into
      the place of re-fixing of the rotator cuff tendons ( footprint ) before tightening the
      threads of the anchors. Fixation of the tendon to the bone was made by a double row method
      with use of absorbable fixation anchors BioComposite Corkscrew ( Arthrex, Munich, Germany ).
      In all such treated cases the tendon was fixed in place of original attachment without any
      stress and without the need of abduction of the arm above 60 degrees. All patients underwent
      Neer acromioplasty for an increase of the subacromial space. This procedure was followed by
      the standard surgical wound closure in all anatomical layers, sterile dressing of the wound
      and by applying of the abduction orthosis. All patients were operated by the same orthopaedic
      surgeon with the same surgical technique. Open surgery instead of arthroscopy was chosen
      because of the safer fixation of the MSCs carrier under the re-inserted tendon and to reduce
      the risk of washout of the MSCs concentrate from the carrier during the arthroscopy.

      Surgical treatment of patients in Group II was identical as in Group I, except the aspiration
      of bone marrow from the humeral head and subsequent application of the scaffold saturated
      with MSCs into the tendon / bone interface.

      Abduction fixation lasted for 4 weeks. Passive motion over the horizontal line under the
      guidance of a physiotherapeutist was initiated the first postoperative day. After removing
      the fixation, an active rehabilitation began, that is a full range of motion exercises done
      actively 6 weeks after surgery. Full load was allowed 12 weeks after the surgery.

      Outpatient follow-up took place according to the schedule mentioned above. To check the
      integrity of the tendon at the point of insertion into the greater tuberosity of the humerus,
      MRI of the shoulder joint was performed 2 years postoperatively. Both, preoperative and
      postoperative MRI examinations were performed with a 1.5T high-field scanner, in sagittal,
      coronal, and axial planes, in T1- and T2-weighted fat-saturated sequences ( MRI arthrography
      using gadollinium as a contrast medium ). All of MRI results were evaluated by an experienced
      radiologist specialized in musculoskeletal pathologies. He evaluated tendon integrity,
      presence and localisation of complete retear, tendon and muscle borders, and presence of
      abnormal artifacts.

      The primary hypothesis of this study is that the use of mesenchymal stem cells in the
      supraspinatus tendon reconstruction surgery will have a positive effect in the assessment of
      both subjective and objective scoring systems, and also in terms of reducing the number of
      tendon reruptures compared to the patients population in which mesenchymal stem cells were
      not used. All data were statistically analyzed with STATISTICA 9.0 programme. To compare the
      results of the of the VAS score, the Constant score, and the ASES score preoperatively and
      one year after the surgery Student´s t- test was used, to compare the incidence of reruptures
      between both groups of patients 2 years postoperatively Chi-square test was used. The
      significance level was determined at p <0.05. Patients were randomly assigned to one of the
      treatment possibilities with use of the Random Number Generator Software 7.0 by the method
      1:1
    
  