
    
      Study purpose A potential alternative to prophylactic antibiotic treatment and topical
      vaginal estrogen treatments is the compound hyaluronate (HA). HA is already utilised in the
      UK to treat rUTIs, but is delivered as a bladder instillation (Ialuril®). A small
      meta-analysis of intravesical hyaluronate therapy incorporating four studies (two randomised,
      two non-randomised, 143 patients) investigating the use of this treatment in recurrent UTI,
      reported a statistically significant improvement in the rates of recurrent UTI (mean
      difference -3.4 episodes per patient year, 95% confidence interval -4.3 to -2.5). HA is also
      available as a vaginal cream, Hyalofemme®, which is used clinically to treat atrophic
      vaginitis. The evidence suggests that many women suffering vaginal atrophy also experience
      recurrent UTIs. However, the effect of HA treatment in reducing concomitant rUTIs in such
      patients has not been reported.

      The need for this study is also supported by current guidance documents. The 2012 Scottish
      Intercollegiate Guideline Network (SIGN) guideline emphasises the need to avoid "unnecessary
      antibiotic prescribing," specifically highlighting the issue of antibiotic-resistant [E.
      coli] UTI. Additionally, the UK antimicrobial resistance strategy documents antibiotic
      resistance as a key concern and as such, lends support to the investigation, and use of
      alternative antimicrobial therapies. The use of non-antibiotic preventative treatments for
      rUTI has also been accentuated by current UK, European and USA guidelines to minimise
      antibiotic resistance. Therefore, this pilot study investigating the efficacy of a treatment
      already prescribed for vaginal atrophy in reducing concomitant rUTI is not only addressing
      current directives, but will help inform whether topical HA therapy can be extended to all
      rUTI sufferers, thus helping to reduce global antibiotic use.

      Evidence supporting the effectiveness of hyaluronate (HA) in treating rUTI is available, but
      at present the therapy is administered directly to the bladder, which involves
      catheterisation, managed through hospital visits. In contrast a HA topical treatment can be
      patient managed at home. If from the data collated the topical HA therapy shows a comparable
      efficacy in reducing rUTI, then these data will underpin a large-scale clinical trial
      examining the use of this non-hormonal, non-antibiotic based agent for the treatment and
      prevention of rUTI in patients.

      While the focus of this initial study is on post-menopausal women suffering vaginal atrophy
      and rUTI, it is also anticipated that this treatment could be broadened to all women
      suffering rUTIs. One particular target group are females carrying the TLR5392Stop
      polymorphism who are at increased risk of rUTI, thus signalling an era of personalised
      medicine for an infection related disease. It is also envisaged that topical HA therapy could
      be prescribed as a urethral barrier cream for men suffering uncomplicated rUTI.

      Study design This study was designed through a collaboration of clinical urologists and basic
      scientists with an interest in the concomitance of atrophic vaginitis and recurrent UTI. The
      proposal was peer-reviewed before funding was granted by The Urology Foundation. This
      single-centre study is located at the Urology Department, Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon
      Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, NE7 7DN. Participants recruited will be post-menopausal
      women identified as either having gone through the menopause naturally or having had an
      oophorectomy, and not on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in the last two years, and who
      suffer from vaginal atrophy and rUTI. Patients will have either 3 confirmed episodes of UTI
      in the preceding year or 2 episodes in the last 6 months. Patients will exhibit the symptoms
      and signs of atrophic vaginitis, which will be diagnosed by their responsible clinician. The
      study duration is 24 months, with a patient recruitment period of 12 months. Patient follow
      up and laboratory work will proceed until the end of month 23, with data analyses and final
      report preparation in the final month.

      The design incorporates a patient-randomised study that directly compares two treatments for
      women with atrophic vaginitis and rUTI during a 9-month period. One treatment is an
      intravesical instillation of hyaluronate into the bladder (Ialuril) delivered via catheter
      focussed primarily on treating rUTI. This is once weekly for 6 weeks, followed by once every
      two weeks for 6 weeks, then once per month (maintenance) for the remaining study period. The
      alternative treatment is focussed on primarily treating atrophic vaginitis using a licensed
      vaginal hyaluronate product (Hyalofemme) used topically once every 3 days, continually for
      the 9 month study period.

      Participants in both study arms would continue to receive antibiotic treatment for
      breakthrough UTI as needed. Recruitment is planned at 3-4 patients per month, allowing us to
      meet a target of 40 participants over the recruitment period, which allows for a 25%
      attrition rate. Using data from Damiano et al, two groups of 16 patients are required to
      achieve 80% power at the 5% significance level for detecting a clinically significant
      reduction of one less UTI during the 9-month treatment and monitoring period.

      Recruitment

        1. Patient Identification All adult women with atrophic vaginitis and rUTI will be made
           aware of the study during their clinic appointment and those eligible can consider
           whether they wish to participate prior to assessment. The study will also be publicised
           so that colleagues in allied specialities such as urogynaecology and nephrology, who may
           receive referrals of women with atrophic vaginitis and rUTI, are aware of the study and
           can identify potential participants.

           For the study, post-menopausal women with symptoms or signs of atrophic vaginitis
           referred to a hospital urology clinic with associated rUTI will be asked if they would
           like to participate. In the study, atrophic vaginitis will be diagnosed on clinical
           grounds and rUTI will be defined as at least 3 episodes in the past year (or 2 episodes
           in the last 6 months). Patients will undergo routine tests to rule out any structural or
           functional abnormality of their urinary system. The treatment given to each participant
           will be decided randomly.

           Patients with underlying structural or functional abnormalities of the urinary tract
           following diagnosis by renal tract ultrasound scan (USS) and an endoscopic examination
           of the bladder under local anaesthesia (flexible cystoscopy) will be excluded from the
           study. A recent local audit in Newcastle (unpublished data, n=200) has revealed that
           contributory structural or functional abnormalities are detected in less than 10% of
           patients. Therefore, it is estimated that approximately 90% of patients matching our
           criteria and referred with atrophic vaginitis and rUTI will be eligible to be approached
           for inclusion to the study.

           Recruitment will involve a clear explanation of the trial including the background,
           study protocol and aims.

        2. Screening Clinical staff at each site will identify eligible participants through direct
           contact or by searches of electronic records held in each Trust. They will then give or
           send potentially eligible patients brief study information. If interested potential
           participants can then agree to be approached by research staff and be provided with
           further study information. Invitation material will include brief details of the need
           and purpose of the study and eligibility criteria. It will emphasise the pragmatic
           nature of the study and give a realistic indication of the burden to participants. All
           patients given study information will be recorded in the screening log. All subjects who
           agree to consider participation will be seen by local research staff or the study
           coordinator to go through the consent and randomisation procedure. A case report form
           will be initiated and baseline data collected.

           A screening log will be kept by local site research staff to document details of
           subjects invited to participate in the study and reasons for non-participation. The log
           will also ensure potential participants who are ineligible or decline participation are
           approached only once.

        3. Consent All participants will undergo a process of informed consent. Participants will
           be free to withdraw their consent at any time.

      The informed consent discussion will be undertaken by appropriately trained staff. This will
      include medical staff and research nurses/study coordinators involved in the study who will
      give time for participants to ask any questions they may have following review of the study
      information pack. The consent process will include written information concerning the need
      and overall benefit of the study as well as verbal discussions. The latter will include a
      check of understanding concerning benefits and risks, and ensuring that participants accept
      that the treatment will be allocated at random regardless of any personal preference they may
      have.

      Following delivery of the study information, participants will be given at least 24 hours and
      as much time as they need to decide whether they would like to participate. Those wishing to
      take part will provide written informed consent by signing and dating the study consent form,
      which will be witnessed and dated by a member of the research team with documented, delegated
      responsibility to do so. Written informed consent will always be obtained prior to
      randomisation. The original signed consent form will be retained in the Investigator Site
      File, with a copy filed in the clinical notes, a copy given to the participant. The
      participant will specifically consent to their General Practitioner (GP) being informed of
      their participation in the study. The right to refuse to participate without giving reasons
      will be respected.

      Participants will be given the option of consenting to storage of blood, urine and vaginal
      douche samples for future research. They will also be asked if they would be willing for the
      inclusion of data collected for this study in future research. Any further research would be
      subject to separate review by an ethics committee.

      Inclusion/exclusion and risk Selection bias will be minimised by including all
      post-menopausal female patients with atrophic vaginitis and recurrent uncomplicated UTI, and
      not receiving hormonal supplements or hyaluronate as eligible participants. There are
      deliberately few exclusion criteria set to enable the findings of this study to be
      generalised. Both treatments are licensed, exhibit a low side-effect profile and have little
      interaction with other common medications, which limits absolute contra-indications to either
      therapy. Eligible patients and their responsible clinician will need to be sufficiently
      uncertain of the optimum treatment for vaginal atrophy and rUTI to allow randomisation and
      prevent selection bias.

      Confidentiality Initial screening of patients will be carried out by trained clinical staff
      associated with either the urology clinic at Freeman Hospital or the network of Research
      Nurses. Following this, informed consent will be taken by appropriately trained staff and the
      patients randomised into the trial. Case Report Forms to collect the information required by
      researchers will contain the minimum required patient-identifiers. All staff have completed
      GDPR training.

      Conflict of interest This study is pragmatic in design and, apart from random allocation of
      treatment option and participant completion of diaries and questionnaires, participant care
      will follow standard pathways in participating secondary care NHS sites. Both Ialuril and
      Hyalofemme are licensed and approved for routine NHS use. It will be ensured that all
      participants have access as desired to the use of other measures to reduce the risk of UTI
      such as adequate fluid intake, avoidance of constipation and cranberry extract. However,
      patients receiving hormonal supplementation are not appropriate for this study. Participants
      in both study groups will receive on demand discrete courses of antibiotics as decided by the
      responsible clinician for symptomatic UTI. Use of all these adjunctive treatments will be
      recorded on case report forms.

      Participants will be given the option of consenting to storage of blood, urine and vaginal
      douche samples for future research. Participants will also be asked if they would be willing
      for the inclusion of data collected for this study in future research. Any further research
      would be subject to separate review by an ethics committee. Upon completion a short, clearly
      written summary of the research findings will be supplied to all participants. Any findings
      resulting from the research will be published in scientific or medical journals.
    
  