
    
      -  Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the accumulation of fat (>5%) in liver
           cells in the absence of excessive alcohol intake or other causes of liver disease. The
           histologic spectrum of NAFLD ranges from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic
           steatohepatitis (NASH), liver fibrosis, and cirrhosis. This disease affects up to 30% of
           the general population in Western countries, especially in patients with metabolic
           syndrome, obesity, and type II diabetes.

        -  Accumulating epidemiologic evidence indicates that NAFLD not only affects the liver but
           also increases the risk of extra-hepatic diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus,
           metabolic syndrome, hypertension, cardiovascular or cerebrovascular diseases, and
           chronic kidney disease.

        -  Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is defined by decreased estimated glomerular filtration
           rate (eGFR) and/or the presence of significant proteinuria. Its prevalence is ~ 4.3 -
           13% in general population, but it is expected to increase and ~ 50% of these patients
           develop end-stage renal disease. Recently, CKD is significantly higher in patients with
           NAFLD than patients without.

        -  Several studies have demonstrated that NAFLD independently contributes to increasing the
           risk of CKD where NAFLD and CKD may share many common cardio-metabolic risk factors e.g.
           insulin resistance, chronic inflammation, and obesity.

        -  The exact pathophysiologic mechanisms linking NAFLD to CKD are not completely
           understood, however, there is increased production of various proinflammatory cytokines,
           reactive oxygen species, TNF-α, C-reactive protein (CRP), and IL-6 by hepatocytes and
           non-parenchymal cells (Kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells) that can link NAFLD and
           CKD. In addition, altered rennin-angiotensin system activation can be involved.

        -  Several western studies had evaluated the relationship between NAFLD and CKD and shown
           the prevalence of CKD in NAFLD patients between 4 - 40%.

        -  An analysis of the United Network Organ Sharing (UNOS) data base during the years
           (2002-2011) revealed that 35% of the patients transplanted for NAFLD-related cirrhosis
           progressed to stage 3-4 CKD within 2 years after liver transplantation in comparison to
           10% of patients transplanted for other etiologies.

        -  Despite these findings CKDs often goes unrecognized and The Third National Health and
           Nutrition survey (NHANESIII), among all individuals with moderately decreased GFR (less
           than 60ml/min; stage 3) reported the awareness was approximately 8%.

        -  There is still very little prospective studies and data linking NAFLD to CKD, and it is
           lacking in the middle east region.
    
  