
    
      Low back pain is one of a few conditions which affects all individuals through the lifespan.
      The etiology of low back pain is multifactorial and in many cases self-limiting, however it
      also is the leading cause for working age adults to be disabled with more than $87 billion
      spent on low back pain disorders in 2013. Listhesis of a vertebral body, chronic compression
      fractures, lumbar disc herniation, and internal disc disruptions are some primary anatomical
      abnormalities that can cause back pain and do not have great targeted treatments. that may
      more common in these younger age groups reaching 39-42% with a predicted probability above
      60% until age 50y. While the natural history of back pain suggests most individuals will
      return to a prior level of function in 3-6 months, there is a high rate of recurrent episodes
      which can cause short-term disability. Continued back pain can lead to decreased activity
      levels and accelerate degenerative changes in the disc and facet joints as described by
      Kirkaldy-Willis.

      Current guidelines for treatment of axial low back pain include a 6-12-week course of
      conservative care including medications, therapy, acupuncture, chiropractic and exercise
      before an interventional paradigm of injections and/or surgical treatment. For those
      individuals who do not improve with conservative care and have predominately axial pain,
      options are limited as success rates from epidural steroid injections and surgery are 50% or
      less. Other treatments include chymopapain injection, intradiscal electrothermal annuloplasty
      (IDET), nucleoplasty, methylene blue injection. All of which have 50% or less likelihood of
      reducing pain more than 50%, although much of this data is from uncontrolled or prospective
      case-control studies only.

      Peripheral Nerve Stimulation (PNS) recently gained FDA approval as an interventional
      treatment of chronic back pain. PNS involves a minimally invasive percutaneous microelectrode
      connected to an external impulse generator that adheres to the skin for up to 60 days and
      then the entire system is removed. It is theorized that the neuromodulatory effects of PNS
      interrupts the chronic pain cycle and allowing healthy recovery of afferent signaling and
      limiting and perhaps reversing the maladaptive cortical plasticity involved in chronic pain.
      There have been two prospective cohort studies published this year, both of which showed
      meaningful clinical improvement in pain and function scores. One of these studies (Cohen et
      al.) showed that more than 50% of the patients had greater than 50% improvement in pain at
      one year after undergoing 2 months of implanted PNS treatment.
    
  