
    
      This first step of this project is a 'discovery experiment' to describe the expression
      profiles of 8 PDAC tissue samples compared to controls; with subsequent validation of
      candidate circRNAs:

      8 paired samples of PDAC tumour tissue and associated normal pancreatic tissue will be
      collected at the time of surgery (after the pancreatic tumour is resected). The expression
      levels of circRNAs will be profiled and the most significantly dysregulated candidate
      circRNAs will be chosen (also considering other datasets and the current literature in this
      decision).

      The second step of this project is a prospective non-interventional observational cohort
      study to investigate these candidate circRNAs further:

      The expression of these candidate circRNAs expression levels will be measured longitudinally
      throughout the clinical timeline of patients with PDAC in blood samples; and in bile, tissue
      and biopsy samples (when this is safely available after clinical sampling and without
      additional investigations). This will be compared against control patients with benign
      biliary disease and other biliary tract cancers. These controls would only be available for
      blood tests and, if undergoing cholecystectomy, bile. Blood tests will be taken alongside
      clinical bloods or after anaesthesia for surgical procedures, bile will be taken after
      removal of the gallbladder for gallstone disease when this is in excess to clinical
      requirements.

      The ability of each circRNAs as a diagnostic, prognostic and predictive biomarkers will be
      described and compared to CA 19-9 (the only biomarker that is currently widely accepted in
      PDAC). This will first be considered in blood samples and then other patient biomaterials.

      The final part of the project will be to undertake both computer and laboratory evaluation of
      candidate circRNAs in order to propose a its molecular relationships and how this may explain
      and associations described.

      A Bioinformatical review will give the ability to computationally determine the miRNA-binding
      capabilities of candidate circRNAs, and the downstream mRNAs regulated. Gene-ontology and
      KEGG pathway enrichment-analyses of the differentially expressed genes will allow a
      global-view of the transcriptome under circRNA regulation in PDAC.
    
  