
    
      Research Question & Objectives

        1. To conduct a prospective, single-centre study of combined ablation and cementoplasty
           treatment for painful spinal and extraspinal osseous lesions.

        2. Report the technical outcome and safety of percutaneous ablation prior to image-guided
           cementoplasty in a single treatment session.

        3. Review the effectiveness and durability of pain control, local tumor control, and the
           impact on QoL using ablation and cementoplasty in treating spinal/extraspinal osseous
           tumors.

        4. Assess the feasibility and efficacy of ablation and cementoplasty treatment for
           different primary tumor types and benign lesions.

      Research Design

      The investigators will conduct a single-centre, single-arm, cohort analysis of all patients
      who undergo cementoplasty for osseous disease in the department of interventional radiology
      over a two-year period. This will be a prospective paired comparison study with patients
      serving as their own controls. Technical success and procedural complications will be
      monitored and recorded for all patients. All patients will be followed until death or 3
      months post-procedure.

      The investigators aim to enroll a minimum of 40 patients referred for symptomatic osseous
      lesions. Bipolar radiofrequency ablation (Osteocool RFA system, Medtronic) or cryoablation
      (Visual Ice Cryoablation, Boston Scientific) will be performed under CT, ultrasound, or
      fluoroscopic guidance at the discretion of the treating radiologist, and immediately followed
      by cement injection. Radiological outcomes, including local tumor control and disease
      progression, will be assessed by CT imaging immediately post-procedure as well as 3-month
      follow-up. Clinical outcomes will be evaluated by VAS, analgesic use, and QoL assessment
      using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) prior to procedure and immediately post-procedure, as well at
      1-week, 1-month, and 3-month intervals post-procedure.
    
  