
    
      A double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical study will be conducted in patients with GAD.

      The development of the phytopharmaceutical will be carried out at the Southern Biomedical
      Research Center, belonging to the Mexican Institute of Social Security. The preparation of
      the plant material, extraction, concentration, standardization of the vegetable drug, the
      design and production of the experimental drug as well as the control treatment will be
      carried out in this site.

      The clinical trial will be developed with outpatient from the Primary Care Family Medicine
      Unit of the Regional General Hospital No. 1 of the Mexican Institute of Social Security in
      Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

      SUBJECTS. Patients of both sexes aged 18 years and older who present Generalized Anxiety
      disorder (GAD) and who meet the selection criteria.

      Experimental group Patients with a clinical diagnosis of GAD (with a score of 18 points or
      more on the Hamilton anxiety scale) that will be included in the experimental group and will
      be assigned the treatment consisting of hard gelatin capsules with a pharmaceutical
      formulation prepared with a standardized extract (in its content of Galphimine-B, G-B) of G.
      glauca, which will be administered once a day.

      Control group Patients with a clinical diagnosis of GAD (with a score of 18 points or more on
      the Hamilton anxiety scale) that will be included in the control group and will be assigned
      the treatment consisting of hard gelatin capsules with the drug Alprazolam (1 mg ), which
      will be administered once a day.

      GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY The project will be promoted through posters that will be
      placed in strategic areas of the Medical Unit. In addition, brochures will be distributed
      with information about anxiety and the requirements to enter the project. There will also be
      support staff, Who will be in charge of giving conferences related with GAD in the waiting
      Hospital rooms. Once a person is identified who is a candidate to be included in the study,
      an invitation will be made to go to the clinical research office for evaluation.

      In the research office, a trained physician, will practice the candidates a medical history
      and physical examination. The above, with the purpose of corroborating the diagnosis of GAD
      through the application of the Hamilton Anxiety Scale. This fully validated instrument will
      serve to make the clinical diagnosis of the condition.

      If the questionnaire applied to the candidate gives us a total score of 18 points or more,
      the patient will be considered a candidate to enter the study. In order to be admitted, the
      patient, in addition must to have a clinical diagnosis of GAD, must meet the selection
      criteria established in this study. Once the patient complies with these two aspects will be
      given the necessary information about the study and about their participation in it. Patient
      must also sign a letter of informed consent, this letter will contain information about the
      characteristics of the study, benefits to the population, commitment that the patient
      acquires when participating, commitments that the researcher acquires when the patient is
      included and the rights that the participant acquires.

      Each of the participants will be randomly assigned the corresponding medication (which can be
      experimental or control) through a procedure based on a table of random numbers. The dosage
      of medications will be every 24 hours, administered orally in the morning. The indication
      will be given that the medication is taken together with the food. The duration of the
      administration of the medication will be for ten weeks.

      In addition, each of the patients will be provided oral and written instructions on the form
      and times to take the medication, as well as the possible adverse effects and
      hygienic-dietetic measures that must be taken.

      The patient will be following weekly, but may go to receive care at the time you require it.
      At each appointment, the state of health and the evolution of the condition will be
      evaluated, and the overall improvement scale will also be applied. At each appointment,
      patient will be given a control card (to each patient) where he will write down the days the
      medication was taken and whether or not there were any adverse effects during that
      administration period. In this way, adherence to treatment and tolerability will be
      evaluated.

      The values of the Hamilton anxiety scale and the global improvement scale will be used to
      define the effectiveness, the therapeutic success or failure.

      The final assessment of efficacy, tolerability, attachment and therapeutic success will be
      made during the last appointment. A summary will be sent to the family doctor of each of the
      participants and their discharge from the study.

      SAMPLE SIZE The size of the sample was calculated according to the formula for comparison of
      two proportions, taking as background the efficacy that the species showed in previous
      clinical studies on generalized anxiety. The procedure yielded a total of 105 patients. 15%
      will be added to the sample size to compensate for possible losses, which leaves us with a
      final sample size of 122 patients.

      DATA ANALYSIS. The results will be analyzed through descriptive statistics with frequencies
      and percentages. The X2 test will be used for the analysis of differences in proportions and
      ANOVA for mean differences, as well as Tukey's test for the difference between groups. Values
      of p less than 0.05 will be used to define differences between statistically significant
      groups

      ETHICAL ASPECTS Project research was evaluated and approved by the National Scientific
      National Committee.

      The species G. glauca has been used for many years in traditional Mexican medicine to treat
      some mental disorders. A pharmaceutical formulation, elaborated with the extract obtained
      from G. Glauca has been used in clinical projects to evaluate its efficacy and tolerability
      in patients with anxiety disorder. The administration time has been four weeks with a daily
      dose of a standardized product in 0.374 mg of G-B per dose. No significant adverse effects
      have been identified. Because it is a phytopharmaceutical that has shown good tolerability,
      the risk of adverse effects is low.

      In developing this project, the aim is to have a novel alterative treatment that expresses a
      different mechanism of action, and that shows efficacy and tolerability in the treatment of
      GAD, but also that the effect obtained is comparable or better than that of a drug,
      elaborated with Alprazolam, which is the benzodiazepine of first choice and with specific
      indication for the treatment of this condition.

      According to the Regulation of the General Law of Health in Research, there is no risk in the
      patients who will participate in the present project. The project will only include adults;
      will not include women with pregnancy or lactation or another sector vulnerable to research.

      The research procedures are in accordance with the ethical rules of investigation, the
      Regulation of the General Law of Health in the field of health research and the Declaration
      of Helsinki and its amendments. All information obtained by conducting this study will be
      handled in a scientific and confidential manner. The clinical files will be kept under guard
      and the management of the information for the analysis of results will be done exclusively
      with the assigned folio number. No patient will be included if it is not widely known in
      which it will consist of their participation, the background of the medication, time that
      will last the study, dose that will be administered and frequency of the same, laboratory
      studies to which you will be subjected in addition to informing you that you have the freedom
      to withdraw from the study at the time you want. The patient will receive extensive and clear
      information about the protocol, the content of the letter of informed consent will be read,
      will be given space for the formulation of questions or concerns.

      ASPECTS OF SECURITY The patients included in the study will be evaluated clinically in each
      of the appointments. In addition, at the beginning of the study and at the end of the
      administration period, laboratory tests will be performed to assess liver and kidney
      function. Medical surveillance with the search for adverse events will be included in each of
      the visits. In case of identifying any adverse effect, it will be monitored until its
      disappearance and the measures described below will be applied according to the event's
      rating.

      An adverse event will be considered as any unpleasant, unintentional harmful medical
      occurrence that a patient submits to the administration of a pharmaceutical product, which
      may or may not have a causal relationship to the treatment.

      The intensity of the adverse events refers to the maximum intensity with which the patient
      and / or the investigator qualify the adverse events that the patient presents.

        1. Mild: The adverse effect is presented, but it is easily tolerated and does not require
           treatment

        2. Moderate: the adverse effect is enough to interfere with normal activities

        3. Severe: The adverse effect incapacitates the subject

        4. Serious: Any adverse effect that results in the death of the patient, endangers life,
           requires hospitalization, causes disability or persistent or significant disability,
           causes a congenital anomaly or cancer, requiring surgical intervention to prevent
           permanent sequel or develop drug dependence or abuse Overdose is defined as the exposure
           without a specific therapeutic goal to an amount of medication of at least twice the
           maximum daily dose reported in the study protocol.

      In all cases in which a severe adverse effect is identified, the treatment will be suspended
      and the patient will be removed from the study. In addition to the above, the patient will be
      referred for care in the specialized medical area and will be monitored until the resolution
      of the adverse effect. In the event of a serious adverse effect, the treatment will be
      suspended, the patient will be removed from the study and the blind code of the patient will
      be opened. In those cases in which there is a mild or moderate adverse effect, it will be
      reported in the patient's clinical file, it will be attended immediately and surveillance
      will be maintained until its complete remission. In these cases, the treatment will not be
      suspended, and the patient will remain within the investigation.
    
  