
    
      There are about 10 million births that occur before 37 weeks (prior to full term gestation)
      that occur annually worldwide. More than 1 million infants die from complications related to
      preterm birth. Tocolytics, medications that stop preterm labor, have been well studied.
      Results regarding prolongation of pregnancy are varied, but tocolytics have been shown to
      delay delivery for 48 hours, allowing time to administer corticosteroids. ACOG (American
      Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists) recommends giving tocolytics to provide time for
      corticosteroid administration, transfer to tertiary level care and to allow for magnesium
      infusion to protect the neonatal brain. Corticosteroid administration when the course is
      completed (48 hours from first dose) decreases some of the major risks associated with
      prematurity.

      Recent meta-analyses have shown of the commonly used tocolytics, calcium channel blockers and
      prostaglandin inhibitors ranked consistently among the top three medications in several
      categories including delaying delivery by 48 hours. There have been only two published
      randomized control studies to date that have directly compared these two tocolytics. These
      studies lacked power and standardization to provide clinical guidelines. There is a high
      neonatal mortality and morbidity along with exceedingly high hospital costs associated with
      complications related to preterm birth, so it is important to intervene with superior
      medications. Here the investigators propose a multi institutional (based within the
      University of California system) randomized controlled study to directly compare nifedipine
      (most commonly used calcium channel blocker) to indomethacin (most commonly used
      prostaglandin inhibitor).

      Objective:

      The Investigator's objective is to compare the prolongation of pregnancy by 48 hours after
      women are diagnosed with preterm labor prior to 32 weeks gestational age and treated with
      either nifedipine or indomethacin. Investigators hypothesize that indomethacin will
      significantly arrest preterm labor by 48 hours in more women compared to nifedipine. The
      primary outcomes measures will be delaying preterm delivery by 48 hours; secondary outcomes
      measures will include delay of delivery by 7 days and decreasing delivery before 37 weeks.
    
  