
    
      Study design The investigators propose to conduct a national multicenter prospective study on
      the clinical management of pregnancy in women with GCK mutations.

      Medical management of the pregnancy After obtaining written informed consent, each
      investigator of the Diabetes Departments will include MODY2 women, at the time of gestation
      planning or at the first prenatal appointment. Pre-gestational maternal parameters (maternal
      age, pre-gestational weight, blood glucose, mean blood glucose levels before and 2 hours post
      prandial over one week when available, HbA1c, parity, medical history of macrosomia) will be
      collected.

      Antenatal care will be provided according to the local routine protocol for MODY2. All women
      will receive dietary and physical activity counselling according to current recommendations
      for pregnant women with pregestational diabetes. Vitamin B9, 0.4 or 5 mg/day, according to
      local habits, will be prescribed as usual care from pregestational appointment until the end
      of first trimester.

        -  Women with a pregestational HbA1c ≥ 6.5 % will be systematically treated with insulin
           because of a potential increase in the malformation rate as documented in women with
           type 1 diabetes (Bell, Glinianaia et al. 2012).

        -  In women with pregestational HbA1c < 6.5%, insulin therapy will be initiated either
           according to capillary maternal blood glucose target values or according to fetal growth
           assessed by ultrasonography, according to each Diabetes Department habits.

      In both groups, care will be standardized as follows:

        -  Ultrasonography (US) examinations will be performed as usually at 12, 22 and 32
           gestational weeks. Additional US will be performed at 25, 28, 35 and 38 gestational
           weeks, as performed in the several randomized controlled trials that showed that this
           strategy allows prevention of an increase in the rate of macrosomia in women with GDM
           (Schaefer-Graf, Kjos et al. 2004). A referent sonographer will be identified in each
           center to limit the inter-examiner variability. At each US, fetal biometry (with
           abdominal circumference and fetal weight estimations) and the percentiles according to
           gestational age will be determined.

        -  Blood glucose self-monitoring, comprising 6 measures (before and 2 hours after the
           beginning of each meal), will be registered during a whole week at the end of the three
           trimesters of pregnancy.

        -  Women body weight will be measured before pregnancy, at each Diabetology appointment and
           before delivery.

        -  Fetal monitoring will be performed according to local routine protocols. Modalities of
           delivery will be decided as usual care in each obstetrics department. No specific
           gestational age and modalities of delivery will be recommended for the study.

      Group of women with insulin therapy from the beginning of pregnancy :

      Treatment will be conducted according to national guidelines for GDM (2010) and consists in:

        -  Blood glucose self-monitoring before and 2 hrs after each meal, i.e. 6 tests per day.
           Recommended targets are less than 0.95 g/L before meals and less than 1.20 g/L
           postprandial.

        -  Diet counseling with carbohydrate intake divided into three meals and two to three
           snacks.

        -  After 7-10 days of glucose monitoring, insulin therapy will be instituted if capillary
           glucose levels exceed the targets in 20% of all measurements or in 40% of a single time
           slot. Each caregiver will manage insulin therapy according to local habits (use of
           long-acting insulin, regular insulin, insulin analogs, continuous subcutaneous insulin
           infusion by an external pump), and will increase the doses in order to obtain
           recommended glucose targets. Preliminary data suggest that high insulin doses may be
           necessary and that normalizing fasting blood glucose may be difficult. Thus, insulin
           doses will not be further increased in case of the occurrence of repeated hypoglycemia
           (i.e. 2 mild hypoglycemic episodes in a single slot over one week or one single severe
           hypoglycemic episode even when blood glucose targets are not achieved).

      Insulin treatment will be stopped only in case of fetal restricted growth defined by an
      estimated fetal weight < 10th percentile, on two consecutive US with at least 3 weeks
      interval and no other etiology.

      Group of women with insulin therapy initiated according to fetal US measurements :

      Women will monitor their blood glucose levels before and 2 hours after meals twice a week
      during the whole pregnancy.

      In this group, MODY2 women will not be treated with insulin until delivery, except when:

        -  the fetal abdominal circumference exceeds ≥ the 75 percentile on one US. This threshold
           is similar to the one chosen to initiate insulin therapy in several RCTs that showed
           that this strategy allowed prevention of an increase in the rate of macrosomia in women
           with GDM (Schaefer-Graf, Kjos et al. 2004, Kjos and Schaefer-Graf 2007).

        -  or maternal fasting capillary blood glucose is ≥ 1,20 g/L or maternal post-prandial
           capillary blood glucose is ≥ 2,00 g/L. In the mentioned RCTs, women followed with
           monthly fetal growth evaluations were not treated with insulin except when fetal
           abdominal circumference was ≥ 75th percentile, or when their glucose levels exceeded the
           same safety thresholds. No increase in macrosomia and other pregnancy adverse outcomes
           was observed using this strategy, as compared to conventional treatment with insulin
           (Kjos and Schaefer-Graf 2007).

      When initiated, insulin therapy will be conducted as described in 11.2, with the same
      capillary blood glucose targets

      -Maternal care Systematic visits in the Diabetes department will be scheduled at 2- 4 weeks
      intervals. A monthly visit in the Obstetrics department will be scheduled from 22 weeks of
      gestation.

      Routine care, including measurement of weight, height and arterial pressure, as well an
      urinary testing for proteinuria will be performed at the first appointment and at each
      following visit.

      In case of insulin treatment, the type and dose of insulin will be recorded, as well as the
      frequency of mild or severe hypoglycemia.

      Women with pre-gestational HbA1c > 6.5% will be treated with insulin from the pregnancy
      planning period or from the beginning of the pregnancy as described in part 6.2.1 and all
      data concerning these pregnancies will be registered.

        -  Quality of life Three self-questionnaires, already used in randomized studies of GDM
           treatment (Crowther, Hiller et al. 2005), will be proposed to all women at the first
           appointment and at three months post partum.

        -  Maternal health status will be assessed by means of the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item
           Short-Form General Health Survey (SF-36), which assesses eight aspects of health status:
           general and mental health, physical and social functioning, physical and emotional role,
           pain, and vitality. Scores on each scale can range from 0 (worst) to 100 (best).

        -  Maternal anxiety will be assessed with the use of the short form of the Spielberger
           State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, a self-rating scale consisting of 6 items (scores below
           15 are considered normal).

      The presence of a maternal depression will be reflected by a score of more than 12 on the
      Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale at three months post partum.

      -Anthropometrics and biological measures in neonates

      Anthropometrics parameters will be recorded the first day of life for each neonate:

        -  Weight to determine "large for gestational age" defined as birth weight above the 90th
           percentile and "small for gestational age" defined as birth weight below the 10th
           percentile on sex-specific neonatal growth standards published by the AUDIPOG group
           (Mamelle et al, 1996)

        -  Skin fold between 1st and 3rd day of life (bicipital, tricipital, scapular, iliac) for
           departments experienced in this type of measurement.

      Capillary blood glucose test will be collected 3 hours before the first feeding to look for
      hypoglycaemia. After the second feeding, blood glucose tests will be repeated every 6 hours
      if > 2.5 mmol/L. If blood glucose is normal during 24 hours and feeding is also normal,
      neonate glucose monitoring will be stopped.

      Infants will be categorized as having clinical neonatal hypoglycaemia if there are symptoms
      and/or treatment with a glucose infusion or a glucose value ≤ 2 mmol/L.

      C-peptide will be measured on cord blood. Hyperinsulinemia is defined by a C-peptide level
      above the 90th percentile of a neonate reference population. Samples will be centralized in a
      single laboratory for determination of the C-peptide level.

      Neonatal leptin will be measured on cord blood as a biological marker of infant adiposity.
      Leptin is specifically produced by adipose tissue and placenta, and maternal leptin does not
      cross the placenta. Fetal leptin reflects the amount of adipose tissue, and its production
      could be regulated by insulin (Hauguel-de Mouzon, Lepercq et al. 2006).

      -GCK genotyping In order to analyze the effect of the maternal treatment according to the
      fetal genotype, a targeted sequencing of the maternal GCK mutation will be performed on DNA
      extracted from blood cord sample. The mother (and her partner) will sign an informed written
      consent for the genetic testing of their baby.
    
  