
    
      Sub-optimal vaccination rates are a significant problem in the U.S., despite their
      effectiveness in preventing morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable illness. For
      influenza specifically, annual epidemics of influenza cause substantial morbidity in the U.S.
      with up to 40,00-80,000 deaths/year and many hospitalizations, emergency and outpatient
      visits, and significant costs.

      Reminder/recall (R/R), sent by phone, mail or other modality, can improve child and adult
      influenza vaccination rates. However, the majority of pediatric or adult primary care
      practices to not conduct R/R. Barriers are lack of finances, personnel, and algorithms to
      identify eligible patients.

      A technological breakthrough that might overcome these barriers involves patient portals--
      secure, web-based communication systems, embedded within electronic health records (EHRs),
      for patients and providers to communicate with each other via email and the internet. Portals
      are used by about half of Americans and half of UCLA patients.

      There has been considerable research on how best to communicate about vaccines with families.
      A number of studies have examined the impact of gain-framed (messages emphasizing the
      benefits of vaccination) versus loss-framed (messages emphasizing the risks of not getting
      vaccinated); however, the findings have been inconsistent across studies and by
      sub-population.

      In addition to framing, another potential influence on the decision to vaccinate is
      pre-commitment. Previous studies suggest that, upon being prompted, indicating an intention
      to do something increases the likelihood of following through. Therefore, a pre-commitment
      prompt is being asked of half the participants in each arm to evaluate its impact on
      influenza vaccination.

      The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the impact of gain-framed and
      loss-framed reminder-recall messages sent via the patient portal, pre-commitment prompts sent
      via the patient portal, and the interactions between the two type of messages and
      pre-commitment on influenza vaccination among UCLA Health System's primary care patients aged
      6 months and older.

      The proposed design of this randomized-controlled trial is a 3 x 2 factorial design.

      Standard of care control (no reminder messages, no pre-commitment prompt) No portal messages,
      pre-commitment prompt Gain-framed portal messages, pre-commitment prompt Gain-framed portal
      messages, no pre-commitment prompt Loss-framed portal messages, pre-commitment prompt
      Loss-framed portal messages, no pre-commitment prompt

      Hyp 1. Vaccination rates will differ by receipt of no reminders, gain-framed reminders and
      loss-framed reminders.

      1a. Vaccination rates will be higher among patients receiving gain-framed reminders than
      among patients receiving no reminders.

      1b. Vaccination rates will be higher among patients receiving loss-framed reminders than
      among patients receiving no reminders.

      1c. Vaccination rates will be higher among patients receiving gain-framed reminders than
      among patients receiving loss-framed reminders.

      Hyp 2. Vaccination rates will be higher among patients receiving a pre-commitment prompt than
      among patients not receiving any prompt.

      For relevant study arms, the first R/R messages will be sent in October 2019.
    
  