
    
      The study will enroll 36 healthy adult subjects (18-45 years) and randomize them in a
      double-blind manner into 3 arms of 12 subjects each; 2 of the arms will receive either 5μg or
      30μg, both adjuvanted with aluminium hydroxide, given as a 2-dose schedule with a 28 day
      interval. The third arm of 12 subjects will act as controls, and they will receive aluminium
      hydroxide only injections.

      If the safety and immunogenicity results permit, the subjects will be challenged with live
      mosquito challenge delivering P falciparum sporozoites to assess pre-erythrocytic vaccine
      efficacy.

      The PfPEBS molecule has been found to have in vivo and in vitro functional activity against
      the two stages that are clinically significant for malaria namely the pre-erythrocytic stages
      (sporozoite and liver stages) and the erythrocytic stages.

      The formulation is a simple combination of a synthetic protein of 131 amino acids adjuvanted
      with aluminum hydroxide, the adjuvant with the widest safety records.

      The combined Phase 1/2a study is designed in order to achieve 3 co-primary objectives

        1. Phase 1: To demonstrate safety and tolerability

        2. Phase 1: To measure the activity against the asexual blood stage of the parasite which
           is only indirectly estimated by the functional activity of elicited antibodies in ADCI
           under in-vitro conditions

        3. Phase 2: To demonstrate efficacy against liver stages by measuring the proportion of
           subject that are protected following a live sporozoite challenge.

      The mechanisms of defenses differ for "liver stages" and "erythrocytic stages". Defenses
      against "liver stages" are strongly related to the secretion of interferon γ by CD4+Th1
      cells, whereas for blood stages the defences depend on antibodies.

      Preliminary studies have demonstrated that low antigen doses such as 5 or 2μg produce strong
      CD4+Th1- interferon γ secreting cells with low antibody titers, whereas higher antigen doses
      such as 30 or 50μg induce lower CD4 Th1 cell response and markedly higher antibody responses.

      Therefore the choice of the two dose ranges for the Pf-PEBS clinical trial protocol is aimed
      at testing the two main efficacy objectives, one against "liver stages" with a low dose, the
      other against "the blood stages" with the higher dose.

      The Sponsor for the two Phases is Vac4all. The funder for the Phase Ia is the EMVDA programme
      of the European Commission. The funder for the Phase IIa is Vac4all
    
  