
    
      Depression is the predominant prevailing mood state of bipolar disorder and it is associated
      with substantial morbidity and mortality. However, in comparison to acute mania, bipolar
      depression is understudied both from the standpoint of its pathophysiology as well as
      clinical trials and treatment development. Given the lack of evidence-based guidelines,
      clinicians and participants enter a treatment phase with little guidance.

      The FLAME Study is a 16-week, open randomized comparative effectiveness trial evaluating
      genomic predictors and biomarkers of response and adverse events to treatment with
      lamotrigine (n=200) and fluoxetine (n=200) for bipolar I, II and bipolar schizoaffective
      depressed adults (18-65). Participants will be recruited over a 5-year period.

      It is known that functionally significant genetic polymorphisms of pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamic pathways can influence individual differences in repose to specific
      medications. We propose to evaluate the contribution of these pharmacogenomic variations to
      lamotrigine and fluoxetine treatment response and adverse events. We will correlate clinical
      phenotypes of response and adverse events to treatment with genotype and haplotype variations
      of drug metabolism, neurotransmitter biosynthesis, (metabolism, storage, release, reuptake),
      receptor and intracellular signaling-that have been previously implicated to either
      lamotrigine or fluoxetine. These initial steps will be complemented with genome-wide analysis
      (GWA), pathway analysis and other candidate gene studies.

      Based on our results we aim to develop a translational treatment algorithm of bipolar
      depression that may help individualized treatment for bipolar depression. This algorithm for
      participants could potentially increase the likelihood of successful treatment interventions,
      deliver the "right treatment, for the right participant at the right time", and decrease the
      number of ineffective treatments and/or risk for serious adverse events.
    
  