
    
      Research literature exists on best practices for screening and diagnosing children with
      Autism. However, less is known about how to intervene with the child's parent. Across
      studies, relative to parents of children without disabilities, parents of children with
      Autism have reported higher levels of stress and lower levels of parenting competence. Such
      stress places children at risk for adverse developmental outcomes

      The proposed study aims to determine the effectiveness of Primary Care Stepping Stones Triple
      P (PC-SS Triple P), an empirically supported parent mediated intervention, to improve the
      behavioral functioning of children newly diagnosed with Autism (aged 2-12 years), increase
      parental resilience and decrease parental stress.

      The specific hypotheses include:

        1. Children whose parents receive PC-SS Triple P will demonstrate significantly greater
           improvements in their behavioral functioning than children of parents receiving
           Wait-list Control (WLC) at service closure.

        2. At service closure, parents receiving the PC-SS Triple P intervention will be more
           resilient and demonstrate lower levels of stress than parents in the Wait-List Control
           (WLC) condition.

        3. Parenting resilience and levels of parental stress will be positively associated with
           improvements in child behavior.

      Seventy-six parents of children newly diagnosed with Autism will be randomized into one of
      two conditions: a) PC-SS Triple P (N=38) or b) Wait List Control (WLC; N=38). Study data will
      be collected with the assistance of a data collector appropriately trained in human subject
      rights protections.

      It is anticipated that the present project will assist in the development and use of
      evidence-based practices for working with parents of children newly diagnosed with Autism
      within pediatric settings.
    
  