
    
      Sepsis is an important health issue with considerable socio-economic consequences. In 2017,
      the World Health Association made sepsis a global health priority, and has adopted a
      resolution to improve the prevention, diagnosis, and management of sepsis.

      Over the last decade, a decrease in the mortality rate has been observed; in particular
      thanks to improved management, more appropriate intervention approaches in the Emergency
      Department (ED) and better recognition of organ failure. This statement is based on qSOFA and
      SOFA scores from the international Sepsis-3 definition. Sepsis-3 can help front-line
      clinicians detect severe patients with a higher risk of mortality but does not predict the
      clinical deterioration especially in patients without initial organ dysfunction. Furthermore,
      studies still demonstrate that 20% of patients with infection or uncomplicated sepsis
      experience disease worsening within 72 hours after ED admission.

      Symptoms and signs of sepsis are variable and this makes clinical recognition and assessment
      very difficult in particular on Emergency Department (ED) patients due to their infectious
      illness background and the frequent comorbidities.

      Unfortunately, as of today, no biological marker has yet been validated to appropriately
      predict early deterioration in unselected patients admitted to the ED with acute infection,
      irrespective of their clinical presentation. Physiology of sepsis is complex and some
      underlying dysfunction could already exist in the early phase of sepsis before patients meet
      diagnostic criteria. Thus, patients may be clinically asymptomatic at the origin of organ
      failure. As a result, doubtful patients are often over-hospitalized while they could be
      treated at home, leading to overcrowding and extra costs for hospitals In these conditions,
      the main challenge of ED clinicians is differentiating mild infections from life-threatening
      ones in the heavy workload of ED environment. Objective of SepSIGN project is to validate
      biomarkers able to predict the clinical worsening of patients freshly admitted at Emergency
      Department. Targeted population is adult patients freshly admitted at ED, whom blood samples
      will serve to validate candidate markers.
    
  