
    
      Malnutrition causes and complicates numerous chronic illnesses. One in three hospitalized
      patients in the United States is malnourished, accounting for delayed recovery, increased
      complications, extended length of stay, and avoidable utilization of healthcare. The
      projected cost of chronic disease from 2016-2030 in Pennsylvania is $1.7 trillion, with 5% of
      people accounting for 50 % of healthcare spending.

      Patients with cirrhosis of the liver often present with profound malnutrition due to the
      catabolic effects of their disease. Because of this, adhering to a low sodium diet is of
      paramount importance in order to avoid fluid overload, a common cause for hospital
      readmission of patients with cirrhotic decompensations. By maintaining a proper diet, it is
      possible to mitigate the medical deterioration of patients as well as mitigate the expense of
      managing chronic illnesses like cirrhosis.

      Results from MANNA, a not-for-profit food delivery service, have shown a monthly care cost
      reduction for patients receiving meals from $41,000 to $28,000, and monthly inpatient cost
      reduction from $220,000 to $132,000. Results also show that changes in nutritional behavior
      also improve treatment rates, physical activity, and reduce substance abuse. MANNA has been
      able to deliver more than 13,000,000 meals to over 20,000 clients since 1990. 99% of patients
      reported improved overall health after receiving the meals, 92% reported improved emotional
      health, 98% said it reduced their stress, and 96% said the meals improved their energy.
      Existing solutions in most health systems are nutritional counseling (either very briefly by
      a physician, or if patients are fortunate, by a dietician). This is usually not a
      longitudinal process, and patients are often overwhelmed by medical information.

      Despite their remarkable results the acute illness space (6 months of meals), the MANNA
      service is not scalable to the management of chronic illness; through this study
      investigators seek to bridge that gap. In coordination with MANNA, investigators will provide
      3 months of low sodium MANNA meals to patients in the interventional cohort in an effort to
      encourage improved adherence to a low sodium diet. Dietary compliance will be assessed using
      urine sodium and salt affinity tests, and results will be compared between the cohort
      receiving MANNA meals and the cohort receiving standard of care dietary counseling.
      Investigators will continue to follow patients for an additional 3 months following the
      completion of their MANNA service to determine if receiving pre-made low sodium meals for
      even a short period of time is likely to provide any long-term benefit beyond the span of the
      study.
    
  