
    
      Background: Individuals with stroke can experience high levels of emotional distress leading
      to decreased quality of life and increased health care costs. Though mental health problems
      are prevalent and disabling, they often go untreated for various reasons, such as access to
      specialized care, rural and remote location, lack of time, or concerns about stigma related
      to seeking care. Internet delivered cognitive behaviour therapy (ICBT) overcomes barriers to
      face-to-face therapy by often reaching a much wider group of patients who experience unequal
      access to health care. The internet based program is based on cognitive behaviour therapy,
      which is an evidenced-based treatment that helps patients identify and modify thoughts and
      behaviours that contribute to their mental health concerns. ICBT has been shown to be
      effective in improving psychosocial outcomes such as depression and anxiety, along with
      disability and quality of life among persons with chronic health conditions.

      Rationale: Despite evidence for ICBT among those with other chronic conditions, its efficacy
      has yet to be evaluated among those with neurological conditions, including stroke.

      Objective: The aim of the current study is to pilot an ICBT program developed through a
      patient oriented approach to improve overall wellbeing among those with stroke

      Methods: In this project, an ICBT program for those with stroke developed through a patient
      oriented approach will be piloted amongst a small group of participants (n=20) to examine
      acceptability, feasibility, and limited efficacy. At the end of the program, participants
      will be asked to complete a brief semi-structured interview examining barriers and
      facilitators to the ICBT program. Participant feedback from the interviews will be used to
      further improve the ICBT program to meet the needs of the population. The results from the
      study will be used to guide larger studies to evaluate effectiveness of the program in a
      community setting.

      Anticipated Impact: Ultimately, the proposed project aims to improve overall wellbeing and
      access to health care service for those who have experienced stroke and mental health
      concerns.
    
  