
    
      Human studies have shown that immunization by the bite of Plasmodium falciparum (Pf)
      sporozoite (SPZ)-infected mosquitoes (chemoprophylaxis with sporozoites [CPS]) or by
      injecting aseptic, purified, cryopreserved sporozoites (SPZ) with needle and syringe (PfSPZ
      chemoprophylaxis vaccination, Sanaria PfSPZ-CVac) under drug coverage with chloroquine can
      provide >80% protection against homologous controlled human malaria infection (CHMI)
      (Roestenberg, McCall et al. 2009, Roestenberg, Teirlinck et al. 2011, Mordmuller, Surat et
      al. 2017). The protective immunity induced by CPS/PfSPZ-CVac is thought to target sporozoite
      and liver stage antigens, but the transient parasitemia observed under chloroquine
      prophylaxis may additionally induce immune responses targeting blood stage parasites that
      contribute to protection. It is important to understand the contribution of each stage in
      this model as transient parasitemia in the immunization process adds a safety concern and may
      impair the development of immunity.

      We have conducted two phase 1 studies to explore whether significant protective efficacy can
      be achieved with exclusively pre-erythrocytic (sporozoite/liver stage) exposure in this model
      using PYR chemoprophylaxis. This drug, unlike chloroquine, kills the parasites in the liver,
      so there is no period of transient parasitemia following immunization. These studies in
      malaria na(SqrRoot) ve adults demonstrated that PfSPZ-CVac (with PYR administered 2 & 3 days
      after injection) is safe, well-tolerated, and can prevent subpatent and patent parasitemia
      after PfSPZ injection. The NCT02511054 study used the same dose (5.12x104 PfSPZ) that has
      resulted in >80% protection in previous trials of PfSPZ-CVac (chloroquine), showed only 2/9
      vaccinees were protected against a homologous (same strain of Pf as the vaccine) CHMI. In
      trials using irradiated SPZ, increasing the dose of PfSPZ used for immunization has resulted
      in higher protective efficacy. Therefore, in an ongoing trial, NCT03083847, we have increased
      the PfSPZ dose about 4-fold up to 2.0x105 PfSPZ, with preliminary results show markedly
      improved protection against both homologous and heterologous CHMI in healthy US adults (7/8
      and 4/4 study subjects uninfected, respectively). This is the first demonstration that the
      PfSPZ-CVac approach can confer sterile protection without blood stage exposure.

      Building on these promising results from PfSPZ-CVac (pyrimethamine) in the US, this proposed
      study in a malaria-endemic, adult population in Bancoumana, Mali will initially assess, in a
      pilot phase, the safety and tolerability of still higher doses of PfSPZ Challenge (4.0x105
      PfSPZ) in combination with PYR (day 0;) or chloroquine (days -2, +5). The higher PfSPZ dose
      is hypothesized to be necessary to achieve significant efficacy against naturally transmitted
      malaria in malaria-experienced populations. Once this higher dose of PfSPZ is determined to
      be safe and tolerable and that earlier PYR dosing prevents patent parasitemia, the main phase
      will explore the effect of both earlier PYR dosing and a higher dosage of PfSPZ used for
      immunization in the development of protective immunity against natural malaria infection. The
      results of this study will contribute to understanding the targets and mechanisms of immunity
      against Pf malaria infection, and how the degree of prior exposure to the parasite
      (pre-erythrocytic and/or erythrocytic stages) impacts these responses and subsequent
      protective efficacy in field settings.

      After completion of follow up in the main phase, all participants that are still enrolled in
      the study will be offered a booster dose of the vaccine (4th dose) with a single dose of
      4x10^5 PfSPZ Challenge or normal saline (aligned with what they received in the main phase of
      the study) at approximately 11 months post 3rd vaccination. The booster dose is timed to
      allow administration well before the beginning of the ensuing malaria transmission season.
      Participants will then be followed for approximately 6 months to assess safety and vaccine
      efficacy through this second transmission season.
    
  