
    
      Specific aims:

      Primary aim:

      Aim 1: To determine if there is greater improvement in female sexual function as measured by
      the female sexual function index (FSFI) with percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) as
      compared to medical therapy (MT).

      Hypothesis: There will be a greater improvement in overall FSFI with PTNS as compared to MT.

      Secondary aims:

      Aim 2: To determine if improvement in female sexual function with percutaneous tibial nerve
      stimulation or medical therapy is correlated with improvement in urinary symptoms as measured
      by the OAB-q questionnaire.

      Hypothesis: Improvement in urinary symptoms will be correlated with improvement in sexual
      function but that the difference in FSFI between groups will not be solely attributable to
      differences in urinary symptom improvement.

      Aim 3: To determine if changes in sexual function are greater with beta agonist medications
      as compared to anticholinergic medications.

      Hypothesis: Beta agonists will result in improved sexual function as compared to
      anticholinergics.

      Aim 4: To determine if those patients with female sexual dysfunction as defined as an overall
      FSFI score below 26.5 have greater improvements than those without.

      Hypothesis: Patients with female sexual dysfunction will have a greater improvement in FSFI
      than those without.

      Female sexual dysfunction (FSD) affects approximately 45% of women with an even greater
      incidence reported in women with overactive bladder symptoms, despite this there is a lack of
      FDA approved treatments for sexual dysfunction in this population. Female sexual function is
      complex and can be affected by pain, depression, and comorbidities as well as bowel and
      bladder function. There are numerous treatments for women with overactive bladder (OAB)
      defined as urinary urgency, frequency, urge urinary incontinence (UUI) and nocturia. These
      treatments include medical therapy (MT) with anticholinergics and beta agonists and
      neuromodulation via implantable sacral nerve stimulator (SNM) and percutaneous tibial nerve
      stimulation (PTNS). Sexual function, which can be measured by the Female Sexual Function
      Index (FSFI) has been shown to improve with both neuromodulation and anticholinergic therapy,
      although less is known about the effects of beta agonists. The purpose of this study is to
      examine the comparative effectiveness of neuromodulation via percutaneous tibial nerve
      stimulation and medical therapy with anticholinergics or beta-agonists in improving female
      sexual function. Additionally this study will assess whether improvement in sexual function
      is correlated with improvement in urinary symptoms. Furthermore the effectiveness of
      anticholinergics as compared to beta agonists with respect to changes in sexual function will
      be examined. Lastly patients with sexual dysfunction will be comapred to those without to
      determine if patients with female sexual dysfunction have greater improvements than those
      without, as this may open the door to future studies using PTNS for the primary indication of
      female sexual dysfunction. Enhanced understanding of the effects of neuromodulation and
      medical therapy on sexual function may allow for improved patient selection and better
      outcomes which may lead to widespread use of neuromodulation for female sexual dysfunction.

      This is a prospective multi-center cohort study organized through the American
      Urogynecological Society Fellows Pelvic Research Network comparing changes in sexual function
      in women undergoing PTNS or MT for OAB/UUI. Recruitment is being conducted at MedStar
      Washington Hospital Center, MedStar Franklin Square, Indiana University, University of Texas
      Southwestern, University of Louisville and the University of Oklahoma. Potential subjects are
      adult women presenting to a urogynecology clinic for symptoms of overactive bladder such as
      urgency and UUI. Eligible subjects must report urinary urgency or urge incontinence and be
      recommended for treatment with medical therapy (with anticholinergic or beta agonist) or PTNS
      by the treating physician. Potential subjects are approached by their treating physician in
      the context of a private clinical visit regarding enrollment. Women who enroll are asked to
      complete the validated OAB-q, FSFI, Beck Depression Inventory and a visual analog pain scale
      prior to therapy and then again after twelve weeks of therapy. These forms may be completed
      in person on paper or via the online RedCap database. Demographic data including age,
      comorbidities and menopausal status are extracted from the medical record.

      The primary endpoint of the study is improvement in overall FSFI score which is hypothesized
      to be greater in the PTNS group. Sample size calculations were conducted using
      http://clincalc.com/stats/samplesize.aspx with the primary endpoint of FSFI assessed as a
      continuous variable. Group sample sizes of 63 per group (total 126 patients) will be
      necessary to detect a clinically relevant difference of 5 points in FSFI assuming standard
      deviation of 10 and achieve a power of 80%, alpha=0.05. By incorporating a 10% loss to
      follow-up rate, the plan is to to recruit 70 patients per group, with a total of 140
      patients. Because approximately 45% of patients with OAB will have FSD as determined by an
      FSFI score below 26.5, the study may include up to 312 patients in the study. A planned
      interim analysis will be conducted comparing patients receiving anticholinergics and those
      receiving beta agonists. This will be conducted once 63 patients receiving anticholinergics
      and 63 receiving beta agonists have completed the study. This will address Aim 3. A
      Mann-Whitney U test will be used to compare FSFI between patients receiving anticholinergics
      and beta agonists.

      Data Collection and Transmission:

      Potential subjects will be approached by their treating physician in the context of a private
      clinical visit regarding enrollment in the study. After discussion of the risks and benefits
      and obtaining written informed consent, each subject will be assigned a participant
      identification number (ID). Those patients who express interest but are unable to sign
      consent in the context of an office visit due to time constraints will be contacted via
      telephone to complete the consent process; once consent is obtained these patients will have
      the option of completing paper questionnaires which will be mailed to them or online
      questionnaires which they will receive through a secured email link. Treating physicians and
      investigators will monitor patients at clinic visits. Case report forms will be generated for
      each subject and completed by the investigator or study coordinator at each site, these will
      then be entered by the investigator or study coordinator into a password protected REDCap
      database with each patient identified only by ID. Patients will be asked to complete
      questionnaires in the setting of clinic visits to minimize mailings and their potential for
      privacy breach. Mailing of questionnaires will only be used if patients are unable to return
      to clinic for follow up; forms may also be returned via fax or secure email. Patients may
      also complete questionnaires online directly in the REDCap database. Patients will be
      encouraged to complete forms in REDCap to minimize the potential for transcription error and
      breach of privacy. For those patients who cannot mail the forms or access them online, they
      may be completed via phone with an investigator or study coordinator. Original case report
      forms and questionnaires will be securely maintained on site in a locked file cabinet within
      a locked office. MedStar Washington Hospital Center will be the Data Collecting Center (DCC).
      Copies of the case report forms and questionnaires will be forwarded by courier or fax to the
      DCC with participant ID number visible and personal information obscured. The following
      interim data will be monitored via review of the database at scheduled six-month intervals by
      the PI: accrual rate, patient adherence, adverse events and accuracy and completeness of the
      data.
    
  