
    
      Parapsoriasis is a term that refers to a red, scaling (papulosquamous) eruption on the skin
      characterized by its distribution (trunk and proximal extremities), asymptomatic nature and
      chronic course. Histologically, parapsoriasis is characterized by variable degrees of
      parakeratosis and epidermal spongiosis with a superficial, sparse, patchy, lichenoid
      infiltrate of lymphocytes and varying degrees of epidermal involvement (epidermotropism). No
      definitive studies have defined its etiology or epidemiology.

      Historically, the term "parapsoriasis" was introduced into the dermatology literature by
      Brocq in 1902. Brocq used the term to clinically characterize a variety of papulosquamous
      eruptions that were first reported in the late 19th century. In 1905, he attempted to
      categorize parapsoriasis in relationship to other papulosquamous diseases of the skin. In his
      model, Brocq delineated a relationship between some variants of parapsoriasis (parapsoriasis
      en plaques or large plaque parapsoriasis) and mycosis fungoides or cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
      (CTCL). The first cases of mycosis fungoides (MF) were reported early in the 19th century.
      Progressive stages of MF ("premycotic" patch phase, plaque phase and tumor phase) were
      defined later in the 19th century, while the neoplastic nature of the disease remained
      unknown. Brocq's model sought to emphasize clinical similarities between some variants of
      parapsoriasis (large plaque) and early, patch phase MF.

      Immunohistochemical (IHC) studies have demonstrated that parapsoriasis shares a similar
      immunophenotype with early stage CTCL in that the lymphocytic infiltrate is predominantly
      composed of CD4 lymphocytes. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)- based T-cell receptor (TCR)
      gene rearrangement studies have demonstrated that parapsoriasis is a lymphoproliferative
      disorder characterized by the detection of clonal populations of T-cells, as is CTCL.
      Knowledge of the natural history of parapsoriasis stems from a series of longitudinal outcome
      studies published over the last 40 years. Progression to unequivocal CTCL ranged from 0% to
      35% of parapsoriasis cases. Typically, cases associated with progression to CTCL tend to have
      larger plaques with clinical features of atrophy and/or poikiloderma.

      Based on the clinicopathologic similarities of parapsoriasis and early stage CTCL, the exact
      nosology of parapsoriasis has been challenged, with a hypothesis that all variants of
      parapsoriasis (large plaque, small plaque and digitate) are synonymous with early MF.
      Nevertheless, parapsoriasis is recognized as a distinct precursor stage (T0N0M0) in the TNM
      staging schema of CTCL. T0 CTCL is defined by the presence of lesions clinically and/or
      histologically suggestive of CTCL.

      No definitive studies have been published regarding therapy of parapsoriasis. When treated,
      most patients are initiated empirically on topical steroids or phototherapy. Typically,
      patients will have partial responses and/or relapse off any therapy. A rational therapeutic
      strategy for parapsoriasis is lacking because there are no longitudinal studies that
      correlate treatment response and impact on progression to CTCL.

      Bexarotene is a resinoid, a subclass of retinoids that binds preferentially to nuclear
      retinoic X receptors (RXR), and has therapeutic activity in CTCL. Bexarotene 1% gel has been
      approved for treatment of CTCL and found to have up to a 63% response rate in Stage Ia to IIa
      CTCL. The goal of this study was to evaluate the tolerability, safety and efficacy of
      bexarotene 1% gel in patients with parapsoriasis and to evaluate the anti-tumor host response
      in pre- and post-treatment skin biopsies.
    
  