
    
      Brief Rationale and Objective:

      The annual frequency of injury among dancers has been reported to range between 23-84% while
      as many as 95% of professional dancers have ongoing pain. The discrepancy between the number
      of reported injuries and the amount of pain reported at any given time could be related to
      the definition of injury, or how dancers' themselves perceive injury with respect to pain and
      activity limitation thresholds. For many reasons, dancers may be dancing through or past what
      health care providers may conceive as injury. This can put them at risk of future recurrent
      or chronic injury. The purpose of this study is to gain insight into professional dancers'
      perception of musculoskeletal (MSK) injury in order to understand at which point pain limits
      a dancer's ability to continue to perform and to determine what factors influence a dancer's
      perception of injury and decision to seek or not seek care. We will investigate whether this
      is influenced by available medical services, a supportive dance environment, or other
      factors. In addition, the issue of non-reporting of injuries will be studied. This is very
      important because it affects all measures of injury frequency and risk for dancers.

      Research Questions:

      The purpose of this study will be to answer the following questions: 1) What is the
      prevalence of MSK injury-related pain in the dance company? 2) What are the pain and activity
      limitation thresholds for a dancer to consider him/herself injured? 3) What factors are
      associated with considering him/herself injured? 4) What constitutes a major or a minor
      injury to a dancer? 5) How are dancers reporting their injuries? 6) How many dancers are not
      reporting their injuries and what are the reasons? 7) Do the answers to the above questions
      differ between countries (Canada, Israel, Sweden, Denmark) that have varying levels of social
      and medical support for dancers?

      Design and Methodology:

      Design: Cross-sectional survey. Study Population: All dancers employed by: The National
      Ballet of Canada, Toronto Dance Theatre, Batsheva Dance Company and Ensemble (Israel), The
      Kibbutz Contemporary Dance Company (Israel), the Royal Swedish Ballet (Sweden), and the Royal
      Danish Ballet (Denmark). Total approximate number of participants is 294. Methods: Two
      questionnaires will be distributed to participants. The Self-Estimated Functional Inability
      because of Pain (SEFIP) questionnaire is a validated tool for dancers which has shown good
      agreement with actual pain found on physical examination. The SEFIP will be used in order to
      measure pain and functional deficits. An additional questionnaire will be used to gain
      further information regarding the above research questions. There will be an area for the
      dancers to include any additional comments in relation to these subjects in order to capture
      further qualitative data. Data Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be reported in the form
      of percentages and means with standard deviations. Non-parametric tests will be used to
      analyze categorical variables. 95% confidence intervals will be reported for each analysis.
      The qualitative data captured in the open-ended questions will be analyzed for common themes
      in order to provide further explanation for the quantitative data as well as to provide
      additional information for further research.

      Significance:

      A recent systematic review of the dance injury literature stressed the necessity of a
      standardized definition of injury for future research studies involving dancers. This study
      will attempt to address the dancer's perspective in regards to perception of injury. We
      believe this international study will provide insight into the frequency and reporting of
      dance-related pain and some potential factors that influence this. Ultimately, we hope to
      improve the health-related quality of life for dancers with musculoskeletal injury.
    
  