
    
      This open, multicentric, randomized, controlled study was planned to identify genes activated
      by hGH in SGA children responders to treatment (making it possible in the near future to
      better identify SGA children likely to benefit from hGH treatment). Furthermore, the study
      would hopefully allow to verify which genes were responsible of spontaneous catch-up growth
      in children with diagnosis of SGA at birth but above the third percentile for height at the
      age of 24 months, and if these genes were the same activated by hGH during the treatment in
      participants responders. Sixty children born at term (i.e. after the 37th completed week of
      gestation) and with a diagnosis of SGA (defined as a length less than tenth percentile
      according to the Italian reference table published by Bertini and Fabris) were planned to be
      enrolled in the study. Forty participants (group A) were still less than third percentile for
      height (according to the Tanner reference table) at the age of 24 months, the remaining 20
      (group B) being more than or equal to third percentile (thus showing a spontaneous catch-up
      growth). Group A was randomized to receive Saizen at the daily dose of 0.067 mg/kg (Group A1)
      or no treatment (Group A2) for two years. All participants were to undergo full clinical
      examination and blood chemistry at baseline visit and visit after 1,6,12,18 and 24 months for
      a period of two years. Gene expression analysis using the Clontech Atlas Human Array was
      performed in all participants at baseline and after one year in order to identify the
      possible correlation between catch-up growth (either spontaneous or drug-induced) and
      expression of some genes.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To evaluate the correlation between gene expression profiling and catch-up growth
           (either spontaneous or drug induced after one year of treatment) in SGA children.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the percentage of participants not treated who show a spontaneous catch-up
           growth during the two years of observation.

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of early treatment with Saizen
    
  