
    
      Study Design This project will follow a methodology consisting of 2 concomitant studies: In
      the first study, we will develop an AI algorithm to detect the signs of DR in patients with
      diabetes.

      The second part of the project will consist of the elaboration of a prospective study that
      will allow comparing the diagnostic capacity of the algorithm with that of the family
      medicine physicians and with retina specialists. The reference will be a blinded double
      reading conducted by the retina specialists (with a blinded third reading in case of
      disagreement in the previous 2 readings). In this way, the results obtained, both by the AI
      algorithm and by family medicine specialists, will be compared using the gold standard
      (accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, area under the curve, etc). The inclusion of nurses who
      received training in fundus readings will be considered to compare their diagnostic capacity.

      Study Population, Site Participation, and Recruitment Images for the development of the
      algorithm will be ceded by the CHS and will include images from the whole Catalan population.
      The prospective study will take place in the primary care centers managed by the Catalan
      Health Institute in Central Catalonia, which includes the counties of Bages, Osona, Berguedà,
      and Anoia. The reference population will be the population assigned to these primary care
      centers. This population included about 512,000 people in 2017, with an estimated prevalence
      of diabetes of 7.1%.

      The study period will include 2010-2017 for the development of the algorithm with AI. The
      prospective study will begin once the algorithm is developed and will run until the number of
      readings needed is obtained (about 3-4 months).

      Conduct of the Study For the development of the AI algorithm, all fundus images labeled as DR
      of patients from primary care centers in Catalonia between 2010 and 2017 will be included.
      For the prospective study, all the images of patients who underwent an eye fundus examination
      will be included from the study start period until the adequate number of patients is
      reached. A high percentage of fundus images must have sufficient quality; that is, a
      40-degree vision of the central retina where at least a three-fourth part of the optic nerve,
      a well-focused macula, and well-defined veins and arteries of the upper and lower arcs can be
      seen. Eye fundus images that do not have adequate technical quality (dark) or that cannot be
      evaluated due to the opacity of the media (eg, for cataracts) will be excluded

      Data Collection For the development of the AI algorithm, it is necessary to have the
      anonymized images with the corresponding label that classifies each image (in one of the
      classes with which the algorithm is to be trained). The personnel responsible for information
      technology (IT) of the CHS will evaluate the best strategy for the anonymization and
      extraction of the images from the computer systems of the CHS, as well as the identification
      of each image with a unique identifier. On the other hand, a tabulated file type CSV or TXT
      will be required to relate each image identifier with the corresponding classification. The
      person responsible for IT of the CHS, together with the technical manager of OPTretina, will
      agree on the best way to transfer these 2 sources of information, in a secure way, from the
      CHS servers to the OPTretina servers (SSH File Transfer Protocol, external hard disk)
      depending on the volume of data to be transferred and the internal policy of the CHS.
      OPTretina is experienced in developing AI models for automatic fundus image classification
      and is a Spanish Agency of Medicines and Health Products-certified medical device
      manufacturer.

      For the prospective study, anonymized weekly fundus data readings collected by family
      medicine physician readers of fundus images in Central Catalonia will be collected. The
      images will be transferred to the OPTretina servers to be first analyzed by the diagnostic
      algorithm and then by the retina specialists who will make the definitive diagnosis. The
      person responsible for IT of the CHS, together with the technical manager of OPTretina, will
      agree on the best way to transfer these data in a secure manner.
    
  