
    
      An ICD is a device designed to quickly detect a life-threatening, rapid heartbeat. Through a
      process called defibrillation, the ICD tries to convert an abnormal heart rhythm back to
      normal by delivering an electrical shock to the heart. The ICD continuously monitors
      heartbeats to ensure that they are normal, and it only delivers a shock to the heart when it
      senses a life-threatening arrhythmia. Because of the recent funding approval by Medicaid, it
      is now estimated that more than 500,000 people will receive ICDs annually. Although ICDs are
      life-saving medical devices, some people may experience anxiety, depression, and impaired
      quality of life as a result of the repeated ICD shocks. Additionally, increased mental and
      emotional stress and anger may increase the likelihood of experiencing more arrhythmias
      requiring an ICD shock. SRT programs that encourage people to manage their emotions may
      decrease the frequency of arrhythmias. Furthermore, SRT programs have been shown to be
      successful at reducing other stress-related heart conditions. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of an SRT program at reducing the incidence of ICD shock-treated
      arrhythmias among people with newly implanted ICDs.

      This study will enroll people who have recently received an ICD. Initially, participants will
      complete questionnaires about mood and attitudes. Next, at a baseline study visit,
      participants will complete a mental stress exercise in which they will perform math problems
      and describe an experience that made them angry. During this exercise, participants will
      undergo blood pressure measurements, blood collection, and an electrocardiogram (EKG) to
      measure electrical activity of the heart. Participants will also wear a monitor for 24 hours
      after the study visit to record heart activity. Participants will then be randomly assigned
      to either take part in the SRT group and receive usual care or only receive usual care. For
      10 weeks, participants in the SRT group will attend 8 group sessions that will focus on
      learning and applying stress reduction techniques to everyday living. All participants will
      attend a 3-month follow-up visit for repeat baseline testing. At Months 6, 12, and 24,
      participants will complete questionnaires during routine doctor's visits or by mail.
    
  