
    
      Objectives: A hallmark of frontotemporal lobar degeneration(FTLD) is its associated
      behavioural disturbances (BPSD), which include disinhibition, aggression, apathy, agitation,
      depression, and inappropriate affect. Current evidence suggests that secondary changes in the
      serotonergic system may be key to many of the symptoms of FTLD. Our primary objective is to
      evaluate the ability of serotonergic dysfunction, as measured through oral citalopram
      challenge, to predict subsequent behavioural response to pharmacotherapy with citalopram. As
      a secondary objective, we will explore the relationship between specific BPSDs and the level
      of serotonergic dysfunction.

      Hypotheses: We predict that patients with FTLD who respond to citalopram pharmacotherapy will
      show greater dysfunction in the serotonergic system, as measured by citalopram challenge,
      than patients who do not respond. This hypothesis will be evaluated in vivo using peak change
      in plasma concentrations of cortisol and prolactin as indicators of serotonergic dysfunction
      following oral citalopram challenge.

      Research Plan: A consecutive sample of patients attending FTLD clinics who exhibit
      significant BPSD will be recruited into this study.Because serotonin promotes cortisol and
      prolactin secretion via the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, these hormones have
      been shown to be a reliable marker of serotonergic functioning. Their levels will therefore
      be measured from blood samples taken at baseline and 2 and 3 hours after the administration
      of 20 mg citalopram. Changes in cortisol levels after citalopram administration will be used
      as the primary measure of serotonergic functioning. We expect to find an inverse correlation
      between the cortisol response to citalopram challenge and the severity of BPSD according to
      the total Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) score. Subsequent to the citalopram challenge,
      participants will be treated for their BPSD with open-label citalopram (20-40 mg) for 6
      weeks. At the end of this period, patients will be re-assessed with the NPI. The magnitude of
      response, based on changes in NPI scores, will be correlated with the citalopram challenge
      test results. It is expected that patients who show more severe serotonergic dysfunction will
      have a better response to daily citalopram treatment.

      Relevance: The results of this study will further the scientific understanding of the
      neurochemical basis underlying BPSD in FTLD. To date, the treatment of FTLD patients has
      relied largely on the understanding of treatments for other dementias, due to the lack of
      research in the area of FTLD. Therefore, our work may aid in the development of targeted
      therapies specific to FTLD.
    
  