
    
      The goal of this study is to describe the efficacy of Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment
      (OMT) compared to NSAIDs in decreasing pain in adults with acute low back pain in the
      emergency department (ED). This study would provide an additional novel adjunct for pain
      management of painful procedures in the emergency department. Currently in the emergency
      department the complaint of low back pain comprises 4.4% of visits annually and is an area of
      patient dissatisfaction surrounding the pain management.

      The primary aims of this project will be measure the level of pain pre and post procedure in
      adults receiving ibuprofen (NSAID), OMT, or OMT/ibuprofen for low back pain. Secondary aims
      include patient and physician post procedure satisfaction scores, length of stay in ED.

      AIM 1: Measure the level of pain pre and post procedures in adults receiving ibuprofen, OMT,
      or OMT/Ibuprofen. Hypothesis: The level of pain for patients receiving OMT will be decreased
      to a greater extent that those receiving only NSAIDs for low back pain.

      AIM2: Measure the patient and physician satisfaction with the adjunct of OMT in regard to
      ability to manage pain based on satisfaction scores from questionnaire. Hypothesis: There
      will be greater satisfaction in the patients receiving OMT and OMT/NSAIDs than those
      receiving only OMT alone.

      This study will be a prospective, randomized- controlled trial of patients with acute low
      back pain in the ED of an urban, tertiary, academic medical center. Subjects will be
      randomized to one of three groups: Ibuprofen (800 mg), Ibuprofen (800 mg)/OMT, or OMT only
      for the treatment of acute low back pain

      Recruitment Methods

      The research associates as well as the health care team (both residents and attending
      physicians) will screen patients who present to the ED with the chief complaint of back pain
      and may qualify for the study. Research associates will use the electronic medical record for
      screening, and they will be in charge of informed consent, enrollment, as well as data
      collection. The research study team (osteopathic emergency physicians) will be in charge of
      performing the OMT.

      Procedures Involved in the Research

      Initial medical assessment will be made in accordance with established clinical procedures,
      including the history, physical examination, and vital signs. If by clinical assessment the
      patient meets eligibility criteria, then they will be approached by a research associate for
      enrollment in the study and will obtain informed consent.

      After informed consent, the patient will fill out a pre intervention 100 mm VAS baseline pain
      scale. The patient will be randomized to one of the three treatment arms; NSAID (ibuprofen),
      OMT/NSAID (ibuprofen), or OMT alone by using a randomization scheme generated using the web
      site Randomization.com (http://www.randomization.com).

      Once randomized, subjects in the NSAID arm will be assessed using a VAS prior to medication
      administration. They will then be given 800 mg of ibuprofen and subjects' pain will be
      assessed using the VAS at 45 minutes after NSAID administration. Subjects in the NSAID/OMT
      arm will be assessed using a VAS prior to medication administration and OMT. They will then
      be given 800 mg of ibuprofen and within 10 minutes will receive OMT. The subject's pain will
      be assessed using the VAS at 45 minutes after NSAID administration and completion of OMT. The
      OMT only arm will be assessed using a VAS prior to any OMT. OMT will then be performed and
      subjects' pain will be assessed using the VAS at 45 minutes after OMT is completed. The
      method of OMT will be left to the discretion of the treating physician, but will be recorded
      in the data collection sheet.

      The subject's clinical data (refer to data management) will be entered into a standardized
      data collection form. Study will end 45-60 minutes after randomized intervention. Once the
      procedure is complete subjects will fill out a post procedure satisfaction questionnaire. The
      physician will also fill out a post procedure questionnaire.
    
  