
    
      Chronic pain and opioid overdose are two critical public health problems in the US. About 25
      million adults (11%) suffer from chronic daily pain and up to 8 million use opioids to manage
      chronic pain. Unfortunately, 46 people die daily from overdose of prescription opioids. For
      safe chronic opioid therapy for chronic pain, physicians monitor patients' adherence to
      prescription opioids, and reduce or discontinue the prescription as indicated. Yet, adherence
      and cessation are not easy for some patients and one reason is opioid craving, a strong
      desire or urge to use opioids. Our preliminary data show about 34% of patients on chronic
      opioid therapy report craving. Craving is strongly associated with opioid misuse and negative
      health outcomes. To date, we do not fully understand the underlying mechanisms of
      prescription opioid craving in chronic pain sufferers, and psychological treatment targets to
      reduce craving. Based on our pilot survey, patients endorsing craving reported greater pain
      catastrophizing than those endorsing no craving. Our other survey study also reported a
      positive link between pain catastrophizing and opioid craving in patients on chronic opioid
      therapy for chronic pain conditions. Although these findings propose a possibility that
      lowering pain catastrophizing may decrease opioid craving, cross-sectional observational
      studies are limited in investigating a causal association. Potentially, pain catastrophizing
      enhances stress-induced opioid craving because stress-induced opioid craving is a
      well-established phenomenon in studies of addiction, and pain catastrophizing is associated
      with greater pain and emotional distress in patients with chronic pain. Therefore, the
      proposed project seeks to determine: a) the effect of pain catastrophizing on prescription
      opioid craving in patients on chronic opioid therapy for chronic pain and b) psychological
      (negative affect) and physiological (cortisol, norepinephrine) distress as potential
      mediating variables. The proposed study will use the previously validated protocol to
      temporarily induce and reduce pain catastrophizing and assess changes in opioid craving,
      negative affect, and stress hormones before and after pain catastrophizing manipulation.
      Additionally, this proposed study prospectively administers the protocol to reduce pain
      catastrophizing by thinking about and rehearsing a coping statement daily for 7 days and
      monitor daily opioid craving, opioid use and misuse, and negative affect for 14 days. The
      current project is expected to characterize the role of pain catastrophizing in opioid
      craving and opioid misuse, and pain catastrophizing as a critical psychological treatment
      target for reducing prescription opioid craving and improving prescription adherence.
      Furthermore, the protocol to manipulate pain catastrophizing can facilitate future research
      to study causal mechanisms involved in pain catastrophizing and the protocol to rapidly
      stabilize pain catastrophizing can be used clinically to improve the health outcome of
      patients taking prescription opioid for chronic pain.
    
  