
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is an important global health concern. It is estimated that
      about 70 million individuals will suffer a traumatic brain injury (TBI) each year. Serious
      TBIs for hospitalization or death is at least 10 million annually.

      Recently, advances in neurocritical care have led to an increase in the number of severe TBI
      patients recovering cognitive and physical function, eventually returning to independent
      life. However, some of severe TBI patients fail to fully recover consciousness. This
      condition is called disorder of consciousness (DoC). They recover from coma and maintain
      sleep-wake cycle, but have impaired awareness of themselves and their environment. These
      states are called unresponsive wakefulness syndrome or minimally conscious state. These
      conditions make patients loss all autonomy and heavy emotional and financial burden on their
      families. In addition to these devastating effects, these conditions are known to increase
      burn out rates in caregivers.

      In the past, patients with post-traumatic DoC were considered to be "nothing to do". However,
      treatments such as sensory stimulation, physiotherapy, and medication have been used and
      studied recently. Sensory stimulation is based on the idea that enriched stimulations benefit
      neural plasticity and recovery. Most studies of sensory stimulation have been case-reports,
      with few randomized controlled study. Physiotherapy mainly includes range of motion, posture
      changes, and so on. Almost all hospitals offer physiotherapy, but there is still insufficient
      evidence to conclude that it is effective for patients with post-traumatic DoC. Studies on
      pharmacologic treatments in patients with DoC are mainly related to dopaminergics, because
      dopaminergics can stimulate the reticular activating system to improve wakefulness and
      attention. Among them, amantadine is proved to be an effective treatment through a large
      randomized controlled clinical trial in patients with post-traumatic DoC. However, although
      amantadine is effective in accelerating the pace of recovery, there is a limitation that the
      effect on long-term outcomes remains unknown.

      As a scientific understanding of the consciousness grows, many studies have been conducted to
      restore the consciousness by neuromodulation techniques, such as median nerve stimulation,
      dorsal column stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and deep brain stimulation (DBS). Median nerve
      stimulation was attempted to direct sensory stimulation to the brain. However, it has been
      shown to be ineffective in small randomized controlled study. Attempts to stimulate the
      dorsal column of spinal cord directly have been made. However, because it is invasive
      procedure, no randomized controlled studies have been performed.

      Over the past 10 years, as a restorative treatment of consciousness after TBI, the
      neurostimulation such as tDCS, rTMS and DBS has received increased attention. In a
      double-blind sham-controlled crossover design study, Thibaut et al. have investigated the
      efficacy of tDCS in 55 DOC patients. Significant behavioral changes were observed after tDCS
      in MCS patients, but after 1 year, the effect was not maintained. DBS has been generally used
      in Parkinson's disease, but it has been also performed in patients with DoC because it can
      directly stimulate thalamus. Improved the consciousness after DBS have been reported , but
      the evidence isn't still sufficient and the risk is too high to be administered to patients
      with post-traumatic DoC.

      Low-intensity focused ultrasound (LIFU) has been newly proposed as a technique to overcome
      the limitations of existing neurostimulation techniques. LIFU has a spatial resolution of
      only 2-5 mm and a depth of penetration of more than 10-15 cm. Thus, it can pass through the
      skull to stimulate the deep brain tissue and can also stimulate finely.

      In recent years, we have focused on studies of stimulating nerve tissue using a focused
      ultrasound stimulation system. It was reported that activation and inhibition control of
      motor and visual nervous system in rabbits can be achieved using a focused ultrasound
      stimulation system. We also reported that the thalamus of anesthetized rats was stimulated
      with a focused ultrasound stimulation system, resulting in a shorter recovery time from
      anesthesia. The image-guided navigation system using MRI made it possible to focus the
      ultrasound stimulation at the target point of the brain with high accuracy. In 2018, a
      wearable FUS headgear for a rat model was developed and the effect of long- term changes of
      brain function by focused ultrasound stimulation was reported, thereby identifying the
      possibility of neuroplasticity using LIFU.

      In 2016, Monti et al. reported a clinical case of recovery of consciousness in a traffic
      accident patient who had been in a coma for about 20 days. The central thalamic area of the
      patient was stimulated with LIFU for 5-10 minutes each day, restoring consciousness from the
      3rd day and starting walking on the 5th day. This result is supported by the relationship
      between central thalamus and consciousness. In addition, it is similar to the case that
      central thalamus stimulation using DBS in the patient who had MCS for 6 years after TBI
      modulated behavioral responses of the patient.

      Based on above results, this study's aim is to evaluate the therapeutic effect of recovery
      from DoC and safety of LIFU stimulation at thalamic area in patients with post-traumatic DoC.
    
  