
    
      Background

      Anxiety disorders have major public health significance and social phobia ranks as the third
      most common mental health disorder after depression and alcoholism. Even though
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most effective non-pharmacological approach to the
      treatment of social phobia, more than one third of the patients do not respond to treatment,
      or achieve only partial remission of symptoms. Pharmacotherapy (e.g., SSRIs, benzodiazepines)
      has been shown to be effective in the acute treatment of social phobia, however, with high
      rates of relapse when medication is discontinued. In addition, the combination of CBT and
      medication does not seem to be more beneficial than CBT alone. Consequently, the development
      of innovative psychobiological approaches combining effective psychotherapy methods with
      synergizing substance administration is a primary challenge in interdisciplinary research on
      treatment of social phobia.

      In a recent study the investigators found evidence that a pharmacological elevation of
      glucocorticoid levels reduces fear in patients with social phobia and spider phobia exposed
      to a phobic stimulus. Furthermore, the investigators have shown that repeated administration
      of glucocorticoids before exposure to a phobic stimulus leads to an extinction of phobic
      fear. Also the low-dose administration of cortisone over a month in patients with
      post-traumatic stress disorder reduces cardinal of symptoms the disorder. Based on these
      findings, glucocorticoid treatment, in combination with exposure therapy, may help to reduce
      fear and promote extinction of phobic fear.

      In an interdisciplinary research project involving psychology, behavioral pharmacology
      psychiatry, genetics and neuroimaging the investigators propose to investigate the
      therapeutic efficacy of combining an exposure-based cognitive-behavioral group therapy (CBGT)
      with hydrocortisone treatment. The investigators hypothesize that hydrocortisone exerts both
      acute beneficial effects by reducing fear during exposure, and long-term beneficial effects
      by facilitating the extinction of phobic fear. Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize
      differential treatment responses depending on genetic variations in glucocorticoid-related
      genes (substudy 1). These hypotheses will be tested in a clinical study with 100 patients
      with mainly speech anxiety who fulfill DSM-IV criteria for a diagnosis of social phobia and
      60 patients with spider phobia.

      This is the first study aimed at determining the therapeutic efficacy of combining
      hydrocortisone administration and a short-term exposure-based cognitive-behavioral group
      therapy for the treatment of social phobic patients with specific speech anxiety and patients
      with spider phobia. Considering the large number of patients suffering from social phobia,
      the suggested interdisciplinary project will have important clinical implications for the
      development of a more effective therapy.

      Objective

      To determine whether short-term treatment with 20 mg hydrocortisone enhances the efficacy of
      exposure-based cognitive-behavioral group therapy (CBGT) in patients with social phobia,
      specifically speech anxiety and patients with spider phobia.

      A series of studies indicate that elevated glucocorticoid levels inhibit the retrieval of
      memory in healthy humans. Further the low-dose administration of glucocorticoids over a month
      inhibited the retrieval of traumatic memories in patients with post traumatic stress
      disorder. These findings suggest that glucocorticoids might also inhibit retrieval of fear
      memory in phobia and social phobia exposed to a phobic stimulus. Additionally, the
      investigators found evidence indicating that repeated administration of glucocorticoids
      before exposure to a phobic stimulus leads to an extinction of phobic fear. Based on these
      findings, glucocorticoid treatment, in combination with exposure therapy, may help to reduce
      fear and promote extinction of phobic fear.

      Methods

      In a placebo-controlled double-blind study design, patients will be randomly assigned to
      receive CBGT + hydrocortisone (Social Phobia: N=50 / Spider Phobia: N=30) or CBGT + placebo
      (Social Phobia: N=50 / Spider Phobia: N=30). Psychopathological symptoms and stress
      reactivity will be assessed by psychometric and endocrine parameters before, during and after
      CBGT therapy. The patients have further the possibility to attend to a neuroimaging study, in
      which the investigators examine and localize the anxiolytic effect of acute glucocorticoid
      administration in the brain (substudy 2). In this substudy 2 the investigators compare the
      patients with social phobia with patients with specific spider phobia and healthy controls as
      they did in their previous studies (Soravia et al. 2006).
    
  