
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a leading cause of disability and reduced quality of life, presenting
      a substantial, growing burden to patients and the healthcare system (1). Total knee
      arthroplasty (TKA) is an established, effective interventions for advanced OA. The prevalence
      of knee OA is rapidly increasing, resulting in a rising demand for care. The number of
      procedures is expected to grow by 48%, by 2020 in the US (2). Currently, TKA along with total
      hip arthroplasty (THA), have a significant impact on healthcare budgets, costing
      approximately $1.2 billion in annual spending in Canada (3). These staggering numbers
      highlight the critical need to improve care delivery.

      A significant proportion of the overall cost of joint replacement results from the inpatient
      hospital stay following the procedure. Historically, the standard procedure following TKA
      required an inpatient hospital stay of two and a half to three weeks, however the
      introduction of less invasive surgical techniques, improved medical and analgesia management
      and comprehensive rehabilitation have enabled shorter inpatient stays. Today, the median
      inpatient stay following TKA is three days in Canada (3). A desire for greater autonomy by
      the patients as well as patients wanting early mobilization to accelerate recovery and return
      to activities has led some clinicians to consider an outpatient arthroplasty program. The
      proposed benefits of outpatient arthroplasty include similar patient outcomes with
      significantly lower hospital costs, and improved patient satisfaction, independence, and
      autonomy, however there is a lack of high-quality evidence comparing clinical outcomes of
      outpatient to inpatient arthroplasty models of care.

      A retrospective analysis of over 50,000 THA and TKA procedures found no differences in 30-day
      major complications or readmissions among patients with a zero to two-day hospital stay
      compared to those discharged on day three or four postoperative (4). Small cohort studies
      (5-8) suggest lower costs for outpatients and improved patient satisfaction but have inherent
      biases; limited to carefully selected patients in privatized health systems.

      It is estimated that up to 20% of the overall cost of joint replacement can be attributed to
      the inpatient stay in hospital at our institution (9). By discharging patients as
      outpatients, it could be possible to save 20% of the overall costs of joint replacement.
      Although these preliminary calculations are encouraging, it is not sufficient to effect
      change solely to achieve cost control, without consideration of safety, effectiveness and
      patient satisfaction. Further, it is unknown whether the financial savings will be outweighed
      by additional postoperative costs, increased readmissions or decreased quality of care. A
      full economic evaluation that simultaneously evaluates cost and effectiveness is crucial
      prior to implementation. The lack of high-quality evidence regarding its effectiveness
      warrants a rigorous comparative trial.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate outpatient care pathways for TKA. Specifically, our
      objectives are to compare the rate of serious adverse events and estimate the
      cost-effectiveness of outpatient compared to standard inpatient TKA.
    
  