
    
      Belize is a country with a developing economy based primarily on agriculture and tourism.
      Crime and violence are emerging as a threat to the country's governance and business climate.
      The number of homicides in Belize have increased by more than 30% from 2003-2006. This notion
      of violence, in particular gang violence, is extremely concerning because the population of
      Belize is very young. Almost half of the population of Belize is under the age of 18. The
      youth of Belize are becoming engaged in criminal and delinquent behaviors at an early age
      that have both individual and societal consequences.

      In addition to the violence rates among youth in Belize there is also an educational crisis
      that must be addressed. Education in Belize is compulsory between the ages of 5-14 and in
      2001 93% of 5-14 year old children attended school. Although primary school is mandatory (up
      to age 14), only about 75% of youth complete primary school and only 25% graduate from
      secondary school. With few students completing high school it is likely that many may turn to
      gang related and other illegal activities if they are not prepared to undertake better job
      opportunities, have not been provided with environmental assets that protect from involvement
      in risky behavior, and if they are exposed to community/family values that condone gang
      activity. A number of studies have demonstrated that school-based interventions have moderate
      effects in reducing violence (average of d = .20 across studies). Combining a sound
      school-based intervention in Belize that is primarily targeted toward students and teachers,
      but combined with school-based community/family components designed to heighten awareness of
      the necessity of protective assets, implemented with local and international support teams,
      and that fosters positive norms may enhance the effects.
    
  