
    
      Protocol No. AP2006-01

      Study title: A Prospective, Open, Randomised, Multicentre, Controlled Group Study to Assess
      the Safety and Efficacy of Navigator versus Conventional Care in Postoperative Cardiac
      Surgery Patients Undergoing Coronary Bypass Grafting and or Heart Valve Repair or Replacement
      Utilizing Heart Lung Perfusion Pump.

      Acronym: NAV 1

      Type of study: Device Trial

      Sponsor: Applied Physiology Pty Ltd

      Study device: Navigator Guided Circulatory Care Management System

      Route of Administration: Via Touch Panel Computer, externally connected to the bedside
      physiological monitor in a critical care environment

      Study centres: Six Australian centres

      Study design: Multicentre, open, randomised, controlled group study

      Total sample size: One hundred completed patients, 50 in each arm

      Study population: Post operative coronary bypass and heart valve repair or replacement
      patients admitted to a Cardiac Intensive Care or Intensive Care Unit. Surgery must involve
      the use of a heart lung perfusion pump and the patient must have a functioning arterial line
      and Swan Ganz catheter in situ to enable the measurement of Cardiac Output, Mean Arterial
      Pressure, and Right Atrial Pressure.

      Study regimen: Following surgery, and after meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      patients will be randomised on admission to ICU to receive care guided by Navigator or
      conventional care during their ICU stay while CO is being monitored. All patients will be
      connected to the Navigator; the screen of the patients in the control group will have the
      graphical section blank, the right hand side will display actual values of MAP, CO and RAP as
      slaved from the bedside monitor, along with the patient's screening and randomisation number
      and initials. The arm of the study to which the patient has been randomised
      ;control/Navigator, will also be shown.

      Endpoints:

      Primary: The primary efficacy endpoint is the average distance to the central point of the
      target cardiovascular zone over the period the patient is connected to Navigator.

      Secondary: Secondary endpoints for the trial will be:

        -  Percentage time in the target cardiovascular zone over the period the patient is
           connected to the Navigator

        -  Clinically significant atrial fibrillation over the period the patient is connected to
           the Navigator. This is defined as irregular supraventricular rhythm with an absence of
           discrete P waves lasting more than ten minutes documented and confirmed with an ECG

        -  Multiple organ function, as assessed using the SOFA score, calculated daily

        -  Navigator device related adverse events and device failures

      Statistical analysis: The primary and secondary endpoints and all safety data will be
      analysed on the randomised Intention-to-treat population.The ITT population will include all
      individuals who are randomised. The analysis will compare the primary efficacy endpoint
      between the two randomised treatment groups using independent t tests. The secondary analyses
      will compare the secondary endpoints between the two randomised treatment groups using
      independent t-tests, Chi-square tests and Fisher's exact tests as appropriate.

      Study Period: From the first pre-surgery screening visit to the post operative follow up
      visit, approximately six weeks
    
  