
    
      This proposal proposes the use of personalized neuronavigation, based on each participant's
      structural brain MRI, to aim LIFUP at the white matter underlying the entorhinal cortex in
      the pursuit of enhancement of learning and memory in humans. A comprehensive approach will
      integrate behavioral and multimodal neuroimaging to assess the utility of LIFUP to increase
      activity in deep neural structures and in the enhancement of memory. Further, this is the
      first study to use LIFUP in (A) ventral cortical and hippocampal regions and (B) for
      pro-cognitive effects. Findings from this study will provide important insight into the
      utility of LIFUP modulation of subcortical regions and their associated networks and
      functions, which have wide ranging implications for clinical LIFUP as a therapeutic device
      for numerous patient populations. Participants will complete a brief T1-weighted structural
      brain scan. Then, they will be removed from the scanner and, using the T1 image in Neurocare
      Brainsight software60, the LIFUP transducer will be aimed at the white matter underlying the
      entorhinal cortex and gently strapped in place to their head. Participants will then return
      to the scanner where a second T1 image will verify the position of the LIFUP transducer and
      allow for estimation of the spatial location of the sonification beam focus (approximately
      .5cm long x 7mm diameter). BOLD fMRI will be collected during three conditions, randomized
      and counterbalanced across participants (with sham always separating the two LIFUP
      conditions: short train sonification LIFUP, sham LIFUP long train LIFUP: total time = 30min.
      Short train LIFUP (previously used in primary sensory cortices47 will be administered in 75
      sonifications at 210 KHz frequency with pulse repetition frequency of 500Hz, 35mW/cm2,
      sonification duration 0.5s with 7s inter-stimulation interval. Sham LIFUP will involve the
      same procedures (e.g. participant provided the same instructions) except the sonification
      will not occur. Before and after completing the scan and a short break, these participants
      will receive short train LIFUP47 while they are administered a series of three computerized,
      hippocampally-dependent episodic memory tasks. Given that routine clinical neuropsychological
      measures are designed to provide diagnostic information and are not sensitive or specific
      enough to precisely measure longitudinal cognitive change related to an intervention, we will
      use validated experimental neurocognitive measures.
    
  