
    
      Background

      Within Latin American indigenous communities tea brewed from fresh or dried crushed Souroubea
      leaves is used to treat Susto, a culture-bound syndrome resembling manifestations of Anxiety
      Disorders. Souroubea sympetala (Ss) leaf extract has shown to be effective as an anxiolytic
      in animal models, and betulinic acid (BA) is one of the active molecules responsible for
      mediating this effect.

      Plant-based natural products are sought by many individuals as alternatives or supplements to
      standard medical care. As a result, more research is required in order to develop botanical
      treatments that are evidence-based, safe and guided by health practitioners.
      Souroubea-Platanus may offer such alternative.

      Safety

      Evidence suggests that Souroubea-Platanus was well tolerated in Beagles in a 28-day pilot
      study at 8x recommended dose, producing significant reductions in plasma cortisol 1h
      post-administration without any adverse reactions, except slightly reduced platelet count in
      2 animals attributed to infection with Ehrlichia canis, likely contracted prior to the study
      onset. In a follow-up 16 beagles and up to 5x the recommended does for 28 days such decrease
      in platelet count was not observed, no there were any other adverse events. No adverse events
      have been reported in animals for the animal health product version of the drug (Zentrol)
      that has been on the market for 2 years. The naturalistic observations of Souroubea
      consumption suggest that it is safe for human use, however, this has not been established in
      a formal study. In addition, drug interactions have occurred with some herbal products,
      particularly those that strongly inhibit or induce CYP enzymes. As Souroubea may act on the
      BDZ binding site of the GABAA receptor, possible side-effects and symptoms similar to those
      associated with benzodiazepine anxiolytics are possible.

      Clinical Relevance

      The study has significant clinical relevance for anxiety and stress-related disorders and may
      lead to developing a new anxiolytic agent or supplement with more selective effects and
      reduced risks for the patients.

      Overview of study design

      Forty-five healthy adult volunteers will be enrolled in the single-center, randomized,
      double-blind, parallel group study. Power analysis revealed that to achieve a power of 0.80,
      with an estimated effect size of 0.40 (estimate based on rodent studies), a total sample size
      of 42 would be required. Accounting for approximately 10% predicted participant dropout rate
      per group, it is expected that 45 participants will be enrolled in the study.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the 3 treatment groups with 15 individuals
      in each for detecting a dose-response effect. Treatment groups will be either (a) 190mg
      extract (b) 380mg extract, or (c) inert placebo, all in identical vegicaps.

      Capsules containing the placebo and the extracts will be produced under GMP conditions. In
      accordance with Health Canada guidelines, extract will conform to the acceptable limits for
      heavy metal and biological contamination. The placebo will consist of microcrystalline
      cellulose suitable for use in foods.

      The capsules will be taken once a day in the morning with water for 2 consecutive weeks. The
      safety evaluations will be conducted at screening and repeated at the end of the 2-week study
      period. Adverse events will be evaluated after 1 week and 2 weeks of treatment and 1 week
      after discontinuation. The participants will be asked to maintain their regular lifestyle and
      diet during the study period so long as those habits do not violate the study exclusion
      criteria.

      Participants will be asked to take the capsules at the same time every morning. Compliance
      will be facilitated by daily reminders by e-mail, text, or phone call and a review of the
      returned medication vials.

      The participants will have 24-hour phone access to the study physician for emergencies.

      Participant Compensation

      Participants will be reimbursed for their time in participation, as well as for
      transportation and parking costs on prorated basis corresponding to minimal hourly wage.

      Randomization and blinding

      Blinded treatment will be used to reduce potential bias during data collection and evaluation
      of clinical endpoints. Participant numbers will be assigned in sequential order as
      participants enroll in the study. All participants will be asked to come in at the same time
      for all testing periods after screening (Days 1, 7, 14, and 21) in order to account for
      time-of-day effects on cortisol.

      Participants will be assigned to one of the treatment groups according to a computer
      generated randomization schedule prepared by contracted pharmacy personnel. The randomization
      will be balanced by using permuted blocks. Pharmacy personnel will package and label study
      drug for each participant.

      The study investigator or his/her designate and study participant will remain blind to the
      participants' group until the completion of the study. The blind should be broken only if in
      emergency requiring knowing the treatment status of the participant.

      Study procedures

        1. Baseline screening will include:

             1. Medical history, physical examination, and vital signs, including temperature,
                heart rate, respiratory rate and blood pressure;

             2. Mental status examination, including completion of the DSM-5 Self-Rated Level 1
                Cross-Cutting Symptom Measure - Adult with follow-up on any items rated as present
                in at least mild degree;

             3. Laboratory tests and urine drug screen as described below;

             4. Serum pregnancy test for females of childbearing potential; must not be pregnant

        2. Safety evaluations:

             1. Each volunteer will provide a blood and urine sample in the morning, within 14 days
                before the start of the study (baseline), 7 days after the first dose, and on the
                last day of the study (day 14). Body weight will be measured at baseline and day
                14. Physical examination including vital signs and inquiry of adverse events will
                be performed on days 7 and 14. Additional evaluation of adverse events will be done
                one week after discontinuation of the study drug. Vital signs will be monitored
                until 1 hour after administration of the first dose.

      The following laboratory parameters will be measured:

        -  complete blood count: white blood cell (WBC) count with differential, red blood cell
           (RBC) count, hemoglobin, hematocrit and indices, platelet count;

        -  chemistry panel: glucose, calcium, electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride), BUN,
           creatinine, albumin, total protein, alkaline phosphatase, gamma glutamyl transferase,
           aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, bilirubin, creatine kinase;

        -  urinalysis will be standard, microscopic if indicated;

        -  salivary cortisol will be measured as a stress indicator.

      Pregnancy testing in females will consist of a serum test (for convenience, since other blood
      samples are already being collected during screening; this should not normally require
      additional venipuncture).

      Saliva samples will be collected using sterile saliva sample tubes. Blood and urine samples
      will be collected at the clinical laboratory. Blood samples will be drawn by venipuncture.

      Records of health data identifying participants will be kept on record for 25 years before
      being destroyed; all records will be kept confidential during that time.

      Behavioural evaluations

        1. State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) on Days 1 (baseline and 1 hour post-dose), 7 and
           14.

        2. DSM-5 Self-rated Level 2 anxiety adult short form on Days 1, 7, and 14

        3. Cortisol (physiological marker of stress): salivary concentration; analysis - difference
           between pre- and 1 h post dose on Day 1, max changes from baseline and group x time
           effects and interactions.

      Data analysis

      Statistical means and standard deviations will be calculated for each continuous variable.
      ANOVA followed by post hoc Tukey's test will be used to evaluate significant differences
      among dose groups and different days. A P-value of 0.05 will be considered as the level of
      significant difference in the analysis of the data. Behavioural variables will be analyzed
      using mixed effects ANOVA for repeated measures where appropriate.

      Transformations for non-normality and/or corrective procedures will be applied if data is
      found to be non-normally distributed or otherwise in violation of the assumptions of the
      statistical tests.

      STAI: the total sum scores (T-scores); analysis - max changes from baseline and group x time
      effects and interactions.

      Cortisol: salivary concentration; analysis - difference between pre- and 1 h post dose on Day
      1, max changes from baseline and group x time effects and interactions.

      Safety evaluations will be based on the baseline to treatment-period differences in
      laboratory tests, physical examinations, vital signs and the incidence of adverse events.

      Adverse events reporting

      All adverse events (AE) regardless of casual relationship with investigational treatment will
      be recorded. An AE will be considered treatment-emergent if it is new in onset or aggravated
      in severity or frequency following administration of the investigational agent. All treatment
      emergent AE will be followed until resolution or a stable clinical endpoint.

      Serious AE, e.g. any AE that is fatal, immediately life threatening, requires or prolongs
      hospitalization, causes permanent or significant disability will be reported to Health Canada
      and IRB and immediately addressed medically as appropriate.

      Participants will be encouraged to report AEs spontaneously or in response to general,
      non-directed questioning. All treatment-emergent AEs will be recorded in the source document
      using medical terminology.
    
  