
    
      Rationale: Graft-versus-host disease(GVHD) is a common complication of allogeneic bone marrow
      or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). It affects multiple systems, including
      skin, gastrointestinal system, liver, lung, and oral cavity, as well as eyes, which
      contributes to decreased quality of life and increased mortality. About 10% of patients with
      acute GVHD and 60-90% of those with chronic GVHD develop ocular complications. Dry eye is the
      most common manifestation of ocular GVHD. The pathogenesis remains unclear. The conjunctival
      tissue and cornea are the main immunological targets in GVHD. Patients often have punctate
      hypothesize that the recalcitrant nature of ocular GVHD may be related to corneal nerve
      damage and sensation changes.

      There are a few confocal microscopy studies on corneal nerve changes in GVHD, including
      increased tortuosity and reduced reflectivity of sub-basal nerves. However, there were very
      few studies on clinical correlations of those microscopic changes with corneal sensation and
      ocular surface health. In addition, confocal microscopes are not widely available in clinical
      practice. It also requires the special expertise of technicians and physicians to obtain and
      explain the images. It is therefore not feasible to routinely perform confocal microscopy for
      corneal innervation study.

      The investigators plan to study the corneal sensation changes and their correlation with
      ocular surface staining, tear film breakdown and meibomian gland dysfunction in GVHD
      patients. The study will shed light on an important aspect of corneal innervation damage in
      GVHD and may lead to new treatment modalities for those patients, noting that topical
      recombinant human nerve growth factor cenegermin was recently FDA approved for neurotrophic
      keratopathy. The investigators intend to identify the ocular characteristics of GVHD patients
      that may potentially benefit from cenegermin treatment.
    
  