
    
      This is a prospective, single-centre cohort pilot study using ctDNA informed treatment
      decisions. If the pilot study is successful within certain tumour types then this protocol
      may be extended to investigate further the benefit of ctDNA informed treatment decision in
      those tumour types.

      Patients with suspected malignancy for whom invasive biopsy for definitive histological
      diagnosis is challenging either due to COVID-19-related resource limitations, infection
      control or technical feasibility will be considered for this study. In this setting liquid
      biopsy may be used in lieu of tissue biopsy to facilitate treatment or may be used to
      prioritise standard of care invasive diagnostic tests. The former includes patients who
      require repeat biopsies for genomic analysis following non-informative results where these
      would inform standard of care treatment (i.e. NICE (National Institute for Health and Care
      Excellence)/Cancer Drug Fund (CDF) approved drugs). Tumour types included in this study are
      therefore those where invasive aerosol generating diagnostic tests such as bronchoscopy,
      gastrointestinal endoscopy (including endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)) are part of the standard
      diagnostic pathway and where capacity for these tests has become severely constrained during
      (and likely after) the COVID-19 pandemic. Tumour types affected include some suspected
      biliary tract, bladder, colorectal, GIST, lung and pancreatic cancers.

      The study is planned to continue until a total of 112 patients have been enrolled. This is
      anticipated to take up to 12-18 months. Follow-up will continue until patients have diagnosis
      made (based on ctDNA result) and treatment decision made (deferred or immediate).

      Potential patients will be identified in and will usually at the multidisciplinary team (MDT)
      meeting. They will give consent to participate in the trial and offered a liquid biopsy
      (ctDNA) in lieu of a tissue biopsy if considered suitable for PREVAIL - ctDNA. This may
      include patients who require repeat biopsies for further genomic analyses when repeat
      biopsies are not feasible where liquid biopsy may support prioritisation for invasive
      diagnostics earlier. ctDNA analysis will involve copy number variant detection and low
      coverage whole genomic sequencing. ctDNA gene panels have already been validated against
      tissue based molecular diagnostics for paediatrics (ct_PAED) and colorectal cancer (ct_GI).

      This analysis will be performed in an accredited clinical diagnostic laboratory
      (Translational Research Laboratory, Institute of Cancer Research). Patients will be
      stratified for treatment or further investigation based on their ctDNA result (either
      positive or negative), suspected tumour type, radiological (including PREVAIL-imaging risk
      stratification pathway) and clinical characteristics.
    
  