
    
      Tobacco smoking is the leading cause of preventable death. Considerable public health efforts
      are ongoing Canada-wide to reduce the prevalence of smoking in the general population. From
      1985 to 2005, smoking rates among adults reduced from 35% to 19%. However, since that time,
      this steady rate of decline plateaued at around 18-19%. What else can be done to continue to
      significantly reduce the number of smokers at the population level? One option is to
      translate interventions that have demonstrated clinical efficacy into population level
      initiatives. Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) has a considerable research base
      demonstrating its efficacy. Public health initiatives are underway to distribute NRT widely
      through mass distribution efforts. For example, over 58,000 NRT treatments have been
      distributed in the province of Ontario alone, and other provinces in Canada are considering
      adopting mass distribution procedures. However, one important question remains unanswered -
      do smoking cessation programs that involve mass distribution of free NRT work? Preliminary
      evidence consisting of before-after smoking status data from participants of mass NRT
      campaigns yielded promising results. However, such data cannot be used to make causal
      statements about the impact of NRT distribution. To answer this question, a randomized
      controlled trial is required.

      A single blinded, panel survey design with random assignment to an experimental and a control
      condition will be used in this study. A two-stage recruitment process will be employed, in
      the context of a general population survey with two follow-ups (8 weeks and 6 months). Random
      digit dialing of Canadian home telephone numbers will identify households with adult smokers
      who are willing to take part in a smoking study that involves three interviews, with saliva
      collection for 3-HC/cotinine ratio measurement at baseline and saliva cotinine verification
      at 8-week and 6-month follow-ups.

      As part of the baseline survey, eligible subjects will be identified for the second
      recruitment - randomization of smokers into experimental and control conditions to receive
      versus not receive nicotine patches. Eligibility will be determined by a series of questions
      regarding hypothetical interest in nicotine patches to quit smoking (including willingness to
      have nicotine patches sent to their home) and having no contraindications for using NRT. A
      randomized half of the eligible subjects will be assigned to the experimental condition and
      asked for their permission to have nicotine patches sent to their home. Subjects will be
      followed-up at 8 weeks and 6 months. Subjects in the control condition will not be offered
      nicotine patches. Interviewers will be blind to subjects' condition because they will be
      using computer assisted telephone interviewing (CATI) technology and as the first parts of
      the 8-week and 6-month follow-ups are identical for experimental and control conditions, they
      will not know the intervention condition to which a subject belongs until questions specific
      to the use of NRT are asked near the end of the surveys (i.e., after the primary outcome
      measures are assessed).

      The primary hypothesis is that subjects who receive nicotine patches at baseline will display
      significantly higher quit rates (as assessed by 30 day point prevalence of abstinence from
      tobacco) at 6-month follow-up as compared to subjects who do not receive nicotine patches at
      baseline.
    
  