
    
      patients with necrotic mandibular molars will be selected

        1. Diagnostic procedures:

             -  Personal information (name, age, gender, address and phone number), full medical
                and dental histories using schematic charts will be obtained from all patients
                participating in this research.

             -  History of chief complaint will be obtained in the dental history chart.

             -  Clinical and radiographic evaluation for each tooth included in this study will be
                recorded. The tooth will be examined for presence of extensive caries or pulp
                exposures. Soft tissue examination and tooth mobility evaluation will be done by
                percussion and palpation.

             -  Extraoral examination will be performed by visual inspection of the face and neck
                and palpation for any swollen lymph nodes.

             -  Each tooth will be evaluated for sensitivity using electric pulp tester. Diagnosis
                will also be confirmed by the absence of bleeding after access cavity preparation.

             -  Final Diagnosis: Mature mandibular asymptomatic necrotic molars with normal
                periapical radiographic appearance.

             -  The operator will explicitly explain the trial steps to the patients, and an
                informed consent will be signed by patients who accept enrollment.

             -  Pain scale chart will be given to each patient to rate his /her pain level before
                endodontic treatment as preoperative reading using a Numerical Rating Scale (NRS).

        2. Endodontic procedures:

             -  All the performed steps of root canal treatment will be included in the chart of
                endodontic procedures.

             -  The tooth will be isolated with rubber dam to maintain aseptic field, after
                isolation the tooth and surrounding field will be disinfected by a protocol using
                3% hydrogen peroxide and 2.5% sodium hypochlorite before and after coronal access
                cavity preparation.

             -  The initial sample S1 will be collected from root canals before preparation using
                sterile paper points. Each root canal will be dried with 3 sterile paper points
                ISO# 15 which will be left inside the root canal for 1 minute each with pumping
                movements to generate a suspension with bacteria of the main pulpal area.

             -  The paper points will be immediately placed in sterile test tubes containing
                reduced transport medium of thioglycolate and sent to the Microbiology Laboratory,
                Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University for microbiologic processing to be cultured
                within one hour.

             -  Root canals will be mechanically prepared in a crown-down approach using ProTaper
                Universal NiTi files in an X-Smart endodontic motor according to the manufacture
                instructions.

             -  The canals will be thoroughly irrigated between every two subsequent files using 2
                ml of 2.5% NaOCl using a side vented needle (gauge 29) to control the possibility
                of irrigant apical extrusion.

             -  After complete root canal preparation all canals will be flushed with 17 % EDTA
                followed by sterile saline.

        3. Random allocation:

             -  According to the randomization sequence, after complete root canal preparation
                patients will be assigned to one of 2 groups:

                  -  Intervention Group (G1): each canal will be flushed using 5 ml of curcumin
                     solution in a plastic syringe with a side vented needle (gauge 29) inserted 1
                     ml shorter than the working length.

                  -  Comparator Group (G2): each canal will be flushed using 5 ml of 2.5% sodium
                     hypochlorite in a plastic syringe with side vented needle (gauge 29) inserted
                     1 ml shorter than the working length.

             -  After flushing the canals with each irrigating solution all canals will be flushed
                with 10 ml sterile saline and the final sample S2 will be collected in the same
                manner as S1 using sterile paper points ISO # 30/0.02 or # 40/0.02, corresponding
                to the size of the master apical file F3 or F4, respectively.

             -  Root canals will be dried using ProTaper paper points. The root canals will be
                obturated using the modified single cone technique with resin based root canal
                sealer and ProTaper gutta-percha cones size F3 or F4 according to the size of the
                final finishing file, together with auxiliary cones ISO # 25/0.02.

             -  After obturation, a cotton pellet will be placed in the pulp chamber and the access
                cavity will be sealed with a temporary filling.

             -  All patients will be asked to record their postoperative pain level on Numerical
                Rating Scale (NRS) at 8, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively.
    
  