
    
      A. Particularities of OVF management

        -  Pain intensity caused by OVF justifies specific analgesic management. Analgesic
           management is sometimes complicated by co-morbidities and patients age, with poor
           analgesics tolerance, in particular opioids.

        -  OVF is responsible for a change in patients' quality of life, often with a loss of
           autonomy.

        -  VF is considered as severe fracture that warrants anti-osteoporotic drug therapy (if
           osteoporotic origin has been confirmed), in order to avoid risk of a new osteoporotic
           fracture.

        -  Progressive profil of pain associated with OVF and importance vertebral extent collapse
           may justify the use of specific "vertebral augmentation" procedures on vertebra, such as
           cementoplasty or kyphoplasty. These interventions are aimed at disappearance / reduction
           of pain related to OVF, improvement of life quality or correction or elimination of a
           static spinal disorder related to fracture.

      B. Current rheumatology OVF management at the GHPSJ Patients management with OVF can be
      either outpatient or inpatient, depending on the extent of pain, fracture context, and
      co-morbidities.

      - Rheumatology department of the GHPSJ has set up an outpatient patient path dedicated to
      osteoporotic vertebral fracture, making it possible to optimize patients concerned
      management. This route has follow characteristics : Patients with OVF are seen by
      rheumatologist during a consultation dedicated to OVF (Vertebral Fracture Consultation), and
      benefit the same day from spinal radiographs, bone densitometry and a biological assessment
      of fragile osteopathy on the GHPSJ site. During consultation, fracture history, risk factors
      for falls, bone history, an assessment of the patient's pain, functional abilities and life
      quality are performed. A spinal orthosis can be made if necessary.

      Then patients are seen again 15 days later by the same rheumatologist with all results of the
      assessment During this 2nd consultation, depending on results of the additional examinations
      and patient's clinical progress, analgesic treatment is adapted. In addition,
      anti-osteoporotic treatment may be prescribed.

        -  For patients with OVF requiring hospital management in the rheumatology department,
           additional examinations are also carried out with the same anamnestic and clinical
           elements as for the above-mentioned outpatient management. Nevertheless, intensity of
           pain may initially prevent certain additional examinations, such as bone densitometry,
           from being carried out, which in this case are deferred until the patient's state of
           health allows them.

        -  During outpatient or inpatient journey, depending on results of additional examinations
           and patient's clinical progress, intervention therapy can be decided and carried out as
           soon as possible (cementoplasty). Patients for whom cementoplasty is performed are
           hyperalgia patients with rapid loss of autonomy due to vertebral fracture and a general
           condition compatible with general anesthesia. Following cementoplasty, patients are seen
           again in consultation for 1 month for a clinical examination.
    
  