
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The incidence of non-fatal myocardial infarction in Swedish women below age 60 increased
      during the past 20 years. Standard risk factor change includes a decrease in average systolic
      blood pressure and S-cholesterol but a moderate increase in smoking and diabetes prevalence.
      During the same time period Swedish women have 'moved' into the labor market, so that
      employment rates are now similar in Swedish men and women. However, women have kept the main
      responsibilities for household and child care. In spite of generous legislation for maternity
      leave and child care, the strains from multiple roles and responsibilities have probably
      increased in Swedish women. The study sought to provide an answer to: 1) which factors -
      biological and behavioral - influenced both the extent of and progress of coronary artery
      disease, 2) which physiological, biochemical, or neuroendocrine mechanisms participated in
      the process. In addition to conventional statistical methods, canonical correlations analyses
      were used to describe direct and indirect pathways of the pathogenesis. Furthermore, by means
      of the two comparison groups, information was obtained about the specific characteristics of
      the female psychosocial and behavioral coronary heart disease risk profile.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The role of social strain was studied within a broader psychosocial context including social
      networks, social supports, social skills, reciprocity, coping, stressors, chronic work
      strain, family structure, personality and behavior characteristics. These aspects were
      related to possible physiologic cardiovascular mechanisms including reactivity of and
      persistent elevated heart rates and blood pressure on ambulatory monitoring as well as
      cardiac dysrhythmia and silent or symptomatic ischemia. Psychoneuroendocrine pathways were
      also investigated. These included catecholamines, cortisol, prolactin, estrogen,
      testosterone, gastrin, somatostatin. Other biochemical measures included lipid profile,
      coagulation, thrombolysis and immune function. These examinations were applied to all women
      below age 60, living in the greater Stockholm area, with signs or symptoms of coronary heart
      disease. The women were followed and reexamined (including angiograms) after 2 to 2.5 years.
      They were compared to an equal number of age matched men and to an equal number of age
      matched healthy women from the same catchment area.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  