
    
      Primary outcome:

      Our objective was to study the accuracy of emergency medicine bedside ultrasonography and in
      patients with suspected small bowel obstruction (SBO).

      Secondary outcome:

      assess the usefulness of the history and physical examination in the prediction of diagnosis

      US Diagnostic criteria:

        -  Bowel lumen diameter >2.5cm

        -  Wall thickness > 4 mm

        -  Decreased/absent peristalsis

        -  Back/forth stool movements

        -  Free fluid

      Methods The study is based on the assessment of all consecutive patients (19-75 years)
      presenting in the emergency department of Policlinico VE of the University of Catania (or to
      other affiliated Hospitals, such as Cannizzaro and/or Ragusa hospitals), which show clinical
      clues of small bowel obstruction (SBO). The criterion of enrolment is the casual referral to
      few previously identified physicians, skilled in TUS procedures and which accepted to take
      part to this study.

      The most similar study on this topic demonstrates an extremely high accuracy of US in the
      diagnosis of intestinal obstruction, so that no actual power analysis can be done. The
      rationale of the present prospective study is the definition of prevalence of US detected
      obstruction in patients referred to an emergency facilities with symptoms potentially
      suggestive for such diagnosis.

      Moreover, which clue, if any, such as anaemia, CRP, NLR, hypotension, could reinforce the
      need of US intestinal study.

      This information is not yet available elsewhere. Moreover, in this context, sensitivity and
      specificity of ultrasound vs. confirm by CT and other procedures will make more sense and
      will be consequently assessed.

      The secondary reason of this investigation is the attempt to detect which are the prevalence
      and the feature of under-diagnosis or over-diagnosis by US vs. the actual condition.

      IMPLEMENTATION. This is a medium-term pilot study, non-interventional, which can be performed
      better as a single centre investigation, with few skilled and committed emergency physicians,
      than as a multicentre study, which would have the possible bias of relying on a mosaic or on
      scarcely skilled or motivated MDs.
    
  