
    
      Physical Activity in Latino Men Through Tailoring is an individually randomized web and text
      message based pilot study, designed to increase physical activity amongst Latino men. The
      study is conducting formative research with a diverse population of Latino men to inform the
      adaptation of the Pasos Hacia La Salud web-based intervention, which was developed for Latina
      women, to an intervention focused on Latino men. Consideration will also be taken to ensure
      intervention material is culturally appropriate for Latino men of Caribbean, South and
      Central American origin. Half the study participants will be randomized into the intervention
      arm and half into the comparison group. Participants in the intervention arm will have access
      to a website where they can complete questionnaires, receive information, log their physical
      activity and set goals. Participants complete monthly questionnaires to establish their stage
      of change toward increasing their physical activity and receive information manuals based on
      their current stage of change. They will also have access to tip sheets via the study website
      and receive reoccurring text messages reminding them to log into the website. Participants in
      the comparison arm will have access to a similar website with information related to
      nutrition and overall wellness, not including physical activity.

      The primary aims of this project are (1) to conduct formative research with a diverse
      population of RI Latino men to adapt the existing web-based interventions and add text
      message-based components to complement and enhance the intervention. The second primary aim
      is to determine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of the intervention
      and the study recruitment, implementation and evaluation protocols with a diverse population
      of Latino men. An additional exploratory aim will be to examine potential moderators of
      treatment effects including demographics, acculturation, and environmental variables such as
      the neighborhood built, social and economic environments. The hypothesis is that participants
      randomized to the intervention condition will have greater increases in weekly minutes of
      physical activity after six months than those randomized to a wellness control condition. The
      results of this pilot study will inform a future randomized controlled trial with Latino men
      to increase PA.
    
  