
    
      Description of study design This study seeks to determine if additional patient benefit is
      derived from involving the referring physician in the hearing aid fitting process using the
      Client Oriented Scale of Improvement (COSI) process. The COSI process is a well-known
      methodology that consists of two consecutive phases: Phase I is completed by the client with
      the Audiologist either at the time of initial hearing aid fitting or within 21 days
      thereafter. The patient is asked to list any specific listening environment/situations in
      which he/she would like to improve his/her hearing with the assistance of wearing hearing
      aids; Phase II occurs within days 22 to 76 from the day the hearing aid device is fitted and
      is also normally completed by the patient and the Audiologist. In this phase, the patient
      indicates any degree of change in the specific listening environment/situations he/she had
      previously listed (wearing the hearing aid).

      Two methods will be used for study purposes to assess patient satisfaction with hearing aid
      use 77 to 90 days post fitting: (1) the validated SADL questionnaire described previously
      will be completed by the patient and (2) the number of hearing aids returned up to 90 days
      post initial fitting will be recorded.

      The study will consist of two groups: a control group and a test group. Both groups will
      undergo Phase I of the COSI process with the fitting Audiologist. Patients in the control
      group will undergo Phase II of the COSI process as part of their follow up with the
      audiologist, whereas those in the test group will complete Phase II of the COSI process in a
      scheduled visit with their referring physician before further follow-up with the audiologist.
      Participants will be recruited from the investigating audiologists' clinics in Vancouver. The
      study involvement time for each participant will extend over a period of 90 days.

      Routine Clinical Practice A complete hearing aid fitting takes place over the course of
      several clinic visits each on average 30-45 minutes in duration. These include the initial
      hearing test and consultation, actual fitting, and any subsequent post-fitting adjustments.
      During hearing evaluation and post-fitting follow-up sessions, a COSI questionnaire is used
      by audiologists as part of routine clinical practice to guide optimal hearing aid adjustment
      to meet the patient's listening needs.

      Time schedule The time taken to fit a hearing aid varies depending on the needs of the
      patient. Very often clients over the age of 55 have problems with dexterity, memory and other
      health impairments that extend the length of individual consultations. Some patients require
      more clinic consultations than others. Anecdotally it is estimated that the maximal number of
      visits required to complete the hearing aid fitting process is 10 visits over 90 days. These
      visits on average will be of 30 minutes in duration except for the initial and final visits
      which lasts for 45 minutes. A patient will spend a maximum of 330 minutes to complete the
      hearing aid fitting process of which 25 minutes will be related to study specific procedures.

      Subjects Patients referred by General practitioners or Otolaryngologists for hearing aid
      fittings to the offices of two Audiologists who meet the inclusion criteria will be provided
      with details of the study including a participant information and consent form at their
      initial evaluation.

      Study Procedures Recruitment Patients who satisfy the inclusion criteria will be invited to
      participate in the study and complete a study consent form.

      Allocation Consenting patients will be assigned a study ID and randomized into the Control or
      Test group using a table of random numbers.

      Intervention Process Consenting patients will be randomised using a random number table to
      have a post-fitting visit between days 21 to 60 after the initial hearing aid fitting with an
      Audiologist (Control group) or the referring Physician (Test Group). At this visit the
      audiologist or physician will document the degree of hearing change in specific listening
      environment/situations as a result of hearing aid use by following the COSI questionnaire.
      This visit will be for a maximum of 30 minutes.

      A follow-up visit of this nature is part of routine clinical practice for the participating
      audiologist. The physician visit is the novel study intervention after which the patient
      returns for all subsequent follow-ups with the hearing aid fitting audiologist in keeping
      with routine clinical practice.

      Patient data to be collected

      Demographics:

      • age, sex

      Clinical data:

      • degree of hearing loss

      Data Analysis The primary indicator of patient satisfaction will be the scored 15-item SADL
      questionnaire. The Statistical Program for the Social Sciences will be used to undertake a
      t-test or ANOVA comparison of the mean total SADL questionnaire scores in the Control and
      Test groups. The secondary outcome measure hearing aid returns, will be assessed by
      Chi-squared tests of the proportion of returned hearing aids returned in both groups.
    
  