
    
      Background:

        -  Among the new cases of bile tract carcinoma (BTC) that are diagnosed every year in the
           United States, there are approximately 6,500 cases of gallbladder carcinoma, 3,000 cases
           of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, and 3,000 cases of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

        -  Current treatment options for patients with cholangiocarcinoma are limited and take no
           account of the known biological and genetic heterogeneity in these diseases. Median
           survival for advanced disease remains poor at approximately 1 year.

        -  Activating KRAS mutations are frequently detected in all subtypes of BTC and can be
           found in up to 40% of BTC, predominantly in perihilar and distal cholangiocarcinoma
           (CCA). However, pharmacological inhibition of mutated KRAS has demonstrated little
           clinical benefit in general.

        -  Trametinib is a reversible, highly selective allosteric inhibitor of mitogen-activated
           extracellular signal regulated kinases MEK1 and MEK2. Tumor cells with KRAS mutations
           commonly have hyperactivated extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) pathways in which
           activated MEK is a critical component. However, tumors are able to overcome MEK
           signaling inhibition by trametinib through upregulation of autophagy pathway.

        -  Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) inhibits lysosomal acidification and prevents the degradation
           of autophagosomes, to suppress autophagy.

        -  Trametinib has been approved by FDA for the treatment of melanoma as a single agent or
           for the treatment of other cancers if tumors carry BRAF mutation. Hydroxychloroquine are
           approved for the treatment of malaria, lupus erythematosus and acute or chronic
           rheumatoid arthritis.

        -  Preclinical studies have shown that combined treatment of trametinib plus HCQ elicited
           striking tumor regression in animal model.

      Objective:

      -To determine whether the 5-month progression free survival (PFS) of the trametinib plus
      hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) combination in subjects with refractory bile tract carcinoma (BTC)
      with KRAS mutation exceeds 25%.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histopathological confirmation of BTC or carcinoma highly suggestive of a diagnosis of
           BTC.

        -  Tumor must have KRAS mutation.

        -  Patients must have disease that is not amenable to potentially curative resection,
           transplantation or ablation.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Patients must have measurable lesion by RECIST 1.1.

        -  At least two weeks washout period from previous therapy

        -  ECOG less than or equal to 2

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and bone marrow function

      Design:

      -The study is open-labeled phase 2 study. It is designed to enroll total 30 patients with
      refractory BTC, to test the hypothesis that treatment with a combination of HCQ and
      trametinib prevents cancer progression/recurrence. We propose that this combination will have
      relative safety profile and antitumor efficacy in BTC patients with KRAS mutation.
    
  