
    
      Rationale:

      Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) represents a major health care problem and mortality and
      morbidity associated with severe pneumonia remain considerable, despite state of the art
      care.

      While the role of altered DNA methylation in cancer has been widely studied, knowledge of its
      impact on antibacterial defense is highly limited. In addition, recent preclinical studies
      showed that the gut and respiratory microbiota contributes to host defense against bacterial
      pneumonia.

      This study aims to explore a completely novel research area linking the extent of DNA
      methylation in blood leukocyte (monocytes and neutrophils) and function of gut and
      respiratory microbiota on the influence of innate immune responses to and host defense
      against CAP.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To obtain insight in the role of altered DNA methylation in blood leukocytes (monocytes
           and neutrophils) in innate immune responses and host defense in patients with CAP.

        2. To determine the composition and function of the gut and respiratory microbiota in
           patients with CAP.

      Secondary Objective:

      1. To assess the influence of the gut microbiota on leukocyte DNA methylation in patients
      with CAP

      Study design:

      Observational study among patients with CAP at the Emergency Department and Internal Medicine
      Ward of the Academic Medical Center Amsterdam

      Study population:

      231 CAP patients and 115 healthy subjects above 18 years of age.

      Methods:

      From above mentioned patients and healthy volunteers, a maximum of 90 ml of blood will be
      drawn to analyze DNA methylation patterns of purified monocytes and neutrophils, which will
      be analyzed in connection with DNA methyltransferase and ten eleven translocation (TET)
      activity, RNA gene expression and a selection of standard innate immune function tests.
      Moreover, isolated monocytes and neutrophils from admission samples will be stimulated in
      vitro with Streptococcus pneumoniae and Klebsiella pneumoniae. In addition, rectal and
      nasopharyngeal swabs will be obtained to investigate the role of the gut and respiratory
      microbiota composition and function. Patient material will be obtained upon inclusion and on
      day 28, when patients will be seen in the outpatient clinic for follow up.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Participating in this observational study will not benefit the participants and healthy
      volunteers. The study will provide information about the influence of leukocyte DNA
      methylation as well as the gut and respiratory microbiota on host defense mechanisms during
      CAP. The knowledge obtained can potentially benefit CAP patients in the future by providing
      alternative immune modulating treatment options that modify the host response. The burden and
      risks for patients participating in the ELDER-BIOME study is minimal. The investigators will
      take 90ml of blood, 4 rectal swabs and 2 nasopharyngeal swabs divided over two time-points
      (day of presentation and day 28 post presentation). Healthy volunteers will be subjected to
      one blood draw (70 ml) and 2 rectal - and 2 nasopharyngeal swabs at one time-point.
    
  