
    
      The erector spinae plane (ESP) block was first described in 2016 as a novel fascial plane
      block that provided analgesia for thoracic neuropathic pain. Since then hundreds of articles
      have been published that have reported use of the ESP block for indications such as rib
      fractures, breast surgery, abdominal surgery, and even shoulder surgery. It has also been
      studied in thoracic surgery and our clinical experience confirms that patients undergoing
      video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) or robot-assisted thoracic surgery experience
      satisfactory analgesia with ESP blocks. Because the block location is further from the
      neuraxis than both epidural and paravertebral blocks, ESP blocks have been suggested as a
      safer alternative to these older blocks but safety data have not yet been generated. In
      particular, the risk of local anesthetic systemic toxicity (LAST) has not been studied in ESP
      blocks. While the pharmacokinetics of ropivacaine used for thoracic paravertebral blocks have
      been established, similar studies have yet to be performed for the newer ESP block. Of
      particular concern for ESP blocks are two factors not present in some other blocks with
      established safety: 1). significant intercostal spread has been noted in anatomical studies,
      which could put patients at risk for LAST and 2). some of the proposed dosing regimens
      involve the intermittent injection of large bolus doses of local anesthetic. While
      measurement of arterial plasma levels is useful and necessary to study the safety of
      ropivacaine given in ESP blocks, the measurements alone do not allow for prediction of plasma
      levels that would occur in populations as a whole. Nonmem is a population pharmacokinetic
      application that provides estimates of mean parameters and residual variability in
      pharmacokinetic values across populations and has been shown to generate better estimates
      than the two-stage approach. Nonmem will be used in this study to predict pharmacokinetics in
      populations with different characteristics than the one being studied here, which would
      create generalizable results.
    
  