
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if treatment with intrauterine levonorgestrel (using the Mirena®
           intrauterine system [IUS]) reduces the incidence of atypical endometrial hyperplasia
           (AEH) and endometrial cancer in women with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer or
           Lynch syndrome.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the age-related incidence of AEH and endometrial cancer in these patients.

        -  Determine the sensitivity and specificity of transvaginal sonography and endometrial
           biopsy in detecting AEH and endometrial cancer.

        -  Determine the premalignant pathway to carcinoma.

        -  Determine if the Mirena® IUS reduces the rate of therapeutic hysterectomy for AEH or
           endometrial cancer.

        -  Determine the psychological benefits or adverse effects from the use of the Mirena® IUS.

        -  Determine the satisfaction and compliance with screening.

        -  Determine the extent of adverse effects of the Mirena® IUS and observation.

        -  Determine the molecular changes associated with pre-malignant changes in the endometrium
           of these patients, and possibly the utility of tests on cervical mucus samples in
           diagnosing endometrial cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center and menopausal
      status. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo insertion of the Mirena® intrauterine device containing
           levonorgestrel. The device is scheduled to remain in place for 4 years. Patients also
           undergo observation comprising an assessment of menstrual history, transvaginal scanning
           (TVS), and endometrial biopsy (or hysteroscopy) at baseline and then annually for 4
           years.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo observation comprising an assessment of menstrual history, TVS,
           and endometrial biopsy (or hysteroscopy) at baseline and then annually for 4 years.

      Patients complete a personal health and lifestyle questionnaire, the Life Events Scale, and
      the Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaires at baseline and periodically during study.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  