
    
      A randomized controlled trial, including pregnant women > 18 years old with early onset PPROM
      occurring between the time of peri-viability through the early third trimester (20 weeks 0
      days - 33 weeks 0 days) at Albany Medical Center.

      Women will be consented by a physician member of the research team on labor and delivery
      after clinical diagnosis of PPROM. Participation will be completely voluntary and not impact
      routine prenatal care for PPROM, which may include but not be limited to hospital admission,
      standard latency antibiotics, NICU consultation, fetal growth ultrasounds, fetal monitoring,
      and delivery will be based on physician assessment and not impacted by this study.
      Participation in the study will involve prospective data collection on maternal, fetal, and
      neonatal characteristics, randomization into a control and treatment group, collection of
      maternal serum, fetal cord blood and vaginal fluid. Subjects will be randomized into control
      and treatment groups via block randomization. Exclusions will include any contraindications
      to expectant management for PPROM noted at the time on admission, such as preterm labor,
      chorioamnionitis, maternal sepsis and fetal distress.

      The time commitment for each subject will include the time from diagnosis of PPROM until
      their delivery. Although outcome measures will be collected from each neonate, no further
      participation from subjects will be required after time of their delivery.

      Treatment Group: Women diagnosed with PPROM (20 - 33 weeks) randomized to the treatment group
      will undergo vaginal cleansing with chlorhexidine gluconate within 24 hours of their
      diagnosis. This specific procedure will only be done once.

      The vaginal cleansing procedure will be performed by a single investigator, Dr. Cagino, to
      ensure consistency. The patient will be examined in dorsal lithotomy position with a standard
      speculum. A sterile 2x2 gauze placed on ringed forceps will be soaked in sterile 2%
      chlorhexidine gluconate in

      aqueous solution (all available on labor and delivery). Only the rough volume of 2%
      chlorhexidine gluconate required to soak the small sterile gauze will be used. This soaked
      gauze will be used to carefully wipe the vaginal mucosa of the vaginal vault. No pooling of
      chlorhexidine will be left in the vaginal vault. The chlorhexidine solution will not be
      applied to the cervix or cervical os. The chlorhexidine solution will not be applied directly
      to the fetus in any way. If a fetal part is visualized at time of exam, the patient will be
      excluded from the study.

      Otherwise, standard care for PPROM among women in this group will not change. This group will
      be expectantly managed until the time of delivery, which will be based on physician
      assessment. Delivery decisions for women with preterm labor or infection will be based on
      physician assessment only and will not be influenced by their involvement in this study.

      Control Group: Women diagnosed with PPROM (20 - 33 weeks) randomized to the control group
      will undergo standard care for PPROM. This group will be expectantly managed until the time
      of delivery, which will be based on physician assessment. Data will be collected from both
      the patient and neonate (please see the collection sheet for further information).

      Inclusions:

        -  Pregnant patients at Albany Medical Center with PPROM diagnosed between 20 - 33 weeks

        -  Age > 18 years old

      Exclusions:

        -  Active preterm labor or imminent delivery expected at time of PPROM diagnosis

        -  Maternal sepsis or chorioamnionitis diagnosed at time of PPROM diagnosis

        -  Any contraindications to expectant management at time of PPROM diagnosis (fetal
           distress, placental abruption with maternal hemodynamic instability or fetal distress,
           cord prolapse)

        -  Preeclampsia

        -  Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR)

        -  No antibiotics or steroids given within 7 days prior to time of enrollment/randomization
           in study (not including steroids or treatment given during admission)

        -  Multiple gestation

        -  Placenta previa

        -  Fetal part visualized at initial exam

        -  Visual cervical dilation at initial exam

      Primary Outcome: Latency (days from PPROM to delivery)

      Secondary Outcomes:

        -  Serum IL6, IL10, TNF-a - admission, day 7, delivery

        -  Vaginal fluid IL6, IL10, TNF-a - admission, day 7, delivery

        -  Serial antepartum CBC - admission, day 7, delivery

        -  Postpartum CBC

        -  Clinical chorioamnionitis (as defined by treating clinician discretion and requiring
           treatment with antibiotics and/or delivery)

        -  Placenta pathology (per pathology lab)

        -  Histologic chorioamnionitis (based on placental pathology)

        -  Maternal sepsis (as defined by treating clinician discretion)

             -  Culture proven

             -  Presumed sepsis

        -  Composite neonatal morbidity

        -  Neonatal death

        -  Fetal demise

      A power analysis was performed based on the mean latency of 18 days (SD 10 days) in patients
      who remained pregnant at least 7 days following PPROM at AMC. In order to detect a
      prolongation in latency by at least 10 days in the treatment group, an effect size of 1, with
      a power 0.8 and alpha 0.05, 17 subjects in each study group are needed. A study duration of
      1.5 to 2 years to complete enrollment, data collection and analysis is anticipated.
    
  