
    
      Central venous catheters are frequently placed in the operating rooms, intensive care units
      and emergency departments for various indications such as intravenous fluid, drug infusion,
      measurement of cardiac parameters and lack of vascular access. Ultrasound guidance has become
      a standard for central venous catheterization. The use of ultrasound has reduced the number
      of puncture attempts, increased success rate and reduced complications. While the central
      venous catheter is inserted by ultrasound, the vessels and the needle can be imaged in
      real-time. In plane and out-of-plane imaging techniques can be used during catheterization.
      The in-plane technique ensures the entire needle visualization in ultrasound images. With the
      linear ultrasound probe, the vessel and needle are imaged longitudinally in the in-plane
      technique. When an endocavity (micro-convex) ultrasound probe is used, three central vessels
      (jugular, subclavian and brachiocephalic veins) are displayed as Y-shape. The advantage of
      the endocavity (micro-convex) probe is that it can visualize deeper tissues and deep veins,
      and more tissues can be imaged in wider angle. Both techniques have been successfully applied
      in central catheter placement. In-plane technique also ensures syringe-free cannulation where
      blood aspiration with a syringe attached to the needle is not necessary.

      The aim of this study is to compare two different ultrasound guided in-plane techniques for
      central venous catheterization. The investigators planned to compare jugular venous
      catheterization using a linear probe and lateral oblique approach to brachiocephalic
      catheterization using a micro-convex probe and Y-shape imaging.

      The primary outcomes are number of puncture attempts, success rate at first attempt, overall
      success rate, procedure time, ultrasound scanning time and rate of complications. Secondary
      outcomes are visibility of the veins and the needle in ultrasound images.

      The trial is a comparison of two different interventional technique and planned as
      prospective randomized and single-blind study. Patients aged between 18-85 years that are
      planned central venous catheter placement will be included in the study. Patients included in
      the study will be assigned into two groups by computer-assisted randomization. In the first
      group (Oblique visualization Group), central catheter will be placed to the jugular vein by
      using ultrasound-guided in-plane syringe-free technique. In the second group (Y-shape
      visualization Group), central catheter will be placed to the brachiocephalic vein by using
      ultrasound-guided in-plane syringe-free technique Linear ultrasound probe will be used in the
      first group, and endocavity (micro-convex) ultrasound probe will be used in the second group.

      In both groups, the number of puncture attempts, the number of needle redirections, and the
      procedure time will be recorded. The time of preprocedural ultrasound scanning will be
      recorded in both groups. In addition, complications during the procedure such as bleeding,
      hemothorax, pneumothorax, hematoma and carotid vascular injury will be recorded. Overall
      success rates will be assessed in each group at the end of the study. A catheterization
      procedure will be considered as "unsuccessful" after third puncture attempt or more than 10
      needle redirections are needed or requires a procedure time more than 3 minutes. At this
      moment, the catheter will be placed to a different region or the investigators will switch to
      a different approach. The ease of the catheterization process will be scored between 0 and 10
      by the investigator performing the process (0: the hardest, 10: the easiest). The ultrasound
      visibility of the needle, vessels, guide wire and catheter will be scored between 0 and 4 (4:
      excellent view, 3: good view, 2: Medium, 1: difficult 0: impossible to image). The recorded
      data will be compared between the two groups.
    
  