
    
      This is an observational study and the treatment is related to the experiences and economical
      availability of each center.

      Study Design: Prospective observational study . Primary objective: To collect data on tumor
      response and progression free survival after administration of melphalan.

      Secondary objectives: To collect data on survival rate, time to progression, morbidity
      tolerability of treatment, number of treatment required to achieve objective response and
      improvement of quality of life (Edmonton questionnaire)

      Treatment under observation :

      Patients undergo fluoroscopic placement of angiographic arterial and venous catheters into
      the appropriate extremity in order to infuse the drug (artery) and to stop the out flow
      (venous with balloon catheter). Melphalan 1mg/kgr is rapidly infused into the isolated limb
      via the arterial catheter after the inflation of venous balloon catheter. Then the
      circulation of the limb is blocked with a pneumatic cuff at the root of the limb . Patients
      with little or no response at 8 weeks may receive up to 2 additional treatments at the
      discretion of the treating physician.

      Patients are followed at 1-2 weeks, 3-4 weeks, 6-8 weeks, and then every 3-6 months
      thereafter as deemed necessary by the treating physician.

      Day -1 Melphalan 1mg/ Kgr has been prepared at Pharmacy.

      Day 0: prehydration, antibiotic prophylaxis and setting up of a therapeutic scheme
      appropriate for analgesic prophylaxis (3-day duration) as previously reported (25)

      Day +1:

      Upon admittance to the radiology room, 1 vial of tropisetron (diluted in 100ml of
      physiological solution) administered by slow drip.

      During infusion of the Melphalan into the artery, 1 vial of morphine hydrochloride diluted in
      100 ml i.v. to be repeated one hour after the procedure and if necessary also after 6 hours.

      Tropisetron i.v. if needed. Intra-arterial premedication with 1 vial of verapamil diluted in
      4 ml of normal saline solution followed by 4 ml of lidocaine.

      Intra femoral infusion of Melphalan Second ILI treatment could be repeated at side effects
      recovery ( following oncologist ' s planning of cure).

      Day +30: The above procedure is repeated.

      Day +90: In case of response, a third administration following the above procedures will be
      repeated.

      Evaluation of response:

      Response must be assessed by repeating the following examinations at Day 30, Day 90 and Day
      120 after start of treatment:

      Limb-Chest-abdomen CAT scan with and without contrast medium (refer to Section 4). Evaluation
      will be based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST ) criteria [20-24 ]
      cancer markers (CEA, cancer antigen (CA) 19.9)

      Assessment of quality of life The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) is used to
      monitor health conditions and quality of life.

      Assessment of quality of life is performed during the baseline visit and at Day 30, Day 60
      and Day 120 from start of treatment.
    
  