
    
      Background:

      Despite recent years' improvement regarding the treatment of lung cancer, it remains the
      leading cause of cancer deaths in Denmark. This is partly due to many patients being
      diagnosed in an advanced stage limiting the possibilities of curative treatment. Much
      attention has therefore been aimed at developing tools for early identification of patients
      with possible lung cancer . Screening or easy access to CT of the chest may help to identify
      patients with possible early stage lung cancer. Performing biopsies of small lung lesions in
      a safe manner without inexpedient complications, however, is an ongoing diagnostic challenge
      especially for the increasing elderly patient population and patients with decreased lung
      function. If patients are to benefit from an improved identification of possible early stage
      lung cancer, it is necessary to also further improve the methods for obtaining biopsies in
      this patient population in order to decrease the morbidity during the diagnostic work-up and
      to prepare the patients for treatment in a secure manner.

      Current methods for performing biopsies of small lung lesions are transthoracic, endoscopic
      or surgical. When compared to surgery, the endoscopic methods have the advantages of being
      easily accessible, cheap, safe with a very low risk of complications, and have limited
      patient discomfort following the procedure. The major drawback is the diagnostic yield still
      being significantly lower than surgery.

      In recent years, two methods have been developed which seem to improve the diagnostic yield
      of bronchoscopy for diagnosing peripheral lung lesions. The rationale behind both techniques
      is to improve identification of the lung lesions prior to performing the biopsies and thereby
      improving the chance of obtaining representative tissue samples. One method involves the use
      of a radial ultrasound probe inserted in the working channel of the bronchoscope, which
      enables the proceduralist to perform radial endobronchial ultrasound (rEBUS) to more
      accurately identify the lung lesions before sampling them. The other method involves the use
      of electromagnetic navigation bronchoscopy (ENB) to guide the operator to the lung lesion.
      One small randomised clinical trial has indicated that the diagnostic yield can be further
      improved by a multimodal approach, which combines both rEBUS and ENB in the same procedure.
      The drawbacks of such a combination are however increased costs and procedure time, thus
      limiting the number of procedures which can be performed within a given time frame.

      This PhD thesis aims to determine whether a combination of rEBUS and ENB is superior to ENB
      alone in patients with suspected lung cancer due to a peripheral lung lesion as well as an
      estimate of the hospital costs of the entire diagnostic work up for lung cancer when
      combining ENB and rEBUS as compared to ENB alone.

      Hypotheses:

        1. The diagnostic yield of ENB in combination with rEBUS is equal to ENB alone in patients
           with peripheral lung lesions or solitary lung nodules (null hypothesis)

        2. The hospital costs of the entire diagnostic work up for lung cancer when combining ENB
           and rEBUS is the same when compared to an approach with ENB alone (null hypothesis)

      Research questions:

        1. Is the diagnostic yield of ENB in combination with rEBUS different from ENB alone in
           diagnosing lung lesions?

        2. What are the hospital costs of the entire diagnostic workup for lung cancer when
           combining ENB and rEBUS in comparing with ENB alone?

      Navigation EndoBronchial ULtrAsound (NEBULA):

      Hypotheses The study examines the following null-hypothesis: The diagnostic yield of ENB in
      combination with rEBUS is not superior to ENB alone in patients with peripheral lung lesions
      or solitary lung nodules.

      Objectives To determine which bronchoscopy approach should be considered standard for
      examining patients with suspected lung cancer due to a peripheral lung lesion.

      Methods Study design Multicentre, randomized, non-blinded clinical trial Pre- and
      post-procedure Preparations prior and following the bronchoscopy procedure are done in
      accordance with local guidelines. Procedures will be performed either under conscious
      sedation using midazolam and fentanyl or in general anesthetic depending on the set up of the
      center performing the procedures. Other medication given during the procedure is also given
      accordance with local guidelines.

      Reference test Histology or cytology results will be used as the reference test for all
      malignant as well as non-malignant conditions that could be diagnosed based on these.
      Clinical follow-up including imaging for at least 6 months with no signs of malignancy and
      results of additional diagnostic procedures will be used as the reference test in patients in
      which a final diagnosis cannot be established based on histology or cytology results.

      Sample size and statistics In a previous study by Eberhardt et al. the diagnostic yield of
      ENB and combined rEBUS/ENB was 59 % and 88 %, respectively. The diagnostic yield of the
      intervention arm in the planned study may be lower due to selection of patients with smaller
      lesions and multicentre approach rather than a single centre study performed by experts. If
      the total diagnostic yield is 60 % in the control group (ENB) and 80 % in the intervention
      group (rEBUS/ENB), then a power of 80 % at the 5 % level is obtained with a sample size of
      184 patients. Allowing for a 10 % dropout it is planned to enroll 200 patients in the study.
      The χ2 test, alternatively the Fischer exact test will be used to establish whether there is
      a difference in the primary endpoint. All results will be assessed using intention to treat
      principles.

      Ethics:

      The studies and analyses will be conducted in accordance with the amended Declaration of
      Helsinki and Data Protection Agency in Denmark and the Medical Ethics Committee.:

      The studies do not interfere with choice of other diagnostic tests performed in the patients
      (e.g. EBUS / EUS-b for mediastinal staging). The patients are treated and followed up
      according to national and institutional guidelines. The protocols for studies II and III do
      not influence treatment or follow-up.

      Clinical relevance:

      The results will help to clarify how one of the most important diagnostic procedures for
      patients with suspected lung cancer due to a peripheral lung lesion should be used in
      clinical practice. The results of the project can be directly implemented at a national scale
      once the results are available.

      Economy:

      Project expenses are expected to be partially covered by funds from the Kræftens Bekæmpelse -
      Centre for Lung Cancer Research with a grant of 1 mill. DKK. Funding of expenses for
      procedures (e.g. scans and invasive procedures) will be covered as part of the lung cancer
      diagnostic work up "package" covered by the department.

      Participating departments:

      Currently the following departments have agreed to participate:

        -  Department of Respiratory Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital

        -  Department of Medicine, Vejle, Littlebelt Hospital

        -  Department of Medicine, Roskilde University Hospital

        -  Department of Respiratory Medicine, Odense University Hospital
    
  