
    
      Breast cancer patients undergoing adjuvant radiotherapy commonly experience radiation-induced
      skin toxicities which adversely impact patients' quality of life. These skin toxicities may
      present in the form of acute reactions including erythema, pruritus or moist desquamation and
      late toxicities in the form of hyperpigmentation or fibrosis. The development of severe skin
      toxicities may result in treatment interruptions or increase the risk of reconstructive
      complications. Importantly, patients receiving radiotherapy to the chest wall or patients
      with larger breast size are more likely to have more severe skin reactions. In the last few
      decades, there have been no significant advances in preventing or treating radiation-induced
      skin toxicities.

      A phase III randomized trial was conducted by Herst et al. (n=78) in New Zealand which showed
      that the prophylactic use of Mepitel Film prevented moist desquamation (26% vs. 0%, p <
      0.001) and reduced skin reaction severity by 92% (p < 0.001) compared to skin treated only
      with aqueous cream. Mepitel Film has not been adopted in routine practice in North America as
      more convincing proof may be needed from international multi-centre trials to influence
      changes in standard clinical practice guidelines. A phase II feasibility study has recently
      been completed at Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre and the preliminary results have shown
      reductions in severe skin reactions.

      Mayo Clinic has also completed a phase II pilot study which, like the feasibility study
      conducted at our centre, yielded promising results. The Alliance trial group in the US is
      planning for a phase III multi-centre trial for post-mastectomy patients receiving
      conventional radiation treatment. As the Alliance trial is only enrolling post-mastectomy
      patients receiving conventional radiotherapy, our study will additionally investigate
      outcomes for post-mastectomy patients receiving hypofractionated radiation treatment.
      Additionally, the investigators will be enrolling patients with large breasts [bra size 36 in
      and/or C cup or greater] as these patients are at known risk for developing increased acute
      skin toxicities

      A randomized controlled trial is a critical next step in establishing whether Mepitel Film
      reduces acute and long-term skin toxicity in post-mastectomy and large breasted patients and
      in order for it to become standard of care in breast radiotherapy. This study plans to enroll
      216 patients in a 2:1 ratio (2 Mepitel Film: 1 institutional standard of care).

      The primary objective is to compare the efficacy of Mepitel Film versus the institutional
      standard of care in reducing the severity of radiation dermatitis in patients undergoing
      whole breast or chest wall radiotherapy. Secondary objectives include an evaluation of
      patient-reported and healthcare professional (HCP)-reported skin toxicities including moist
      desquamation with the use of Meptiel Film.

      Radiation oncologists will first introduce the study to their patients in their breast
      clinic, showing a sample of the product and also pictures from the trial conducted in New
      Zealand. Patients if interested may be provided a patient information sheet to review at
      home. Then, patients will be approached by a CRA at their radiation planning appointment to
      review all information and obtain informed consent.

      For patients randomized to the Mepitel Film arm, patients will receive the film for the
      entire duration of treatment. Radiation treatment will be delivered as prescribed by the
      treating radiation oncologist irrespective of study arm and may include a variety of
      techniques and beam modifiers.
    
  