
    
      The epidemiological context of a patient's presentation can provide important information for
      clinicians to aid in diagnosis and treatment. The investigators previously developed and
      validated a syndromic surveillance tool for detecting influenza-like illness (ILI)
      encounters. The investigators then evaluated 40,642 outpatient ILI episodes during 'flu
      seasons' over 6 years. The investigators found that even after controlling for patient
      presentation and physician factors, the context in which a patient presented was strongly
      associated with the likelihood that an antimicrobial agent would be prescribed. Specifically,
      patients were less likely to be prescribed an antibiotic if they presented with ILI during
      the pandemic influenza period (when awareness of 'flu season' was very high), or after their
      physician had personally seen many patients with ILI in the prior week.

      Currently, most clinicians have only limited access to data regarding the 'context' in which
      a patient presents. Under such circumstances, physicians are often unaware of local
      epidemiological information that could help them make optimal treatment decisions. In centers
      with advanced use of electronic health records (EHRs), it is increasingly possible to perform
      syndromic surveillance that is local (e.g. specific to a neighborhood or school district),
      current (e.g. updated daily), and specific to a patient's characteristics (e.g. age, chief
      complaint).

      To that end, the investigators have developed algorithms for syndromic surveillance for a
      number of syndromes including Asthma, ILI, Pertussis, Group A Streptococcus Pharyngitis, and
      Gastroenteritis. These algorithms may provide contextual information that might be of use to
      clinicians.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of how a point-of-care clinical decision
      tool in the form of syndromic surveillance algorithms affect clinical decision making amongst
      outpatient health care providers and also patient outcomes. We will be using a 2 year look
      back prior to tool roll out as a comparison.

      Specific Aims:

      To determine the effect this point-of-care clinical decision tool has on clinical decision
      making amongst primary care providers.

      To determine the clinical outcomes of patients whose physicians had access to these tools

      To understand how these point-of-care clinical decision tools are used among healthcare
      providers in day to day practice
    
  