
    
      1. [11C]Acetate Administration [11C]Acetate will be administered in the Clinical PET Facility
      located on the 2nd floor of the Clements Imaging Building at UT Southwestern. Upon arrival,
      the patient will have an opportunity to have questions answered regarding the procedure. The
      patient will have one intravenous line placed prior to [11C]Acetate administration. The
      patient will receive the low-dose CT portion of a PET/CT scan, after which [11C]Acetate will
      be administered intravenously over approximately 1 min at a dose of 0.3 mCi/kg (maximum 30
      mCi) and followed by a saline flush. The injection and imaging procedure will be terminated
      in any patient who exhibits anaphylaxis, significant dyspnea or chest pain. The administering
      physician will stay with the patient for at least 15 min after injection and will remain in
      the Clinical PET Facility through the duration of the imaging procedure. All adverse events
      occurring post [11C]Acetate infusion will be recorded within a 24-hour period. The adverse
      events to be specifically monitored during the infusion include localized discomfort at the
      IV injection site, pain, respiratory difficulties, flushing, dizziness, pruritus/rash, and
      any other symptoms that could be secondary to an anaphylactic reaction. The subject will be
      instructed to report any subjective symptoms or sensory changes noted.

      Patients will be imaged on a Siemens Biograph 64 slice PET CT scanner. After placing the
      patient on the scanner and securing the head in a head restraint, a low dose CT of the brain
      will be acquired. Images with 3 mm slice thickness and spaced at 1.5 mm intervals will be
      reconstructed in a 300 mm field of view. The purpose of the CT is for image localization and
      attenuation correction and it is not considered to be a diagnostic quality CT. Following the
      completion of the CT, the [11C]Acetate will be administered as described in Section VI.F.3.b.

      A dynamic PET image will be acquired in 3D list mode for a total of 30 minutes. From the list
      mode data a flow image series will be constructed as follows:

        -  12 frames x 10 seconds each (out to 2 minutes post-injection)

        -  then 6 frames x 30 seconds each

        -  then 1 frame x 60 seconds each

      A second series will be -reconstructed to demonstrate dynamic brain regional metabolism as
      follows:

        -  12 frames x 10 seconds each (out to 2 minutes post-injection)

        -  then 8 frames x 30 seconds each (from 2 to 6 minutes)

        -  then 4 frames x 60 seconds each (from 6 to 10 minutes)

        -  then 2 frames of 300 seconds each (from 10 to 20 minutes)

        -  then 1 frame of 600 seconds (from 20 to 30 minutes) Reconstructions will be performed
           with a 128 x 128 image matrix using 3D OSEM (4 iterations, 21 subsets) and a 3 mm
           Gaussian filter.

           3. Study Procedures and Schedule of Events:

             1. Initial visits prior to [11C]Acetate PET/CT:

                Patients who are identified as potential candidates for the study will be
                approached to explain the study and to obtain their written informed consent to be
                enrolled in the protocol. The following additional patient data will be obtained:
                histologic diagnosis (if a surgical procedure has been carried out), IDH mutational
                status, age at radiologic diagnosis, weight, full medical and neurological history
                and physical exam. Correlative imaging will be performed using MR brain, with and
                without gadolinium, within 14 days prior to enrollment. In addition, when
                available, 2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG) MR spectroscopy will be available for review
                and determination of 2HG concentration. For patients referred from outside UTSW and
                Parkland hospital, patient records and imaging will be reviewed to determine
                eligibility for the study and to obtain baseline comparative imaging scans.

             2. Day of baseline and follow up [11C]Acetate scans:

                [11C]Acetate PET/CT scan performed at baseline and at the time of clinical follow
                up; 3 months for grade 2 glioma patients on standard follow up, 2-3 months after
                treatment for patients being imaged pre- and post-treatment. The patient will be
                positioned supine in the PET/CT scanner for a dynamic scan over the brain. Patients
                will have two intravenous lines placed, one in each arm. [11C]Acetate PET/CT will
                be performed using the standard dose of 0.3 mCi/kg up to a maximum of 30mCi for
                [11C]Acetate. A single imaging field over the brain will be imaged dynamically for
                30 min following the start of a 1-min intravenous infusion of [11C]Acetate, as
                described in Section VI.F.2.

                4. General Concomitant Medication and Supportive Care Guidelines Any adverse
                effects, related or non-related to the injection of [11C]Acetate, will be treated
                as clinically indicated with no study-related restrictions.

                5. Duration of Therapy and Follow-up: This is an observational study and patients
                will remain on study for the duration of their clinical follow up, as determined by
                their treating physician. [11C]Acetate PET scan timing will be determined based on
                their individual clinical course.
    
  