
    
      Background/Question: A significant number of children who present to the Emergency Department
      (ED) with headache or migraine undergo head imaging with Computed Tomography (CT) or Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI). However, there is relatively low yield in imaging neurologically
      normal patients based on prior studies. The goal of this study is to describe the utilization
      of head CT or MRI among pediatric ED patients with headache and migraine. The investigators
      plan to evaluate clinical and examination characteristics of these patients, and use this
      information to develop a clinical decision rule to help providers predict the risk of finding
      an abnormality that affects patient treatment.

      Design: The investigators will perform a study of all children between 6 and 18 years of age
      who present to the ED with headache or migraine. At the time of the visit providers will be
      asked to complete a questionnaire regarding exam and history without making any changes to
      patient care. The investigators will also contact a sub-group of patients who do not undergo
      MRI or CT, 12-14 weeks after discharge to ask about subsequent headache care after leaving
      our facility.

      Methods: All children age 6-18 years who present to the ED with a chief complaint of headache
      or migraine will be eligible for the study. Patients will be excluded if they meet any of the
      following criteria: trauma within 48 hours, previous neurosurgery (shunt included), known
      tumor, history of cerebral hemorrhage/ischemia, Sickle Cell Disease, thrombophilia, bleeding
      disorder or non-English speaker. ED Research Assistants and ED staff physicians and nurse
      practitioners will screen potential candidates and ask providers to review the inclusion
      criteria. If the eligibility criteria are met, the provider will complete a standardized data
      collection form regarding exam and history findings. Patient care will not be impacted or
      altered. Research Assistants will also provide a Parent Information Sheet (either during the
      visit, or by mail following the ED visit) to the family of those patients who are enrolled
      informing them they may be contacted following discharge. Medical records will be reviewed
      for all eligible patients to obtain information on patient demographics, course of treatment
      and diagnosis. For those patients who do not have any head CT or MRI performed at their
      visit, the family will be contacted 12-14 weeks later to determine if they have had
      subsequent care for their headache. If the family is unable to be reached by phone, the
      patient chart will be reviewed for any other pertinent visits.

      Analysis: For each patient characteristic examined, the investigators will look for a
      statistically significant difference between those patients who have normal head imaging, and
      those with abnormal imaging. Using the characteristics that are significantly different, the
      investigators will develop a clinical decision rule to help providers assess the risk of
      significant findings in an individual patient. The investigators will also develop a decision
      tree to help aid providers when deciding which patients need head imaging. A sample of
      patients will have two independent assessments to allow us to look for evidence of
      inter-rater reliability in our questionnaires.
    
  