
    
      This is a prospective study to measure the impact on first-line therapy of genomic testing of
      biopsy tissue from recently diagnosed treatment-naïve patients with early stage localized
      prostate cancer. Multiple individual VAMC sites will participate in PART 1 of the study.
      During PART 1 of the study, a three-part questionnaire will be completed to evaluate the
      PRE-Prolaris test treatment plan, the POST-Prolaris test treatment plan, and the ACTUAL
      treatment option. Using PRE-Prolaris Test Questionnaire #1 the physician will record the
      recommendation for first-line therapy based on standard clinical-pathological parameters
      (PSA, Gleason score, clinical stage and percent positive cores). The likelihood of
      recommending a non-interventional therapy approach will also be recorded using a 10-point
      ordinal scale. A sample of the biopsy tissue will then be tested using the Prolaris® genomic
      test and a relative cancer aggressiveness score will be shared with the physician. After
      reviewing and considering the results of the genomic testing and after patient consultation,
      the physician will complete POST-Prolaris Questionnaire #2 documenting the planned treatment
      ( interventional treatment or non-interventional). Approximately 6 months from the date of
      the test results, ACTUAL Treatment Questionnaire #3 will be completed to document the actual
      treatment administered.

      PART 2 of this study is a prospective evaluation of the prognostic utility of Prolaris®
      testing of prostate biopsy samples obtained from men who participate in PART 1of the study
      and who undergo radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy or who are managed with WW or AS.
      The central VAMC site will be responsible for PART 2; individual VAMC sites will not
      participate in this part of the study. Patients will be followed using medical record review
      every 6 months for objective progression (BCR, radiographic or radionuclide evidence of
      metastases or disease specific mortality) through 5 years.
    
  