
    
      In a 2011 statement to the Food and Drug Administration, the Osteoarthritis Research Society
      International (OARSI) identified the "phenotyping" of OA pain as a research priority to
      "better target pain therapies to individual patients." Successful identification of pain
      phenotypes will allow new interventions to be tested in homogeneous populations of patients
      presenting with similar pain pathophysiology, ultimately enhancing treatment effects in
      defined populations for whom interventions are determined safe and effective. Clinical
      populations of knee OA are clearly heterogeneous, spanning wide age ranges and encompassing
      patients with a wide variety of functional abilities. The pain experience in knee OA may be
      similarly individualized and complex; some patients may present with pain that appears
      attributable to classic signs of joint damage, while others may present with pain due to
      psychological distress or central mechanisms. Changes in somatosensory processing and pain
      threshold are also known to occur with aging. However, the scientific community has yet to
      examine these variables concurrently in the same study population. Therefore, the relative
      importance of each of these measures in determining pain severity across the lifespan is
      unknown. It is also unknown whether these variables (or interactions between variables) are
      representative of different pain phenotypes in knee OA. This is an important yet unresolved
      question; a patient with high levels of psychological distress and low levels of joint damage
      may warrant a different intervention strategy than the traditional knee-directed approach. On
      the other hand, someone with increased psychological distress in addition to severe joint
      damage may benefit from traditional interventions that are further augmented with other
      impairment-specific interventions. This sort of targeted approach is the topic of current
      research in other chronic pain populations, where a similar conceptual model, composed of
      peripheral, psychological and central components to the pain experience (among others), is
      recognized.
    
  