
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To use clinical genomic sequencing to define the prevalence and spectrum of germline
           mutations in cancer predisposition genes in children with cancer.

        -  For those identified with germline mutations, to correlate germline genomic information
           with clinical presentation, tumor genomic findings, treatment response, and outcome.

      OTHER PRESPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

        -  To generate and analyze data describing patient/parent perceptions of genomic
           investigations and research at various time points throughout the study.

        -  To generate and analyze data surrounding the return of genomic sequencing results,
           examine patient/parent understanding of these results and assess the impact of results
           on patients and families.

        -  To determine the feasibility and reliability of performing WES and RNA sequencing on
           derivatives from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor samples alongside the
           analysis of matched frozen tumor and germline samples.

      For participants who give consent, a normal tissue sample will be obtained and used for WGS,
      WES and RNA sequence analysis. A defined list of 150 genes will be analyzed for reporting
      using the normal tissue. Once the results of these analyses are available, they will be
      disclosed to physicians, patients and parents. Mixed measures approaches will be used to
      assess understanding, acceptance and impact of genomic results on patients and parents.
      During the course of the study, the investigators anticipate the list of genes to be reported
      using normal tissue to change due to advances in the literature or other evidence linking
      additional genes to tumor formation and cancer risk, and new lists may be defined.

      To assess provider, patient and family understanding and describe the impacts of genomic
      testing and return of results, this study will also incorporate administration of surveys and
      semi-structured interviews. Surveys and interviews are optional, but will be offered to all
      primary SJCRH providers, as well as all eligible participants and parents, regardless of
      whether or not they consent to pursue the genomic testing.

      A sample of blood or a skin biopsy will be obtained as a source of germline DNA. This sample
      is necessary as it is the comparator against which tumor samples are evaluated. Skin biopsies
      may be done on patients who have a diagnosis where peripheral blood is likely to be
      contaminated by tumor cells.
    
  