
    
      Patients that have previously not performed a PKG recording will be recruited from the
      WestPORTS community based cohort of outpatients with PD in West Sweden. The WestPORTS study
      includes self-assessments like PDQ8 and NMS-Q as well as PKG recordings. On inclusion in
      WestPORTS-Int subjects will be randomized by minimization for age, gender and disease
      duration into one of two study arms. In the intervention group the PKG recording of the
      subject will be made available, together with a summarized interpretation, to the subject's
      regular neurologist/geriatrician before the next scheduled visit/contact. The neurologist
      will also be provided with PDQ8 and NMS-Q responses. In the control group only PDQ8 and NMS-Q
      responses will be available to the treating neurologist/geriatrician.

      At the next regular visit/contact the physician will fill out an assessment of the state of
      the patient, whether stable or in need of change in management. Any contraindications to
      changed management will be noted and the decision to change or not change management will be
      recorded as the primary outcome of the study. Secondary outcomes are the patient reported
      experience of outpatient care according to a modified version of the Generic Short Patient
      Experiences Questionnaire (GS-PEQ), as well as patient reported (PDQ8, NMS-Q, PRO-PD, EQ5D5L)
      and PKG outcomes at a time point three months later.

      Change of management is defined as any of the following:

        1. Adding or stopping a dopamine agonist, COMT- or MAO-inhibitor, anticholinergic or
           amantadine.

        2. Fractionation or de-fractionation of the current daily levodopa dose

        3. Change of current Levodopa Equivalent daily dose by 15% or more

        4. Start or stop of night medication

        5. Referral for device assisted therapy (LCIG, apomorphine pump or DBS)

      Actual change of management (as opposed to decision to change) will be documented by
      retrospective review of medical records and prescription records. This will be a secondary
      measure.
    
  