
    
      The purpose of the proposed research is to assess the feasibility, acceptability and effects
      of equine-assisted therapy on adults and older adults with arthritis. Equine-assisted therapy
      (EAT) is defined as any intervention using the unique qualities of horses to improve social,
      gross motor, and self-help skills.(Ratliffe & Sanekane, 2009) Although equine therapy has
      been used as a medical intervention since the second century (Ratliffe & Sanekane, 2009), no
      research has been conducted using equine-assisted therapy to improve arthritis.

      In the United States arthritis accounts for $128 billion in lost income and medical costs
      (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 2013) Incidence of arthritis is increasing
      due to obesity and an aging population.(Bijlsma, Berenbaum, & Lafeber, 2011) Adults aged 40
      to 65 and older than 65 with arthritis experience joint pain, stiffness, damage to cartilage,
      and decreased range of motion particularly in hips, knees, shoulders, and back (Barten et
      al., 2015; George et al., 2015; Karjalainen et al., 2001). Practice recommendations of
      non-pharmacological management of arthritis include using a biopsychosocial approach, an
      individualized exercise regime, strengthening leg and hip muscles, and improving the range of
      motion for muscle and joint health (Fernandes et al., 2013). Healthy People 2020 reports that
      arthritis has a major effect on a person's quality of life, ability to work and activities of
      daily life with the objectives of decreasing joint pain, decrease limitations, and decreasing
      psychological stress. Improving arthritis includes decreasing pain and improving the
      arthritic impact on the individual's quality of life.(Buchbinder, Bombardier, Yeung, &
      Tugwell, 1995) To improve musculoskeletal and functional health, the (World Health
      Organization, 2010) recommends physical activity including aerobic physical activity,
      strength, flexibility and balance. Current treatments include the use of physical
      conditioning (Schaafsma et al., 2013), opioids (Chaparro et al., 2013), and injections of
      anti-inflammatory medications, morphine, anesthetics or steroids(Staal, de Bie, De Vet,
      Hildebrandt, & Nelemans, 2008). The side effects from these medications can be bothersome,
      thus non-pharmacologic interventions must be further explored to improve adults and older
      adults with arthritis. Equine assisted therapy is a promising option since unique movements
      of the horse translate tri-rotational movements from the horse to the human (Selby &
      Smith-Osborne, 2013). This targets the spine and hip joints by non-weight bearing movement
      and has the potential to improve outcomes without joint damage.

      There are both physical and psychosocial medical uses for equine assisted therapy. Previous
      meta-analyses of horses used to improve cerebral palsy in children, provide evidence to
      support the physical-neuromuscular connection and improvements in outcomes (Nimer & Lundahl,
      2007; Pretty et al., 2007; Tseng, Chen, & Tam, 2013) reported significant improvement in
      total mood when riding horses. Anticipated implications for this research include improved
      range of motion, decreased pain, improved quality of life and enjoyment of nature. The
      bio-markers will assess the implications on cartilage and muscle to monitor improvement,
      destruction, or maintenance of both during equine-assisted therapy. If quality of life,
      enjoyment of nature and range of motion increase without muscle or cartilage destruction,
      then this would present evidence that EAT is a viable and desirable intervention and this
      will lead to further research for arthritis interventions including equines.
    
  