
    
      The study is an international, multicenter, prospective, open-label, non-randomized single
      group study, with no control group.

      The study has 2 phases: the first phase is to train and develop the automated learning
      algorithm; the second phase is to validate the algorithm.

      The participants will be assigned into two cohorts:

        1. Cohort 1 will provide the data to be used for algorithm development and training.

        2. Cohort 2 will provide data to be used for algorithm validation.

      It has been estimated that approximately 276 subjects are required for each cohort in order
      to accumulate the minimum number of cases for the study's primary objective. Sequential
      enrolment will be implemented by regional blocks according to an estimation of the regional
      distribution of subjects.The sample size and regional distribution of subjects are estimates
      and the study is endpoint driven to achieve at least 28 WHF events with corresponding
      analyzable device data. Fewer subjects may be enrolled should the required number of events
      be acquired at a faster rate than calculated and the regional proportions of subjects may
      vary according to regional enrollment rates.

      All participants will undergo the same study procedures, irrespective of their cohort
      assignment. Each subject will receive the study device kit (garment and smart phone with
      charger) at enrollment and will be followed up for up to 6 months, or until at least 28
      worsening heart failure (WHF) events per cohort have been acquired. Even if the required
      number of events have been acquired, all participants will be followed up for a minimum of at
      least 3 months.

      The study will collect data; however no data collected by the device will be made available
      to clinical care personnel during the study and as such no medical action will be taken based
      on the device. Medical follow-up will be according to standard practice as per each
      investigational site, which will be documented AND there will be no additional medical
      intervention on the study participants. The participants are required to agree to be
      compliant with the use of the device.

      There is no masking of device allocation or procedures. However, the clinical investigators,
      treating physicians and the independent clinical events adjudication committee (IEAC) members
      will be blinded to all sensor data throughout the study.

      The investigators developing the algorithm will have no access to the validation cohort
      database before the parameters of the algorithm have been fixed by the training cohort.
    
  