
    
      Non small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide.
      Approximately half of all patients with NSCLC present with metastatic disease at the time of
      diagnosis, and the predominant pattern of failure in patients with localized NSCLC is distant
      metastatic spread. The standard treatment in metastatic disease is cytotoxic chemotherapy
      with a mean overall survival between 8-11 months.

      Various studies suggest that patients who clinically present with a limited number of
      metastases, a term defined as oligometastatic disease, could have a better prognosis of
      survival with a radical treatment, than for their counterparts with a greater number of
      metastasis. Much of the current clinical outcomes in oligometastatic disease is based on a
      series of the retrospective studies.

      This is a randomised prospective phase II study based on patients with stage IV
      oligometastatic NSCLC according to UICC stage system(version 7,2009) or oligometastatic
      disease after radical operation for stage I-III NSCLC. The purpose of this study is to add
      more information to the current medical literature about the efficacy and safety of
      Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) compared with conventional fractionated
      radiotherapy for oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer (equal to or less than 5 sites
      and equal to or less than 5cm in maximum diameter).

      The patients enrolled receive firstly 4-6 cycles chemotherapy (platinum-based doublet
      chemotherapy), and achieve response(stable disease or partial response or complete response).
      Patients will be randomized into two groups. The control group will undergo the conventional
      fractionated radiotherapy to all metastatic sites and the primary tumor. The experimental
      group will receive SBRT to primary lesions or metastatic lesions.

      The investigators will compare progress free survival(PFS) ,overall survival, incidence of
      treatment-related adverse events of the two groups.
    
  