
    
      The objective is to define the signaling pathways activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and
      other selected innate immunity stimuli, and the downstream inflammatory functional
      consequences, in human leukocytes in vitro. Adult (greater than or equal to 18 - 65 years
      old), nonpregnant, healthy volunteers will have 320 ml of whole blood collected by
      venipuncture in a monitored setting no more frequently than once every 8 weeks. No further
      interventions will be exercised upon the subjects. The whole blood will be fractionated into
      neutrophil, red blood cell, mononuclear cell, and plasma fractions using plasma-Percoll
      discontinuous centrifugation. Leukocytes will be subjected in vitro to inflammatory stimuli
      (eg, LPS), and selected signaling outcomes (eg, mitogen-activated protein kinase activation,
      Rho GTPase activation, protein-protein interactions) and functional measures (eg, chemotaxis,
      superoxide anion and cytokine production) quantified in the absence and presence of relevant
      chemical inhibitors (eg, SB203580, a p38 MAPK inhibitor). In each such experiment, cells from
      the daily donor will be used as paired controls to the in vitro experimental intervention
      (eg, SB203580 inhibitor vs. DMSO vehicle). Three or more repetitions (on different donors) of
      each specific experimental outcome, as necessary, will be performed to establish statistical
      significance of findings.

      A specific focus of the studies planned will be to define the role of lipid raft membrane
      microdomains in transduction of the LPS signal in human leukocytes. Lipid rafts are
      cholesterol-rich microdomains in the plasma membrane, within which the LPS receptor,
      Toll-like Receptor 4 (TLR4), has been described to reside. LPS signaling has been reported to
      be sensitive to raft cholesterol content, presumably because the specific repertoire of
      proteins in rafts is sensitive to raft cholesterol content. Rafts are thought to act as
      dynamic signaling platforms for co-segregation of proximal adaptor proteins, kinases, and
      other signaling proteins. Of interest, while LPS has been described to modulate the activity
      of proteins that determine raft cholesterol content (eg, Liver X Receptor, ABCA1), virtually
      no work has been done to clarify: 1) the mechanisms underlying LPS-induced intracellular
      cholesterol redistribution, and, more importantly, 2) whether such intracellular
      redistribution of cholesterol is causal to the signaling events triggered by LPS, or 3)
      whether innate immunity signaling is dependent upon inter-subject variations in raft
      cholesterol content.

      Furthermore, we will investigate the role of the tumor suppressor gene p53 in the regulation
      of inflammation. It is now widely accepted that inflammation and cancer development are
      interconnected. Dr. Resnick is one of the international leaders in the study of the tumor
      suppressor gene p53. His group has discovered that activation of p53 through exposure to
      carcinogenic stimuli leads to differential expression of genes that have a direct effect on
      the inflammatory response, such as several toll-like-receptor genes. Dr. Resnick will use
      human leukocytes that will be isolated from whole blood. He will expose these cells to
      stimuli that activate p53, such as doxorubicin (a chemotherapy agent) or radiation, and
      examine the expression of toll-like-receptor genes as well as the response to LPS and other
      inflammatory agents in vitro.

      Finally, we will investigate the role of zinc-finger proteins in gene expression in
      inflammatory cells. ZFP36 is an RNA binding zinc finger protein that is involved in the
      turnover of mRNAs encoding several clinical important cytokines, including TNF(alpha).
      Several missense, promoter and 3'-untranslated variants have been indentified in humans; in
      some cases, these variants and their haplotypes have been associated with human inflammatory
      disease. We will isolate peripheral blood macrophages and stimulate them with LPS and other
      cytokines, then evaluate the behavior of cytokine mRNA and gene expression.

      In addition to cell signaling experiments, we plan to test a novel detection system for the
      presence of oxidized lipoprotein (LDL) in the blood. Inflammation in the body (like sepsis,
      radiation injury, cancer) can induce the generation of reactive oxygen radicals (ROS) which
      can react with proteins, DNA and other cell structures and alter their structure, therefore
      causing cell damage. No reliable minimally invasive tests exist to detect biomarkers for
      oxidative stress in humans. One such biomarker is N-formyl kynurenine (NFK) which can be
      found on lipoproteins like LDL. We are developing polyclonal antiserum to NKF with the goal
      of producing a simplified and high throughput method of detecting NFK via ELISA and Western
      analyses. We propose to purify LDL from human serum by standard methods and use ELISA
      analysis to determine if the samples contain KFK as detected using our anti-NFK polyclonal
      serum. These experiments could lead to the development of a simple and reliable non-invasive
      assay that detects a biomarker for oxidative stress in humans.
    
  