
    
      BACKGROUND: There are substantial international research findings supporting the role that
      natural environments play in enhancing human health and the prevention of chronic diseases.
      Also, there is evidence highlighting the (cost-) effectiveness of prescribing physical
      activity to promote one's physical activity and health. However, there is a lack of
      methodologically rigorous studies that have looked into the effectiveness of combining these
      two promising approaches; i.e., physical activity prescription with a focus on the use of
      parks and green spaces: Park Prescription.

      AIMS: This Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) will investigate the concept of Park
      Prescription as a health promoting intervention for individuals. The primary objective is to
      investigate the effectiveness of a park prescription interventions to increase participant's
      time spent in moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA). Main secondary objectives are to
      assess; A) improvement in physical health (e.g., blood sugar and blood pressure) and health
      behaviour (e.g., sitting time); B) improvement in mental health (e.g., quality of life); 3)
      intervention implementation fidelity and the association with park use and perceived study
      participant satisfaction.

      METHODOLOGY: Participants aged between 40 and 65 years will be recruited from the Singapore
      Population Health Community Screening Programme conducted by Alexandra Health Pte Ltd. They
      will be randomly assigned to one of the following two arms; 1) park prescription +
      participation in a weekly structured physical activity program conducted in the park, and 2)
      control group. Participants will be enrolled in the study for a period of 6 months. They will
      have to complete a baseline assessment, 3-month and 6-month follow-up. The investigators aim
      to recruit 80 participants in each arm, making a total of 160 study participants.
    
  