
    
      Rationale. Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a major public health problem. D-dimer (D-Di) assay is
      useful to exclude the PE but not specific, requiring irradiating and expensive imaging tests.
      Preliminary results suggest that the Soluble Fibrin (SF) assay has a sensitivity comparable
      to the D-Di one, but a higher specificity and thus would limit the use of imaging tests.

      Main objective. To compute the area under the ROC curve of the Soluble Fibrin assay for the
      diagnosis of PE and to assess the other diagnostic characteristics of the SF assay.

      Patients. Inclusion criteria: patients 18 years or older, referred to the Emergency or
      Respiratory and Intensive Care Medicine Units, for clinically suspected of PE.

      Exclusion criteria: pregnancy, contraindication to iodinated contrast media, anticoagulant
      drug at curative doses, patients with suspected PE during hospitalization and those for which
      the three month-follow up is impossible.

      The protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee on March 2015. The study will be conducted
      in compliance with French regulations after ethics approval.

      Reference algorithm. PE has to be confirmed or excluded by the reference algorithm combining
      clinical probability, D-Dimer, imaging tests and three month-follow up. Plasma D-dimer (D-Di)
      is measured in case of low clinical probability. Helical computed tomography (CT) is
      performed in case of either high clinical probability or positive D-dimer. Lower limb venous
      compression ultrasonography (US) is done only in case of negative CT in a patient with a high
      clinical probability. Patients will be classified in two groups, as having or not having PE
      on predefined criteria according to the recent guidelines of the European Society of
      Cardiology by physicians who will be unaware of the SF assay result.

      SF Assays. Soluble fibrin is measured by one site, using prototype assays, on both citrated
      and heparinized blood samples taken at baseline. Staff in charge of the assays are not aware
      of the clinical and diagnosis decisions.

      Statistical Analysis of results. It will be performed independently by the Clinical Research
      Unit of Georges Pompidou European Hospital. The ROC curve will be built, the area under the
      curve will be calculated with its confidence interval. The most suitable threshold will be
      determined from the curve. Then the diagnostic performances of SF assay will be calculated
      according to the usual calculations.

      Number of participants required. Taking into account an estimated area of 0.9 to 0.95 on
      preliminary data, the inclusion of 500 patients with suspected PE will allow calculation of
      the area under the ROC curve with an accuracy of 5%. This number will also allow calculation
      of the diagnostic performances of the SF assay with sufficient accuracy.

      Duration of the study. The study period is three months for each patient, the total duration
      of the study is 28 months.
    
  