
    
      SMH is a rare but devastating complication of wet AMD. Untreated, SMH typically leads to
      permanent and severe loss of vision, ranging from 6/30 (approximately 20% normal vision) to
      only being able to perceive light versus dark (no useful vision).

      There are no large, published, randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating treatments for
      SMH. Hence there is no widely-accepted treatment approach. Some patients are managed by
      observation, others with drugs (anti-VEGF) injected into the eye, others with eye surgery
      (vitrectomy, subretinal TPA, gas) and combinations thereof. From a regulatory perspective the
      standard treatment is with anti-VEGF injections alone, since these are licensed for the
      treatment of wet AMD (and there is no treatment licensed for SMH). This study will test the
      hypothesis that surgery with anti-VEGF injections for SMH due to wet AMD is superior to the
      current standard of treatment with anti-VEGF injections alone. The results will help guide
      future clinical practice to maximise the visual outcomes for patients with SMH. Most
      potential participants will present or be referred to the clinics of the investigators who
      provide routine care for wet AMD. Referrals may arise from research networks, family
      physicians, optometrists or ophthalmologists.

      After confirming the diagnosis of SMH, informed consent will be obtained and potential
      participants will be asked to sign a consent form. Following this, baseline screening will
      occur, including a clinical examination and a series of vision tests to confirm eligibility
      to take part in the study.

      Once successfully screened, each participant will be randomly allocated to one of the two
      study groups:

        1. Standard current treatment with anti-VEGF injections: participants will be given their
           first injection into the study eye at the screening/baseline visit, or otherwise within
           a few days. Following this, each participant will receive another injection at month 1,
           another at month 2 and thereafter one injection every two months until the end of the
           study (month 12). Anaesthetic eye drops will be given to numb the eye before each
           injection.

        2. Standard current treatment with anti-VEGF injections plus surgery: participants will be
           given their first injection into the study eye at the time of surgery and then all other
           injections as per the schedule above. During the surgery, the clear gel (vitreous) that
           fills the inside of the eye will be removed and a clot-busting drug (TPA) will be
           injected into the eye to help break up the blood clot. The inside of the eye will then
           be filled with gas to help push the dissolved clot away from the macula. Various options
           for anaesthetic will be discussed with each participant before surgery, including (i)
           local anaesthetic only, (ii) local anaesthetic with some sedation, to reduce any anxiety
           or (iii) general anaesthetic so the participant is asleep during the surgery. If the
           participant also has a cataract or is likely to develop one, the surgeon will discuss
           the option of having cataract surgery as part of the same operation.

      After the surgery, participants will be asked to keep their heads forward, to enable the gas
      bubble to move the blood clot away from the macula. This should be done for 50 minutes out of
      every hour for the first five days. During the 10-minute breaks, participants will be
      encouraged to move around and be active. At night, participants will be asked to sleep on the
      side of the operated eye, i.e. with the operated eye lowest. The gas is expected to disappear
      from the eye around 4-8 weeks after surgery.

      Participants who have had surgery will be instructed to return for follow up the day after
      surgery and also one week later. All participants will also have a clinical examination at 6
      and 12 months that will include tests of their vision. They will also attend regularly for
      anti-VEGF injections: every month for the first three visits, then every two months until the
      study is completed at month 12.
    
  