
    
      This is a prospective observational study of patients with clinical Plasmodium falciparum
      and/or Plasmodium Viviax infection using parasite DNA from point-of-care fingerprick dried
      blood spot samples as well as a short survey on patient demographics, employment, travel, and
      mobile phone use to study P. falciparum parasite genotypes, population characteristics, and
      gene flow patterns.

      On inclusion in the study and before standard treatment is administered, dried blood spots
      (DBS) will be obtained through fingerprick blood sampling from patients, with two or three
      blood spots on one piece of filter paper being obtained from each patient. Each blood spot
      will contain ~20µl of blood, for a total of ~ 40-60 uL of blood being collected from each
      patient for the study.

      In order to have a greater understanding of the possible sites of malaria transmission and to
      relate genetic diversity to geographic location, patients or their parents/guardians will
      also be asked a short set of questions on demographics, their places of residence and work,
      recent mobile phone use, and their history of travel. The basic questions on phone
      utilisation will provide information on the use of mobile phones in the study population,
      including which mobile phone companies are used, and how many SIM cards and handsets each
      person carries. It will be employed to derive information on population movement from
      anonymised, aggregated data on mobile phone telephone use, i.e. call detail records (CDR),
      obtained from mobile phone companies in each country. This will be used for the modelling of
      population movement, its impact on the distribution of malaria and antimalarial drug
      resistance, and subsequent prediction of potential routes of spread of malaria and
      antimalarial drug resistance. As some of this information can be sensitive, during the
      consent process the patient will be given the option of not providing some or all of this
      information without needing to provide a reason. For those who do not wish to provide
      information, this will be documented in the survey form. A duplicate of the sample barcode
      will be placed on this same form, so the information therein can be matched with the relevant
      blood spot and its related genetic data, while retaining sample anonymity.

      All patients in the study will receive standard care for falciparum malaria including drug
      therapy according to the national treatment guidelines of their country.
    
  