
    
      The Registry will recruit participants from either new referrals for evaluation of potential
      CHD or from patients who are being followed within the Children's Healthcare of Atlanta
      Sibley Heart Center or Emory University Adult Congenital Heart Clinic with specific diagnoses
      and therapy. Participants will provide a biological sample (blood), demographic data, medical
      records and phenotypic data, and assessment data. These data will be stored in a secure
      database accessible only to investigators with research projects that have been approved by
      the IRB and by the executive committee of the CHDRR. The executive committee of the CHDRR
      will contain at least one member from each of the following: Sibley Heart Center, Emory
      Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Division, and Emory-Egleston Children's Research Center. This
      committee will meet quarterly to discuss patient enrollment, patient safety issues, and data
      integrity. They will also meet as needed to discuss any applications for sample utilization
      and study publications.

      Blood and serum collected from Registry members will be cryopreserved for potential future
      genetic and/or protein-based studies. Note that no genotyping or analysis will be done by the
      Registry. The data collected is meant to give future researchers a base of information to
      establish eligibility for their specific studies. It is the goal of the Registry to work with
      researchers to gain IRB approval either to access scrubbed data or to contact Registry
      members for potential enrollment in any IRB-approved studies that would require access to
      private healthcare information (PHI).

      Approved investigators can use the Registry database in two ways: 1) to query and extract
      data that have been scrubbed of identifiers, utilizing bar-code linked, de-identified blood
      or serum; and 2) to identify Registry members who are eligible for specific research projects
      requiring further patient contact. In the latter application, the investigators will identify
      potential participants via the scrubbed data, but will not have access to personal
      information during the initial identification process. The Registry research coordinator will
      then contact the identified Registry members, explain the study, and request consent to give
      their contact information to the investigator. The investigator will then contact consenting,
      eligible members using their IRB approved, project-specific protocol. In both applications,
      IRB approval will be required before the Registry database will be accessed or samples
      released for study. Further, investigators will be required to report participation outcomes
      of eligible Registry members to the Registry research coordinator. The Registry research
      coordinator will track participation/refusal/non-participation of each Registry member who is
      identified and contacted for additional research projects.
    
  