
    
      1. Thromboprophylactic regimens Aspirin®(acetylsalicylic acid, AA, Bayer) 300mg/day or
           Xarelto® (rivaroxaban, factor Xa-inhibitor, Bayer) 10mg/day will be randomly(according
           to the sequence of operation) administrated in oral route to the patients undergone
           primary total knee replacement during postoperatively 10 days. Prophylaxis will be
           started at 6 hours after the end of surgery. For all patients, intermittent pneumatic
           compression will be initiated immediately after surgery, and a continuous passive motion
           machine was applied at 1 day postoperatively.

        2. Evaluation and treatment plan of a VTE event

           Investigators will assess the patients for VTE(venous thromboembolism) by using a
           64-channel multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) indirect venography system
           (Brilliance 64®, Philips, Eindhoven, Netherlands) at 10 days postoperatively. Six
           seconds after the reached 100 HU (Hounsfield units), a CT scan was performed from the
           costophrenic angle to the lung apex, to obtain arterial phase images of the pulmonary
           artery. Approximately 140 mL of contrast media (Ultravist 370®, Iopromide, Bayer) was
           administered through the antecubital vein at a flow rate of 4 mL/s. At 140 seconds after
           the injection of contrast media, indirect venography was performed from the liver dome
           to the ankle to obtain contrast-enhanced venous phase images. Indirect venography images
           were reconstructed with a slice width of 1 mm and an increment of 0.5 mm. A single
           radiologist evaluated the CT images in a blinded manner. Symptomatic PE was defined as
           PE with additional symptoms, such as dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, cough, hemoptysis,
           tachypnea, rales, or tachycardia [26]. Symptomatic DVT was defined as DVT involving
           discomfort of the calf or thigh, a Homan's sign, swelling, localized hotness, skin
           discoloration, tenderness, or prominence of the superficial veins [30]. If the patient
           presented symptoms of those mentioned above severely, we performed MDCT before 10 days
           postoperatively. The VTE cases were divided into PE and DVT, and further subcategorized
           into proximal DVT (occurring in the popliteal vein and above) and distal DVT (occurring
           below the popliteal vein).

           If the patient had asymptomatic distal DVT, the patient was only observed
           conservatively, without any treatment. We only treated patients with PE, symptomatic
           DVT, or proximal DVT, and a pulmonologist or a chest surgeon was consulted for the
           management of these patients with anticoagulants. At 3 months postoperatively, patients
           who had VTE events underwent follow-up MDCT to evaluate the change in VTE.

        3. Sample size assessment/Statistical analysis A power analysis was conducted prior to
           recruit of the patients. With prevalence of DVT postulated to be 2.94% in rivaroxaban
           group and 16.36% for the aspirin group after TKA, the calculation showed that 78 cases
           would be needed in each group to reach an alpha value of 0.05 and a confidence level of
           80%.

      Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS® version 18.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc, Chicago,
      IL, USA). For categorical variables, the Chi-square test was used to compare VTE proportions
      between different groups. If more than 20% of the expected frequencies were less than 5, the
      Fisher's exact test was performed. Moreover, one-way analysis of variance was used to compare
      the results of numerical continuous variables. However, for some variables without normal
      distribution, the Kruskal-Wallis test was used instead.
    
  