
    
      Patient and graft survival in the first year after renal transplantation have improved
      substantially over the last decade, but long-term graft loss and patient mortality have
      remained high. It is increasingly recognized that the alarmingly poor cardio-metabolic risk
      profile in renal transplant recipients (RTR) plays a main role in long-term outcome.
      Improvement of long-term outcome will require specific efforts to improve cardio-metabolic
      profile and its complications. Importantly, the substantial increase in body weight and body
      fat that occurs after transplantation is a major trigger for the poor cardiometabolic profile
      in the RTR, including post-transplant diabetes and metabolic syndrome.

      The increase in body weight is mostly fat tissue and typically around 9-10 kg. Most of this
      weight gain (~90%) occurs in the first year after transplantation. Recent data indicate that
      steroid avoidance could not prevent this early increase in adiposity. This warrants specific
      focus on lifestyle factors, i.e diet and physical activity. In the UMCG RTR cohort we found
      that a lack of physical activity was related to a worse cardiometabolic profile and was an
      independent predictor of mortality. Moreover, the substantial increase in fat massweight gain
      was strongly related to low physical activity, high intake of energy-dense drinks, low
      consumption of vegetables, to increased plasma triglycerides and the metabolic syndrome. The
      intake of salt and saturated fat was high and fibre intake was low, indicating dietary habits
      that deviate substantially from recommendations for a healthy diet. Thus, both physical
      activity and dietary habits are important targets for lifestyle intervention in RTR.

      Lasting improvements in lifestyle are notoriously difficult to obtain, but in recent years
      substantial intervention expertise has been developed in other high risk groups including
      prediabetes. It is now established that for long term purposes, prevention of excessive
      weight gain is more effective than treatment of weight excess. Since in RTR most of the
      weight is gained in the first year after transplantation, prevention is a very promising
      approach. Moreover, data in prediabetes suggest that combined intervention targeting both
      diet and physical activity may be particularly effective to this purpose.

      Therefore, our aim is to investigate the effects on quality of life by a combined
      diet-and-physical activity program in RTR in the first year after transplantation.

      This randomized controlled intervention study will use a combined diet-and-physical activity
      approach. After hospital discharge for transplantation, 219 patients will be randomized to
      three either a control groups: one group, who will receive standard care, one group will be
      exposed to a 3-month exercise program followed by individual counselling and one group will
      be exposed to the exercise program + dietary or to intervention followed by individual
      counselling. The individual counselling is to consolidate the achieved improvements in diet
      and physical activity and will be provided until 15 months after inclusion. This counselling
      is based on theories of behavioural change and motivational interviewing. Daily physical
      activity is evaluated with a pedometer and dietary habits by questionnaires and food records.
    
  