
    
      Erlotinib

      Advances in the knowledge of tumor biology and mechanisms of oncogenesis has granted the
      singling out of several molecular targets for NSCLC treatment. Among these targets, epidermal
      growth factor receptor (EGFR), or HER1, has received particular attention in lung cancer
      treatment. EGFR is a transmembrane receptor found primarily on cells of epithelial origin.
      Autophosphorylation of its intracellular domain initiates a cascade of events leading to cell
      proliferation. EGFR is commonly expressed at a high level in a variety of solid tumors and it
      has been implicated in the control of cell survival, proliferation, metastasis and
      angiogenesis. The main pharmacological strategies in clinical development for therapeutic
      inhibition of EGFR are monoclonal antibodies to antagonize ligand-receptor binding, and
      small-molecules to inhibit tyrosine kinase domain activation. The main EGFR inhibitors are
      cetuximab, an anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody, and Erlotinib an EGFRtyrosine kinase inhibitor.
      The key indications for clinical use are colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer for
      cetuximab and NSCLC for Erlotinib. Erlotinib, a quinazolin-4-amine, is a highly potent,
      orally available, reversible inhibitor of EGFR tyrosine kinase. Erlotinib, in a phase III
      randomized placebo-controlled trial, has been proven to prolong survival (6.7 months versus
      4.7 months for Erlotinib and for placebo respectively, p = 0.001) in NSCLC patients after
      first or second line chemotherapy. The analysis of quality of life and time to deterioration
      of patients reported symptoms showed statistically and clinically meaningful benefit for
      patients randomized to Erlotinib. Moreover, Erlotinib resulted active (response rate of 8.9%)
      and safe (only 5% of patients discontinued treatment for toxicity). Following this trial,
      Erlotinib has been approved by Food and Drug Administration and Committee for Medicinal
      Products for Human use in chemotherapy-pretreated advanced NSCLC. Skin rash is a common
      side-effect of all HER1/EGFR inhibitors.

      EGF ointment

      Rash affecting the skin above the waist, is the most common adverse event associated with
      Erlotinib, and generally develops within 7-10 days of starting treatment. Skin rash may
      spontaneously resolve and reappear and it is reversible following drug discontinuation.
      However, when it develops, this chronic side-effect is very distressing for the patient. The
      increasing use of EGFR-targeted agents and specifically of Erlotinib in NSCLC treatment, and
      simultaneously the lack of clinical trials on this topic, makes rash management and etiology
      investigation high priorities.

      It has been reported that repeated treatment with EGF increases the epithelial cell
      proliferation in a dose dependent manner and accelerates the wound healing process, whereas a
      single EGF treatment has no noticeable effect on the wound-healing rate. There have been many
      studies aimed at developing a topical formulation with the sustained and stable
      pharmacological properties of recombinant human EGF (rhEGF). And the rh-EGF concentration
      between 1 and 5 ug/g can be seen as the ideal concentration to achieve the most efficient
      results for acute wounds with partial thickness defects.
    
  