
    
      Background

      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a mental disorder that may occur after someone
      experiences a traumatic event. Between 10-20% of patients may develop PTSD in response to the
      traumatic experience of myocardial infarction (MI). Sociodemographic and psychosocial
      variables, including perceived distress during MI, have been identified as "risk factors" for
      the development of posttraumatic stress in the aftermath of MI. PTSD is associated with
      impaired quality of life, social functioning, and high economic burden to the society.
      Posttraumatic stress attributable to MI has also been shown to be predictive of poor
      cardiovascular prognosis, whereby this link might relate to atherothrombotic processes like
      endothelial dysfunction, dyslipidemia, inflammation, and coagulation. Therefore the
      prevention of PTSD after MI is of high relevance. Guidelines have been published for early
      interventions to prevent the development of posttraumatic stress after different types of
      trauma. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis on randomized controlled trials of early
      psychological interventions designed to prevent symptoms of PTSD found a benefit, but only if
      treatment was provided to symptomatic individuals and trauma-focused. The impact of such an
      intervention on posttraumatic stress in response to a myocardial infarction has not been
      assessed so far. The planned project is the first to test, if the development of
      posttraumatic stress can successfully be prevented in MI patients at high risk to develop
      PTSD through a minimal behavioral intervention that is feasible.

      Objective

      Primary aim: The overarching aim of the planned project is to investigate in a
      randomized-controlled trial whether a minimal (single counseling session of 45 minutes plus
      an information booklet) and early-on (within 48 hours after myocardial infarction)
      administered behavioral intervention reduces the development of clinician-rated posttraumatic
      stress levels attributable to MI in patients at a high risk to develop clinically relevant
      levels of posttraumatic stress.

      Secondary aim: A further aim is to investigate whether the behavioral intervention improves
      psychosocial functioning and favorably affects cardiometabolic risk markers.

      Methods

      Patients considered to be at "high risk" to develop posttraumatic stress will be randomized
      to one single counseling session of 45 minutes (either targeting specific MI-triggered
      traumatic reactions or more general information about the role of psychological stress in
      coronary heart disease). The session will be performed by the study therapist in the coronary
      care unit within 48 hours after the patient has reached stable circulatory condition. Each
      patient will additionally receive written study material in the form of an information
      booklet. Medical variables, sociodemographic factors and cardiometabolic biomarkers will also
      be determined.

      At 3-month and 12-month follow-up each patient will be assessed for interviewer-rated
      posttraumatic stress levels, psychosocial functioning, and biomarkers.
    
  