
    
      The SUMMIT Study is a prospective, observational, cohort study. Its aim is to clinically
      validate a blood test for the early detection of multiple types of cancer, and to deliver
      LDCT screening for lung cancer to an at-risk population.

      SUMMIT plans to enrol 25,000 participants aged 55-77 years, from participating general
      practitioner (GP) practices in North Central, East London, South East London and surrounding
      areas. The participants enrolled will be people who are at high-risk for lung cancer due to a
      significant smoking history based on validated risk scores.

      Individuals with significant smoking histories will be offered a clinical Lung Health Check
      (LHC), which includes a brief respiratory consultation including questions about respiratory
      symptoms and medical history, smoking cessation advice and referral where required, and
      certain relevant clinical measurements (blood pressure, spirometry, height, and weight).
      Those persons who are eligible for participation based on specific validated risk scores may
      then be offered participation in the SUMMIT Study. Electronic informed consent will be
      obtained if they decide to take part. Consented participants will provide a blood sample,
      complete a confidential electronic questionnaire and have an LDCT scan at the same visit.
      Participants will be asked to return for two further annual visits, and some participants may
      return for additional scans if clinically indicated (nodule management).

      If any LDCT result is suspicious for cancer, the participant will be referred to their local
      hospital (type 2 Site) via an urgent referral pathway to the relevant MDT. If a participant
      is diagnosed with lung cancer, that participant will no longer continue in the
      active/interventional part of the study but will be followed for clinical outcomes via the
      Type 2 site completion of eCRF and registry data. If the suspicious lesion is found to be
      benign, the participant can continue in the study.

      There will be one randomisation round carried out during this study. All participants with a
      negative LDCT at the baseline visit who have not been diagnosed with lung cancer since that
      visit will return for an LHC at approximately 12 months. At the 12-month visit, this group
      will be randomised either to have an LDCT or no LDCT.

      However, if an urgent referral was after the Y0 LDCT scan, the participant will not be
      included in the randomisation at Y1, and will receive LDCT at Y1 and Y2.
    
  