
    
      According to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 330 patients with CAD between the ages of
      40 and 80 years were recruited from the inpatient cardiology department of the First
      Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University. Informed consent was obtained from each
      participant after explaining the study protocols. Patients were randomly assigned to one of
      the three groups: control group (n=110), morning walking group (n=110) or evening walking
      group (n=110). The control group was requested to maintain their usual level of physical
      activity. Participants in both walking groups were requested to walk at the speed of 2.5
      miles/h for 30 min/day or more on at least 5 days/week for a period of 12 weeks. The protocol
      of exercise was identical, while the difference between the two groups was that one group was
      asked for walking in the morning and the other group walking in the evening. Each participant
      was telephoned at least once a week to ensure the adherence to the exercise program. Patients
      were called back every month to understand the information about walking and medication use.
      In the intervention groups, subjects whose compliance rate with their respectively walking
      program were less than 85% were excluded in the analysis. Additionally, all the participants
      were given an advice on quitting smoking and were provided with similar diets by a
      nutritionist, as to caloric intake and nutrients. Total cholesterol, triglycerides,
      high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein a,
      white blood cell count and platelet count, fibrinogen were measured before and after the
      intervention.

      The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was used to check the normal distribution of all continuous
      variables. The values of normal distribution were expressed as mean±SD, and non-normal
      distribution data were presented as median (interquartile range). Baseline differences
      between groups were determined by one-way analysis of variance and chi-square analyses.
      Baseline and follow-up values within each group were compared using the paired t test.
      General linear models were used to adjust the differences in baseline values for dependent
      variables. And two-way ANOVA was used for determination of the improvements of lipids and
      inflammatory markers in three groups. The significance level was defined as P<0.05. All
      analyses were carried out using SPSS version 13.
    
  