
    
      Parents will provide consent for their own participation, as well as the participation of
      their target child (their child aged 3-5 years who presents the most behavioral challenges).
      After consent, primary parents will complete the enrollment questionnaire via the Qualtrics
      online assessment platform and then be provided an Echo Dot with the Bedtime Routine module
      enabled. After 6 weeks, they will be administered the 6 weeks (at treatment
      completion)questionnaire. This design will allow us to evaluate enrollment-6 weeks (at
      treatment completion) change and satisfaction/usability of the Bedtime Routine prototype
      module.

      Enrollment and 6 weeks (at treatment completion) questionnaires will measure primary parents'
      parenting practices, self-efficacy, and stress; children's behavior, emotional adjustment,
      and sleep problems; and the parent-child relationship. The 6 weeks (at treatment completion)
      questionnaire will also contain measures of parent satisfaction, acceptability, and usability
      of the Talk Parenting skill, as well as any difficulties experienced or problems made worse.
      Demographics will be collected at enrollment. Enrollment and 6 weeks (at treatment
      completion) questionnaires will be administered via Qualtrics, an online assessment tool.
      Project staff will follow-up with parents as needed to encourage questionnaire completion in
      a timely manner. Parents will be paid $20 per assessment.

      The investigators will provide families an Echo Dot device and enable the skill using a
      research Amazon account created for each family. The Echo Dot devices will be paired with
      portable auxiliary battery packs to enable mobile use within the home, so that the device can
      be carried from room to room during execution of the bedtime routine. The devices will be
      preconfigured by project staff onto research Amazon accounts. Families without broadband
      internet access at home will be provided a hotspot to allow high-speed access. All families
      will be provided a pre-configured wifi adaptor that creates a wifi network specific for the
      Echo Dot device to connect to. After enrollment, primary parents will come to one of several
      orientation sessions to obtain their Echo Dot device, portable auxiliary battery pack, wifi
      adaptor, and set-up instructions; staff will provide follow-up phone support as needed. Usage
      data will show whether families have used the device; the investigators will call to assist
      set up if parents have not enabled/used the device within 2 weeks. To ensure exposure to Talk
      Parenting, parents will be asked to engage with the skill at least twice per week; project
      staff will prompt parents two times (via text, email, device notification, or phone,
      depending on parent's preference) during the 6-week session to encourage usage and provide
      technical support as needed. Two reminders is viewed as having external validity; a parenting
      education agency providing Talk Parenting to client families could conceivably check in with
      parents a couple of times to remind them to use the tool and see how it is going.

      At the end of the study, families will be asked to return the wifi adaptor to the project
      offices; they will be free to keep the Echo Dot device and auxiliary battery pack.
    
  