
    
      Introduction NEC is a worldwide problem in preterm very low birth weight (VLBW) infants with
      highly variable incidence affecting 2.6% to 28% of these infants; 1.2.Recent reports suggest
      increasing occurrence of NEC, estimating up to 9000 cases of NEC in the United States every
      year, with death occurring in 20 % to 40% of affected individuals. [1.3] As the number of
      very low-birth-weight infants increases, NEC remains a critical eminent problem. 3[4] The
      pathogenesis of NEC is unknown, but is widely considered as a multi-factorial disease;
      prematurity, enteral feeding, intestinal hypoxia-ischemia, and bacterial colonization are
      considered major risk factors. [4] Researches showed that proinflammatory cytokines, such as
      interleukin-1.6.8. (IL-1, IL-6, IL-8) and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF- ) 5-711-13 and
      anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10 and transforming growth factor- (TGF- ) 8-1014-16
      by intestinal epithelial cells is highly relevant to be involved in the final common pathway
      of pathogen of NEC.5-10 11-16.In mature bowel, the intestinal environment is capable of
      producing an array of cytokines important in the development and control of inflammatory
      responses11 8. In contrast, the immaturity of the neonatal intestinal immune system is
      evidenced by decreased numbers of immune cells 12.13 9.10. Recently, it has bee thought that
      inappropriate, accentuated inflammatory response to colonizing pathogenic flora at premature
      gut plays a major role, the inflammatory cascade further promotes spread of bacteria or
      toxin, and end up with ischemia, necrosis and even perforation. 14-1617.18.19 We and Bin-Nun
      had proved that probitics reduces the incidence and severity of necrotizing enterocolitis in
      preterm VLBW infants. 17.18 Nevertheless, there is no solid data in the literature as to the
      optima strains, timing, dosage and duration of probiotics administering to preterm VLBW
      infants at preset; and these need further investigate.

      Bifidobacteria and lactobacilli are commonly found in breast-fed infants; 19 and most of the
      NEC in VLBW infants occurred before 6-8 weeks of age; 20 therefore, we hypothesized that
      early oral probiotics contains Bifidobacteria and lactobacilli fed to preterm VLBW infants
      for 6 weeks could reduce the incidence and severity of NEC.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS From July 1, 2005 to Dec 31, 2006, a prospective masked randomized
      control trial will be conducted at the level III Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of eight
      neonatal centers in Taiwan. Study is approved by Institutional Review Board (IRB) of each
      hospital. Preterm VLBW infants (birth weight < 1500 gm) who were enterally fed are eligible
      for the trial. They are randomized into the study or control group by a random number table
      sequence after informed parental consents were obtained. The allocations are contained in
      opaque sequentially numbered and sealed envelopes. Preterm VLBW infants who have severe
      asphyxia (stage III), fetal chromosome anomalies, fetal cyanotic congenital heart disease,
      congenital intestine atresia, gastroschisis and omphalocele were excluded.

      The clinicians who provided care to the infants are blinded to the grouping. Investigators
      were not involved in the care of these infants. Study group is fed with infloran
      (Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium bifidus, Swiss Serum and Vaccine Institute
      Berne, Switzerland) 125mg/kg/dose (CFU 109) twice daily with breast milk for 6 weeks; the
      control group is fed with breast milk alone. Infloran was stored in refrigerator at a
      tempreture between 2 -80 C and mixed with breast milk before feeding. Breast milk was either
      from infant's own mother's milk or from breast milk bank. Both breast milk of the study and
      control group are prepared by breast milk team who were not involved in the care of the
      infant and follow the order from a sealed envelop. Feeding is started when the infant*s vital
      signs were stable, have active bowel movement, without abdominal distension, without bile or
      blood from the nasogastric tube, and did not have an umbilical artery or umbilical venous
      catheter in place for at least 24 hours.

      A strict feeding protocol is followed for all study infants. Depending on the birth weight
      and gestational age, a certain amount of breast milk is initiated after the infant tolerated
      one trial of distilled water. On the first day, 1 mL/kg - distilled water was given twice,
      followed by breast milk. The amount of feeding was advanced slowly if tolerated, with no more
      than 20 mL/kg/day of increment per feed. An oral intake of 100 mL/kg/d is defined as complete
      enteral feeding. Feeding was stopped if there was any sign of feeding intolerance, defined as
      the presence of gastric aspirate in the amount that was more than half of the previous
      feeding, twice, with abdominal distension. Infants who weighed under 1,000gm received total
      parenteral nutrition (TPN) until half of the calories were supplied by oral route. The same
      attending physician is in charge of the care of the infants during their hospital stay. The
      residents who rotated through the NICU provided the care following established protocols in
      the unit. Definition of prenatal steroid, small for gestational age, prolonged rupture of
      amniotic membrane, chorioamnionitis, asphyxia, respiratory distress syndrome, patent ductus
      arteriosus, intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), sepsis; indication of surfactant and
      indomethacin are described as in our previous study. [16 ] There were no modifications in any
      management protocols, clinical practices, equipment, infrastructure, or any other elements in
      the unit during the study period, and all the protocols got consensus in the eight centers
      after several discussion.

      NEC is classified by modified Bell's classification. 21[39] The final determination of the
      diagnosis of NEC (≧ stage2) is made by two independent attending physicians who did not know
      the group assignment of the infant. Demographic and clinical variables that are potential
      risk factors for NEC were prospectively abstracted from the medical records. These factors
      included chorioamnionitis, prolonged rupture of amniotic membrane (PROM) >18 hours,
      pre-eclampsia, use of prenatal steroid, multiple -pregnancy, mode of delivery, gender,
      gestational age, birth weight, small for gestational age, Apgar score at 5 minutes, asphyxia,
      initial Hb, initial body temperature, use of surfactant, use of indomethacin, dosage of
      indomethacin, days of UAC and UVC, days of fasting, use of dopamine, days of antibiotics use,
      days of dopamine use, incidence and grading of IVH, incidence of pneumothorax, days of
      mechanical ventilation and oxygen supplement, days of TPN before and after NEC; weight gain
      per week, lengthy of stay are prospectively abstracted from the medical records.

      Primary outcome measurement was the incidence and severity of NEC (≧ stage2); and death.
      Secondary outcome were, culture proved sepsis, chronic lung disease, periventricular
      leukomalacia (PVL) , weight gain per week, duration of TPN, lengthy of stay, cost effective
      analysis.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION AND STATISTICS According to the unpublished data of Premature Baby
      Foundation of Taiwan and Bravura of National Health Insurance (2003-2004), the recent data
      showed that the combined incidence of NEC (≧stage 2) or death for preterm VLBW infants was
      about 25 % for level III neonatal center in Taiwan. Setting the α error at 0.05 and β error
      at 0.1; and an absolute reduction of the incidence of NEC or death by 50%, the number needed
      to verify our hypothesis was 203 for each arm.
    
  