
    
      After mifepristone was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration in 2000,
      the combination of mifepristone 200 mg and vaginal use of misoprostol 800 mcg became almost a
      standard of care in early medical abortion up to 63 days of gestation. When combined with
      mifepristone for medical abortion in the first trimester, vaginal administration of
      misoprostol is more effective, faster, and has a lower rate of ongoing pregnancy, and fewer
      gastrointestinal side effects than oral misoprostol.

      Although misoprostol is more effective when given vaginally, most women prefer the oral route
      because this can avoid the uncomfortable vaginal examination and provide more privacy during
      medical induction. Another concern about vaginal administration is the potential risk of
      infection. In late March 2006, analyses of serious uterine infections following medical
      abortions by a regimen of oral mifepristone followed by vaginal misoprostol led Planned
      Parenthood Federation of America health centres to change the route of misoprostol
      administration. Given these concerns, alternative administration via sublingual (holding
      pills under the tongue) and buccal (holding pills in the cheek) routes have been
      investigated, as the misoprostol is absorbed directly and avoids the gastrointestinal system
      similar to vaginal administration.

      A pharmacokinetic study showed that sublingual administration of misoprostol resulted in the
      greatest bioavailability when compared with oral or vaginal administration. In a randomized,
      cross-over pharmacokinetic study of 10 women by Schaff and colleagues of sublingual versus
      buccal misoprostol 800 mcg, the mean misoprostol plasma concentration-time curves at 4 hours
      and the maximum concentration were significantly higher for sublingual administration than
      the buccal route. However, buccal misoprostol administration resulted in fewer symptoms and
      was found to be more acceptable by women.

      Buccal misoprostol 800 mcg after mifepristone 200 mg for terminating pregnancy through 63
      days of gestation has a higher success rate and less ongoing pregnancy when compared with
      oral misoprostol, especially in pregnancies of 57-63 days. Adverse effect profiles were
      similar, although fever and chills were reported approximately 10% more often among women who
      took buccal misoprostol. When used for abortion through 56 days of gestation, buccal
      administration of misoprostol after mifepristone appears to be a highly effective and
      acceptable alternative compared with vaginal administration, and with similar adverse effects
      profile.

      Medical abortions of less than 9 weeks gestation using sublingual misoprostol 800 mcg after
      mifepristone 200 mg has achieved complete abortion rate of 98.2% but is associated with more
      gastrointestinal side effects, fever, and chills when compared with vaginal route.

      Both buccal and sublingual administration of misoprostol following mifepristone have been
      shown to be effective in inducing first trimester medical abortions, but with different side
      effects profile. No clinical trials have been conducted comparing buccal and sublingual
      administration of misoprostol in first trimester medical abortion. The purpose of the present
      study is to compare the incidence of side effects of buccal and sublingual misoprostol when
      combined with mifepristone.
    
  