
    
      Prior work by Dr. Gawande showed that the incidence of a retained foreign body is between 1
      in 9000 and 1 in 19000 inpatient operations, or at least once a year for a hospital of any
      size. Leaving foreign objects in body cavities after surgery can lead to infection, bowel
      obstruction and in some cases, death. The current approach to preventing this problem is
      based on adherence to a counting protocol to check the number of instruments and sponges at
      the beginning and end of the case. The problem of retained foreign body is often attributed
      to error in the counting process-for example in the case of a retained object, count totals
      at the beginning and end of the case can be erroneous if an item was not initially counted,
      or if an item was "double- counted" at the end of a case. In addition to this potential for
      incorrect counts, the counting protocols can lead to disruptions in case flow and
      inefficiencies.

      In an observational study of surgical performance, which brought human factors experts into
      Brigham and Women's Hospital operating rooms to examine 10 complex cases, counting protocols
      for tracking instruments and sponges in particular played a surprisingly negative role on
      team performance. After the incision was made, nurses devoted an average of 35 minutes to the
      counting protocols. This represented 14.5% of the operative time. During this time, the
      investigators were able to document substantial negative effects on surgical work while the
      nurses were involved in the counting protocol. Furthermore, a counting discrepancy was
      observed to occur in two-thirds of the cases with a total of 17 discrepancies in 9 cases. As
      a result, in several patients, progress of a still-incomplete operation had to be
      substantially delayed or suspended while the nurses attempted to reconcile inconsistencies.

      Based on these 2 studies, we conducted a rigorous search and innovation process, generating
      five possible technologies to detect when instruments or sponges are left behind. Discussions
      with engineers and a focus group of operating room nurses identified two of these
      technologies as most feasible for adoption: (1) bar-coded sponges; and (2) a computer vision
      system for tracking instruments.

      SurgiCount Medical, which has subsequently joined Patient Safety Technologies, both of Los
      Angeles, has designed the Safety-sponge System, which utilizes bar-coded sponges and is now
      available for testing. The 4" x 4" X-ray detectable gauze sponges and 18" x 18" X-Ray
      detectable laparotomy pads are manufactured in the same fashion as sponges currently used
      today. They contain the X-ray detectable strip that can identify a retained sponge on a plain
      X-ray. A unique bar code (data matrix code) has been securely affixed to each sponge. The
      datamatrix code with ECC200 error correction allows for accuracy up to 1 error in 10.5
      million (worst case), 1 in 612.9 million (best case). FDA 510K exemption status for the bar
      coded sponge has already been secured by the manufacturer. The bar code detector (sponge
      counter) has been designed as a small handheld computer with a touchscreen display.

      Before introducing new technology into a healthcare system, it is important to study the
      effect that technology will have on the system. This includes both whether the new technology
      has the desired effect, but also whether there are any unintended negative effects. Our
      pre-clinical simulations suggest that the Safety-Sponge System has the potential to improve
      safety and efficiency in the operating room and other hospitals are moving ahead with
      purchase of the system. However we argue that the benefit must be proven in a randomized
      trial comparing it to the traditional counting protocol.

      If our hypothesis is correct, this technology could revolutionize the counting procedures and
      improve both safety and efficiency in the operating room. This could decrease the risk of
      retained foreign bodies for patients. In addition, it could decrease the workload for the
      nursing staff in the operating room, leading to improvements in their working conditions and
      the overall safety of the system.

      Comparisons: patients will be randomized to one of two equal groups: usual counting protocol
      versus bar-code technology assisted counting.
    
  