
    
      This is an open-label, single-arm, ascending dose Phase I/II study of BIO 300 Oral Suspension
      given in combination with paclitaxel/carboplatin and radiotherapy in subjects with stage II,
      III, or IV NSCLC who are candidates for combined chemoradiotherapy.

      A minimum of 6 subjects will be accrued sequentially at each dose level of BIO 300. BIO 300
      will be administered daily for the entire course of concurrent chemoradiotherapy, a minimum
      of 6 weeks; in combination with standard paclitaxel / carboplatin chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy.

      The initial dose of BIO 300 will be administered on Day 1, Visit 2 in which safety data
      (adverse events, electrocardiograms (ECGs), results of safety laboratory determinations),
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) data will be collected. PK data will be
      collected from a minimum of six (6) study subjects from each cohort. PD data will be
      collected from all subjects in each study cohort. Day 1 of chemotherapy will be scheduled at
      the discretion of the investigator provided the subject has completed a minimum of 1 day of
      BIO 300 dosing. BIO 300 will be administered in combination with the chemotherapy components
      of the protocol (paclitaxel and carboplatin). During the first or second chemotherapy
      infusion, additional safety, PK and PD data will be collected. Day 1 of radiation therapy
      (RT) may be scheduled at the discretion of the investigator provided the subject has
      completed a minimum of 2 days of BIO 300 dosing. BIO 300 will continue to be administered
      daily; paclitaxel and carboplatin will be administered weekly and radiotherapy will be
      administered daily until a total dose of 60-70 Gy has been administered. During the period of
      combined BIO 300 and chemoradiotherapy (6-7 weeks), additional safety, PK and PD data will be
      collected weekly. An interim data analysis will be completed once the highest dose cohort
      concludes chemoradiation therapy, in an effort to determine the optimal biological dose.
      Following analysis, there will be an option to enroll up to an additional 12 subjects at the
      optimal biological dose. At the conclusion of the study, primary and secondary outcome
      measures will be evaluated. Data will be analyzed from all cohorts to determine the oncologic
      response, safety of BIO 300, and a recommended BIO 300 dose.
    
  