
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is a progressive inflammatory illness marked by severe functional
      declines, significant economic and social costs, and significant psychological distress.
      Environmental and psychosocial factors such as stress, mood disturbance, and coping
      mechanisms may contribute to changes in important health outcomes, including disability and
      disease activity in RA. This study will compare CBT with TCC, a relaxation-based
      intervention, combining elements of slow gentle movement with meditation, against a more
      traditional health education seminar. Outcome measures will include psychological adaptation,
      mood disturbance, sleep quality, physiological adaptation, and disease severity.

      Two hundred-ten patients will be randomly assigned to either CBT, TCC, or a control group.
      The CBT intervention will have three phases: 1) education on the nature of the adjustment
      process in chronic illness, 2) coping skill development, and 3) generalization and
      application of skills to everyday situations. Participants in the CBT group will attend 12
      weekly group sessions of about 2 hours each. Participants in the TCC group will learn to
      perform 18 movements under the guidance of an expert TCC teacher. TCC participants will have
      50 to 60 minute biweekly sessions during the 12-week study. Control group participants will
      attend weekly group educational sessions; these sessions will provide general knowledge about
      arthritis health and illness, and will include lectures, demonstrations, and
      question-and-answer sessions with experts in rheumatology, sleep science, and behavioral
      medicine.

      Participants will be assessed prior to beginning treatment, at mid-treatment (Week 6) and
      again at the end of treatment (Week 12 to 13). The long term effect of interventions will be
      assessed at follow-up interviews 4 months and 8 months after the end of formal treatment.
      Psychosocial adaptation, mood disturbance and sleep quality, self-reported pain, and immune
      function will be measured at all five assessment periods.
    
  