
    
      This is a randomized, third-party, placebo-controlled pilot study of h5G1.1-mAb, an antibody
      directed at the complement component C5, administered to patients with dermatomyositis with
      persistent disease. We are one of the four groups taking part in a multicenter trial under
      the sponsorship of Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

      In dermatomytosis, humorally-mediated damage to muscle and skin microvasculature appears very
      important. The deposition of the membrane attack complex (C5-9) on the capillaries has been
      shown to precede the destruction of muscle fibers and to be a specific finding in the skin
      lesion. These observations, along with the recent discovery of the effectiveness of
      intravenous gammaglobulin (IVIG) in dermatomyositis, support the role of complement
      activation in the pathogenesis of dermatomyositis. Among the activated components of the
      complement system, the products that are generated after cleavage of C5, namely, C5a and
      C5b-9, are potent inflammatory mediators with pleiotropic activities. Inhibition of
      complement activation at C5 would prevent the formation of these pro-inflammatory molecules
      while allowing the generation of C3b, which is critical for opsonization and immune complex
      clearance. C5 inhibition therefore represents a potentially effective therapeutic modality
      for dermatomyositis.

      Anti-C5 monoclonal antibodies are designed to prevent the cleavage of C5. A murine monoclonal
      antibody to human C5, m5G1.1-mAb, was humanized (h5G1.1-mAb) by grafting the antibody's
      antigen-binding CDR regions onto human antibody-derived framework and constant domains. This
      antibody is being made available by Alexion Pharmaceuticals, and will be used under their
      IND.

      There will be 15 patients entered (with the goal of 12 evaluable patients) distributed among
      two treatment groups. Patients will be randomized at a 3 to 1 ratio between h5G1.1-mAb and
      placebo. Following a screening period of no less than 7 days, a 2 month double-blind,
      randomized treatment period will commence. Patients will receive an active (h5G1.1-mAb,
      8mg/kg) bolus infusion every week X 5, then every 2 weeks X 2, or a placebo bolus infusion
      every week X 5, then every 2 weeks X 2. All patients will be receiving 7 infusions of
      h5G1.1-mAb or placebo.

      The objective is to determine the safety and tolerability of h5G1.1-mAb and to evaluate the
      pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this antibody as well as its efficacy in the target
      population. Safety will be assessed via the collection of adverse events and the evaluation
      of pre- and post-treatment laboratory data. Efficacy will be assessed by the change in the
      manual muscle testing score relative to placebo at 2.25 months (one week following the end of
      the active treatment period) (primary efficacy value), and the change in the muscle enzyme
      level, MRI findings, skin examination findings and biopsy, and SF-36 (secondary efficacy
      values).
    
  