
    
      Dry eye, or keratoconjunctivitis sicca, is a chronic inflammatory condition of the ocular
      surface that may cause severe symptoms an 2007 international dry eye workshop (DEWS) defined
      the disease as follows: "Dry eye is a multifactorial disease of the tears and oc symptoms of
      discomfort, visual disturbance, and tear film instability with potential damage to the ocular
      surface. It is accompanied the tear film and inflammation of the ocular surface".

      Lubricin is a mucin-like glycoprotein originally discovered in synovial fluid, as a secreted
      product of cells that line the joint tissues, surface of articular cartilage.

      In vitro studies have shown that lubricin in saline buffer acts as a lubricant between
      various surfaces, as well as in synovial fluid, pr lubricin is a principal lubricating
      protein in joints. Besides the lubricating property, lubricin has been shown to exert
      anti-adhesive ac dissipation, and a protective effect on underlying cells.

      Lubricin has been investigated on its roles at the ocular surface, in normal and pathologic
      conditions such as dry eye. In fact, Lubricin is the protein with most potent lubricant and
      anti-adhesive properties present on the ocular surface and on meibomian gland. The presence
      on the ocular surface was first described by the team of Sullivan D.

      Based on the available preclinical studies lubricin may be an important barrier to the
      development of corneal and conjunctival epitheliopathies in dry eyes and its use as a novel
      lubricating and anti-adhesive eye drop is under investigation in this clinical investigation.
      A clinical investigation is currently ongoing to demonstrate that a Lubricin 150 µg/ml eye
      drop formulation is non-inferior to an ocular surface lubricant sodium hyaluronate 0.13%.

      Up to now, there are no known anticipated adverse events associated with the use of lubricin,
      anyway the occurrence of side effect It must be considered that topical treatment with
      lubricin or hyaluronic acid could cause local irritation or allergic reactions. There ar
      contraindications to the use of lubricin or hyaluronic acid eye drops. All examinations and
      assessments that will be carried out durin invasive, are commonly used in the management of
      subjects with dry eye and pose no risk to the subjects. There are no known co lubricin or
      hyaluronic acid eye drops. . No data are available about the embryo and fetal toxicity,
      therefore the experimental treatment will not be allowed to pregnant women or nursing mothers
      and women of childbearing potential not using appropriate birth control methods.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate tolerability, safety and efficacy of Lubricin 150
      µg/ml eye drops when compared to a widely used commercial 0.18% sodium hyaluronate eye drop
      formulation in moderate dry eye patients.
    
  