
    
      Low back Pain (LBP) is defined by patients as a pain located between the low margins of the
      costal gridiron and the top limits of the buttock musculature, and it can either be of short
      or long duration. LBP is the most prevalent musculoskeletal problem, assuming a prevalence
      between 18,6% and 57,4%. Traditionally, the diagnosis of the DL continues to be based on
      pathoanatomical criteria even though, in numerous occasions, the outcomes found in
      complementary tests of image do not correlate with the intensity of pain and the level of
      disability of the patients. According to the guides of clinical practice, LBP can be divided
      in three subgroups: firstly, patients whose pain can be associated to a previous pathology,
      secondly, patients with a diagnosed neuropathic pain associated to a neurological condition,
      and lastly, patients who present LBP of unspecific characteristics, not preceded by any
      pathology or relevant damage. According to the World Health Organization, the latter
      represent 90% of the cases. Thus, this problem supposes a high index of chronicity, and it is
      the principal reason of labor absenteeism and disability encountered in society, as well as
      one of the most common motives of consultation in centers of primary care and specialized
      attention, which results in a high socioeconomic cost. As for the intervention of the CLBP,
      nowadays there are numerous studies based on disabling the processing of central and
      peripheral levels of pain by means of a multidisciplinary boarding based on psychology and on
      a biobehavioral approach. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficiency of a multimodal
      treatment by means of therapeutic exercise (TE) and education in neuroscience (NE), with or
      without manual therapy (MT).

      TE is one of the most frequently used techniques, and one of the most effective in patients
      with CLBP. Research shows reduction of pain in healthy people through either aerobic
      exercise, resistance exercise, or isometric exercise, showing an increase in pain thresholds
      and pain intensity. NE aims to change maladaptive beliefs and erroneous thoughts that
      interfere in the perception of pain and which lead to increase the presence of psychological
      variables such as fear of movement, hypervigilance, and catastrophism, enhancing the
      perpetuation and chronicity of the same. Additionally, MT offers a wide range of specific
      techniques for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders with the aim of obtaining a
      modulation of pain through the neurophysiological effects produced at both peripheral and
      central levels.

      The hypothesis of the present study is that TE, when combined with both NE and MT, is more
      effective on the principal variables of study after 3 months of follow-up. It is a clinical
      trial randomized with masking of the assessor. An evaluation of the variables previously
      described will take place, and it will be measured by a trained physical therapist before
      receiving the treatment. The second evaluation will be conducted after finishing the
      intervention, whereas a last evaluation will be undertaken after 3 months of follow-up. The
      intervention will be carried out by a specialized physical therapist that will use a
      multimodal approach in a simple, randomized way by means of the software known as GraphPad,
      which allows us to randomly divide the participants into two groups. The group control will
      receive a treatment based on a total of 8 sessions, at a rate of 2 sessions per week. In
      total, a number of 4 sessions of NE will take place once per week during a period of four
      weeks, together with 7 TE sessions. The experimental group will receive the same intervention
      that the control group in combination with TM based on a protocol, which will develop during
      a period of 20-25 minutes, 2 sessions per week, in a total of 8 sessions. Groups will have to
      continue receiving NE and, regularly, they will receive a total of 4 follow-ups on the
      process of education via audio-visual material.
    
  