
    
      A history of back pain during adulthood is related to a history of back pain during
      adolescence. Therefore, preventing back pain in adolescents helps to prevent their appearance
      in adulthood. Sagittal spinal misalignments and stability of the spine are in connection with
      back pain in adolescents. In addition, they influence on several spinal pathologies and
      decrease the functional capacity and quality of life of adolescents. Therefore, the
      objectives of the following project were: a) assess back pain in schoolchildren and check
      their relationship with quality of life, sagittal spine curvature, extensibility of the
      hamstring muscles, sedentary lifestyle, physical activity, BMI , percentage of body fat and
      the waist-hip index; b) measure the sagittal spinal curvature of the schoolchildren, the
      quality of life and the prevalence of physical activity among adolescents and check their
      relationship with the hamstring extensibility, sedentary lifestyle, the BMI , percentage of
      body fat and the waist-hip index; c) analyze the effect of a 10-minute Pilates program
      carried out in the final part of the Physical Education sessions for 4.5 months and 9 months
      on back pain, quality of life, sagittal spinal curvatures, the hamstring flexibility, the
      BMI, the percentage of body fat and the waist-hip index. The present investigation will be
      elaborated by a quasi-experimental design, with experimental group (GE) and control group
      (CG); with pretest, intermediate and post-test, with analysis of intra-group and inter-group
      measurements for each of the dependent variables selected in the study. The inclusion
      criteria will be: a) being in Compulsory Secondary Education; b) not present any
      musculoskeletal, neurological, cardiological, metabolic, rheumatic or previous history of
      spinal pathologies or with previous treatment; c) be active in the sessions of Physical
      Education. It was assessed back pain with Back Pain Survey in adolescents. Quality of life
      was assessed through the Kidscreen-27 questionnaire. To assess the sagittal spinal curvatura
      (in several position) the Spinal Mouse System (Idiag, Fehraltdorf, Switzerland) was used. The
      extensibility of hamstring muscle was assessed with seat and reach test, toe touch test and
      active and passive straight leg raising test. The sedentary lifestyle as well as the level of
      physical activity will be evaluated through the Adolescent International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire (IPAQ). The body mass index will be obtained by recording weight and height
      (BMI = Weight (kg) / height (cm) 2).

      The waist-hip ratio is the quotient between waist and hip circumferences, which is an
      indirect marker of intra-abdominal obesity.

      The intervention program consisted in the realization of exercises of the Pilates Method
      during the sessions of Physical Education. The duration of the program will be 32 weeks, with
      a frequency of two weekly sessions and a duration per intervention of 10 minutes. During this
      time the experimental group developed the intervention program with the Pilates Method and
      the control group carried out their usual sessions of Physical Education . All students to be
      taken into account in the research must have attended and conducted the practice at least 80%
      of sessions. The program consisted of four Pilates exercises, planned with a
      basic-intermediate level, gradually incorporating the Principles of the Pilates Method and
      increasing the intensity of the exercises. Among these four exercises, two focus on the work
      of the resistance of the flexor muscles of the trunk, one in the work of the resistance of
      the trunk extensor musculature and another in the work of hamstring extensibility.The
      exercises will be performed in cool down of the sessions of Physical Education.
    
  