
    
      This is a prospective observational study conducted in the 1st Propaedeutic Department of
      Surgery of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece. Patients with imaging
      and/or histologically proven periampullary tumors in which Whipple operation is indicated
      will be enrolled in the study after signing a consent designed by the Hospitals Ethics
      Commitee and the Department of Surgery. Patients information and medical history will be
      recorded, giving emphasis on clinical presentation, signs and symptoms related to the
      patients disease. Laboratory tests will afterwards take place, including biochemical
      parameters such as total bilirubin levels, serum albumin, CA 19-9, CEA, HbA1c and ferritine
      levels prior to operation. During operation, as soon as the specimen has been removed, the
      horizontal and vertical dimension of the pancreatic cutting surface will be measured with the
      use of an one use sterile ruler and the area of the cutting surface will then be calculated
      as well as the ratio of the two dimensions (horizontal/vertical). The diameter of the
      pancreatic duct will be measured either with the same ruler in case diameter is equal or
      greater than 3mm or with a use of a plastic stent in case diameter is less than 3mm.
      Pancreatic texture will also be assesed. Other intraoperative datas will be recorded such as
      the anastomosis technique, duration of surgery, amount of fluid administration, transfusion
      with fresh frosen plasma or blood units.Postoperatively, amylase from the drains, white blood
      cell count, platelet count and serum crp levels will be recorded on the 1st, 3rd and 5th
      postoperative day in all patients. The definition used for postoperative pancreatic fistula
      (POPF) is based on the International Study Group of Pancreatic Fistula 2016 definition and
      patients will be categorised accordingly. There will be two arms of patients. The first arm
      will include patients with either no POPF or Biochemical Leak (BL) and the second arm
      patients with Grade B or C POPF.

      Any complication in the early postoperative period ,defined as the first 30 days after
      Whipple operation, will be recorded and categorised according to Clavien Dindo
      classification, including reoperation, readmissions or prolongation of hospital stay. After
      discharge, follow up of the patients include the EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-PAN 26
      questionnaires that patients have to fill in one, three, six and twelve months after surgery.
      Reccurence and survival rates will accordingly be recorded.
    
  