
    
      BACKGROUND INFORMATION

      In contemporary breast cancer management, more than 70% of breast cancer patients are
      eligible for - and select - breast-conserving therapy (BCS). However, issues with cosmesis,
      patient experience, and treatment workflow efficiency during the therapeutic process have
      considerable room for improvement.

      BCS consists of a surgical procedure whereby the suspicious tumor and a rim of surrounding
      normal tissue are removed. Up to one-third of all diagnosed breast cancers are
      non-palpable,and require some form of pre-operative localization to guide precise surgical
      excision. Currently, options for localization of non-palpable lesions are suboptimal in terms
      of patient experience, healthcare system resource utilization, and cost-effectiveness.

      One of the most common approaches is radioactive seed localization (RSL). RSL consists of
      insertion of a small radioactive seed under ultrasound guidance to mark the center and/or
      borders of the tumor. During the procedure the surgeon uses a hand-held probe to detect the
      seed and guide surgical excision of the lesion intra-operatively. While RSL is effective the
      use of a radioactive source is and poses many challenges for patients and staff.

      WHAT ARE THE INVESTIGATORS DOING?

      The investigative team of surgeons and scientists are examining an alternative approach to
      BCS called magnetic occult lesion localization and imaging (MOLLI). Analogous to RSL, this
      procedure involves implantation of a small passive magnetic seed - under ultrasound imaging
      guidance - directly into or surrounding the tumor; during the procedure the surgeon uses a
      novel hand-held probe to intra-operatively detect the position of this seed and remove the
      tumor.

      WHY IS THE STUDY BEING CONDUCTED?

      MOLLI offers many of the same benefits as RSL but without any radiation. MOLLI also has the
      potential to be more effective and accurate than other localization methods.

      WHAT WILL HAPPEN DURING THE STUDY?

      As part of this study, researchers will look at how safe the MOLLI system is in finding the
      tumor in the participant's breast. The study will also gather information on the
      participant's experience of having the MOLLI seed placed. Participants will undergo both
      MOLLI as well as the current standard method, RSL, ensuring that the area of concern will be
      accurately located and then removed. Approximately 20 women will take part in this study

      ARE THERE SIDE EFFECTS?

      No side effects are expected from the study treatments. Possible risks associated with using
      MOLLI include:

        -  A small risk of bleeding following both visits

        -  A remote risk of allergic reaction to nickel contained in the MOLLI seeds

      WHAT WILL HAPPEN AFTER THE STUDY?

      Participants may be contacted by a study team member up to and including 16 weeks (6.5
      months) after your procedure to take part in a short telephone questionnaire. The
      questionnaire should take no more than 5 minutes to complete.
    
  