
    
      Bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer
      patients. Skeletal complications due to metastatic disease include (severe) bone pain,
      impaired mobility, spinal cord compression, pathological fractures, and hypercalcemia.
      Radiotherapy and surgery are the options for the specific local treatment of bone metastases.
      Chemotherapy, hormonotherapy and bisphosphonates are systemic weapons used in the treatment
      of bone metastases with or without hypercalcemia. Cancers with propensity to metastasize to
      bones such as breast, prostate, lung and myeloma may possess the capacity to interact with
      osteoclasts. Osteoclasts are specialized bone cells, which erode mineralized bone by
      secreting acids and lysosomal enzymes. In normal bone remodeling, osteoclastic bone
      resorption is coupled to and is in equilibrium with osteoblastic bone formation. The lytic
      bone destruction associated with malignant bone metastases develops because tumor cells
      synthesize and release soluble factors that stimulate osteoclasts to resorb bone. The
      malignant activation of osteoclasts results in a disruption of normal bone remodeling wherein
      the equilibrium between bone resorption and bone formation is shifted toward increased bone
      resorption. This relative increase in osteoclastic bone resorption results in a net loss of
      bone.

      Zoledronic acid (Zometa®, CGP42446) is a member of a class of compounds known as
      bisphosphonates. Bisphosphonates are effective inhibitors of osteoclastic bone resorption.
      They have therapeutic efficacy in the treatments of hypercalcemia of malignancy, lytic bone
      disease associated with multiple myeloma, and mixed lytic and blastic bone metastases
      associated with breast cancer, prostate cancer and lung cancer. In the clinical setting,
      zoledronic acid is the most potent bisphosphonate.

      Conventionally, external beam radiotherapy (RT) is a primary treatment method for the
      palliation of bone metastases. The aim of RT in bone metastases treatment is to eradicate
      malignant cells without damaging surrounding normal cells. RT is typically given to the
      lesion area, in order to spare as much bone marrow as possible. RT is indicated in solitary,
      lytic and painful bone lesions of multiple myeloma as well as bone metastases from solid
      tumors such as breast, prostate and lung cancer to prevent the fracture risk or to relieve
      the pain.

      The goal of this study will be to evaluate the safety and efficacy of concomitant standard RT
      and standard zoledronic acid on the bone metastases of breast, prostate or lung cancer
      patients. We chose zoledronic acid to use in this study, as it is the most effective FDA
      approved aminobisphosphonate.
    
  