
    
      A prospective study in which patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) with fever
      and a central line will have procalcitonin levels checked, along with their CBC and blood
      culture. Procalcitonin levels will be recorded and blood culture results will be followed to
      see whether higher procalcitonin levels correlate with a greater risk of having a positive
      blood culture.

      A prospective study will be conducted on patients with fever and a central line who present
      to the Emergency Department. Written informed consent will be obtained for each patient. We
      will include all patients 18 years of age and younger and exclude patients who had received
      antibiotics within the previous 24 hours of presenting to the ED as studies have shown that
      PCT levels dramatically decrease with the institution of antibiotic therapy. Patients will be
      identified on presentation to our ED with a chief complaint of "Fever and Central Venous
      Catheter". Diagnosis of sepsis will be made by clinical findings (fever, chills, altered
      mental status…) and confirmed by laboratory findings (leukocytosis or leucopenia with
      neutropenia, and later positive blood cultures). Management of each individual patient was
      determined by the pediatric emergency medicine physician in consult with a pediatric
      hematologist-oncologist and, in required cases, by an intensivist.

      On presentation to the ED, all patients will have a CBC with differential, blood culture from
      the central line and procalcitonin levels drawn. All will receive empiric antibiotics
      initiated with either Ceftriaxone (if the patients is clinically stable and non-neutropenic
      defined as an Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC)>1500 cells/microliter) or with Cefepime and
      Gentamicin in the neutropenic or ill appearing patient.

      Electronic medical records will be reviewed for patient demographics, medical and social
      history and clinical presentation. Medical records during admission will be used to follow
      the progression and hospital stay as well as the management used. Office records will be used
      for post admission outcomes.

      Levels of PCT will be determined using the Brahms Kryptor compact which required a minimum of
      200 microliters of plasma, serum or whole blood to run a PCT level and could detect a level
      as low as <0.02ng/ml within 20-25 minutes. Levels reported as <0.05ng/ml are considered not
      indicative of sepsis while levels >2 ng/ml are indicative of high sepsis probability. Levels
      in between 0.05 and 2 suggest a repeat level be drawn after 24 hours.
    
  