
    
      Long acting reversible contraception (LARC) including the IUD provides several advantages
      that may be attractive to women. These include non-daily use, rapid reversibility and low
      failure rates. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) endorses the
      use of IUDs among adolescents and nulliparous women, dispelling the myth that IUD use is
      contraindicated in this population.

      Rates of IUD uptake among nulliparous women have not been reported. There are some barriers
      that may help explain the low uptake of IUDs by teens and nulliparous women, including fear
      of pain during IUD insertion. This concern is also voiced by providers who perceive pain with
      IUD insertion to be higher among nulliparous women (Allen, Goldberg et al. 2009).

      There is limited evidence comparing subjective pain scores with IUD insertion between
      nulliparous versus parous women. However, there have been a number of studies evaluating the
      efficacy of misoprostol, non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and local anesthesia in
      reducing pain during IUD insertion. These included comparisons of pain scores between both
      nulliparous and multiparous women and reported pain scores by group. These studies have
      failed to demonstrate evidence that any of the aforementioned interventions significantly
      reduce pain scores compared to placebo (Allen et al. 2009). We conclude that pain with IUD
      insertion among nulliparous and adolescent women is within the high range of pain scale
      measurement standards. Therefore, further investigations of optimizing pain management during
      this procedure are warranted in order to lead to increased acceptability and adoption of IUDs
      among this population of women.

      Nitrous oxide (NO) is an inhaled gas administered with oxygen in a fixed ratio for analgesia
      and sedation. It has been used for many years for procedural analgesia and anesthesia in
      outpatient settings and it reduces anxiety, the perception of pain and alters consciousness.
      It is attractive for the clinic setting as it demonstrates rapid induction and rapid
      resolution, allows for patient control of use, exhibits few side effects and boasts a benign
      safety profile in the setting of scavenging systems and open air clinics. Furthermore, NO
      systems are relatively inexpensive and noninvasive.

      For all these reasons, NO seems to be an ideal approach for pain management with IUD
      insertion for nulliparous women. No studies have investigated the use of NO in this context.
      The aim of our study is to objectively identify pain reduction scores and satisfaction with
      NO use compared to typical insertion practices during IUD insertion for nulliparous women.
    
  