
    
      Lung cancer is one of the most common malignancies and tumor-related causes of death
      worldwide. In the last years, significant advances have been observed in the treatment of non
      small cell lung cancer, in particular for the population of patients with a driver genetic
      mutation like EGFR and ALK. For the remaining cases, the main novelty has been represented by
      immunotherapy with anti-PD1/PDL1 agents, which have proved a benefit over previous standard
      of care (platinum-based chemotherapy in first line and docetaxel in second line). , Only
      patients wih tumors expressing high PD-L1 levels have had access to immunotherapy alone as
      first line treatment. For all the remaining cases, the standard-of-care treatment in the
      first-line setting has remained platinum-based chemotherapy for several years. This algorithm
      has been recently changed by the approval of combined chemotherapy(platinum salt +
      pemetrexed) and immunotherapy (pembrolizumab) as a first-line therapy for patients with lung
      adenocarcinoma and low/absent PD-L1 expression. This regimen has entered into clinical
      practice following the positive results of a clinical trial, showing superior outcome with
      the combination than with chemotherapy alone. Lung adenocarcinoma with LKB1 mutations or
      macro/micro deletions has a particularly aggressive behavior and seems to be resistant to the
      effects of immunotherapy, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy. Indeed, such a
      population appears to be disadvantaged as regards therapeutic options and requires the
      development of different approaches. LKB1 enzyme is involved in intracellular pathways that
      are crucial in the regulation of cancer cell metabolism. Metabolic reprogramming is a key
      step in tumorigenesis and several metabolic pathways, including glucose uptake and
      utilization, or lipid biosynthesis and utilization, are deregulated in cancer cells compared
      to their normal counterpart. Cells with hypo-active or inactive LKB1 are peculiar in that
      they show an exquisite vulnerability to energetic deprivation. Indeed, they are unable to
      survive when exposed to nutrient deprivation or drugs that affect cancer cell bioenergetics
      or specific metabolic processes. In particular, the class of drugs known as biguanides, which
      include the antidiabetic compound metformin, are able to inhibit mitochondrial metabolism and
      to reduce the intracellular concentration of ATP, and have shown antitumor activity in mouse
      xenografts of LKB1-mutated lung adenocarcinomas. Based on the well known effects of metformin
      on cancer cell metabolism, as well as on preclinical evidence showing synergistic activity of
      cisplatin and metformin in lung cancer cell lines and animal models with LKB1 deletion, we
      hypothesize that combining chemoimmunotherapy (platinum salt + pemetrexed + pembrolizumab)
      with either metformin (MERCY arm), or metformin plus a lowcalorie, low-carbohydrate,
      low-protein diet also known as Fasting Mimicking Diet (FMD) (FAME arm), may improve the
      efficacy of standard treatment alone for patients with LKB1-inactive lung adenocarcinoma.

      The patients considered eligible and enrolled in the study will be included in FAME, MERCY or
      BORN arms according to the aforementioned eligibility criteria. Patients in each arm will
      receive the following treatment:

        -  FAME -> up to a maximum of 4 cycles of a platinum salt + pemetrexed + pembrolizumab in
           association to metformin and to tri-weekly, 5 day-long cycles of FMD.

        -  MERCY -> up to a maximum of 4 cycles of a platinum salt + pemetrexed + pembrolizumab in
           association to metformin.

        -  BORN -> standard treatment at investigator's choice or observation only in case of
           clinical conditions contraindicating any active therapy.

      In both arms FAME and MERCY, the patients with stable or responding disease after 4 cycles of
      chemotherapy will continue with maintenance pemetrexed and pembrolizumab in association to
      metformin until disease progression and/or inacceptable toxicity.
    
  