
    
      Our study sites requested that we pause implementation due to clinical efforts and site
      disruption related to Covid-19. Date of study resumption is unclear.

      Adequate access to mental health is one of the most important problems facing the VA and VISN
      19. Mental health patients who are stabilized and recovered should be transitioned back to
      primary care to increase availability in mental health for new patients, and to signal to
      recovered patients that they are successfully recovered. Because there are currently no
      methods to identify who is recovered or tools and processes to assist in transitions, few
      patients 'graduate' mental health. The FLOW program consists of an algorithm to identify
      patients who are potentially appropriate for transition, a user-friendly online report to
      communicate this information to providers, materials to explain this process to patients and
      providers, and an electronic medical record (EMR) note template to document the transition.
      The investigators are partnering with VISN 19 to evaluate this program using a stepped wedge
      design with 9 sites randomly allocated into 3 steps in the wedge. Sites will receive an
      evidence-based implementation facilitation approach. The investigators will evaluate the
      number of patients transitioned, success of those transitions, and patient and provider
      satisfaction.

      Specific aims for this proposal are:

        1. To evaluate the impact of FLOW, using the evaluation framework RE-AIM, including:

             1. Reach of the program: % of clinic patients transitioned to PC using FLOW

             2. Effectiveness: successful transition to primary care and impact on clinic access
                for future patients

             3. Adoption: percent of providers in the selected clinics transitioning patients to
                primary care

             4. Implementation: use of all FLOW components

             5. Maintenance: sustainment of FLOW after withdrawal of external facilitation

        2. To evaluate structural and process implementation factors, including organizational
           readiness to change, staffing levels, interservice agreements about care, leadership
           support, and internal facilitation.
    
  