
    
      Rationale for amendment 3:

      The findings from the first year of the implementation of the active surveillance showed that
      most Lower Respiratory Tract-Related Post-Neonatal (LRTI) Mortality cases could not be
      included into the study, because most of the grieving parents refused to participate in the
      study. The European Medicines Agency Marketing Authorization Holders (EMEA MAH) also
      generated a substantial amount of additional clinical and post-marketing safety data
      throughout the world, which clearly indicated the absence of any safety signal when
      considering the LTRI-related fatalities. Therefore surveillance for LRTI mortality cases was
      removed from the study design. The number of sites was reduced from approximately 230 to
      about 60 to 90 in order to reflect the above mentioned change that reduced the need for so
      many sites. Additionally, passive surveillance for IS cases through the IMSS database was not
      feasible, due to restrictions of the IMSS internal policies and to the current limitations in
      the databases linkage and structure abilities.

      Lastly, SAEs reporting procedures had to be adjusted according to the Council for
      International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) Working Group V, 2001 publication
      such that there will be no expedited safety reporting for this study.

      Design This is a post marketing ,Phase IV, observational, prospective, self-controlled case
      series, vaccine safety study including: a) hospital-based surveillance to monitor for the
      occurrence of IS through active surveillance; b) a self-controlled case series (SCCS)
      design/analysis to assess the temporal association with Rotarix™ of the IS ascertained
      through active surveillance.

      The aim of the active hospital-based surveillance system is to identify all definite IS cases
      in children younger than one year of age (children ineligible on day of first birthday) among
      IMSS members. Surveillance will be conducted in approximately 60 to 90 IMSS health facilities
      with pediatric surgery service.

      Study participation for children fitting the surveillance case definition of IS will include
      parental/guardian/legal representative interview, as well as a review of medical charts and
      vaccination records. Additional medical information will be collected through medical record
      review during hospitalization and after the child has been discharged.
    
  