
    
      Atrial fibrillation, also known as AF or Afib, is an abnormal and irregular heart rhythm in
      which electrical signals are generated chaotically throughout the upper chambers (atria) of
      the heart. According to the NICE clinical guidelines, a patient who experiences recurrent
      (two or more) AF episodes that terminate spontaneously without any treatment in less than
      seven days, and usually within 48 hours is classified as having paroxysmal AF. It has been
      shown that paroxysmal AF comprises approximately between 25% and 62% of cases of AF, and it
      is estimated that both its incidence and prevalence are likely to rise as the worldwide
      population ages dramatically over the next twenty years. Interestingly, hospitalizations due
      to AF have increased sharply in the US during the last decade, posing thereby a heavy
      economic burden on the health care system and society.

      Likewise, hypertension (HTN) also constitutes a major public health problem globally, and its
      prevalence is set to increase owing to widespread population ageing. This epidemiological
      trend is especially prevalent in rapidly developing countries where early routine screening
      at any point of health care is underutilized among risk subjects, due to several perceived
      barriers. Moreover, HTN awareness is critical for optimal BP control since under-diagnosis,
      under-treatment and/or un-treatment of high BP levels can have deleterious effects on the
      cardiovascular system. In addition, HTN is the single most important risk factor for
      cerebrovascular stroke, and it has been clearly demonstrated that it is also associated with
      structural and functional changes in the myocardium that favor the development of AF, further
      increasing the risk of thromboembolism. Among those alterations, left ventricular hypertrophy
      (LVH), impaired ventricular filling, left atrial enlargement and slowing of atrial conduction
      velocity have been identified as important heralds of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
      More specifically, since HTN and AF are two conditions that often co-exist, especially in
      patients with advanced age, the risk for considerable morbidity and mortality is increased
      even more, which points towards the significance that optimal BP control holds in the
      prevention of cardiovascular events. To our knowledge, in the Framingham Heart Study, after
      controlling for age and other predisposing conditions, HTN and diabetes emerged as the only
      cardiovascular risk factors predicting AF.

      It has also been suggested that nocturnal HTN and non-dipping of BP during sleep are distinct
      entities that often occur together and are regarded as important harbingers of poor
      cardiovascular prognosis. Recently, Pierdomenico et al., showed that non-dipper sustained
      hypertensives have a two-fold greater risk of developing AF than dipper ones. This may be due
      to the fact that nighttime HTN may be a powerful determinant of long-standing left
      ventricular diastolic dysfunction, which subsequently increases atrial stretch. Furthermore,
      it has been observed that nighttime hemodynamics, are associated with higher sympathetic and
      reduced vagal activity, which may trigger AF. Additionally, sympathetic activation is
      associated with the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis (RAAA), which leads
      to increased left ventricular diastolic preload, both atrial and ventricular fibrosis,
      exerting thus direct cellular electrophysiological effects. Besides, scientists suggested
      that nighttime HTN is better associated with cardiovascular target organ damage (TOD) as
      compared with the non-dipping pattern.

      According to the most recent guidelines of the ESH, the presence of microalbuminuria,
      increased pulse wave velocity, LVH on echocardiogram and carotid plaques detected during
      carotid ultrasonography, constitute markers of asymptomatic organ damage and it has been
      clearly demonstrated from multiple studies that they can predict CV mortality independently
      of SCORE stratification.

      In our study we will try to investigate whether abnormalities in the circadian rhythm of BP
      (such as extreme dipping or non-dipping pattern, and/or morning surge) in hypertensive
      subjects with or without TOD are associated with the development of new-onset paroxysmal AF.

      24-hr ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) along with the 24-hour blood pressure monitors with AF
      detector will help us to examine the incidence of AF in extremely dippers or non-dippers,
      and/or patients exhibiting a morning surge in BP, with or without TOD. Some of the questions
      that we aim to answer while conducting this study are whether an asymptomatic AF episode is
      more commonly detected in extreme dippers, non-dippers, or morning surgers, during daytime or
      during nighttime, or whether TOD is associated with asymptomatic AF episodes.

      Importantly, Iqbal et al, demonstrated that there is an association between AF and nighttime
      DBP. On top of that, during the past decade, a research study conducted in 546 hypertensive
      subjects aged < 60 years of age and who were followed-up for 9.2 years, showed that DBP,
      whether 24-hr mean, daytime mean, or nighttime mean, provided the most incremental value for
      the prediction of morbid events. Thereby, we want to examine if AF episodes have any
      association with the 24hr systolic and the diastolic blood pressure (DBP) levels. It would
      also be interesting to observe for any associations between AF occurrence and the mean 24-hr
      ABPM and office heart rate (HR).

      Moreover, it has been showed that pulse pressure (PP) determines left atrial enlargement in
      non-dipper patients with never-treated essential HTN. Thus, in our study, we will also
      examine whether a wide PP is associated with silent AF episodes in treated hypertensive
      subjects.

      Summarizing, the goals of our study are to determine a).the association between abnormal
      circadian BP and the development of paroxysmal AF in hypertensive patients, b).at which level
      of TOD, paroxysmal AF episodes are detected in hypertensive subjects, c).if there is any
      association between systolic and/or diastolic BP levels with AF occurrence, d).whether the
      mean heart rate during a 24-hr interval is associated with the development of paroxysmal AF,
      and finally e).examine the relationship between a wide PP and asymptomatic AF episodes in
      patients with HTN.

      Study Population We will evaluate all adult patients referred by their family physicians to
      the "Hypertension and Cardiovascular Prevention" Outpatient Clinic at Evangelismos General
      Hospital in Athens, from June 2015 to present.

      All patients with an average office systolic BP ≥140 mmHg and/or an average diastolic BP ≥90
      mmHg on three consecutive visits are considered as having essential HTN. Furthermore,
      individuals under treatment with one or more antihypertensive drug are also enrolled in the
      study.

      Objectives Primary endpoint

      • To investigate whether nighttime BP patterns (extreme dipping, normal dipping or reduced
      dipping and non-dipping including risers) or early morning surge are associated with the
      detection of paroxysmal AF in hypertensive subjects.

      Further definitions Normal diurnal systolic and diastolic BP pattern: arterial BP has a daily
      variation characterized by substantial reductions during sleep, a rapid rise upon awakening,
      and increased variability during the awake period in ambulant normal subjects and
      hypertensive patients.

      Reduced diurnal systolic and diastolic BP pattern: nocturnal systolic and/or DBP fall from 1
      to 10% of daytime values or night/day systolic and/or diastolic BP ratio <1 and >0.9.

      Nocturnal HTN: increased absolute level of night time systolic and/or diastolic BP (≥120/70
      mmHg).19 Dipping pattern is defined as daytime-nighttime BP/daytime BP reduction - based on
      either ABP or home BP (HBP) monitoring- greater than 10% for systolic and/or diastolic BP.
      Nighttime HTN is defined as nighttime ABP or HBP ≥125/75 mmHg (systolic and/or diastolic).

      Non-dipping and rising: no reduction or increase in nocturnal systolic and/or diastolic BP or
      night/day systolic and/or diastolic BP ratio ≥1.

      Extreme dipping: marked nocturnal systolic and/or diastolic BP fall>20% of daytime systolic
      and/or diastolic values or night/day systolic and/or diastolic BP ratio <0.8.

      Morning surge: excessive systolic and/or diastolic BP elevation rising in the morning.

      Secondary endpoints

        -  To detect asymptomatic and intermittent AF using a 24h ABPM with atrial fibrillation
           detector device and to compare its accuracy with Holter monitoring.

        -  To investigate the agreement in the detection of paroxysmal AF using simultaneously the
           24h-ABP with AF detection device and loop recording.

        -  To observe at which level of TOD, asymptomatic AF episodes are more commonly detected.

        -  To study if there is any relationship between systolic and/or diastolic BP levels with
           AF occurrence.

        -  To examine whether office HR or mean HR using ABPM is associated with the development of
           silent AF episodes.

        -  To examine whether a wide PP in ABPM is associated with the development of silent AF
           episodes.

      Variables used to determine the primary and secondary endpoints

        -  Sociodemographic data (birth date, gender, education level, employment status, place of
           residence, smoking status/habits, alcohol consumption)

        -  Anthropometric characteristics (body weight, height, waist circumference)

        -  Any abnormal findings on physical examination

        -  Clinical relevant medical history and comorbidities

        -  Concomitant medications

        -  Electrocardiographic assessment

        -  Investigation of TOD, including echocardiography, carotid artery triplex, 24h-urine
           albumin excretion and ABI

        -  Recent laboratory testing results including hemoglobin, hematocrit, blood glucose,
           kidney and liver function tests

        -  Management of HTN (pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatment)

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  Patients diagnosed with essential HTN (office BP>140/90mmHg) or patients receiving at
           least one antihypertensive medication (ie. RAAA inhibitors or diuretic), aged 18-85
           years of age.

        -  Patients with at least one of the following risk factors, organ damage or other evidence
           of cardiovascular disease:

        -  Previous stroke

        -  Transient ischemic attack (TIA)

        -  Systemic embolism

        -  Diabetes mellitus type 2

        -  Obesity

        -  Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)

        -  Dyslipidemia

        -  History of coronary artery disease (CAD)

        -  Valvular heart disease (VHD)

        -  Echocardiographic findings attributed to HTN (ie. diastolic dysfunction, LVH)

        -  White coat hypertension (WCH), masked hypertension (MH)

        -  Positive family history for rhythm disturbances

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Patients already diagnosed with paroxysmal or permanent AF

        -  Severe renal insufficiency (eGFR according to MDRD formula <25ml/min/1.73m2)

        -  Patients unable to attend follow-up visits

        -  Clinical evidence of severe heart failure

        -  Suspected secondary HTN

        -  Mental disorders

        -  Patients with cancer

      The study protocol needs to be approved by the scientific board of the hospital and signed
      informed consent needs to be obtained from all participants.

      Study Design We are going to conduct a cross-sectional, observational study.
    
  