
    
      Many viruses are latent for decades before being reactivated in the brain by stress, immune
      compromise, or other factors. After the initial oral infection, herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV1)
      becomes latent in the trigeminal ganglion and can later enter the brain via retrograde axonal
      transport, often targeting the temporal lobes.

      HSV1 can also enter the brain via olfactory neurons directly. HSV1 (oral herpes) and HSV2
      (genital herpes) are known to trigger amyloid aggregation and their DNA is commonly found in
      amyloid plaques. Anti-HSV drugs reduce Aβ and p-tau accumulation in brains of infected mice.
      HSV1 reactivation is associated with tau hyperphosphorylation in mice and may play a role in
      tau propagation across neurons. In humans, recurrent reactivation with newly produced HSV1
      particles, 'drop by drop,' may produce neuronal damage and eventually lead to
      neurodegeneration and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, partly due to effects on amyloid
      and tau. Clinical studies show cognitive impairment in HSV seropositive patients in different
      patient groups and in healthy adults, and antiviral treatments show robust efficacy against
      peripheral HSV infection. The study team will conduct the first-ever clinical trial to
      directly address the long-standing viral etiology hypothesis of AD which posits that viruses,
      particularly the very common HSV1 and HSV2, may be etiologic or contribute to the pathology
      of AD. In patients with mild AD who test positive for serum antibodies to HSV1 or HSV2, the
      generic antiviral drug valacyclovir, repurposed as an anti-AD drug, will be compared at oral
      doses of 4 grams per day, to matching placebo in the treatment of 130 patients (65
      valacyclovir, 65 placebo) in a randomized, double-blind, 78-week Phase II proof of concept
      trial. Patients treated with valacyclovir are hypothesized to show smaller decline in
      cognition and functioning compared to placebo, and, using 18F-Florbetapir PET imaging, to
      show less amyloid accumulation than placebo over the 78-week trial. Through the use of tau
      PET imaging with the tracer 18F-MK-6240 at baseline and 78 weeks, patients treated with
      valacyclovir are hypothesized to show smaller increases in 18F-MK-6240 binding than patients
      treated with placebo from baseline to 78 weeks. Apolipoprotein E genotype at baseline, as
      well as changes in cortical thinning on structural MRI, olfactory identification deficits,
      and antiviral antibody titers from baseline to 78 weeks, will be evaluated in exploratory
      analyses. In patients who agree to lumbar puncture, plasma and CSF acyclovir will be assayed
      to establish the degree of CNS penetration of valacyclovir in mild AD, and the investigators
      will obtain CSF Aβ42, tau, p-tau for subset exploratory analyses with changes in outcome
      measures. If this trial is successful, the investigators will apply for funding to conduct a
      larger, multicenter, Phase III study using a study design that will be informed by the
      results of this Phase II trial. This innovative Phase II proof of concept trial clearly has
      exceptionally high reward potential for the treatment of AD.
    
  