
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the rate of conversion to complete response (CR) after switching to
           lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory, aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma
           whose maximum response to gemcitabine hydrochloride, rituximab, and oxaliplatin is a
           partial response (PR).

      Secondary

        -  To determine the overall survival of these patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the progression-free survival of patients with CR and PR.

        -  To determine the treatment-related toxicity of this regimen combination in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Rituximab, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and oxaliplatin: Patients with B-cell lymphoma
           receive rituximab IV on day 1; all patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30
           minutes and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 or day 2*. Treatment repeats every 14
           days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients with T-cell lymphoma proceed to chemotherapy on day 1 without receiving
      rituximab; patients with B-cell lymphoma receive chemotherapy on day 2.

      Patients are reevaluated after 4 courses of therapy. Patients who achieve a complete response
      (CR) receive 2 more courses of therapy and then proceed to bone marrow transplantation (BMT);
      those that do not receive a BMT receive maintenance lenalidomide for 2 years. Patients who
      achieve a partial response (PR) and who are not candidate for autologous stem cell
      transplantation (ACT) are treated with lenalidomide**. Once patients with PR achieve a CR or
      < CR with lenalidomide treatment, they proceed to maintenance lenalidomide for 2 years,
      unless they become candidates for ACT***. Patients with stable disease or progressive disease
      after 4 courses of therapy are treated with lenalidomide, unless they become eligible for
      ACT***.

      NOTE: **Patients in whom a delay of > 4 months would occur for ACT are treated with
      lenalidomide until 3 weeks prior to ACT.

      NOTE: **Once eligible, patients proceed to ACT as soon as feasible.

        -  Maintenance lenalidomide: Patients receive oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1-21.
           Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically for toxicity analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  