
    
      Because of previous exposure to nevirapine or other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitors (NNRTIs), either by direct treatment or through their mothers in pregnancy,
      infants must often receive an alternate antiretroviral regimen that includes LPV/r. Dosing of
      LPV/r is currently based on a child's specific weight, and calculations of proper dosages are
      often too complicated to be practical in busy clinics, particularly those in limited resource
      settings. In order to simplify medication delivery and reduce prescribing errors, the WHO has
      released a dosing schedule for LPV/r based on groupings of infants and children by weight.
      This study will evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerance of LPV/r dosed according
      to these guidelines. The following strata were used to guide accrual:

      Number of Participants to be Enrolled by Weight Band:

      3-4.9 kg: 11 liquid

      5-6.9 kg: 11 liquid

      7-9.9 kg: 17 liquid

      10-16.9 kg: 11 liquid, 22 tablet

      17-19.9 kg: 11 tablet

      20-24.9 kg: 11 tablet

      Participation in this study will last 6 months. Infant participants and their caretakers will
      need to attend study visits at entry and Weeks 2, 4, 12, and 24. At entry, participants will
      be given LPV/r either in liquid or tablet form, depending on whether they can swallow pills.
      Dosing will be calculated using the WHO schedule. At all study visits, participants will
      undergo a physical exam and caretakers will be asked about how well the child is taking the
      study medications. In addition, at Weeks 4, 12, and 24, blood samples will be taken from the
      participant to determine health and levels of the medication in the body. The visit on Week 4
      will also require pharmacokinetic testing, which means the child will need to be monitored at
      the hospital for 12 hours and complete six additional blood drawls. All other study visits
      will last 1 to 2 hours.
    
  