
    
      Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is a disease where part of the eye (the retina) is severely
      diseased. Usually it is detected in affected people within the first few months of life, as
      there is significantly poor vision at birth. Cells in the retina are lost over time in people
      with LCA, which typically leads to total blindness. There are no pharmacological treatments
      available. This study will focus on the form of LCA caused by changes (mutations) in DNA that
      makes a certain protein (called the 65 kDa retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-specific protein,
      or RPE65). This can be confirmed by a special method of testing (molecular testing) to verify
      the presence of RPE65 gene mutations.

      This study uses a gene therapy vector made from an adeno-associated virus (AAV) called
      AAV2-hRPE65v2 (voretigene neparovec-rzyl). Gene therapy refers to the incorporation of new
      DNA into cells with the goal of supplying a therapeutic gene or a gene that is missing or not
      functioning in the cell. The AAV parts of the gene therapy vector work as a delivery vehicle
      for providing the normal human RPE65 gene to the cells of the retina. An earlier Phase 1
      clinical study of AAV2-hRPE65v2 was conducted based on the demonstration of safety and
      effectiveness of the vector in animals with a similar eye disease. The earlier Phase 1
      clinical study was a dose-escalation study primarily designed to evaluate safety in humans,
      and tested three doses of the vector in twelve children and adults. The safety of injecting
      into the second eye was also evaluated. The results from these earlier Phase 1 studies showed
      an acceptable safety profile.

      This study will deliver AAV2-hRPE65v2 vector (voretigene neparvovec-rzyl) to at least sixteen
      intervention group subjects, age three or older; subjects will receive the vector in both
      eyes via subretinal injections during surgeries (on separate days). The purpose of this
      research study is to assess the efficacy and safety of the AAV2-hRPE65v2 gene therapy vector
      (voretigene neparvovec-rzyl) as a possible treatment for LCA due to RPE65 gene mutations. The
      control group of at least eight subjects will be able to cross-over to the intervention group
      after one year, provided they still meet all eligibility criteria.
    
  