
    
      Although there are new physiotherapy interventions for musculoskeletal pain, it is seen that
      studies about manual techniques are limited in childhood. Graston technique includes a small
      metallic instrument known as "strigil" and used for therapeutic purposes in ancient Greece
      and Rome. Another source is based on the traditional Chinese treatment known as "gua sha".
      Those who found the Graston technique are Dr. Konin, Dr. Greenstein, and Dr. Schrader. The
      basis of the Graston technique used today was inspired by James Cyriax. When the effects of
      the Graston technique are investigated, they aim to reduce pain, evaluate and increase soft
      tissue mobility, and improve range of motion and function. This technique is applied using
      specially designed curved stainless steel tools. These devices create micro trauma to restore
      normal elasticity and function in soft tissue. The different structures of the instruments
      allow to modify the degree of treatment. Small size instruments can be used on smaller
      anatomical structures and mild symptoms. Larger sized instruments are suitable for large
      treatment areas and severe conditions. Instruments are applied to the soft tissue at 30-60
      degree angles with multi-directional stroking movements. The application time is applied for
      a maximum of 30 to 60 seconds per tissue site. In addition, whether the problem is acute or
      chronic is the most important factor that determines the duration of treatment. Total
      treatment time with instruments is generally minimum 8 minutes. It is applied with a maximum
      of 20 minutes.

      In reviews about manual therapy in children, mild, low-speed spinal mobilizations are
      emphasized as a safe treatment technique in infants, children and adolescents and have been
      used in clinics for years. Practices such as manipulation and manual therapy should adjust
      the force and speed used by the specialist practitioner in accordance with the age and
      developmental level of the child. Studies have emphasized that massage is an effective method
      in the treatment of chronic pain for children and adolescents. Significantly low pain and
      positive mood have been reported by children after these manual therapy sessions.
      Accordingly, the aim of the planned study is to compare the effects of graston technique and
      classical massage in children with chronic neck pain.
    
  