
    
      In this prospective study, 60 patients are planned to recruite. Group 1 consists of 20
      healthy reproductive aged women between 18-40 years old, with regular menstruation. Group 2
      will include 20 patients in perimenopausal time period between 40-49 ages and in group 3
      there will be20 postmenopausal women.

      Age, gravida, parity and body mass index (BMI) data of all patients will be recorded. BMI is
      calculated by dividing the body weight in kilograms by the square of the height in meters.
      All patients will go under ultrasound examination by the same clinician (ACO). The number of
      antral follicles in group 1 and group 2 will be recorded. In addition, on the 2nd or 3rd day
      of menstruation, serum FSH, LH and E2 data of the patients in group 1 and 2 will be recorded.

      For the last 6 months, patients with drug use that may affect menstruation like oral
      contraceptives, patients with cardiac or renal disease and therefore drug use, causes of
      infertility other than unexplained infertility, history of ovarian surgery, presence of
      polycystic ovary syndrome, and patients with irregular menstruation will be excluded for the
      study. In addition, patients with renal, cardiac, central nervous system and endocrine
      diseases will be excluded.

      Morning fasting venous blood samples will be taken from the patients on the 2nd or 3rd day of
      the menstruation for group 1 and 2. All blood samples will be centrifuged on the day of
      collection and separated serum samples and will be kept at -80 degrees until the day of CNP
      test. Serum CNP levels of the patients will be analyzed by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent
      (ELISA) assay for human CNP in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions (SEA721Hu,
      ELISA Kit for Human CNP, Wuhan USCN Business Co., Ltd., Cloud-Clone Corp., CCC, USA).

      Data will be analyzed using Statistical Package for Social Sciences software (SPSS v15, SPSS
      Inc, Chicago, IL, USA). The variables will be investigated using visual and analytical
      methods (histograms, homogeneity of variances test, Kolmogorov-Simirnov/Shapiro-Wilk's test)
      to determine whether or not they are normally distributed. Patient demographics and CNP
      values will be presented as median ± interquartile range. Gravida and parity will be
      demonstrated by frequency distribution. The correlation coefficients and their significance
      will be calculated using the Spearman test. P-values less than 0.05 will be regarded as
      statistically significant.
    
  