
    
      [18F]F-AraG, a fluorine-18 labeled analog of an FDA approved drug (Nelarabine) is a new
      imaging tracer targeted at imaging activated T-cells. Given that immunotherapeutic
      strategies, in particular immune checkpoint antibodies, focus on the generation of
      T-cell-based antitumor immunity, uptake of [18F]F-AraG within the tumor is hypothesized to
      correlate with T-cell mediated immune response seen in the biopsy samples of cancer patients
      treated with immune checkpoint blockade. Correlation of pre- and post-treatment intratumoral
      immune infiltration by means of PET imaging will guide the development of future clinical
      trials investigating the role of [18F]F-AraG in the monitoring of anti-tumor immune
      responses. Therefore, proper quantification of [18F]F-AraG uptake in tumor lesions, and
      understanding its relation with physiologic uptake in background tissues is important. Note:
      checkpoint therapy in this study is standard-of-care and is not under investigation.

      Available PET/CT scanners can obtain dynamic images only on a portion of the body as large as
      their axial field of view, generally anywhere between 15-30 cm. The 194 cm long uEXPLORER
      total-body PET scanner is the world's first device to offer the ability to tomographically
      image all parts of the body simultaneously. Thus, the uEXPLORER PET/CT (now commercially
      available and with FDA 510(k) clearance) is the only scanner in the world capable of
      acquiring total-body dynamic images.

      In this pilot study, 2-4 healthy volunteers will undergo [18F]F-AraG dynamic imaging on the
      uEXPLORER total body PET/CT scanner to obtain preliminary data regarding pharmacokinetics and
      early biodistribution images. In addition, 2-4 patients with advanced NSCLC and planned for
      standard-of-care PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy will undergo [18F]F-AraG dynamic imaging similarly
      on the uEXPLORER total body PET/CT scanner to obtain data regarding pharmacokinetics of the
      tracer in tumor lesions in the context of normal tissue uptake. An optional second similar
      scan will be performed 7-14 days after the first dose of immunotherapy to explore and
      document any treatment related changes in [18F]F-AraG uptake and kinetics.

      The study and data collected will be important to recommend an ideal time to acquire a whole
      body static scan using conventional and widely available PET/CT scanners for adequate tumor
      to background contrast and quantification, which in turn, will be essential for further
      clinical development of [18F]F-AraG to aid the monitoring of anti tumor immune responses.
    
  