
    
      Endotracheal intubation is required for different surgical procedures for mechanical
      ventilation and to prevent aspiration of secretions. Endotracheal intubation is usually
      performed by direct laryngoscopy (DL), i.e. during otorhinolaryngologic or oral and
      maxillofacial surgery. This technique has limitations and may fail due to insufficient
      visualization of the larynx. A new device has been introduced that consists of an illuminated
      straight plastic tube for laryngoscopy (VSC, Vie Scope, Adroit Surgical, Oklahoma City, OK,
      USA) that enables for indirect intubation over a stylet. So far, the VSC has shown promising
      results in manikin studies for intubation in normal and difficult airways and was shown to be
      superior over conventional laryngoscopy during cardiopulmonary resuscitation with providers
      wearing personal protective equipment. Data in elective patients undergoing
      otorhinolaryngologic or oral and maxillofacial surgery are not available, so far.

      Therefore, we aim to test the VSC in patients compared to conventional techniques in a
      prospective randomized non-inferiority trial. We aim to test the VSC in predicted
      non-difficult airway patients.

      Patients will be assessed for eligibility in the Anesthesiology Pre-assessment Clinic of the
      University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf prior to elective surgery. To rule out a
      difficult airway prior to study inclusion, all patients receive a structured preoperative
      airway assessment in accordance with standard operating procedure of the Department of
      Anesthesiology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf using the implemented in-house
      algorithm for the prediction of difficult airway management and the Simplified Airway Risk
      Index (SARI).

      Patients are randomized 1:1 to either intervention or control group. Patients randomized to
      the intervention group will be intubated with the VSC. Patients randomized to the control
      group are intubated with a standard MacIntosh type laryngoscope by DL. Anesthesia management,
      the choice of the blade and tube size, as well as the use of adjuncts like stylets,
      introducers or forceps or airway optimization maneuvers (e.g. backward upward rightward
      pressure [BURP] and optimum external laryngeal manipulation [OELM]) will be left to the
      discretion of the attending physician.

      Based on a first attempt success rate of 40%, and a noninferiority margin of 5%, 2x 29
      patients are required with errors of α=0.025 and β=0.2 to show non-inferiority for the
      intervention method (PASS version 08.0.6, NCSS, LLC. Kaysville, UT, USA).

      All participating physicians are anesthesiology residents or fellows. To avoid a bias that
      may occur due to different skills for VSC compared to conventional laryngoscopy, physicians
      participating in this study take part in a 30 min structured manikin airway training before
      participating in this study. The age and months of work experience of the participating
      anesthetists will be assessed within a questionnaire.
    
  