
    
      Difficulty retrieving the right word to communicate a message is the most common complaint in
      healthy older adults and individuals with stroke-induced language impairment (i.e., aphasia).
      Novel word learning paradigms have been used to investigate a variety of behavioral and
      neuromodulatory approaches to improve word retrieval deficits. Previous novel word learning
      studies have shown that physical exercise can improve long term recall in healthy young
      adults and that increased levels of dopamine may be responsible for this effect; however, no
      studies have investigated the effects of exercise on novel word learning in older adults and
      individuals with aphasia, and very little is known about the mechanisms that support
      exercise-enhanced word learning in these populations.

      The aims of this study are to:

      1) to identify the novel word learning paradigm that facilitates immediate and long-term word
      recall 2a) to investigate how acute, moderate-intensity exercise alters levels of serum
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and plasma dopamine 2b) to describe and quantify the
      association between novel word learning and any observed changes in serum BDNF and plasma
      dopamine.

      This research will provide a platform for future investigations of immediate exercise effects
      on word learning, which are essential for achieving our long-term goal of developing
      exercise-based word retrieval interventions for healthy older Veterans and Veterans with
      aphasia.

      A within subjects crossover design will be used to address Aims 1, 2a and 2b. Subjects will
      complete aerobic exercise or stretching (training) before engaging in Study Only or Retrieval
      Practice (learning). Subjects will be counterbalanced within and across conditions. Sixteen
      healthy older adults and 16 individuals with aphasia, age 65-89 years, will be recruited. The
      study will comprise 18 sessions over 12 weeks. In Week 1, subjects will undergo baseline
      blood draws, a physical assessment, cognitive and language assessments, and a practice word
      learning task. In Weeks 2-12, subjects will complete the four conditions. Each condition will
      last two weeks, with a one-week break between conditions. In each condition, training and
      learning sessions will take place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Training: Subjects will
      engage in 30 minutes of moderate-intensity cycling or gentle upper and lower limb stretching
      (control) prior to engaging in a novel word learning task. Learning: Familiar objects (e.g.,
      cup) will be paired with nonwords (e.g., flark). In the Study Only paradigm, object/nonword
      pairs will be presented three times across three days (Monday, Wednesday, Friday). In the
      Retrieval Practice paradigm, object/nonword pairs will be presented during the first session
      (Monday). In subsequent sessions (Wednesday, Friday), subjects will be asked to recall the
      nonword name of presented objects. Corrective feedback will be provided on each trial.
      Testing: Recognition and recall testing without corrective feedback will be administered
      immediately after learning (short-term memory), before training in the second and third
      learning session (overnight consolidation) and one week after learning (long-term memory).
      Blood Draws: Three blood samples will be taken at baseline (rest, 30 minutes, 60 minutes). In
      each of the four conditions, blood samples will be taking during the first and third learning
      session (at rest, after training, and after learning). Whole blood will be collected in plain
      tubes and in anticoagulant-treated tubes for subsequent serum BDNF and plasma dopamine
      analysis by ELISA. Samples will be analyzed in triplicate to increase reliability.
    
  