
    
      Psycho-traumatic disorders are a disabling condition whose epidemiological data vary
      according to the country but also the populations studied and the measuring instruments used.
      The estimated prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) appeared to be increasing in
      recent years, and this appears to be due, among other things, to the improvement of the
      standardized evaluation procedure. The survey "Mental Health in General Population",
      conducted in metropolitan France between 1999 and 2003 on more than 36,000 people estimated
      its instantaneous prevalence (last month) of a full PTSD was 0.7% in the SMPG overall sample,
      with almost equal frequency between men (45%) and women (55%). This figure is close to that
      reported in a European population for the ESEMeD study. A very significant psychiatric
      comorbidity was found in subjects with PTSD, particularly with mood disorders, other anxiety
      disorders and addictive behaviors. The link with the suicidal risk was clearly established,
      which is the gravity of this pathology.

      The most important publications are made by American teams who have identified and evaluated
      the treatment of this pathology among veterans of the various wars led by the country.

      Barrois defines traumatic neurosis as "a group of psychological disorders that arise after a
      longer or shorter latency, following a very intense emotional shock".

      Post-traumatic stress disorder is defined by the ICD-10 classification as a "delayed or
      prolonged" response to a stressful situation or event (short or long-term) that would provoke
      distress symptoms in anyone .

      According to the American classification of the DSM-V, the diagnosis of PTSD is strictly
      established according to different criteria. Exposure to a traumatic event ("the person has
      been exposed, witnessed or confronted with an event or events that have involved death or
      death, or serious injury or threat to their physical integrity or 'others'), and reacting to
      it with a feeling of intense fear, helplessness or horror (criterion A). The event is
      constantly relived, manifested by at least one symptom of the repetition syndrome (criterion
      B) that can be repetitive and invasive memories of the event (including images, thoughts,
      perceptions), repetitive and painful dreams of the event, the impression or sudden acts "as
      if" the traumatic event recurred, an intense psychological distress when exposed to internal
      or external stimuli resembling an aspect of the trauma, a physiological reactivity during
      exposure to internal or external stimuli resembling or symbolizing an aspect of the trauma.
      Criterion C requires persistent avoidance of stimuli associated with trauma and blunting of
      general responsiveness (not present before trauma).

      Criterion D refers to the impairment of cognition and mood associated with one or more
      traumatic events manifested by at least two symptoms, including dissociative amnesia,
      persistent and exaggerated negative self-perceptions of others, and world, a clear reduction
      of interest in important activities, a feeling of detachment and a persistent inability to
      feel positive emotions. There are also symptoms of neurovegetative activation, with at least
      two symptoms (criterion E) among sleep difficulties, irritability or anger, difficulty
      concentrating, hyper vigilance, startled reactions exaggerated. Criterion F concerns the
      duration of symptoms B, C and D which must exceed one month. The problem results in
      clinically significant distress or dysfunction at the social, occupational or other important
      operational level (criterion G). Criterion H eliminates that these symptoms are not due to
      the consumption of a substance (drug or alcohol) or another condition.

      Despite this awareness of the functional impact of these psycho traumatic disorders, this
      pathology has remained under-identified both by health professionals and the general public
      and subsequently insufficiently treated, particularly in Tunisia. Several therapeutic
      protocols are proposed. The share of antidepressant treatments (yet first-line treatment in
      all international guidelines) is only 30% and the remaining 70% includes anxiolytics,
      hypnotics and herbal medicine. Several meta-analyzes have evaluated the efficacy of different
      families of antidepressants, but scientific research remains very poor in the field of herbal
      medicine.
    
  