
    
      Cocaine abuse is associated with serious physical, psychiatric and social problems. Addiction
      results in the compulsive use of a substance with loss of control and persistence despite the
      negative consequences.The act of re-engaging in the search for drugs is called relapse and a
      particularly insidious aspect of addiction is that vulnerability to relapse lasts for many
      years after stopping drug use.

      The main reason why people continue to use cocaine is because of its influence on the reward
      system.Indeed, this substance makes it possible to increase the level of dopamine,
      particularly in the nucleus accumbens.This increase in dopamine is not related to the hedonic
      pleasure that consumption provides. Instead, it imprints a positive value to enhancers and
      facilitates the learning of reward associations through the modulation of the cortical and
      subcortical regions of the brain.In other words, it suggests that users become sensitive to a
      series of stimuli that combine with a rewarding feeling, which drives them to consume when
      they encounter them.

      Initial investigations regarding the effect of dopamine on the reward system were conducted
      primarily on the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway linking the ventral tegmental area to the
      nucleus accumbens. More recent work has now recognized the role of mesocortical and
      mesostriatal pathways, but dopamine is far from being the only neurotransmitter involved.

      Glutamate also plays a central role in the neuroadaptive changes resulting from chronic
      exposure to cocaine. Preclinical research has shown that intense exposure to cocaine
      increases the extracellular level of glutamate in the nucleus accumbens. Cocaine-induced
      chronic adaptations to glutamatergic homeostasis within the nucleus accumbens include
      downregulation of the cystine-glutamate (also called xc) exchanger on glial cells and the
      glial glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1).

      The cystine-glutamate exchanger is an amino acid anti porter that is generally involved in
      the exchange of extracellular L-cystine (L-Cys2) and intracellular L-glutamate (L-Glu) across
      the cell plasma membrane. Existing data indicate that these exchanges being diminished, they
      contribute to abnormal glutamate signaling in the corticostriatal pathway and that these
      cocaine-induced changes in the Xc system are necessary to restore consumption behavior in the
      rodent. This imbalance between synaptic and non-synaptic glutamate in the corticostriatal
      pathway impairs communication between the prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens. As a
      result, long-term use of cocaine decreases an individual's ability to inhibit the research
      and consumption behaviors of the product. This results in a relapse syndrome characteristic
      of addictions.The Xc system would therefore be a potential therapeutic target for the
      treatment of cocaine addiction.

      N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been used for a long time, mainly as mucolytic. It has also been
      used as a glutathione antioxidant precursor in the treatment of paracetamol overdose for more
      than 30 years. NAC has shown beneficial effects in animal models of cocaine addiction by
      reversing neuroplasticity and reducing the risk of restoring consumer behavior in rodents.
      One study has even shown that NAC administered to rodents before they consume cocaine
      prevents the installation of research behavior due to plasticity. Its ability to regulate the
      activity of the cystine-glutamate antiporter and the biosynthesis of glutathione would be key
      to its therapeutic efficacy. NAC would also have the ability to reverse the disruption of
      GLT-1 receptor function. An interesting study has also shown that NAC-treated rats show an
      attenuation of dopamine increase in the nucleus accumbens when cocaine is taken, which
      deserves further investigation.

      Four studies showed NAC's potential to reduce craving, desire to consume, and cocaine search
      in abstinent consumers. However these studies present only preliminary data because the
      samples are not large enough and they are mostly open studies (participants are informed
      about the nature and dosage of the medication, without placebo group). A more recent study of
      a larger sample of subjects still actively using cocaine found that NAC reduces craving and
      increases time to relapse only in a small subset of subjects who are already abstinent,
      particularly with the highest doses.This study was a double blind study with a placebo group.
      This suggests that NAC is potentially effective in preventing relapse in abstinent patients
      and ineffective in reducing current consumption.

      A question that arises is the frequency with which NAC should be administered. In the
      majority of the studies cited above, the product was administered several times over a
      shorter or longer period. However, studies have shown that a single dose (2400 mg on a human)
      can have measurable neurochemical effects, although it is not clear that these changes are
      sufficient to produce measurable changes in behavior.Clinical trials have used doses ranging
      from 1200 to 3600 mg daily for varying periods of time, and further studies would also be
      needed to determine the optimal amount to avoid a relapse.

      The latest study on the subject suggested that NAC may be useful for preventing relapse of
      abstinent patients rather than reducing the consumption of patients still taking cocaine.
      However, this effect was not part of the main assumptions and was highlighted in additional
      exploratory analyzes. The vast majority of patients in this study were therefore not
      abstinent.

      In this study, therefore, the investigators will only test a sample of newly detoxified (and
      therefore abstinent) patients who have taken a 3-4 week course of treatment, in order to
      increase the power of the analyzes and determine if NAC can be a useful medication candidate
      to avoid relapse in patients with cocaine dependence.
    
  