
    
      The transfemoral access (TFA), through the percutaneous Seldinger technique, is the preferred
      approach in most catheterization laboratories worldwide due to its long history of use, the
      large availability of several dedicated preformed Judkins-type catheters and the possibility
      to exploit relatively large diameter catheters and sheaths, should these be necessary for
      complex percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Being a relatively deep and terminal vessel
      however, the femoral artery as percutaneous access site may expose to rare ischemic but
      frequent bleeding complications which occurs between 3-7% of patients undergoing
      interventional procedures, especially with modern anti-thrombotic drugs, including
      glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blockers and clopidogrel. The difficulties in obtaining a
      stable and definitive local haemostasis, even when dedicated arterial vascular closure
      devices (VCD) are employed, make prolonged bed rest after TFA necessary in the majority of
      cases which result in patient discomfort and overall increase in medical expenditure.

      In the last fifteen years, after Campeau's report of successful coronary angiography by
      transradial approach (TRA), the radial artery has been increasingly employed as an
      alternative access site both for diagnostic and interventional procedures.

      The main advantage offered by percutaneous TRA is represented by the very low incidence of
      relevant vascular access site complications and bleeding and allows for early mobilization of
      the patient and thus to early discharge. As bleeding complications are increasingly
      recognized as strong and independent predictors of short and long-term outcomes following
      PCI, TRA may be the preferred access site by experienced teams. Radial artery (RA)
      cannulation, however, carries a risk of RA occlusion with an incidence of 4.8% to 19%. This
      is usually of no consequence, because the hand receives blood from both the radial and ulnar
      arteries (UA) with extensive collateral channels; however, some patients have incomplete
      palmar arches and might not have adequate communications between the ulnar and radial
      arteries. In these patients, there is a potential risk of hand ischemia in the event of RA
      occlusion.

      A simple bedside test to check for communications between the ulnar and radial arteries is
      the modified Allen's test (AT). Patients with an abnormal test will usually have their
      cardiac catheterization performed via the femoral artery, thus denying them the potential
      advantages of transradial cardiac catheterization. In patients undergoing coronary
      angiography, the incidence of an abnormal AT ranges from 6.4% to 27%. Whether the AT can
      predict ischemic complications after RA cannulation is controversial, and some centers no
      longer exclude patients with an abnormal AT.

      However, In 50 patients undergoing coronary angiography were screened for AT time.
      Circulation in the RA, UA, principal artery of the thumb (PAT), and thumb capillary lactate
      were measured before and after 30 min of RA occlusion. patients with an abnormal AT showed
      significantly reduced blood flow to the thumb and increased thumb capillary lactate (compared
      with patients with a normal AT) suggestive of ischemia. Based on these findings, Authors
      concluded that Transradial cardiac catheterization should not be performed in patients with
      an abnormal AT.

      Aim of the RADAR study is to evaluate whether results of Allen's test in consecutive patients
      undergoing transradial coronary catheterization predict the occurrence of ischemic
      complications defined primarily as an increase of thumb capillary lactate and secondarily as
      a composite of local discomfort during and/or after the procedure, disability of the
      instrumented arm defined as perceived (subjective) or objective muscular weakness, need for
      surgical intervention or RA occlusion at any time within 30 days after catheterisation.
      Bleeding complications will be also monitored.
    
  