
    
      A total of 80 participants will be recruited for the study spread equally across 4 cohorts,
      those with healthy skin, and those with a mild/moderate/severe eczema/dermatitis [AD] lesion
      on their inner elbow.

      Our first point of contact with the participant involves providing them with a copy of the
      age-appropriate PIS and completing an expression of interest (EOI) form through
      phone/email/post. The EOI form contains questions for pre- screening purposes so that the
      likelihood of suitability can be estimated in order to avoid wasting the time of people who
      clearly don't meet the basic entry criteria (severity will need to be assessed during the
      screening visit). For volunteers who meet the basic entry criteria as outlined on the EOI
      form, the investigators will make it clear that the next step will be for a researcher on our
      team to contact them to arrange a screening/informed consent session at our test facility.

      A member of the team will then contact interested volunteers to arrange their visit, at least
      24 hours following the provision of the PIS. The bulk of the study consists of a single
      visit, which contains the full screening process, informed consent and the study protocol (A
      second short follow up visit 2-3 weeks later is also required for those providing biopsies).

      When the participant arrives at either the Sheffield Children's Hospital (For adolescents) or
      the Royal Hallamshire Hospital Clinical Research Facility (Adults), a nurse will talk the
      participant through the study and what it involves. They will also be asked some basic
      questions about their skin and current medication. Their skin will be inspected visually by
      eye to assess eligibility and cohort allocation. If the participant is eligible, then they
      will be required to fill in an informed consent form (11-15 year olds will complete an assent
      form, with their legal guardian completing a consent form).

      Following consent, the participants will be taken to the Royal Hallamshire Hospital Skin
      Research room. They will be asked to roll up their sleeves such that their elbows are able to
      acclimatise for 20 minutes. While waiting, the scan sites will be marked on the participants
      elbows using a washable ink (Scan sites on the cheeks will not be marked with ink) and a skin
      questionnaire will be conducted which asks basic questions about the history of eczema at
      each scan site. When ready, images will be collected from the scan sites using handheld
      probes which gently contact the skin surface. All of the images collected are completely
      harmless, and simply involve shining light into the skin. The following measurements will be
      collected in order: Clinical Photographs (From elbows and cheeks), Trans-epidermal water loss
      measurements (From elbows and cheeks), skin redness (From elbows and cheeks), FTIR spectra
      (From elbows and cheeks), Optical Coherence Tomography (From elbows and cheeks), Laser
      doppler images (From elbows), Polarisation-sensitive Optical Coherence Tomography (From
      elbows) and skin pH (From elbows and cheeks).

      Once the images are collected, some samples will be collected from the participant. These
      include a buccal (Saliva) sample collected from the cheek and tape-strip/FIBROTX samples
      collected from the elbows. Both of the latter sampling methods involve sticking a patch onto
      the skin and gently peeling it off, which collects just the molecules/cells at the surface of
      the skin.

      Following this sample collection, the participants will be taken back to the Sheffield
      Children's Hospital (For adolescents) or the Royal Hallamshire Hospital Clinical Research
      Facility (Adults) and a total of three 5ml blood samples will be collected from their arm.
      Adult participants will be required to provide at least 2 biopsies from their elbow at this
      point, this involves small pieces of skin being removed under local anaesthetic so that they
      can be viewed under a microscope. A further 2 biopsies are optional depending on consent.

      As mentioned above, participants that provided biopsies will be required to attend a
      follow-up visit 2-4 weeks later in order to remove any stitches and check the health of the
      biopsy site.

      All research data collected in the pursuit of this study, will be collected in
      pseudo-anonymised form. For the purposes of this study, "pseudo-anonymised research data" is
      data that has had all personal identifiable information (such as name, initials and date of
      birth) replaced by the subject identifier (unique study number), and so protects the
      identities on the participants whilst still enabling the information to be traced back by the
      direct study team (who will have access to the study number allocation).

      Following the study visit, the pseudo-anonymised electronic data will be stored on a secure
      Sheffield Corporate Information and Computing Services (CICS) managed server with access
      limited to study delegates only. Any paper records will be stored in locked cabinets in the
      study rooms/offices. Patch samples will be sent to FIBROTX for analysis - any remaining
      samples will be sent to a biobank where consent has been explicitly provided. The two
      required biopsies will be gifted to Leo Pharma who will undertake study specific analysis,
      any remaining tissue will be entered into a biobank hosted by BioStorage Technologies GmbH on
      behalf of Leo Pharma. The optional biopsies will be analysed by researchers at the University
      of Sheffield, any remaining tissue will be entered into the University Of Sheffield Biobank
      so that it can be made available for use on future research studies. The first blood sample
      will be processed by Laboratory Medicine at the Northern General Hospital in Sheffield, the
      second will be gifted to Leo Pharma, and stored in a biobank hosted by BioStorage
      Technologies GmbH where it will be available to LEO Pharma and their research partners, the
      third will be stored in the University of Sheffield Biobank. Extracted DNA (from the saliva
      samples) will be kept for a maximum of 10 years by the University of Sheffield in the care of
      the Principal Investigator, so that it may be used to support future genetic studies.

      Electronic data from the study will be analysed at Sheffield following the study completion.
      Information from this study will be used to write scientific reports and publications, but
      they will not include any information which makes it possible for participants to be
      identified. A summary of findings will be distributed to all participants at the close of the
      study.
    
  