
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system (CNS),
      chronic and progressive that is associated with the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the
      compact part of the substantia nigra ( AYANO , 2016). Its clinical diagnosis is due to a set
      of signs and symptoms, initially observed for the motor characteristics that may be: rest
      tremor, bradykinesia, postural instability, festinating gait and joint stiffness, which
      directly interfere in the quality of life of these individuals ( CUGUSI and t al., 2017).

      Some studies have shown that patients with PD exhibit multiple respiratory symptoms ,
      including reduced respiratory muscle strength, rapid and coordinated action performance
      impairment, efficient contractions of the chest wall musculature, and effective cough
      reduction. With the progression of the disease, these limitations can trigger aspiration
      pneumonia, which is the main cause of death in this profile of individuals ( TROCHE et al .,
      2010 ; SAPIENZA et al., 2011; JÚNIOR et al., 2015 ).

      From the epidemiological point of view, feta accounts for about 1% of the population over 65
      years and more than 3% after 75 years of age, with an incidence of 1.5 men over women. (
      SILVA, 2018). The projection for 2030 is that more than 8 million individuals over the age of
      60 have Parkinson's disease. In the United States about 59,000 new cases emerge every year.
      In Brazil, epidemiological data on the disease are still scarce, but it is estimated that
      around 200,000 people have the disease ( FERNANDES; FILHO, 2018 ).

      These patients often show excessive fatigue and dyspnea with the progression of the disease,
      and the later onset of treatment, lower the tolerance of the patient to perform physical
      activities.Therefore, it is sought through health promotion to guide the need for physical
      practice through exercises that can contribute to the improvement of their quality of life
      and in the previous training of the respiratory muscles, influencing the main functional
      skills, such as am archa. ( REYES, CASTILLO et al., 2018; RASSLER et al., 2011).

      Walking is one of the main limiting factors for a good quality of life. Therefore, gait
      training can promote individuals a better physical condition to recover their activities, as
      well as to maintain good posture, and reduce exacerbated flexion of the characteristic spine,
      preventing falls and various types of trauma. A proposed gait training is the Nordic walk,
      which, when using sticks to gain balance, stability and coordination, allows the individual
      to obtain better functional capacity, besides performing aerobic and stimulating activity (XU
      et al., 2018) .

      In addition to the gait training, this research proposes respiratory muscle training (TMR),
      using a linear resistor capable of promoting resistance and strength gain of the inspiratory
      musculature. TMR is a therapeutic modality consecrated in the maximal inspiratory and
      expiratory pressure gain, directly influencing the peripheral musculature, favoring the
      practice of physical activities, such as walking itself to possibly condition the patient to
      longevity and dignity to practice their ADLs with better quality of life, allowing delayed
      disease progression (Júnior et al., 2015).

      In addition, the practice of these individuals submitted to walking and respiratory muscle
      training protocols can bring great benefits as regards their quality of life, and their
      perception of space, as well as their importance in the social environment. One form of
      evidence to qualify these aspects is the quality of life assessment scale in PDQ-39
      Parkinson's Disease Patients, which contributes among other factors to the satisfaction and
      performance of the activity (JA et al., 2012; ).

      Thus, the objective of this study is to verify the influence of respiratory muscle training
      associated with Nordic walking training on the physiological, biochemical and functional
      variables in patients with Parkinson's disease.
    
  