
    
      Two (Haderslev and Middelfart) of the seven municipalities participating in the large-scale
      TOF study volunteered to participate in Pilot2. In February-March 2018, GPs from these two
      municipalities will receive an invitation to participate. The target group of Pilot2
      comprises 4.800 adults born between 1959 and 1988 and who are registered with a participating
      GP.

      Prior to study commencement, all enrolled GPs, practice nurses (PN), and health professionals
      from the municipalities are invited to a joint kick-off meeting. The meeting will focus on
      the intervention activities and tasks assigned to the GP clinics and the municipality. In
      addition, all GP practices will be offered an introductory visit from the project secretariat
      to help organize and plan project activities.

      In October 2018 half of the target population will receive a mailed pre-notification
      (postcard), and 2 weeks later the full target population will receive an invitation, sent on
      behalf of the GP and the municipality to the individual's e-Boks. Two different invitations
      are tested; a) A broad invitation and b) an invitation targeting citizens with low
      educational attainment. Random selection is used to allocate citizens to the four invitation
      groups: (+/- postcard x Invitation a/b). To enroll in the study, citizens are asked to sign a
      consent form via a link to a secure, digital support system, accessible only with a
      two-phased NemID password. The consent form will outline study participation and disclosure
      of data from the GPs electronic patient record (EPR). Short videos on the digital support
      system will also be made available to participants. These videos come in different versions,
      designed for male and female participants, specifically. The main purpose of including the
      videos is to describe the purpose of the study and the intervention. To adjust for social
      inequality in health, proactive recruitment activities will be conducted by the participating
      municipalities in socially deprived areas.

      Upon consent, information on relevant diagnoses (International Classification of Primary Care
      (ICPC-2) codes) and prescribed medicine (Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification (ATC)
      codes incl. text fields with indication for treatment) are collected from the GPs' EPR
      systems.

      Five months after consent (April 2019), participants will receive another digital invitation
      in their e-Boks, this time to fill in a questionnaire and access their personal health
      profile. Participants can opt out at any time during the intervention period by clicking an
      "opt-out" button on the digital support system.

      Intervention The intervention comprises a two-pronged approach: (1) A joint intervention that
      applies to the entire sample, regardless of whether the participants are healthy, at risk, or
      already in treatment for type 2 diabetes (T2DM), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD), cardio vascular disease (CVD), hypercholesterolemia or hypertension; (2) A targeted
      intervention that is offered only to participants who presumably would benefit from either
      further examinations at the GP (high risk), or community health services, such as smoking
      cessation, dietary advice, or physical activity (health-risk behavior).

      The joint intervention consists of:

        -  Stratification to one of four risk groups. Stratification to a specific risk group is
           determined by use of validated risk algorithms and EPR information.

        -  A digital support system with user interfaces for all users, including the patient, the
           GP, and the municipal health professional.

        -  A personal health profile for all participating patients.

      The targeted intervention consists of:

        -  A focused clinical examination and if necessary a subsequent health dialogue with a GP
           (targeting patients at high risk), and / or

        -  A short telephone-based health dialogue with a municipal health professional. For
           patients with limited capability to care for their own health, this initial talk may be
           followed up with a subsequent face-to-face health dialogue (targeting patients with
           health-risk behavior).

      For all present intents and purposes, the term health dialogue refers to a consultation that
      includes the elements of the 5As model and the techniques used in motivational interviewing.

      The joint intervention All participants will have access to the digital support system, and
      are invited to fill in a questionnaire, comprising 15 items on height, weight, self-perceived
      health status, family history of LRD, COPD-related symptoms, smoking status, leisure activity
      level, alcohol consumption, diet, and osteoarthritis risk factors. Questions about family
      history of diabetes and leisure activity level were taken from the Danish Diabetes Risk
      model. Similarly, questions on COPD-related symptoms and smoking status were derived from the
      COPD-PS screener and the Heartscore BMI score. Items tapping dietary habits were from the
      Swedish National Guidelines on Disease Prevention. The questionnaire takes approximately five
      minutes to complete.

      Based on the questionnaire and information from the individual EPR, participants are
      stratified into four distinct risk groups:

        -  Group 1 - Participants with a pre-existing diagnosis and/or in current treatment for an
           LRD.

        -  Group 2 - Participants at high risk of developing LRD, and thus eligible for the offer
           of a targeted intervention at the GP.

        -  Group 3 - Participants engaging in health-risk behavior, and thus eligible for the offer
           of a targeted intervention at the municipality.

        -  Group 4 - Participants with a healthy lifestyle and no need for further intervention.

      Personal health profile Based on results of the stratification process, each patient receives
      a personal health profile on the digital support system. The purpose of the health profile is
      to encourage the patients to change their health-risk behavior and follow the tailored advice
      provided by the system. Patients who are at increased risk of developing an LRD (Group 2) are
      advised to consult their GP for further examination and advice. Similarly, patients engaging
      in health-risk behavior (Group 3) are offered lifestyle counseling, or lifestyle courses in
      the municipality. By definition, Group 4 patients lead a relatively healthy life with no need
      for health-risk behavior change. Group 1 patients are advised to continue their treatment and
      use the information provided to change health-risk behavior.

      The personal health profile includes individualized information on current health-risk
      behavior and risk of disease. The information is tailored based on the questionnaire, the
      information from the EPR, and the risk scores on COPD, T2DM, and CVD. It also includes
      general health information and information about preventive health services concerning
      smoking, diet, exercise, and alcohol consumption. This information is provided by the
      municipality, the Region of Southern Denmark, or the national health services, and targets
      the individual (e.g. via links to apps and webpages) based on his/her specific health-risk
      behavior.

      The targeted intervention The intervention at the GP The intervention at the general practice
      level consists of a focused clinical examination and a subsequent health dialogue and is
      offered to patients who are at increased risk of developing an LRD (Group 2). Group 2
      patients accept the offer of the intervention by scheduling an appointment at the GP (either
      by phone or the GP's webpage). Group 2 patients also have the opportunity to register for a
      telephone call from their GP on the digital support system. Whether the patient participates
      in the intervention or not is thus determined by their motivation and capabilities as well as
      the extent to which the content of the personal health profile motivates the patient to take
      action. The intervention is applied within the framework of the 5As model. The focused
      clinical examination includes measurements of blood glucose (HbA1c) and cholesterol levels,
      as well as height, weight, blood pressure, and lung function measurements, and an
      electrocardiogram (ECG), depending on the patient's health profile. Results from the
      examinations are registered in the digital support system where both the patient and the GP
      can access them at any time. Based on results from the health examination the GP may decide
      to offer the patient a health dialogue in general practice or the intervention in the in the
      municipality (described below). Patients offered a health dialogue in general practice are
      given the opportunity to prepare for the subsequent health dialogue by answering a
      questionnaire inspired by three systematic reviews on the determinants of behavior change.
      These include questions about motivation, resources, former experiences with behavior change,
      social network, mental health (WHO-5 for stress; Major Depression Inventory (MDI) for
      depression, and an open field section to qualitatively report on perceived facilitators and
      barriers to behavior change (a so-called balance-sheet). The questionnaire results are shared
      with the GP on the digital support system. Based on the health dialogue, the GP and the
      patient develop a prevention plan that includes a goal, a time frame, and identification of
      the appropriate means to fulfill the plan (e.g. reference to a smoking cessation course, or
      follow-up at the GP). The prevention plan is uploaded to the digital support system by the
      GP, and henceforth is accessible to both the GP and the patient.

      The intervention at the municipal level The intervention at the municipal level is offered to
      patients exhibiting health-risk behavior (Group 3), and Group 2 patients referred to the
      municipality by the GP. The intervention consists of a short telephone consultation with a
      health professional - for example a nurse, a dietician, or a physiotherapist. A subsequent
      face-to-face health dialogue is offered to patients who may benefit from more extensive
      support. Patients request the telephone consultation on the digital support system by filling
      in a short form and sending it by e-mail to the municipality. A municipal health professional
      will then call the patient within the following week. Similar to the GP intervention, the
      intervention at the municipal level is thus also determined by patient motivation and
      capabilities as well as the extent to which the content of the personal health profile
      motivates the patient to take action. Immediately after the intervention, a participation
      form is sent to the municipality. Patients can prepare for the upcoming call from a municipal
      health professional in the same way as Group 2 patients prepare for the health dialogue -
      that is, by answering a short questionnaire. Ultimately, a prevention plan, including
      concrete details on its execution, is developed based on the telephone consultation and the
      face-to-face health dialogue. The prevention plan is registered by the municipal health
      professional and presented on the digital support system to both the municipality and the
      patient.

      The entire intervention will be offered to the participants during a four-month period from
      April to July 2019.
    
  