
    
      In certain solid neoplasias, antiangiogenic therapies improve response rates and time to
      progression. However, treatment with antiangiogenic drugs do not improve patient´s overall
      survival, in addition to being quite toxic and expensive. It is therefore critical to
      identify reliable predictive factors for drug efficacy and potential toxicity.
      Pharmacogenomics and pharmacogenetics are emerging as important tools in the optimization of
      different therapeutic strategies against cancer. Thus, gene expression profiling and
      genome-wide association studies (GWAS) offer the promise to more effectively tailor
      individual cancer treatments by identifying new biomarkers for clinical efficacy. They likely
      represent a real progress in our understanding of cancer as a complex process and an
      improvement in patient management and treatment. This grant proposal is aimed at: i) identify
      genetic variants (SNPs) responsible for the different bevacizumab treatment response observed
      in metastatic breast cancer patients and ii) determine specific blood microRNA (miRNA)
      signatures associated with the bevacizumab response The reference endpoint for patient
      selection will be progression free survival (PFS). To increase the statistical significance
      of the study, patients will be categorized in two groups: non-responders (PFS<12 weeks) and
      best responders (PFS>52 weeks). Blood samples will be drawn prospectively from selected
      patients, they will be processed to obtain purified total DNA and RNA and, finally, they will
      be analyzed by next-gen GWAS and miRNA profiling, respectively. DNA samples will be
      hybridized to ultrahigh density Omni microarrays, containing 2.5 million genetic variants
      while RNA samples will be hybridized to Affymetrix microarrays containing an up-to-date
      collection of human miRNA sequences (miRBase v15, 1105 human miRNA probes). Standard
      computational analysis of both sets of microarray data will performed and the results will be
      correlated with the main endpoint of the study (PFS).
    
  