
    
      An excessive loss of lean mass could have negative metabolic consequences. Indeed, lean mass
      is an essential determinant of weight loss and of the glycaemia regulation. An important loss
      of muscular mass could expose the person to a reduction of quality of life (because of
      fatigue), or even a functional loss. Muscles are important for insulin sensibility and
      glucose metabolism. Muscles are proteolysis target and proteins will be used as sources of
      amino acid for other cellular functions.

      Changes in lean mass have been at the centre of several studies, but changes in muscular mass
      after bariatric surgery have been report only one time.

      A cohort study in the nutrition unit at Toulouse University Hospital shows that 3 months and
      1 year after surgery, there are 2 phenotypes of patients. The first one is called 'little
      loss' and is defined by a contribution of muscular weight lower than 15% of the total weight
      loss. The other one is called 'big loss' and is defined by a contribution of muscular weight
      higher than 15% of the total weight loss. Causes of these different phenotypes are unknown
      for the moment. Nothing distinguishes them before the surgery. Type of surgery, gender,
      protein intake (in grams of proteins intake per day) do not appear to have a determining
      influence about the intensity of muscle mass loss. The only other study published shows
      changes in muscular mass about 15% at 6 weeks.

      Relation between glycaemia changes and muscle mass changes suggests that patients with modest
      changes in muscular mass are patients who have the best improvement of glycaemia after
      surgery. It is the reason why, it could be interesting to preserve muscular mass.

      Nowadays, there is no consensual strategy to compensate this loss of muscle mass. It is
      important to have in the same time an anabolic stimulus (training, hormone…) and a sufficient
      energy and protein intake.

      According to a recent study which compares leucine intake with placebo during weight loss
      driven by a low-calorie diet associated to a muscle strengthening exercises, patients loss
      the same weight, but leucin group is gaining lean mass, while placebo group is losing it.
      Accordingly, twe different doses of amino acid will be tested of those used as diet
      supplement.

      This study is testing the influence of the quality of protein consumed, more than the
      quantity. Patients will take leucine-enriched amino acid supplement and follow physical
      training. Aromatic amino acid supplementation showed an anabolic effect in older people,
      undernourished children and undernourished patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease. There are no known side effects. This amino acid supplementation has not been
      evaluated in post-obesity surgery context.
    
  