
    
      Symptomatic venous disease is a widespread problem, affecting millions of patients per year,
      an estimated 1.0 - 1.5% of the population. This costs up to 1% of the total health care
      budget1-3. Venous problems account for almost 3000 patient visits in the UPP vascular surgery
      group per year. Although great progress has been made in venous stasis treatments there are
      still patients who suffer for many years with pain and ulceration due to venous disease. The
      investigators believe that venous hypertension is the underlying cause of venous ulceration.
      Three mechanisms leading to venous hypertension are well-recognized: superficial vein (great,
      accessory and small saphenous) incompetence; deep vein (common and superficial femoral,
      popliteal and tibial) reflux or obstruction; perforating vein incompetence. Patients with
      venous stasis and ulceration may have any or all of these conditions. Currently there are
      excellent treatments for superficial venous reflux, namely laser or radiofrequency ablation.
      Deep venous reflux therapy is still under investigation, with prosthetic valves in trial.
      However, compression is still the mainstay of therapy. The presence of deep venous reflux has
      been shown to have a significant effect on ulcer healing when perforator treatment has been
      investigated4. Refluxing perforator vein treatment is currently in flux, with the existing
      options of open surgery and subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery (SEPS) being the most
      tested options, but with significant wound complications and long hospital stays associated
      with both7. The investigators are proposing a prospective trial to evaluate percutaneous
      perforator thrombosis to achieve similar results with less morbidity.

      The population targeted is patients with venous stasis or ulceration who either do not have
      demonstrable superficial reflux amenable to ablation, or have venous symptoms and ulceration
      despite treatment of incompetent superficial veins. When patients have refluxing perforating
      veins, there is debate on optimal treatment. Open and endoscopic ligation and compression
      therapy have all been tried with varying degrees of success and morbidity. The average rate
      of healing in venous ulcers is approximately .05 cm/wk 5,6, which has been shown to
      significantly improve after perforator ligation4, but with high morbidity. Ultrasound-guided
      injection of perforating veins is now performed, but with largely unknown benefits and
      consequences. The investigators propose a prospective, randomized trial of perforator
      injection with sodium tetradecyl sulfate (STS) foam vs. compression as a means of determining
      the efficacy and morbidity of perforator STS foam injection for symptomatic venous disease.
      The investigators currently utilize both methods of treatment in practice. Injections and
      compression or compression alone are chosen based on each patient's clinical scenario. STS is
      currently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for intravenous use.
    
  