
    
      Abdominal wall hernias are frequent in cirrhotic patients. The incidence of umbilical
      hernia´s reaches over 20% in compensated cirrhosis and even 40% in patients with ascites.
      Several risk factors explain the development of umbilical hernia in these patients, such as,
      increased intra-abdominal pressure caused by ascites; abdominal aponeurosis weakness due
      sarcopenia ; and recanalization of the umbilical vein. These hernias develop great hernial
      sacs, especially when ascites is present. All these risk factors also explain their high
      complication rate due to the development of pressure ulcers, skin rupture, ascites leak and
      bacterial peritonitis. Moreover pain is a common associated symptom.

      Inguinal hernias also develop due to higher intra-abdominal pressure due to ascites; they
      often result in large hernia sacs reaching the scrotum. In addition such large hernias are
      responsible for reduced mobility and quality of life.

      The ideal treatment would be to correct both the abdominal wall hernia and the underlying
      liver disease. However, there are insufficient liver´s donors, so the liver transplantation
      (LT) waiting list continuously grows. This explains why the majority of abdominal wall
      hernias in cirrhotic patients remain untreated for several years.

      Therefore, most cirrhotic hernia patients are followed conservatively, the surgical treatment
      being reserved when complications occur. Such expectative attitude is explained by the high
      postoperative morbidity and mortality. Although, urgent surgery in such patients impose a
      higher morbidity and mortality compared to elective hernia surgery.

      No prospective study is reported comparing the incidence of complications in cirrhotic hernia
      patients which are just observed or submitted to elective surgery. The aim of this study is
      to analyze the results of the surgical treatment of abdominal wall hernias in cirrhotic
      patients.

      A prospective study was conducted in patients having documented cirrhosis and abdominal
      hernia that were followed at the Department of Liver Transplant of University of São Paulo
      during the period January 2009 to November 2014. All patients included in the study signed an
      informed consent. At that moment they were randomized for elective hernia repair or clinical
      follow-up accordingly to their Child-Pugh (CTP) status. Patients who developed local hernia
      complications during observation underwent emergency hernia surgery.

      Cirrhosis was diagnosed by liver tests and confirmed with liver imaging or biopsy. Abdominal
      wall hernias were diagnosed by physical examination and ultrasound and/or CT scans when
      necessary.

      All patients were managed for their liver disease using individualized laboratory tests,
      endoscopic and ultrasound work-up. Patients with decompensated liver disease were medically
      optimized using diuretics in order to control the ascites.

      Variables studied were: age, sex, etiology of liver disease, CTP classification, MELD (model
      of end stage liver disease) score, ascites, need of paracentesis, diabetes mellitus, renal
      failure and abdominal hernia type, morbidity and mortality. In patients who underwent surgery
      length of hospital stay, post-operative complications, grade of complications accordingly
      Clavien and infection were also recorded. Post-operative mortality was considered up to
      30-days. End points of the study were death, hernia recurrence or LT.

      This study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of University of Sao Paulo.

      Wait and see was the advocated policy before this study.
    
  