
    
      The goal of this study is to see if consumption of PreforPro, a commercially available
      prebiotic dietary supplement consisting of a mixture of bacteriophages, improves gut bacteria
      profiles in individuals relative to a placebo control. Secondary outcome measures include
      determining changes in comprehensive metabolic profiles, inflammatory markers (systemic and
      local), microbial metabolites, and perceptions of gastrointestinal distress. To accomplish
      these research goals, 40 male and female volunteers between 18-65 years old with BMI scores
      of 20 to 34.9 who suffer from mild gastrointestinal distress will be enrolled.Recruitment
      will be by referral from local practitioners and through email solicitations. Eligibility
      will be determined at the Colorado State University Medical Nutrition Therapy Laboratory
      (MNTL) by a screening questionnaire and interview/assessment by the clinical coordinator.
      After determining eligibility and securing consent, participants will randomly be assigned to
      1 of 2 treatment groups: prebiotic or placebo. Participants will consume one capsule daily of
      respective treatments for a period of four (4) weeks. At the beginning and end of the 4 week
      treatment periods blood and stool samples will be collected at the Human Performance Clinical
      Research Laboratory (HPCRL). This means that participants will make a total of four (4)
      clinic visits during each treatment period. Following the initial treatment period, all
      participants will be required to undergo a wash-out period for two (2) weeks. Upon completion
      of the wash-out period, participants will switch treatment groups for a period of four (4)
      weeks. Clinic visits at baseline and 4-weeks for collection of stool and blood samples will
      also be conducted during the second treatment period. Study participants will be required to
      provide a total of four (4) fecal samples and four (4) fasting blood samples. Additionally,
      study participants will be required to provide a weekly assessment of GI symptoms during the
      two treatment periods. All blood samples will be collected at Colorado State University by
      trained professionals. Fecal sample collection will be performed by the study participant
      with collection materials provided by study personnel. Both participants and researchers will
      be blinded during the course of the intervention and throughout the data analysis period.
      Blinding will be conducted by individuals from Deerland Enzymes, the company that is
      providing the capsules for intervention.
    
  