
    
      According to the data determined by the World Health Organization (WHO), one of the diseases
      that 80% of people encounter throughout their lives is low back pain. Nonspecific low back
      pain is defined as low back pain of unknown cause, which can be diagnosed, and cannot be
      attributed to a known specific disease (eg infection, structural deformity, inflammatory
      disorder, tumor, osteoporosis, fracture, radicular syndrome or cauda equina syndrome).

      In addition, low back pain problem is divided into three groups according to the duration of
      the pain as acute (<6 weeks), subacute (6-12 weeks) and chronic (> 12 weeks) low back pain.
      Chronic low back pain, which constitutes one third of all back problems, is known as moderate
      back pain that lasts more than 12 weeks and continues one year after the onset of acute pain.
      A definite etiological factor can be defined in only 15% of low back pain. It is known that
      individuals' sociodemographic characteristics, psychosocial factors, occupational factors,
      erroneous posture postures and recurrent microtraumas can cause back pain. In addition to
      these, when looking at the studies conducted, it is seen that spasm in lumbar muscles, loss
      of flexibility and increase in lumbal lordosis cause low back pain.

      Low back pain can be treated with pharmacological and non-pharmacological methods.
      Non-pharmacological methods include various treatments such as physiotherapy, psychological
      therapy and acupuncture; Pharmacological treatment methods include anti-inflammatory drugs,
      opioids and antidepressants. It is suggested that pharmacological treatment methods have a
      short-term effect on low back pain and create a placebo effect in individuals. Studies have
      shown that physiotherapy programs that include treatment methods such as exercise, Tai Chi,
      yoga, acupuncture, pilates, core stabilization exercises, Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve
      Stabilization (TENS) are effective in reducing muscular spasm and pain.

      Myofascial release is a manual treatment method that involves low pressure, long-term
      stretching of the soft tissue in the painful area to restore the normal length of the facial
      tissue, reduce pain and increase functionality. It has been shown that myofascial relaxation
      therapy, which is applied in musculoskeletal disorders and observed to provide relaxation by
      stimulating the neuromuscular system, has been shown to reduce back pain and increase the
      flexibility of the lumbar muscles.

      Deep oscillation therapy, which increases tissue nutrition and has an anti-inflammatory
      effect as a result of electrostatic currents that cause a gentle and deep effective
      fluctuation in the tissue, provides a positive effect on pain reduction and also on muscle
      relaxation. In deep oscillation treatment, the body tissue of the individual is used as an
      electrode, while the probe used by the physiotherapist for the area to be applied is used as
      another electrode. Although there are no studies determining the effects of deep oscillation
      therapy on the lumbar region muscles, it was seen that deep oscillation application had an
      acute effect on muscle relaxation in the comparison of deep oscillation and ultrasound
      treatments performed due to the decrease in the flexibility of the hamstring muscles.
    
  