
    
      Gastrostomy feeding is an established means of delivering adequate nutrition to patients with
      an inability to meet their metabolic requirements due to inadequate oral intake.
      Additionally, the gastrostomy tube can be utilized for medication administration in patients
      unable to otherwise tolerate oral intake. Traditionally, placement of gastrostomy tubes has
      been performed endoscopically, radiologically or by either laparoscopic or open surgical
      techniques. More than 200,000 gastrostomy tubes are placed each year in the United States,
      and that number is expected to increase as the proportion of the population that is elderly
      grows (Roche et al 2003, Goldberg et al 2005, Lynch et al 2004).

      Previous studies have failed to identify a clearly superior technique for placement of
      feeding tubes (Bravo 2016, Yuan 2016). Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) was first
      described by Gauderer et al. in 1980 in a case series of 12 children as an alternative to
      laparotomy in high-risk patients (Gauderer 1980). There is a high overall success rate of PEG
      placement at 95-100% (Itkin 2011). Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) has become the
      most common method for placement of a gastrostomy tube. This requires the use of specialized
      equipment and the availability of physicians specifically trained in this procedure. The
      number of procedures performed yearly to place feeding tubes is expected to rise as the
      population ages and as some treatments have resulted in some diseases become chronic states
      rather than invariably fatal conditions.

      Challenges to performance of gastrostomy tube placement include the requirement for
      specialized equipment, specialized areas designated to have this procedure performed as well
      as the need for proceduralists who are specifically trained in this technique.

      The CoapTech device was developed in an effort to reduce the complicated requirements
      associated with other techniques of gastrostomy placement so that when clinically indicated
      the procedure can be performed in a safe and timely manner by a wide range of clinicians with
      various training backgrounds.
    
  