
    
      Five to ten percent of school-age children in the United States are identified as having
      learning disability and 10 to 20% have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Many
      of these children have difficulty with tasks that challenge the auditory system. It is
      estimated that 3 to 7 percent of children have difficulty with auditory processing as a major
      factor interfering with education (Chermak and Musiek, 1997). Pinpointing physiological
      causes of auditory processing difficulty has been elusive. Intervention is hampered by the
      lack of knowledge of possible physical causes and therefore intervention addresses systems
      rather than causes of auditory processing difficulty. Indeed, whether the problem has a
      peripheral or central origin is unclear. Identification of physiological differences in
      children with auditory processing disorders may lead to electrophysiologic identification of
      potential auditory processing disorders. Thus the possibility of early intervention might
      reduce the educational impact of this problem.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship of the efferent auditory neural
      system to the ability to process speech in noise. The study measures suppression of
      otoacoustic emissions in a population of adolescents with auditory processing difficulty as
      demonstrated by reduced ability to process speech in noise (Group A). These subjects will be
      compared to an age and sex matched group of adolescents with speech-in-noise test scores
      within normal limits (Group B). The study population will include 100 children between the
      ages of 12 and 18 years. All subjects must demonstrate normal puretone thresholds, speech
      recognition scores in quiet and middle ear function measured by acoustic immittance tests.
      Furthermore, the subjects' otoacoustic emissions must have reproducibility percentages within
      normal limits in the 2000, 3000, 4000 and 5000 Hz frequency bands. Subjects will complete an
      auditory speech recognition test battery (Scan-A and NU6 in multi-talker noise) and
      otoacoustic emission suppression tests. The auditory recognition tests each measure the
      subjects' ability to recognize speech in the presence of various types of noise and/or
      filtering. A group design will be used. Outcome parameters are the amount of suppression in
      dB for a group of subjects with normal speech understanding in noise and a group with reduced
      speech scores in noise and the relationship between speech measures and the degree of
      suppression.
    
  