
    
      This is a Phase II trial to determine the efficacy and safety of in situ gene therapy and
      stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) used as a window of opportunity treatment before
      nivolumab in patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma
      (NSCLC) and metastatic uveal melanoma. In situ gene therapy will consist of
      adenovirus-mediated expression of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (ADV/HSV-tk) plus
      Valacyclovir therapy. Male or female patients aged ≥18 years with histologically or
      cytologically confirmed metastatic squamous or non-squamous NSCLC whose disease has
      progressed after a platinum-based chemotherapy and a single-agent immunotherapy OR
      histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic uveal melanoma that is immunotherapy
      naive are eligible to participate in the study. NSCLC patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor
      aberrations are eligible only if they have had disease progression on FDA-approved therapy
      for these aberrations. ADV/HSV-tk (5 x 1011 viral particles) in a 2-mL total volume will be
      injected intratumorally on day 0 of the study. Valacyclovir will be orally administered at a
      dose of 2 g three times daily for 14 days. Valacyclovir treatment will be administered 24
      hours after the gene vector injection from day 1 to day 15 of the study. SBRT of 30 gray (Gy;
      6 Gy X 5 fractions) will be administered over 2 weeks from day 2 to day 16 of the study.
      Nivolumab (480 mg) will be administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 4 weeks starting
      on day 17 of the study and continuing until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up
      to 12 months in patients without disease progression. The primary endpoint will be the
      objective response rate (ORR) of ADV/HSV-tk + Valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT
      used as a window of opportunity treatment before nivolumab in patients with metastatic
      squamous or non-squamous NSCLC. Both RECIST 1.1 and modified immune-related response criteria
      (irRC; derived from RECIST 1.1) will be used to assess treatment response. Secondary
      endpoints will include a) clinical benefit rate (CBR); b) duration of response (DoR); c)
      overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) rates; d) safety and toxicity
      (toxicity will be defined as any treatment-related death or any ≥ grade 3 toxicity excluding
      alopecia and constitutional symptoms as assessed by the NCI CTCAE v4.03); and e)
      immune-mediated antitumor activity (assessed by RECIST 1.1 and modified irRC) of ADV/HSV-tk
      plus Valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment
      before nivolumab.
    
  