
    
      The objectives were evaluated in an 8 week open label trial of where half of the participants
      were randomly assigned to receive (ATX+BT) while the rest received only ATX. An open label
      design was employed as the efficacy of ATX for ADHD symptoms has been established and to
      ensure that all patients received at least one active treatment. Parents in the ATX+BT group
      attended an eight week parenting course using the Community Oriented Parent Education (COPE)
      program (Cunningham, Bremner, & Secord, 1998) while the child participated in an eight week
      social skills course. Teachers implemented a Daily Report Card (DRC) to track classroom
      behaviors. In the BT group, the child's DRC performance was communicated daily to parents and
      tied to consequences at home and school. In the ATX group, parents were not provided with the
      DRCs. The ATX dosing protocol was as follows: .5mg/kg per day on days 1-3, .8mg/kg/day days
      4-7, 1.2mg/kg days 8+. After 3 weeks, subjects were eligible to increase to 1.8mg/kg/day. ATX
      was dosed once in the morning but could be dosed BID to address tolerability. The mean final
      dose was 1.4mg/kg/day.

      To be enrolled, children must have had an IQ > 75, not failed a trial of ATX, met DSM
      criteria for ADHD but not other psychiatric comorbidities except ODD/CD and be in good
      physical health. Children already taking ADHD medication were enrolled only if the average
      symptom score on the ADHD subscale of the Disruptive Behaviors Disorders (DBD) scale was >2
      (moderate impairment). ADHD was confirmed by parent report on the DISC and the DBD, which
      rates all DSM 3R and IV symptoms of ODD, CD and ODD on a 0-3 likert scale. Subjects were also
      required to evidence ADHD symptoms in the classroom as rated on the IOWA Conners. Psychiatric
      comorbidities were assessed using the DISC.

      Measures of treatment response included:

        1. Parents and teacher ratings on the IOWA Conners: 10 item Likert ratings to measure
           children's inattention-overactive-impulsive and oppositional-defiant behavior (Milich,
           Loney, & Landau, 1982)

        2. Parent and teacher ratings on the Impairment Rating Scale (IRS): 8 items using
           visual-analogue scales to measure children's functional impairment in peer
           relationships, adult-child relationships, academic performance, classroom behavior, and
           self esteem (Fabiano et al., 2006).

        3. Parent and teacher side effect ratings using a structured list of common side effects
           seen with ATX modeled after the Pittsburgh Side Effects Rating Scale (Pelham, 1993).

        4. Direct observations of subjects to measure rule violations and on/off task behavior
           using a modified version of the COCADD system (Atkins, Pelham & Licht, 1988) in which
           trained observers watched children in their classroom for 30 minutes, recording each
           rule violation and off-task behavior.

        5. Parent and teacher rating on the Social Skills Rating Scale (SSRS): a measure of
           teachers' and parents perceptions of children's social and academic skills and of their
           overall problem behaviors (Gresham & Elliott, 1990).
    
  