
    
      There is increasing evidence that hypovitaminosis D is common in the general population.

      Low dietary intake of vitamin D and reduced exposure to sunlight are probably the major risk
      factors. A high prevalence of hypovitaminosis D has been described in HIV-infected adults,
      and children. HIV infection itself and antiretroviral (ARV) treatment may be responsible for
      alteration of vitamin D metabolism. For instance, studies have shown a significant decrease
      in serum 25-hydroxyvitamin-D [25(OH)D] concentration in adults receiving non-nucleoside
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs). Whatever the cause(s) of hypovitaminosis D,
      because of the importance of vitamin D in bone health, randomized controlled trials (RCT)
      have been performed to test whether vitamin D supplementation can improve vitamin D status
      and bone mineral metabolism in HIV-infected children and adolescents.

      Along with its effects on bone metabolism, vitamin D is an important modulator of the immune
      system. The vitamin D receptor (VDR) is found in high concentrations in activated T
      lymphocytes, in small amounts in monocyte/macrophage cells while B lymphocytes do not contain
      detectable amounts of VDR.

      Experimental studies have shown that the active di-hydroxylated metabolite of vitamin D
      [1,25(OH)2D] is able to skew the T cell compartment into a more anti-inflammatory state, with
      inhibition of Th1 and Th17 cells and promotion of Th2 and T regulatory (Treg) subsets.

      In the context of HIV infection, in which Th1 subpopulations are devoted to inhibit viral
      replication, 16 any alteration of the Th1/Th2 balance would be of concern.

      Although all the biological effects of vitamin D are mediated by the 1,25(OH)2D, it is the
      25(OH)D to be routinely quantified because of its longer half-life.17 However, HIV-infected
      subjects may have a defective 1α-hydroxylation of 25(OH)D. Thus, it is important to evaluate
      the effects of vitamin D supplementation both in terms of 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)2D responses.

      This repeated-measures parallel-group RCT is aimed to test wether a 12-month oral
      supplementation with cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) is able: 1) to increase serum 25(OH)D and
      1,25(OH)2D levels and, 2) to affect T-cell phenotype in vertically HIV-infected children and
      young adults with hypovitaminosis D and stable HIV-disease.

      Main outcome: to determine the frequency of hypovitaminosis D at 12-month of follow-up among
      subjects supplemented with oral cholecalciferol versus subjects receiving placebo.

      Secondary outcome: to investigate correlations - if any - between serum vitamin D
      concentration and markers of immune activation (i.e. Th1-, Th2-, Th17- and Treg-lymphocytes
      count, T-lymphocyte VDR expression)
    
  