
    
      High blood pressure is common in the population. In an earlier study conducted in our local
      geographical area, "How is health in Jordbro?" 46% of participants had a systolic blood
      pressure of >140 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) and 22% had a diastolic blood pressure >90 mm
      Hg. 84% of those with known hypertension had a systolic blood pressure of >140. We thus found
      that many people in our area have heightened blood pressure, and hypothesized that many of
      these people, particularly those with mild hypertension, probably could be helped with
      lifestyle-related intervention.

      All persons who came to Jordbro Primary Health Care Center during a 6-month period were
      invited to participate in the current study, and local press announcements were used to
      recruit additional participants. A total of 301 persons volunteered to participate. A total
      of 141 of the volunteers had a systolic blood pressure =>140 and/or a diastolic blood
      pressure of =>90, and these people became the study population. The 141 persons in the study
      population filled in a questionnaire with general background and lifestyle questions.

      Of the 141 persons in the study population, 75 had previously known hypertension and 66 had
      hypertension that was previously unknown. Participants were then randomized such that an
      equal number of persons with previously known and previously unknown hypertension were
      included in a) a treatment group and b) a control group. Background information such as
      height, weight, pulse, smoking habits, other diseases, and prescription drugs was gathered.
      Blood sugar and lipid tests were conducted. Participants' family physician were contacted as
      necessary (e.g., if blood pressure was dangerously high).

      The intervention consisted of 2 group seminars with information on hypertension and related
      lifestyle factors and 2 follow-up visits with each participant in which blood pressure was
      measured and motivational interviewing took place. The motivational interviewing focused on
      lifestyle factors, including physical activity, stress, tobacco use, alcohol habits, and
      diet. After 6 months, a follow-up was done that included blood pressure measurement and
      completion of the same questionnaire that was filled in at baseline.
    
  