
    
      The study will be carried out in Spanish hospitals, with principal investigators belonging to
      the medical oncology services of the SOGUG group (Spanish Group of Genitourinary Oncology),
      who will act as promoter. Once the patients have been selected, the variables of interest
      will be collected and studied. The main variables to record will be:

        1. Patient characteristics

        2. Hospital center where the patient is recruited

        3. Pathological history:

           Concomitant pathology Usual drug treatment

        4. Tumor pathology:

           Tumor type, histology, and stage (initial and at diagnosis of infection) Cancer
           diagnosis date Active cancer treatment or follow-up Participation in clinical trial Type
           of treatment most recently received for the infection (Surgery; Radiotherapy;
           Chemotherapy, Immunotherapy ...) Treatment lines, initiation and last dose received of
           the most recent most recent cancer treatment

        5. COVID-19 infection:

           Confirmation date of COVID-19 infection PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) diagnostic test
           Immunoglobulin G (IgG) or Immunoglobulin M (IgM) serological diagnostic test Present
           symptoms, analytical alterations, thrombosis associated with COVID-19 infection,
           complications of infection Date of onset and disappearance of symptoms Days of fever and
           cough Radiological examination at the time of greatest severity Treatments received for
           COVID-19 Status upon discharge Date of discharge / exitus Negative presence of virus by
           PCR and PCR date

        6. For patients who are receiving or have received immunotherapy treatments, additional
           information will be collected:

           Immunotherapy treatment line and type Start / end date and last dose previous infection
           of the treatment with immunotherapy Adverse effects

        7. Prospective follow-up data (6 months from patient inclusion):

      Date of start or restart of cancer treatment after infection Change / suspension of cancer
      treatment after COVID-19 Date of surgery in neoadjuvant patients Recurrence of COVID-19 Best
      response obtained Date of progression to cancer treatment Current status and date of last
      contact The study will use the data obtained from the patient's medical history, with no
      plans to use other sources.

      The assignment of a patient to a specific therapeutic strategy has already been decided in
      advance by the usual clinical practice of medicine; The decision to prescribe a specific
      treatment is clearly dissociated from the decision to include a patient in the study. No
      intervention will be applied to patients, whether diagnostic or follow-up, that is not the
      usual clinical practice. Epidemiological methods will be used to analyze the collected data.
    
  