
    
      This is a large, randomized trial of a Lyme disease primary prevention program for passengers
      on ferry boats going to Nantucket Island for the period from Memorial Day until Labor Day.
      Boats are randomized to experimental or control interventions.

      The experimental intervention is a performance-based educational program on Lyme disease
      prevention, and uses supplemental materials. An entertainment troupe delivers the
      intervention using comedy, theater, and vaudevillian techniques. The entertainers present
      three shows in different locations on the boat. Each show is about 10 minutes and covers the
      severity and likelihood of acquiring Lyme disease and the benefits of tick avoidance and
      search and removal behaviors. When people on experimental boats enroll in the study they
      receive the following free materials: a wallet-sized tick ID card, a laminated shower card
      with tick-removal instructions, a map showing tick habitats, a tick-feeling card, and an
      educational pamphlet. Control boats do not have performers. Participants on control boats
      receive education on road safety and injury prevention from rollerblade, bicycle, and
      skateboard accidents.

      We will collect baseline data at enrollment, including name, address, demographics,
      resident/visitor status, length of stay on island, frequency of exposure to tick areas,
      history of tick-transmitted disease, and exposure to intervention. We will enroll a random
      subsample of participants in a study of behavior, and will ask them additional questions on
      self-efficacy, intention to perform prevention behaviors and attitude about or social support
      for practicing prevention behaviors while on the island.

      We will follow people in the behavioral subsample at 1 week to find out their actual
      behaviors. We will follow all subjects at 2 months to find out self-reported disease status.
      We ask persons reporting a visit to an M.D. for illness to mail a form to their physician for
      confirmation of diagnosis and to provide information about health-care use. The main outcome
      is Lyme disease. Intermediate outcomes include change in self-efficacy, behavioral intention,
      and health behaviors.
    
  