
    
      To prepare the CD30.CAR T cells, research staff will take some blood from the subject. This
      would be drawn as two separate blood collections.

      Alternatively, if the subject's blood counts are low, staff may collect the cells needed to
      prepare T cells by a pheresis procedure. This procedure will involve placing a needle in both
      arms, collecting the cells over 3 to 6 hours during which the subject will be required to lie
      relatively still.

      After the T cells have been collected, some of them will be activated stimulating them with
      antibodies and will then be infected with a retroviral vector (a special virus that can
      carries a new gene into cells) containing a new gene called anti-CD30 that will make an
      antibody to lymphoma cells. The trained cells are called CD30.CAR T cells. Then, the cells
      will be tested to make sure that they kill lymphoma cells that express the CD30 antigen and
      not normal cells.

      The cells generated will be frozen and stored to give back to the subject.

      This is a dose escalation study. This means that at the beginning, patients will be started
      on the lowest doses (1 of 3 different levels) of CD30.CAR T Cells. Once that dose schedule
      proves safe, the next group of patients will be started at a higher dose. This process will
      continue until all 3 dose levels are studied. If the side effects are too severe, the dose
      will be lowered or the T cell infusions will be stopped. The risks of harm and discomfort
      from the study treatment may bear some relationship to the dose level. The potential for
      direct benefit, if any, may also vary with the dose level.

      Subjects will be given one injection of CD30.CAR T cells. The injection will be on Day 0. The
      subject may be given a dose of Benadryl and Tylenol before the injection of T cells to
      minimize any possible allergic reaction. The injection will take 1-10 minutes. The subject
      will be monitored in the clinic after each injection for up to 3 hours.

      At the discretion of the study doctor, if the subject has stable disease (the lymphoma did
      not grow) or there is a reduction in the size of the lymphoma on imaging studies at week 8
      after the T-cell infusion or on subsequent evaluations, then the subject can receive up to
      six additional doses of the T cells at 8 to 12 weeks intervals. After each T cell injection,
      the subject will be monitored as described above.

      If the subject is not post autologous transplant they will receive treatment with
      cyclophosphamide and fludarabine (chemotherapy drugs) before the CD30.CAR T cells. These
      drugs will decrease the numbers of the patient's T cells before the CD30.CAR T cells are
      infused. Although the investigators do not expect any effect on the tumor with the dose that
      the patient will receive, these drugs are part of many regimens that are used to treat
      lymphoma or leukemia.

      To learn more about the way the CD30.CAR T cells are working and how long they last in the
      body, extra blood will be drawn. On the day that the subject receives the cells, blood will
      be taken before the cells are given and several hours afterwards. Other blood will be drawn
      at 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks (optional), 4 weeks, 6 weeks and 8 weeks, every 3 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 4 years, then yearly for a total of 15 years.
    
  