
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the feasibility, tolerability, and toxicities, in terms of the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD), of the sequential combination of vorinostat (SAHA) followed by cytarabine and
      etoposide in patients with relapsed and/or refractory acute leukemia or transforming
      myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative disorders.

      II. Determine whether the addition of SAHA to cytarabine and etoposide chemotherapy improves
      outcome, in terms of complete response rate, duration of response, and overall survival, in
      these patients.

      III. Determine the effects of SAHA on induction of tumor necrosis factor-related
      apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-death receptors DR4 and DR5 and other pro-apoptotic
      mediators in patient-derived cancer cells (leukemia blast cells) and somatic cells (buccal
      mucosa cells, using pre-SAHA and on SAHA treatment samples).

      IV. Determine the ability of SAHA to block leukemia blast cells in the G1 phase of the cell
      cycle (leukemia blast cells, using pre-SAHA and on SAHA treatment samples).

      V. Determine the effects of SAHA on the expression of P-glycoprotein/MDR1/ABCB1, and the
      breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP/ABCG2), using functional and mRNA/protein assays for
      these transporters (leukemia blast cells, using pre-SAHA and on SAHA treatment samples).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA).

      Patients receive oral SAHA two or three times daily on days 1-7 and cytarabine intravenously
      (IV) over 3 hours twice daily and etoposide IV over 1 hour once daily on days 11-14.
      Treatment repeats approximately every 6-7 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who achieve complete response after 1 course of therapy may receive 1 or 2 more
      courses of therapy. Patients who achieve partial response after 1 course of therapy may
      receive 1 more course of therapy. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 1 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the
      MTD is determined, an additional 10 patients are treated at that dose. Blood, buccal cells,
      and bone marrow samples are collected prior to and during treatment. Samples are used for
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies, protein expression studies, and gene expression
      profiling. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 30 days.
    
  