
    
      The protocol will be held in three different Hospitals from Monterrey. Those patients with
      heart failure will be invited to participate; serum vitamin D will be measured, and those
      with vitamin D deficiency will be participating, once they meet all the inclusion criteria
      and none of the exclusion criteria, and sign an informed consent.

      Patients will be assigned to the intervention group or placebo group according to their
      characteristics so that both groups are equally balanced in proportion to similar
      characteristics and number to guarantee homogeneity in both groups at baseline.

      The study will have a 12-month time frame for each patient. Patients can be enrolled at
      different times.

      All patients will undergo:

        -  A baseline measurement of vitamin D concentration in plasma and then every three months
           (according to season changes) for a total of five measurements.

        -  Myocardial function and structure measured by magnetic resonance with contrast media at
           baseline and end of intervention.

        -  Heart failure clinical follow-up with a 6 minute walk test, arterial pressure and
           clinical parameters every month.

        -  A baseline measurement of serum BNP and then every three months (5 in total).

        -  Serum lipid profile, glucose and insulin measurements at baseline, intermediate and at
           the end of the intervention.

        -  Anthropometric measurements (weight, body mass index, waist circumference, body fat
           percentage) every month.

        -  A baseline measurement of inflammatory cytokines in serum and then every three months (5
           in total).

        -  Serum PTH and calcium measured at baseline and end of intervention

      At the end of the intervention, patients in the control group will receive vitamin D
      supplementation of 5 000 IU per day for a whole year, so they receive the same benefits as
      the intervention group.

      Definitions:

      Heart failure defined as patients with ventricular ejection fraction less than 40 percent,
      serum B natriuretic peptide >300 milligrams/milliliters.

      Vitamin D deficiency defined as serum vitamin D levels below 30 nano-grams per milliliter.

      According to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) Classification System:

        -  NYHA III defined as marked limitation of physical activity

        -  NYHA IV defined as symptoms occur even at rest; discomfort with any physical activity.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      Comparison and p-value measured at baseline and end of intervention will be done with paired
      t-test for means and McNemar test for proportions.

      According to the central limit theorem and the big sample size, there will be no need to
      evaluate normality for the variables; non-parametric rank test with Wilcoxon sign won't be
      necessary.

      For comparison between independent groups, homogeneity of variance will be evaluated using
      parametric F test for variables with a normal distribution and with non-parametric Levene
      test for continuous variables with an abnormal distribution, to compare the means through
      t-test. Mann-Whitney test won't be necessary for the same reasons listed above.

      For comparison of proportions between independent groups will be held with the hypothesis
      test based on the statistic Z-test, and Fisher test for small samples.

      The relation between variables measured in the study with our variable serum vitamin D level,
      will be done through Pearson's correlation coefficient and a multiple linear regression. That
      regression will be evaluated through parametric and non-parametric tests with diagnosis of
      autocorrelation, homoscedasticity and multicollinearity. Regression analysis will be done
      every time a vitamin D measurement is done (5 in total)

      All results will use a significance level of 0.05, equivalent to possibility of type 1 error.

      Minitab version 16 software (Minitab Inc, State College, Pennsylvania, USA) will be used for
      statistical analysis, and Microsoft Excel 2007 (Microsoft Corp., Redmond, Washington, USA)
      will be used to incorporate the input of date.
    
  