
    
      The use of pedicle screws in spinal surgery has seen a major advance in recent decades,
      allowing for greater biomechanical stability and higher fusion rates. In order to avoid any
      malposition that could cause neurological, vascular and visceral injuries and compromise this
      mechanical stability, imaging-guided surgical techniques have been developed. These are aimed
      at improving the positioning accuracy of pedicle screws to reduce these risks and improve
      mechanical stability and intervertebral fusion. Fluoroscopic examinations had long been the
      mainstay of intraoperative control imaging until the development of computer-assisted
      techniques. However, despite intraoperative examination, pedicle screw misalignment remains
      very common and even experienced surgeons can deviate screws in 5 to 20% of cases when using
      a standard fluoroscopic examination image. Thus, navigation techniques coupled with an
      intraoperative scanner, involving the acquisition of 2D images of the surgical field, have
      been developed. These techniques allow the neurosurgeon to navigate the spine and thus allow
      an improvement in the positioning accuracy of the pedicle screws. The correlate is an
      improvement of the safety of the procedure (reduction of complications) but also an
      optimisation of the biomechanical efficiency of the osteosynthesis.

      With respect to the radiation emitted during navigated spinal surgery coupled with an
      intraoperative scan, some comparative studies have shown that the radiation rates received by
      the neurosurgical team and the patient were lower than the radiation rates received in
      conventional surgery. To date, few studies combining the analysis of the pedicular screw
      accuracy rate and the radiation rate transmitted to the neurosurgical team and patients have
      been published.

      Therefore the team propose to evaluate the impact of the use of intraoperative scanning
      (BODYTom, Samsung) coupled with Stryker navigation, compared to the conventional fluoroscopy
      technique, on the accuracy of pedicle screws, in instrumented spinal surgery, by a randomised
      prospective study, in terms of pedicular screw accuracy. The investigator team will also
      evaluate the radiation exposure of the neurosurgical team and the patient in these two
      techniques.
    
  