
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib given concurrently with gemcitabine and
      radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine, preliminarily,
      the antitumor efficacy of this regimen, in terms of response rate, in these patients.

      III. Determine the time to tumor progression and overall survival of patients treated with
      this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, open-label, dose-escalation study of erlotinib.

      Chemoradiotherapy: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Beginning on
      day 1 and continuing concurrently with radiotherapy, patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30
      minutes twice weekly and oral erlotinib once daily. Treatment continues in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an additional 10
      patients receive treatment at that dose.

      Patients are radiologically restaged 3-4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy. Patients
      with stable or responsive disease proceed to maintenance therapy. Patients whose imaging
      studies suggest a potential for curative resection are referred for a surgical evaluation
      before initiating maintenance therapy.

      Maintenance therapy: Beginning 4-7 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients
      receive maintenance chemotherapy comprising gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8
      and oral erlotinib once daily. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-28 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  