
    
      The CANOE Study CAnadian Normoglycemia Outcomes Evaluation Study

      It is now well accepted that the 21st Century will be characterized by a global epidemic of
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus [Type 2DM]. To deal with this major health crisis, several
      strategies have been proposed. These include efforts that focus on the primary prevention of
      diabetes, attempts at implementing effective management of diabetes once it develops, and the
      institution of appropriate proven therapies for established diabetic complications. The CANOE
      study focuses on a primary prevention strategy. The study is designed to evaluate the effect
      of pharmacological therapy combined with a healthy living lifestyle intervention on Canadian
      individuals who are at high risk for this metabolic condition because they have IGT.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  To determine if treatment with Avandamet, in addition to a healthy living lifestyle
           program, will prevent the development of Type 2 diabetes in Canadians at high risk for
           this metabolic disorder;

        -  To determine if treatment with Avandamet, in addition to a healthy living lifestyle
           program will improve cardiovascular risk factors associated with IGT.

      STUDY DESIGN

      CANOE is a moderately sized, randomized, double-blind controlled trial to determine if
      Avandamet will decrease the development of diabetes in individuals at high risk for this
      condition. A total of 200 patients will be followed for an average follow up of 4 years
      (range 3 - 5 years). Active treatment with Avandamet (Metformin 500 mg / Rosiglitazone 2 mg)
      administered as one capsule twice daily will be compared to matched placebo.

      All study participants will receive a lifestyle intervention program based on the latest
      national evidence-based guidelines recommended by the Canadian Diabetes Association (Can J
      Diabetes, Vol 27 Suppl 2, 2003).
    
  