
    
      AIM AND RATIONALE:

      Hypothesis:

      H0: Preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis in patients with PJI interferes with the isolation of
      the microorganism from the intraoperative cultures and sonication samples, resulting in
      higher false-negative results.

      H1: Preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis in patients with PJI does not interfere with the
      isolation of the microorganism from the intraoperative cultures and sonication samples.

      Goals:

      Main Goal:

      - Determine preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis outcome on cultures obtained
      intraoperatively.

      Secondary Goals:

        -  Ascertain if organisms isolated from preoperative joint aspirate correspond to those
           isolated from intraoperative cultures;

        -  Verify if the addition of substances with chelation properties to hemoculture containers
           filled with sonication samples affects antibiotic prophylaxis outcome;

        -  Make a descriptive analysis and revision of microorganisms implicated in PJIs.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS:

      Prospective, Randomized, Double-blind Clinical trial (Level I of Evidence):

      Group I (study group): antibiotic prophylaxis + empiric antibiotic treatment once obtained
      intraoperative culture results.

      Group II (control group): Empiric antibiotic treatment once obtained intraoperative culture
      results.

      At the present institution, the investigators routinely administer intravenous prophylactic
      antibiotic, such as first-generation cephalosporins (2g cefazolin), or Glycopeptide
      derivatives (1g Vancomycin) if penicillin allergies are reported. This antibiotic
      administration schedule is initiated 30-60 minutes, or 60 minutes before surgery,
      respectively.

      Empiric antibiotic treatment (vancomycin 1g/12h + ceftazidim 2g/8h) will be administered if
      aspiration cultures results are negative, or the infecting microorganism is unknown.
      Contrariwise, if the infecting microorganism is isolated and its antibiogram known, targeted
      antibiotic therapy will be used accordingly.

      Patients were assigned to each group using a computer generated random selection scheme from
      Statistic Assessment Department. Both doctors and patients have been blinded for this
      information to ensure there are no differences in the way information is assessed or managed,
      in order to minimize bias. The study and placebo solutions will be prepared by the nurse on
      duty according to the anesthesiologist recommendations.

      The surgical techniques performed vary according to the type of infection. In chronic
      infections the investigators will proceed to remove the infected prosthesis and implant the
      cement spacer, whereas in acute infections the adopted technique will be irrigation and
      débridment with liner exchange and retention of components. Once obtained intraoperative
      cultures and sonication samples, antibiotic prophylaxis regimen will be initiated with
      vancomycin (1g/12h) and ceftazidim (2g/8h), both for acute and chronic infections. In case
      there is a positive synovial fluid aspiration result, the investigators will perform targeted
      antibiotic treatment according to antibiogram. Hence, patients assigned to the control group
      will be able to receive an adequate antibiotic coverage. Additionally, there are no
      guidelines or clinical recommendations about the use of antibiotic prophylaxis in first-stage
      exchange, or irrigation and débridment procedures.

      The protocol and surgical techniques performed, as well as the prosthetic models and cement
      spacers are the same the investigators use in the Department of Orthopaedic surgery and
      Traumatology of the study center, which have already been approved by a proper board review.
      That said, his clinical trial will not suppose any modification to the current clinical
      practice, neither to the microbiological techniques and methods applied.

      Data collection:

        -  Preoperative data: gender, age, weight, Body Mass Index, comorbidities, type of
           prosthesis, mean time to diagnosis, preoperative joint aspirate microbiologic analysis
           and blood cell count.

        -  Intraoperative data: Whether or not antibiotic has been used and type of antibiotic
           used.

        -  Postoperative data: Intraoperative culture results and microbiological technique
           employed.

      The investigators will consider false-negatives those patients who do not meet the infection
      criteria referred above (see inclusion criteria) and those who present negative culture
      results.

      The routine surgical follow-up is scheduled 4, 6, 12 and 24 weeks after surgical
      intervention, as recommended by the study hospital protocol.

      STATISTICS:

      Statistical analysis:

      Firstly, the investigators will perform a descriptive analysis of the study population.
      Whereas categorical variables will be expressed as numbers and frequencies, parameters
      measured on a continuous scale will be represented by their mean and standard deviation, in
      case they follow a normal distribution. Otherwise, the investigators will employ quartiles
      and median values to describe them.

      Secondly, a bivariate analysis comparing each parameter with the group patients were assigned
      to will be executed, using the Chi Square or Fisher test to describe categorical variables.
      As to qualitative parameters, a variance analysis will be done if the variables follow a
      normal distribution. Otherwise, Kruskal-Wallis and Man-Whitney test will be used.

      Finally, the investigators will employ a relative risk method to evaluate negativization
      risk.

      The investigators will consider statistically significant p values under 0.05 and use SPSS
      18.0 (SPSS inc, Chicago- Illinois) software and Prism (6.01 version, Graphpad, La Jolla, CA)
      for graphical analyses.

      Sample Size:

      The investigators undertook a Chi Square difference test to determine the sample size,
      assuming a 15% false negative rate in the control group, a 60% false negative rate in the
      study group and a 10% rate of lost to follow-up. The test revealed that 14 patients were
      needed in each group to detect statistically significant differences, establishing an α error
      of 0.05 and a statistical power of 80%.
    
  