
    
      Aim 1: Determine whether the addition of transdermal scopolamine to a standard analgesic
      regimen reduces opioid utilization following outpatient hand surgery as reported by patients
      Objectives: The investigators will compare opioid usage between patients who complete logs
      during the pre-intervention stage of the study and the intervention stage of the study to
      determine the effect of including scopolamine as a medication in standard post-operative
      analgesic regimens following outpatient hand surgery. As this is the primary objective of our
      study, an a priori power analysis was conducted. Based on a two-sided two-sample independent
      t-test with a specified significant level of 0.05, a power of 0.8, and a moderate effect size
      of 0.5; 64 patients will need to complete each portion of the study to provide an overall
      sample size of 128 patients.

      Outcome Variables and Analysis: The absolute number of logged opioid use during the two-week
      study period will be compared between the pre-intervention and intervention groups using a
      two-sided independent samples t-test.

      Aim 2: Determine patient compliance with usage of multi-modal analgesic medications and the
      feasibility of supplementing with an additional agent Objectives: During the pre-intervention
      stage of the trial, the investigators will encourage patients to utilize non-opioid
      analgesics over opioids and have patients keep a log of their NSAID and acetaminophen usage.
      This aim will partially establish whether patients are being adequately counseled regarding
      multi-modal pain control as patients with high opioid consumption should also have high rates
      of use of their non-opioid analgesics. It will also establish whether it is feasible to
      expect patients to comply with the introduction of novel medications into analgesic regimens.
      It will establish baseline rates of non-narcotic pain medication use overall and stratified
      by procedure. It may also further support the existing evidence that non-opioid pain
      medications reduce opioid requirements while providing more significant pain relief than
      opioids alone.

      Outcome Variables and Analysis: Data analyzed will include percentage of individual
      non-opioid pain medications used (prescriptions will be provided so patient could take
      medication around the clock), patient pain scores, and percentage of opioids used.
      Percentages of non-opioid pain medications and opioid pain medications will be compared on a
      patient-by-patient basis by utilizing a paired t-test. The association between patient
      perceived pain levels and percentage of each medication used will be determined with multiple
      linear regression.

      Aim 3: Aim 3: Assess patient and operative factors that contribute to prolonged or greater
      than expected opioid usage.

      Objectives: The factors contributing to prolonged patient use of opioids and need for
      repeated refills are poorly understood. An analysis of factors contributing to prolonged
      opioid use and a determination of baseline opioid use rates would allow hand surgeons to have
      a better understanding of factors that may place a patient at risk or to identify when
      patients are exceeding the typical requirements for opioids. Identification of these patients
      may allow for increased counseling, referral to a pain specialist, or increased surveillance.
      Details of the operative procedure and typical narcotic requirements will guide providers in
      prescribing more limited opioid prescriptions appropriate to an individual procedure with few
      to no refills authorized.

      Outcome Variables and Analysis: Patients will be separated into groups based on whether they
      used over 80% of their opioid prescription or if they requested a refill of their opioid
      prescription within the two week study period. A univariate analysis of patient demographic
      factors and operative details will identify factors that are potentially associated with
      higher rates of opioid consumption following surgery. Chi square tests will be performed for
      categorical variables and student's t-tests will be used for continuous variables. Binary
      logistic regression will then be performed using variables identified in the univariate
      screen in order to identify independent factors contributing to a higher number of opioids
      used after surgery.
    
  