
    
      Design: A feasibility study to assess if a physiotherapy education session in addition to
      standard care improves patients scores regarding catastrophizing and kinesiophobia when
      measured by KOOS-PF, Pain Catastrophizing Scale and Tampa Scale

      Objectives:

        1. To assess if providing a specific education session which reviews patients beliefs about
           crepitus, causes of pain, joint mechanics and purpose of exercise has an effect on
           catastrophizing and kinesiophobia.

        2. To identify if the study is feasible on a larger scale, which would allow the
           intervention to be assessed for efficacy. If a future study was able to demonstrate that
           the intervention was effective this would provide an additional evidence based
           intervention for use in clinical practice.

      Recruitment: NHS patients diagnosed in a Musculoskeletal Clinical Assessment Service [MCAS]
      with patellofemoral pain at the South Liverpool Treatment Centre.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Adults aged 18-40

        -  Be able to understand and converse in English

        -  Clinical diagnosis of PFP

        -  Be able to attend for up-to 12 weeks of physiotherapy

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients who present with referred pain from the spine or hip, or have tibiofemoral
           pathology of any nature on the ipsilateral side.

        -  A diagnosis of patellofemoral joint (PFJ) OA as confirmed by X-Ray or Magnetic Resonance
           Imaging (MRI).

      Sample size: There is limited published research regarding the use of the questionnaire
      KOOS-PF in research. As a result it is not possible to do a definitive study to test whether
      or not the education session effects patient outcome. Therefore it is necessary to do a
      feasibility study with a small sample size of 24 patients (control n=12, intervention n=12)
      which will allow any change in the questionnaire scores to be used to calculate how many
      patients would be needed for a definitive study which would allow researchers to assess
      whether or not the exercise intervention affected patient outcome, which could improve
      patient care. The research team are confident that the required number of patients could be
      recruited as audit data from the service identified that 104 patients in the MCAS service met
      the criteria for inclusion in this proposed study.

      Baseline measures: Participants' characteristics including age, gender and duration of
      symptoms will be collected alongside baseline measures for the chosen questionnaires - the
      KOOS-PF, Tampa-scale for Kinesiophobia and Pain Catastrophizing. These questionnaires will be
      repeated at 12 weeks.

      Intervention: Patients recruited into the study will be randomised to either the intervention
      (n=12) or the control group (n=12). Participants in the control group will undergo standard
      treatment.

      The intervention: Participants in the intervention group will receive standard treatment plus
      the education session.

      The education session will be based on a leaflet produced by other leading researchers in the
      field and will also explore the causes of pain, beliefs about pain, beliefs about noise that
      come from the joint, the impact of the pain on activity and the influence of other family
      members' experience and beliefs about knee pain. At 12 weeks, participants from both groups
      will be asked to repeat the questionnaires.

      Statistical analysis: Descriptive statistical analysis will be performed on the data and the
      lead researcher will work with the statistics department at MMU to review the change in the
      chosen questionnaires to identify the sample size required for a definitive study which will
      assess how effective the education session is on patients' symptoms of PFP.
    
  