
    
      This proposed Phase 2 The Small Business Innovation Research study is a randomized trial of
      the effectiveness of "A Toast to Health in Later Life!" a web-based patient educational
      program designed to prevent hazardous and harmful drinking in older adults. The project's
      specific objectives are to 1) provide reliable information on the extent to which "A Toast to
      Health in Later Life!" reduces alcohol-related risks and problems among older patients who
      drink and 2) evaluate the extent to which these reductions are associated with increases in
      health-related quality of life, patient knowledge and self-efficacy and decreases in the use
      of health services and the costs of care. The proposal is being submitted in response to the
      The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism's interest in the "development and
      evaluation of educational materials designed to intervene with the elderly around specific
      age-related risks for alcohol problems" and to the National Institute of Health's highest
      priority areas in health economics research because it aims to measure the actual or
      potential impact of a specific intervention "on healthcare utilization and health outcomes."
      The study will take place with 600 patients who currently drink and receive their care at a
      large community-based medical center in in L.A. County that serves a stable and diverse
      population. Older people can experience alcohol's unfavorable health effects even at
      relatively low consumption levels because of age-related physiological changes and drinking's
      potentially adverse interactions with chronic illness, increased medication-use and
      diminishing functional status. About 14.5% of older adults drink in excess of the The
      National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism's recommended limits. Excessive alcohol
      consumption is responsible for an average of 88,000 deaths and 2.5 million years of potential
      life lost each year in the U.S. and cost the 50 States a median of $2.9 billion in 2006. Most
      of the costs are due to binge drinking. According to The Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention, older adults binge-drink more frequently than their younger counterparts, and
      drinking too much contributes to over 54 different injuries and diseases (including car
      crashes and violence). Further, the chance of getting sick and dying from alcohol problems
      increases significantly for those who binge drink more often. When health and drinking
      patterns are accounted for, about half of all older drinkers may be at risk for experiencing
      alcohol-related harm even if they drink within recommended limits. Considering that about
      10,000 people will turn 65 every day for the next decade, and that the proportion of older
      adults will increase to more than 20% of the U.S. population by 2030, the number of older
      people with alcohol-related risks will increase even if drinking prevalence remains constant.
      Despite this, many physicians fail to discuss drinking with older patients, partly because
      they do not have the time and training to do so and partly because the available education
      focuses on younger drinkers. To complicate matters, observational evidence suggests that in
      some older adults, moderate consumption may have beneficial effects on cardiovascular
      functioning and mortality. "A Toast to Health in Later Life!" covers the spectrum of drinking
      and its benefits and risks. If effective and cost-effective, the product has the potential to
      achieve important clinical and societal benefits.
    
  