
    
      Malaria is a disease of major public health importance. The only vaccine available is
      partially effective and targets the pre-erythrocytic stages of the life cycle. Thus, there is
      a need to identify other potential vaccine targets as well as to develop models to test
      vaccine efficacy, especially that of transmission-blocking vaccines. Controlled human malaria
      infection (CHMI) has been shown to be an important tool for the assessment of the efficacy of
      novel malaria vaccines and drugs. CHMI also allows for the evaluation of immunity to malaria
      and monitoring of parasite growth rates in vivo. This is particularly useful in individuals
      from endemic areas with varying levels of exposure and immunity to malaria. Thus, CHMI in
      individuals with prior exposure to malaria has potential to accelerate malaria vaccine
      development. In this study, the aim is to use CHMI in semi-immune adults to develop a model
      to assess transmissibility of malaria infection to mosquitoes, to study immune responses that
      are directed against sexual stages that might block transmission, and as a platform to test
      vaccines. To achieve this, the study will be carried out in two phases A (N=45 participants)
      and B (N=60 participants) over a period of 4-6months. Parasite dose will be varied in
      individuals enrolled for CHMI and use of low-doses of anti-malarial drugs to promote the
      production of gametocytes in vivo (Phase A) and demonstrate transmissibility in mosquito
      feeding assays (Phase B). Thus, the main outcomes of the study will be: (1) optimisation of
      sporozoite dose for infections success in individuals with moderate-high malaria exposure;
      (2) use of sub-curative anti-malaria treatment for induction of gametocytes; and (3)
      infection of mosquitoes in mosquito feeding assays by induced gametocytes. To achieve this,
      up to 250 semi-immune adults will be recruited from known areas of malaria endemicity in
      Kenya with varying exposure to malaria undergo screening procedures after informed consent to
      enrol 105 individuals to conduct CHMI studies with serial quantitative polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) to measure asexual parasite growth and induction of transmission stages in
      vivo. In addition, comprehensively characterize immunity and identify targets in relation to
      function assessed by various laboratory assays.
    
  