
    
      The Guys/Girls Opt for Activities for Life (GOAL) Study will use a group randomized trial
      (GRT) design and pair interested schools prior to randomization based similar
      characteristics. Our senior biostatistician will randomly select 11 pairs (22 schools) and
      randomize schools in each pair to either the 16-wk GOAL intervention or routine school
      offerings control condition so all adolescents and parents associated with a school are in
      the same condition. During each of the 3 intervention yrs (Yrs 2, 3, & 4), the cohort of
      adolescents and parents participating will differ (Yr 2 Cohort: 3 intervention & 3 control
      schools; Yr 3 Cohort: 4 intervention & 4 control schools: Yr 4 Cohort: 4 intervention & 4
      control schools). Data will be collected at 3 time periods from each cohort: 1)
      pre-intervention/baseline (Wk 0); 2) immediately post-intervention (after 4 months), and 3)
      9-month post-intervention follow up (F/U; 13 months post-baseline). We will include 40
      adolescents in 5th-7th grade (10-13 yrs old) per school in low-income urban communities in
      Michigan (20 boys; 20 girls) and one parent per adolescent as a support person.

      R61 Phase (Yr 1; Months 1-12).

      Human Subjects approval will be granted from Michigan State University (MSU) Institutional
      Review Board prior to recruitment. Each school administrator will be asked to identify a
      program champion to assist researchers during the study.

      The PI and Project Manager (PM) will work with the University of Michigan Center for Health
      Communications Research (CHCR) to make minor refinements to our already developed GOAL social
      networking website (designed to assist parents in helping their adolescents increase PA and
      healthy eating) and integrate it into an administrative console with databases for tracking
      and monitoring day-to-day study operations.

      Prior to recruitment, data collection, and the intervention start in fall of Yr 2, the PI and
      PM will conduct a 4-hour session on protocols for the research team. All recruiters, data
      collectors, interventionists will be trained.

      R33 Phase (Yrs 2-5; Months 13-60).

      In September (Yr 2), we will recruit 40 adolescents (20 boys; 20 girls) and 1 parent per
      adolescent who is willing to be a support person (40 dyads) from each of 6 schools paired
      based on similar characteristics and randomly selected by our biostatistician from 11 pairs
      total. At the beginning of each academic school yr, the PI, PM, and 2 racially diverse
      research assistants (RAs) will share study information with 5th-7th grade adolescents at a
      25-min recruitment assembly at their respective schools. Adolescents interested in
      participating will receive packets containing consent and assent forms and an eligibility
      screening tool for both the adolescent and parent. Adolescents will be asked to share
      information with parents. Adolescents will be told that an adult chosen by the parent will be
      allowed to serve as the support person if the parent is unable to participate. Adolescents
      will be informed that if they and their parents are interested in participating, all forms
      and the screening tool must be completed. If not interested, their parent can check a box on
      an abbreviated form in the packet to indicate that he/she is not interested in participating
      or having the adolescent participate; the parent will also be asked to include a signature on
      the abbreviated form to indicate receipt of the information. Researchers will tell
      adolescents that if they return completed packets to 1 of 2 RAs present at their school
      during the next 2 days, they will receive $5 cash as compensation for their effort,
      regardless of whether they are interested in participating or not.

      If >40 interested dyads in a school meet eligibility criteria, the PM will randomly rank the
      dyads, and our statistician will randomly select the 1st 40 to participate. If the number of
      eligible adolescents in any school does not reach the anticipated 20 boys and 20 girls, we
      will continue to recruit.

      After an adequate sample size is reached, RAs will contact all parents to let them know if
      they and their adolescent are included in the study or not, based on the eligibility criteria
      and number of participants needed. Parents included in the study will be given 2 dates and
      times to select from to complete baseline data collection at the schools and will be informed
      that data collection will occur for their adolescents during the school day, except for 3
      24-hour dietary recalls (2 weekdays; 1 weekend day) conducted with only the adolescents by
      phone at 2 time points (baseline and post-intervention).

      Parents and adolescents will complete questionnaires via a web-based program delivered by
      computer. Ht, wt, % body fat, and accelerometer-measured moderate-to-vigorous physical
      activity (MVPA) will be obtained from all parents and adolescents. Adolescents will complete
      cardiovascular fitness testing at school and 3 24-hour dietary recalls by phone.

      After baseline data are collected, parents will be contacted by a RA to inform them about
      whether their school will have the GOAL program or not. Parents and adolescents in the
      control school will be told that they will be contacted again in a little over 4 months for
      data collection, during which they will complete questionnaires; wear accelerometers; and
      complete height, weight, and % body fat measures; and adolescents will complete 24-hr dietary
      recalls and fitness testing. During the next school yr or 13 months post-baseline (9-month
      F/U), adolescents will be contacted again to complete ht, wt, % body fat, and quality of life
      measures, and parents will be contacted to complete ht, wt, and % body fat measures at the
      adolescents' school. Both groups will receive compensation for participation in data
      collection. Parents and adolescents in the intervention schools will be asked to select 1 of
      2 dates and times to attend Dyad Meeting 1 at their adolescents' school to receive
      information about and begin the intervention.

      In November of Yr 2, the 16-wk intervention will begin in 3 schools. During Wk 1 of the
      intervention, Dyad Meeting 1 will be conducted (120-min event). To accommodate family
      schedules, the same meeting will occur at 2 time points. During Dyad Meeting 1, a study
      overview will be presented, and information and behavioral strategies to assist parents in
      helping their adolescent increase healthy eating and PA will be discussed. The PI, who
      completed training in motivational interviewing, will discuss use of this communication style
      with parents alone to help them support their adolescents' PA and healthy eating. Co-Is will
      meet with adolescents to create a mutually agreed upon GOAL Club behavioral code of conduct.
      Each parent will receive a GOAL Parent Manual. Parents will be assisted with accessing and
      using the GOAL social networking website. The chef will conduct a healthy eating and cooking
      lesson. After Dyad Meeting 1, each dyad will take food home to prepare the demonstrated meal.

      The after-school GOAL Club will begin 2 days/wk (26 120 minute events for 13 wks; not
      conducted during 3 wks of school holiday/winter/spring breaks). We will employ 5 club
      instructors (2 for PA session [1 male; 1 female]; 2 MSUE educators [1 male; 1 female]) and 1
      manager [e.g., racially diverse men and women who have education and experience conducting PA
      and nutrition programs for adolescents]). We plan to hire instructors from the community
      where each school is located. We will seek MSU Extension (MSUE) educators from the county
      where the school is located who have experience delivering nutrition programs for
      adolescents. At least 1 instructor present at each club session will be certified in first
      aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Each adolescent will be expected to attend the club 2
      days every wk (total 26 events).

      The 1st hr of the 120-min club will include: 5 min for organizational tasks and healthy
      snack. To increase the comfort level of each group during PA, boys and girls will be
      separated into 2 groups so 1 group can attend the PA session, while the other attends healthy
      eating and cooking skill-building.

      The 50-min "hands on" healthy eating and cooking skill-building session will be conducted by
      2 MSUE educators. The session will begin with a discussion of the healthy eating and cooking
      weekly theme, as well as information and behavioral strategies, that parents are receiving
      via the GOAL social networking website. MSUE educators will share a motivational message with
      adolescents. Each wk during the 1st club day, adolescents will be asked to share healthy
      foods eaten or cooked during the past wk when not at the club; on the 2nd day, adolescents
      will be asked to share what they plan to do to eat healthy over the next several days until
      returning to the club. Adolescents will be involved in a healthy eating and cooking
      skill-building session (45 min). MSUE's mobile kitchens and our GOAL Club Healthy Eating &
      Cooking Skill-Building Curriculum will be used. Adolescents will be able to sample their
      prepared healthy beverage, snack, or meal.

      The 50-min PA session will include: 5 min for PA weekly theme discussion, including
      information and behavioral strategies that parents are receiving via the GOAL social
      networking website. A motivational message will follow. Each wk during the 1st club day,
      adolescents will be asked to share PAs engaged in during the past wk when not at the club. On
      the 2nd day, adolescents will be asked to share what they plan to do to attain PA over the
      next several days until returning to the club. After the discussion, they will engage in 5
      min of warm-up/stretching; 20 min of sport skill-building; 15 min of fun games or game to
      apply learned sports skills; and 5 min of cool-down/stretching.

      For the 2nd hr, the group in the 1st hr PA session will switch to the healthy eating and
      cooking skill-building session. Those in the 1st hr healthy eating and cooking skill-building
      session will shift to the PA session. Each adolescent will complete 2 multiple-choice items
      (1 to evaluate attention to information provided; 1 to determine knowledge of skills engaged
      in) at the end of the PA session and also the end of the healthy eating and cooking session
      (4 items total/club day). After the club, adolescents will be transported home by school bus.

      After Dyad Meeting 1, the GOAL social networking website intervention for parents to complete
      weekly habit-forming tasks regarding how they helped their adolescents with PA and healthy
      eating and cooking will begin and include the 3 wks during school holiday/winter/spring
      breaks. We will include parents having an adolescent in the same school in their own private
      group in the website. To assist parents in increasing their adolescents' PA and healthy
      eating, we will post an attractive flyer in the website that is focused on a different theme
      for parents each wk. Each theme will include: 1) information about PA and healthy eating; 2)
      2-3 behavioral strategies related to the information received; and 3) a motivational message.
      Each weekly healthy habit-forming task will have 4 parts: 1) Parents will be asked to post at
      least one photo or comment about what has been done to help their adolescents with healthy
      eating or cooking during the wk . Parents will be asked what they did to help their
      adolescent attain PA during the wk. Parents will be told that 1 posting on healthy eating and
      1 on PA is required, but they can choose to post more often during a wk if they wish. 3) They
      will be asked to respond to 2 multiple choice questions (one on PA; other on healthy eating)
      based on the wk's flyer information. 4) They will be asked to respond to at least 1 other
      parent posting on either PA or healthy eating or cooking with a positive comment.

      On Wednesday mornings, parents will receive information on the upcoming wk's healthy
      habit-forming tasks. Those who do not complete the wk's healthy habit-forming task will
      receive a text message reminder (other communication system if requested) on the following
      Saturday morning and phone call on Monday to complete challenges by midnight Tuesday. Trained
      RAs (1/school) will monitor site activities, usage, and respond to each posting with a brief
      motivational message. The weekly theme that parents are focusing on will be discussed with
      adolescents at the beginning of the respective healthy eating and cooking and PA sessions
      offered in the GOAL Club every wk. Each wk via the website, we will post GOAL Club recipes of
      the wk, information about PA and healthy eating and cooking skills offered in the club, and
      pictures for parents to see adolescents engaging in club activities. After the 16th wk, the
      website will close. The CHCR will manage data from the website.

      In Wk 9 of the intervention at Dyad Meeting 2, MSUE educators will lead a discussion on
      reading nutrition labels and encourage parents to continue to assist adolescents in
      maintaining PA and healthy eating. A Michigan Walking Clinic instructor will model "good
      form" walking and involve parents and adolescents in walking demonstrations. MSUE educators
      will share healthy cooking tips and conduct another hands-on healthy eating and cooking
      lesson. After Meeting 2, the dyad will take food home to cook the demonstrated meal.

      In Wk 16 at Dyad Meeting 3, the PI, PM, and Intervention Coordinator will review information
      and behavioral strategies for helping parents continue to assist adolescents in maintaining
      PA and healthy eating, and dyads will receive information about local community resources for
      both behaviors. MSUE educators will conduct a hands-on healthy eating and cooking lesson.
      After Meeting 3, each dyad will take food home to prepare the demonstrated meal.

      The intervention will end in the 3 schools in early spring of Yr 2. Post-intervention data
      collection for parents and adolescents in the 6 schools will immediately follow. In Yr 3,
      parents and adolescents in the 6 schools will complete 9-month post-intervention F/U data
      collection (13 months post-baseline).

      Eight new schools will begin the study in fall of Yr 3, and 8 new schools will start in fall
      of Yr 4. Procedures will be similar to those used for the 6 schools beginning the study in Yr
      2.
    
  