
    
      The prevalence of osteoarthritis of the knee (OA) is increasing worldwide and this burden
      will continue to increase owing to aging of the general population 99Tc-MDP is effective for
      rheumatoid arthritis. Consequent to an increase in incidence is the rise in the number of
      patients with knee OA who are prone to further deterioration of the knee. It therefore is
      important to better understand, control, and attempt to prevent further progression of
      disease in patients with knee OA. Limitations in walking, stair climbing, and squatting are
      common patient complaints that greatly interfere with activities of daily living and
      recreation. Currently there is no definite consensus on the standardized management of OA.
      Oral analgesic and anti-inflammatory agents are perhaps the most commonly prescribed
      treatments to alleviate knee OA symptoms. The failure of nonsurgical therapies to modify
      quality of life in knee OA patients is not surprising given their inability to alleviate
      physical manifestations of OA. Surgical knee OA interventions generally result in good to
      excellent patient outcomes. However, there are significant barriers to considering surgery,
      which limits clinical utility.

      99Tc-MDP is actually the decay product of 99mTc-MDP (99mTc-methylene diphosphonate, a US Food
      and Drug Administration-approved radioactive agent widely used for bone scintigraphy).
      99Tc-MDP (Chengdu Yunke Pharmaceutical, Sichuan, China) is a kind of anti-inflammatory drug
      patented in China (patent no. ZL94113006.1). It was approved for production by the State Food
      and Drug Administration of China in October 1997. 99Tc-MDP has been demonstrated to be safe
      and effective in the clinical treatment of immune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis
      (RA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and certain bone diseases, such as skeletal metastases from
      cancer in China. 99Tc-MDP also showed clinical effect on knee OA in our practice. Therefore,
      the investigators try to investigate the effects of 99Tc-MDP treatment in patients with
      osteoarthritis of knee as compared with celecoxib.
    
  