
    
      Simple, safe and effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) can provide optimal treatment
      outcomes for people living with HIV infection (PLWH) [1]. Increasingly complex and poorly
      tolerated regimens, on the other hand often limit ART adherence, while drug-drug interactions
      (DDIs) and safety concerns with individual ART agents can limit treatment selection [2-4].
      Fortunately, recent advances in ART have included the emergence of several highly effective,
      safe and well tolerated regimens with limited DDIs. In clinical trials, integrase strand
      transfer inhibitors (INSTIs) such as raltegravir, elvitegravir, dolutegravir and bictegravir
      are consistently as effective or more effective than comparator agents and often superior in
      terms of tolerability [5-10]. Due to their efficacy, safety, and tolerability, INSTI-based
      regimens are now routinely used in treatment naïve patients and emerging data suggests that
      several may be used to simplify therapy for selected patients with treatment experience [11,
      12].

      Among the INSTIs, bictegravir is the newest agent in the class [13]. Similar to dolutegravir
      and raltegravir and in contrast to elvitegravir, it has few significant drug-drug
      interactions. Unlike dolutegravir and raltegravir, bictegravir is available as part of a
      single-tablet, once-daily regimen that includes tenofovir alafenamide and emtricitabine
      (BIC/TAF/FTC). Raltegravir is not available within a single tablet regimen, while
      dolutegravir is available as part of a single-tablet regimen, but it includes abacavir, which
      has been linked to an increased cardiovascular disease risk. As a result, BIC/TAF/FTC is
      currently among the most effective, safe, well-tolerated treatment options with limited
      drug-drug interactions.

      With several new treatment options available, particularly in the INSTI class, current
      guidelines advocate switching ART when possible in virologically suppressed, ART experienced
      patients [1]. Switching ART can simplify treatment, improve tolerability, eliminate toxicity,
      and mitigate drug-drug interactions. When switching ART for any reason, it is critical to
      review a patient's full HIV treatment history, including virologic responses, past
      ART-associated toxicities, and cumulative resistance before selecting a new regimen [1].

      Drug-drug interaction assessments with a patient's concomitant medications should also be
      performed prior to switching ART. More than 70% of the HIV population will be above the age
      of 50 by the year 2020 and many are receiving 5 or more medications for common chronic
      conditions in addition to being ART experienced [14, 15]. Cardiovascular disease, hepatic and
      renal disease, osteoporosis, insulin resistance, metabolic disorders, and cancers are among
      the conditions that can occur more commonly in PLWH and at times earlier in life in
      comparison to their HIV negative counterparts [16]. Drug-drug interactions between
      medications needed to treat or prevent these comorbid conditions can often interact with ART.
      Switching ART, in many circumstances can reduce the number drug interactions with medications
      for comorbid conditions. Conversely, switching can also lead to new interactions requiring
      intervention to avoid toxicities or prevent ineffective treatment.

      Multiple studies have confirmed that switching HIV treatment can improve patient adherence
      and quality of life [17]. Several studies have also confirmed that clinically significant
      drug-drug interactions are common in patients living with HIV, but none have assessed changes
      in the incidence and severity of drug-drug interactions in the setting of ART switches
      [18-20]. The primary objective of this study is to assess changes in the incidence and
      severity of drug interactions before and after switching ART to BIC/TAF/FTC -based regimens
      in treatment experienced patients.

      Null Hypothesis:

      There is no difference in the incidence and severity of drug-drug interactions between ART
      and concomitant medications before and after switching to a BIC/TAF/FTC-based ART regimen in
      treatment experienced patients.

      Alternative Hypothesis:

      The incidence and severity of drug-drug interactions between ART and concomitant medications
      is reduced after switching to a BIC/TAF/FTC-based ART regimen in treatment experienced
      patients.

      Data Collection Subjects from the Jefferson Infectious Diseases Associates outpatient HIV
      Clinic will be evaluated for study inclusion. Co-investigators at six partner institutions
      will also evaluate patients at their HIV clinics for study inclusion. The following
      information will be collected for patients meeting the study criteria: age, gender, race,
      duration of HIV infection, duration of ART treatment, number of previous ART regimens, CD4+
      cell count and HIV RNA directly prior to switching to a BIC/TAF/FTC-based ART regimen, and
      the reason for switching ART to a BIC/TAF/FTC-based regimen. Additionally, all concomitant
      medication names at the time of the ART switch will be collected.

      Scoring System To assess the combined incidence and severity of drug interactions with
      concomitant medications (CM) prior to and following each patient's ART switch, a DDI
      incidence and severity score was developed. The score is based upon results obtained when
      entering medications into the University of Liverpool's HIV Drug Interaction Checker (ULHDIC)
      database [21]. Each ART-CM pair is given one of the following scores: "do not co-administer"
      is assigned a score of 2, "potential interaction" a score of 1, and "potential weak
      interaction" or "no interaction" a score of 0. For those interactions that have "no clear
      data," or for those medications that are not listed in the drug database, the Department of
      Health and Human Services HIV treatment guidelines will be consulted along with the FDA
      product labeling.

      Score Validation A separate analysis (data not provided here) was completed by study
      investigators to validate the use of the ULDIC severity ranking. The medication profiles of a
      random, representative sample of the study's population were selected for analysis. Drug
      interaction scores using the aforementioned ULHDIC were compared with drug interaction scores
      determined manually using the Department of Health and Human Services HIV treatment
      guidelines and FDA product labeling. No statistical difference in drug interaction scores
      between methods was observed.

      Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint of the study will be to measure the change in mean
      total drug interaction scores pre and post ART switch to a BIC/TAF/FTC-based ART regimen. The
      total drug interaction scores for each patient pre- and post-switch will be calculated. The
      average pre-switch and post-switch scores will then be determined and analyzed for
      statistical differences using a two-sided paired t-test (normal distribution) with an alpha
      level of 0.05 or a Wilcoxon Ranked Sum test (non-normal distribution).

      Secondary Endpoints The secondary endpoint of the study will be to identify predictors of
      achieving drug interaction score reductions after switching to a BIC/TAF/FTC-based ART
      regimen. Predictors for achieving drug interaction score reductions will be examined using a
      multivariable linear regression model. Initial models will include all a priori determined
      variables and all variables will be examined for multi-collinearity. Models will be fit using
      a backwards selection procedure. Candidate predictors will be eliminated individually by
      comparing the log likelihood ratio test for each model step and using the 5% significance
      level.
    
  