
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a disease that leads to increased morbidity
      and mortality with severe pulmonary complications. The Global Burden of Disease studies have
      estimated that COPD is the third leading cause of death worldwide. The effects of COPD are
      not only limited to the lungs but also affects other organs and systems, causing loss of
      strength in the respiratory and peripheral muscles, which leading to a decreased capacity for
      exercise. Respiratory muscles are the skeletal muscles that can be trained based on the
      principles of exercise just like peripheral muscles. It is known that while doing exercise
      training in peripheral muscles, more muscle performance can be achieved by warming up those
      muscles before the loading phase. In this study, it is aimed to investigate the effect of
      inspiratory muscle warm-up (IMW) performed before inspiratory muscle training (IMT) in
      addition to general exercise training on respiratory functions, respiratory muscle strength,
      exercise capacity, perceived dyspnea intensity and health-related quality of life in patients
      with COPD.

      Participants were randomly divided into two groups as the study group (IMW Group) and the
      control group (Standard IMT Group). The Standard IMT Group performed only IMT, while the IMW
      Group performed an IMW protocol for warming the inspiratory muscles before each IMT session.
      The IMT and IMW were applied using a threshold pressure loading device. The IMT applied as 30
      breath repetitions at 60% of the maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP). The intensity of MIP
      adjusts by two weekly MIP measurements. The protocol of IMW consists of 2 sets of 30 breaths
      at 40% of MIP, with 1 min rest between sets, using a threshold inspiratory muscle trainer.
      Then the respiratory exercises and aerobic exercise program performed in both groups in each
      session. Aerobic exercise program; After 5 min of general body warming, applied 20 min with a
      load of 4-6 according to the modified Borg scale on the treadmill, finished with 5 min whole
      body cool-down. All program applied to 3 days a week for 8 weeks under the supervision of a
      physiotherapist and other days of the week without a supervisor. Demographic features
      questioned and recorded in the data recording form through a mutual interview in patients who
      meet the inclusion criteria. All patients evaluated before treatment and after treatment.
    
  