
    
      - Scientific Background

      Infertility is a major health problem that affects up to 15% of married couples. About half
      of these cases are attributable to female factors, among which anovulation is the leading
      cause. About 5% of all women of reproductive age are anovulatory due to the polycystic
      ovarian syndrome (PCOS). In addition to its effect on fertility, PCOS causes major health and
      cosmetic problems and significantly affects quality of life in women. PCOS is associated with
      cardiovascular morbidity and Type 2 diabetes mellitus, but it is unclear whether these are
      caused by the ovarian dysfunction or result from a common denominator.

        -  PCOS

        -  The clinical picture:

      The polycystic ovary syndrome consists of anovulation, acne, hirsutism (resulting from
      hyperandrogenism), and reversed serum LH to FSH ratio. A large proportion of women with PCOS
      are overweight, and a significant proportion of women with PCOS have decreased peripheral
      insulin sensitivity. The direct cause to this insulin resistance is still enigmatic. All
      these features place women with PCOS as a group of patients related to the metabolic
      syndrome. Baranova et al. (2011) even stated that "it seems appropriate to consider
      polycystic ovary syndrome as the ovarian manifestation of metabolic syndrome".

      - Genetics

      Not all women with PCOS have affected relatives but familial clusters are common, and
      brothers of women with PCOS have high serum levels of the androgen dehydroepiandrosterone
      sulfate. The eventual clinical expression of PCOS results not only from genetic
      predisposition but also from nutritional factors. Family studies using several approaches of
      analysis suggested up to 40 candidate genes, possibly responsible to the syndrome. Among
      these were genes from the steroidogenic pathways, the gonadotrophin receptors signal
      transduction pathways, the insulin signal transduction pathway and growth factor signal
      transduction pathways. Except for some association of polymorphism in CYP11 with
      hyperandrogenism none of these candidate genes were definitively associated with PCOS. The
      inheritance pattern of PCOS is not clear, some evidence favor autosomal dominant mode while
      others do not support it. Recently the methionine 196 arginine polymorphism in exon 6 of the
      TNF receptor 2 gene (676 T-->G) was shown to be associated with hyperandrogenism and PCOS,
      but the genotype did not influence any clinical or biochemical variable related to
      hyperandrogenism or insulin sensitivity and was not associated with obesity. A role of
      Calpain 10 gene in PCOS susceptibility was also suggested, as was that of a variant LH
      receptor.

      The sex hormone binding gene also showed promise but disappointed. The mode of X-chromosome
      inactivation appears to be associated with the risk of sisters for discordancy to PCOD, but
      no specific genes are implicated in this respect. As with many complex disorders, the
      heritability of polycystic ovarian syndrome has eluded investigators. Although familial
      aggregation studies have demonstrated clearly a genetic component to the syndrome, simple
      Mendelian models do not characterize its mode of inheritance. Instead, multiple loci and
      epigenetic modification may play a role in the phenotype. The candidate gene approach relies
      upon improved statistical and technological methods to analyze potential genes based on
      biologic plausibility. Pathways that affect steroidogenesis, insulin resistance, gonadotropin
      function, and obesity provide potential genes for investigation. Obstacles such as phenotypic
      variability, lack of a male phenotype, multiple attempts at analysis, and small sample sizes
      hamper these efforts. Genome wide Analysis has become the gold standard for the elucidation
      of the genetic background for many diseases. The most recent and comprehensive such analysis
      of PCOD vs. controls was conducted by Chen et al (2011), and some candidate gens were
      defined, but a mechanistic understanding of possible causality is still far away.

        -  Gut Microbiota

        -  General:

      The post genomic era led to several breakthroughs in our understanding of human physiology.
      One of the more prominent is the realization that our alimentary tract harbors 100-fold more
      living (bacterial) cells than our own body has. This discovery was made possible by the
      ability to define the presence of a bacterial strain by its DNA signature, without the need
      to culture it. Furthermore, the definition of these strains allows their allocation to major
      taxonomic divisions, in turn enabling what is legitimately called "profiling" of gut
      bacterial population diversity. Thus a new term has been coined "microbiota" to designate the
      total population of our gut microbes. In addition, it is now also possible to define the
      presence of specified enzymes and enzyme families in the gut microbiota, enabling in turn an
      outline of overall gut microbial metabolic capacity. It is of major interest now to
      characterize the varying taxonomic and metabolic profiles, as they pertain to specified human
      pathologies and physiological states.

      Once microbiota profile that is associated with specific human pathology is characterized, a
      key question arises as to which is the egg and which is the hen. Namely, which is causative,
      the pathological state or the microbiota that has been shown to be associated with it? On
      several issues recent studies proven the microbiota to be most likely causative, as
      experimental transplantation of microbiota to mice led to the development of a state which
      was reminiscent of the human disease. Yet the differences between microbiotas of human
      populations on various locations across the globe raises the likely possibility that
      ethnicity, diet and other environmental factors have a meaningful effect on gut microbiota.
      All told, the study of the association of gut microbiota with many human conditions could
      reveal major subjects of interest, mostly towards possible understanding of causality as well
      as suggestions as to future corrective measures.

      - Women

      Women go through several major physiological transitions during their lifetime. The first is
      puberty, followed by conception and pregnancy, usually more than once in life, and the last
      is menopause. It is likely that these would be associated with dynamic changes in gut
      microbiota, as a pioneering study shown recently that pregnant women's gut microbiota is
      profoundly altered as compared to that in non-pregnant women. Furthermore, as evidence is
      accumulating regarding specific alteration of gut microbiota in several morbid states, it is
      likely that woman's pathologies, such as anovulatory infertility associated with PCOS, could
      be associated with specific alterations in gut microbiota profile.

      Naturally, the "egg vs. hen" question is of importance should differences between anovulatory
      and ovulatory women will be found, and should be tackled almost at the outset.

      - Overall Study Objective Is there a difference in gut microbial population between normal
      ovulatory women and women who suffer from PCOS, and if there is, what is its role in the
      causation of the syndrome?

      Specific Aims

        -  Is there a difference in microbial population profile between women with PCOS and normal
           ovulatory women?

        -  Can a carbohydrate-poor diet and physical activity induce a change in the gut microbial
           population of women with PCOS?

      Detailed Study Design Specific Aim I: Is there a difference in microbial population profile
      between women with PCOS and normal ovulatory women? A group of 30 women who will be diagnosed
      with PCOS by the standard Rotterdam consensus criteria and 30 normal ovulatory women will
      provide stool samples during the 3-5 initial days of their menstrual bleeding. Serum hormone
      and metabolic profile will be obtained concomitantly.

      Samples will be submitted to DNA sequencing in GGA laboratories (Prof. Dani Bercovich), using
      the technique described previously in. The resulting datasets will be analyzed in the
      laboratory of Dr. Omry Koren, the Faculty of Medicine in the Galil, using the method he
      previously used.

      Caveats and Potential Pitfalls It is possible that gut microbita of the two groups will not
      show either a taxonomic difference or a difference in putative metabolic enzyme profile.
      Nevertheless, we assume that at least one of these two arms will yield a positive product,
      since the polycystic ovary shares characters with the metabolic syndrome, amply documented to
      portray a distinct microbial population profile in comparison to healthy individuals.

      Specific Aim II: Can a carbohydrate-poor diet and physical activity induce a change in the
      gut microbial population of women with PCOS? A change in diet has been known for many years
      to favorably affect the ovulatory function of patients with PCOS, as well as alleviating some
      of the associated cosmetic concerns. Most significantly, it is the carbohydrate element of
      this diet which is central to this change, alongside with the addition of physical activity.
      We will prescribe a carbohydrate-poor diet (appended table) to the study group and a
      concomitant physical activity program (45 minutes brisk walk, 4-5 times a week). After two
      months of this change of lifestyle we will repeat hormonal and metabolic profile, as well as
      obtain a second stool sample. A secondary interest would be to examine whether there exists a
      difference in the microbiome between women who would succeed in the diet and those who would
      not, whether in the initial bacterial population profile or that which will result from the
      diet.
    
  