
    
      The investigators retrospectively looked at patients who, from January 2010 to December 2018,
      underwent surgical procedures for duodenal tumors or other type of primary lesions.

      Patients with primary duodenal lesions who underwent surgery were included in the study.
      Patients with secondary duodenal infiltration or liver and/or peritoneal metastasis found
      during intraoperative exploration were excluded. Similarly, if the surgeons appreciate the
      involvement of the pancreas during the procedure, for which they would have to perform a
      pancreaticoduodenectomy, the patient would be excluded.

      Diagnostic management included establishment of a medical history, performance of clinical
      examination and imaging tests, including endoscopic exploration and, when neoplasm was
      suspected, computerized tomography (CT) scan, to confirm the tumor origin and growth, as well
      as infiltration, if any, of adjacent structures. These also allowed to rule out distant
      metastases, and to assess resectability and the option for reconstruction according to the
      location.

      The variables taken into account were age, sex, the American Society of Anesthesiologists
      (ASA) classification, preoperative examinations performed and type of lesion susppected as
      benign, duodenal adenocarcinoma or gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). Perioperative
      clinical results, surgical approach, type of resection and reconstruction, and intraoperative
      complications were recorded. Details of the postoperative course were collected. Some of the
      key short-term data recorded included length of hospital stay, complications' ranking
      (according to the Clavien-Dindo score; 'severe complication' is defined as greater or equal
      to IIIa), re-operation, re-admission and operative mortality (< 90 days after operation).
      Some of the key long-term data recorded were, digestive symptoms along follow-up, specific
      disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS)
    
  