
    
      1. Background and Rationale: Using palliative care early, e.g. concurrent with
           disease-modifying therapies or from the time of diagnosis of advanced cancer, enhances
           quality of life for patients and their families and is associated with lower healthcare
           resource costs at end-of-life. Despite the evidence that early use of palliative care
           benefits patients and the healthcare system, most patients are referred late in their
           disease (e.g. <2 months from death). Our health services struggle to systematically
           provide early and integrated palliative care, to meet the needs of the cancer
           population. In Calgary, Alberta, typical of other Canadian centres, 60% of patients with
           metastatic gastrointestinal (GI) cancers have a late (< 3 months from end of life) or no
           palliative care referral (i.e. no contact with any palliative care service/provider).
           This lack of timely and early palliative care is associated with aggressive cancer care
           in 50% of patients, as compared to 25% in those who received earlier palliative care.

           A Knowledge to Action (KTA) initiative called Palliative Care Early and Systematic
           (PaCES) has identified gaps in providing early and systematic palliative care to
           advanced colorectal cancer (aCRC) patients. To address these gaps, a comprehensive care
           pathway delivering early, systematic palliative care to aCRC patients in Alberta, Canada
           will be developed as a new standard of care. The pathway will be implemented first in
           Calgary, Alberta, with Edmonton, Alberta as control site, to allow for testing and
           refinement before dissemination to Edmonton and across Alberta. As a result of the
           development of this new care pathway, over the next 3 years changes are anticipated in
           the delivery of care for aCRC patients.

        2. Research question and objectives: This observational study will gather outcome and
           experience data of patients living with advanced colorectal cancer and their caregivers.
           The primary objective is to measure how quality of life in this population changes over
           time (before, during, and after a palliative pathway is introduced as the new standard
           of care in Calgary, Alberta).

        3. Methods: An observational cohort study with interrupted time series (ITS) data
           collection will allow us to assess secular trends, determine if there is evidence of
           serial dependencies in the monthly measures, and to compare measures following system
           changes in Calgary while observing the same measures over the same time periods in
           Edmonton. The primary outcome will be how does EQ5D5L (a standardized instrument for use
           as a measure of health outcome) change over time for patients and caregivers.
           Questionnaires will be administered to patients monthly for 10 months then every 3
           months until the end of the study or death. Questionnaires for the caregiver will be at
           enrollment, 1 month, then every 3 months until the end of the study.
    
  