
    
      Prematurely born children (PC) at school age have academic difficulties related to poorer
      attention capabilities. Posner (1990) described three distinct attention functions: Alert (to
      maintain a vigilance state), Orientation (to select the relevant information) and Inhibition
      (to resist distraction). Additionally, teachers and parents are often concerned because they
      move more than term born children; this excessive mobility being often quoted as agitation.
      Some consider it would be related to a poorer postural control potentially explained by a
      poorer perception of vertical gravity. Another explanation is that this mobility could be an
      unconscious way for PC to increase their arousal level to improve their attention
      performance. Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate the interdependence between
      postural and cognitive activities in school age PC and term born children (TC). First, the
      performance of PC and TC at the Attention Network Test for Children will be analyzed
      evaluating Alert and Inhibition, and its evolution when the infants will use a mobile school
      chair, compared to a classic school chair. Secondly, participants will perform a test of
      perception of vertical gravity in which they will have to position a stick vertically.
      Finally, the spontaneous postural activity of PC and TC (evaluated by the center of pressure
      displacement measured with a forced plate) will be studied during the execution of three
      different attention tasks: a vigilance task, a visual search task or an inhibition task at
      two different levels of difficulty. Success rate and reaction time will be analyzed for all
      attention tasks. Moreover, center of pressure displacement calculation will allow evaluation
      of infants' spontaneous mobility, the precision of their postural control and the attention
      allocated to their posture. Success rate and reaction time will be analyzed for all the
      attention tasks as well as the angle errors in degree between the stick orientation given by
      the children and the real vertical. Furthermore, the sway path, the surface area and the
      entropy of the displacement of CP will be computed to determine respectively the mobility,
      the precision of the postural control and the attention allocated to the posture of these
      children.
    
  