
    
      It is known that maternal insulin resistance and high blood glucose levels in early pregnancy
      alter the functioning of the placenta in ways that persistently affect the supply of
      nutrients and fat in the unborn baby. There is an increasing focus on the need to optimise
      preconception nutrition but as yet, limited preconception interventions that are recognized
      as promoting health for the mother and her child.

      The Investigators will recruit up to 1800 women, aged 18-38 years, who are planning a
      pregnancy in the United Kingdom, Singapore and New Zealand with the aim of securing 600 or
      more pregnancies. The participants will be randomly allocated to receive the standard
      nutritional drink or the study nutritional drink. Women who conceive between one and twelve
      months after starting the nutritional drink will be followed through pregnancy and studied
      with their babies for two years after delivery. Various testing will be carried out at
      relevant time points. Mothers will undergo blood, urine, hair and cheek swab sampling,
      dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans along with body measurements and health and
      lifestyle questionnaires. Infants will undergo hair, cheek swab, urine and stool sampling
      along with body measurements, measurements of body composition and a DXA scan. Placental,
      cord and other perinatal tissues/samples will be collected.

      The data collected will allow identification of the contributions of nutritional and
      lifestyle factors, social and economic status, ethnicity, genetics and metabolomics and gut
      microbes to maintaining healthy glucose metabolism in pregnancy, enhancing fertility, mood
      and reproductive outcomes in the mother, and promoting healthy growth, body composition and
      wellbeing in the children.

      The effect of the intervention on the primary outcome will be examined in two special
      interest groups; i) women who are overweight or obese prior to conception & ii) women with
      documented evidence of dysglycemia prior to conception.
    
  