
    
      This project will establish a standardized procedure of lung cancer sample collection,
      transportation, storage, detection, bioinformatics analysis and result judgment, so as to
      draw up the gene map of advanced lung cancer in China, and provide an important basis for the
      research and development of new drugs and the guidance of treatment.

      Firstly, 2500 cases of lung cancer tumor tissue samples will be collected according to the
      Inclusion Criteria.

      Secondly，samples will be sequenced through high throughput sequencing by ChosenMed Technology
      (Beijing) Co., Ltd., according to the strict process. Panel sequencing of the samples will be
      carried out through Illumina platform. After targeting Panel sequencing, four types of
      mutations including point mutation, insertion deletion, gene fusion and copy number variation
      will be detected, and tumor mutation burden as well as microsatellite instability will be
      evaluated. Combined with the bioinformatics analysis and sequencing results of the samples,
      the gene map of lung cancer in China will be drawn up, and the specific multigene panel of
      lung cancer for the Chinese population will be established as the basis for the subsequent
      clinical screening of molecular markers related to targeting therapy, immunotherapy and
      prognosis.

      Thirdly, patients will be followed up on the information related to treatment after
      sequencing. According to the genetic information of the patients, the curative effect and
      prognosis of the patients will be followed up every three to six months. The follow-up time
      includes at least the first treatment plan after the patients' detection, which may continue
      until the final survival time of the patients, and explore the molecular markers and
      combinations that can affect the curative effect and prognosis of patients with lung cancer.

      Finally, the clinical data and specimen information of patients will be managed and analyzed
      by Excel. Multivariate Cox regression analysis will be used to explore the clinical,
      pathological and molecular markers that affect the prognosis and curative effect of lung
      cancer, and draw the survival curve with the statistically significant indicators so as to
      provide reliable statistical results for the following clinical guidance.
    
  