
    
      The search for safer alternatives to opioids for treating chronic cancer and non-cancer pain
      syndromes currently is an important initiative. Cannabis Research Associates (CRA) has been
      commissioned by Northern Green Canada Inc. to conduct a multi-phase study that will first
      define common strains of cannabis that patients use as a replacement for opioids, then
      conduct a randomized controlled trial to support an application to Health Canada for a Drug
      Identification Number. This protocol summarizes the methods for phase I.

      In total, the Investigators plan to recruit 1,200 adult patients (> 25 years) currently using
      cannabis to treat chronic cancer and non-cancer pain syndromes conditions. Patients will be
      recruited from six pain clinics throughout Ontario. Pain clinics have not yet been
      identified. The study Investigators will invite licensed physicians from various private pain
      clinics to collaborate on this study.

      This is an observational cohort study involving a mixed methods approach. Patients interested
      in participating will have the option to have an online survey link emailed to them so they
      can complete the survey at a convenient time. Or, patients can choose to complete the online
      survey in person with the assistance of a Research Assistant. Research Assistants will have
      hard copy surveys to serve as a back-up solution should they be faced with Internet
      connectivity and/or online survey hosting issues. No personal identifying information will be
      collected. Hard copy data will be stored in locked cabinets and shipped via courier to
      Cannabis Research Associates in batches.

      All aspects of this study will be executed under the supervision of the study Investigators.
      Scientific independence from the sponsoring body will be maintained, and no censorship of
      data management, analysis, or presentation/publication will be permitted.

      This study will be executed under the approval and ongoing supervision of the Research Ethics
      Board, as required.
    
  