
    
      The Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau Emergency Department (ED) implemented a training
      program between May and June 2015 to improve compliance and adherence to recommended clinical
      practice and optimize the diagnosis and management of patients with suspected Pulmonary
      Embolism (PE). The training program was standardized, systematic and continuous, with
      subsequent reinforcement to ensure implementation. This paper aims to evaluate the clinical
      impact of the training intervention. The establishment of training measures to improve
      adherence to guidelines implies clinical practice improvement and benefits patients and
      health system. Moreover, it is a simple and inexpensive intervention, and can be easily
      reproduced in other ED.

      All adult patients (<18 y) with suspected pulmonary embolism attended at Emergency Department
      will be included. Retrospective information from two different periods (before and after the
      training intervention) will be collected. First period: 1/1/2012 - 31/12/2012 and second
      Period: 01.06.2015 - 30/11/2015, pre and post intervention.

      OBJECTIVES

      A. Primary:

        1. Analyze adherence to guidelines for the evaluation of suspected PE in the ED.

        2. Determine the clinical impact of training intervention (change in adherence to
           guidelines after training measures among staff in Emergency Department)

        3. Implementation and consolidation of a systematic, standardized, continuous training
           intervention for improving processes and results.

      B.- Secondary

        1. Analyze PE cases (presentation, clinical features, treatment, clinical evolution)

        2. analyze the clinical differences in three subgroups of patients with PE: young patients
           (<50 years), elderly patients (<65 years) and cancer

        3. Analyze the value of D-dimmer corrected by age in diagnostic algorithms

        4. Analyze the results of a new algorithm (EPC + Dimmer corrected age) in the elderly
           population group (<65 years).
    
  