
    
      Patients are identified by their orthopedic surgeon or study personnel immediately prior to
      surgery or during their stay on the inpatient post-surgical recovery unit. Beyond
      recruitment, the entire study is conducted remotely with no in-person contact with study
      staff. After enrollment, study staff follow-up with patients by phone, text or email
      (depending on patient preference); informed consent is obtained online.

      All participants are asked to provide baseline demographic information, as well as
      self-reported measures assessing mood, pain, cognitive and emotional responses to pain,
      catastrophizing, and medications. All measures are administered via a secure, HIPAA
      compliant, online system (REDCap).

      Participants are then randomized to receive one of two digital treatments: a behavioral pain
      medicine intervention ("My Surgical Success") or to a health education (HE Control).
      Participants who have been randomized to the HE control group receive online text information
      about health and nutrition, and are oriented that the information is relevant for improving
      recovery from surgery. The digital behavioral pain medicine intervention emphasizes treatment
      content that targets cognitive and emotional regulation in the context of pain. "My Surgical
      Success" includes three brief psychoeducational video learning modules, a downloadable app
      with an audio file, and a downloadable PDF Personalized Plan for Success. After participants
      in the "My Surgical Success" group view the online treatment videos, they complete questions
      regarding their satisfaction with the video content, perceived usefulness of information, and
      likelihood to use the skills learned. All participants are tracked twice per week
      post-surgically to assess pain and opioid use. Data are captured for the duration of the
      study (12 weeks) or until patients reach opioid cessation (four consecutive surveys
      indicating zero opioid use). Psychosocial data are collected post-surgically at weeks 4, 8,
      and 12.

      Post-treatment questions:

      Participants in the "My Surgical Success" group are asked to rate questions about the about
      the video content in regards to its understandability, relevance, usefulness, their overall
      satisfaction, how likely they are to use the information learned.

      Following surgery, all participants fill out online brief pain check-ins (2 times per week)
      to assess pain and medication use. Daily measures continue until the participant reports 4
      consecutive reports of zero opiate use. Until reaching this endpoint, pain check-ins are
      collected for 12 weeks (the duration of the study).
    
  