
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the local control and pattern of failure in children with completely resected,
           differentiated, supratentorial localized ependymoma after initial surgical resection
           alone.

        -  Determine the rate of complete resection with second surgery after chemotherapy in
           patients with initially incompletely resected localized ependymoma.

        -  Determine the local control and pattern of failure in patients treated with conformal
           radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the influence of histologic grade on the time to progression in patients after
           treatment with conformal radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to extent of prior
      surgical resection.

        -  Group 1 (patients with supratentorial differentiated ependymoma who have undergone gross
           total resection and have no visible residual tumor): Patients undergo observation.

        -  Group 2 (patients with supratentorial anaplastic ependymoma or infratentorial anaplastic
           or differentiated ependymoma who have undergone gross total resection or near total
           resection): Patients undergo conformal radiotherapy to the brain once daily 5 days a
           week for 6-6½ weeks.

        -  Group 3 (patients with tumor of any histology or location who have undergone subtotal
           resection): Patients receive an initial course of chemotherapy comprising vincristine IV
           on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1
           hour on days 1 and 2. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV
           beginning on day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients then receive a
           second course of chemotherapy comprising vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV
           over 1 hour on day 1, and oral etoposide on days 1-21. After completion of chemotherapy,
           patients are evaluated for second surgery. Patients who have unresectable disease
           undergo conformal radiotherapy. Patients who have resectable disease undergo second
           surgery followed by conformal radiotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 4 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250-350 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  