
    
      Pediatric HIV infection is a major public health problem in South Africa, and is primarily
      caused by MTCT of HIV. Strategies to prevent MTCT have been successfully employed when a
      mother's HIV status is known. However, there is concern in South Africa that it is unethical
      to offer HIV testing to women in the intrapartum period when they are experiencing the
      physical and emotional stress of labor. This study will compare the acceptability and
      accuracy of intrapartum and postpartum VCT in pregnant women of unknown HIV status in Cape
      Town, South Africa.

      Pregnant women of unknown HIV status coming to a participating hospital to deliver will be
      asked to enter the trial. Women will be assigned to either intrapartum or postpartum VCT
      depending on the week during which they come to the hospital. The intervention (intrapartum
      or postpartum VCT) for the week will be randomly assigned and all women enrolling in the
      trial in a given week will receive the same intervention.

      All women will receive HIV counseling prior to testing. Women in the intrapartum VCT group
      who are HIV infected will receive antiretrovirals (ARV) prior to delivery to prevent MTCT,
      and their infants will receive ARV within 3 days of birth. Infants born to HIV infected women
      in the postpartum VCT group will receive ARV as soon as possible after confirmation of the
      mother's positive test. All women will receive post-test counseling prior to discharge.

      HIV VCT, medical history assessment, and physical exam will occur at study entry. A small
      subset of both HIV infected and uninfected mothers will be asked for their opinions regarding
      peripartum HIV VCT and MTCT prevention strategies during qualitative assessments.

      Infants will undergo physical exam within 2 days of birth, medical history assessment within
      2 days of birth and at 3 additional times between 6 and 14 weeks of age, and HIV testing
      within 2 days of birth and at 2 additional times between 6 and 12 weeks of age.
    
  