
    
      Specific Aims:

        -  Using community-based participatory research (CBPR), incorporate an existing Community
           Advisory Council into a project-specific Joint Planning Committee to provide community
           voices and be experts for a project to design strategies to improve CRC screening of all
           adults over the age of 50 in the High Plains community.

        -  Work with the Joint Planning Committee to develop an acceptable and respectful message
           and dissemination plan to change the community perception concerning colorectal cancer
           screening.

        -  Conduct a random digit dialing survey of rural eastern Colorado to determine rates of
           individuals up to date on CRC screening and to determine current knowledge level of
           individuals over 50 concerning the need for CRC screening.

        -  Deliver the screening message(s) through the methods suggested by the Joint Planning
           Committee in two High Plains communities and solicit community members' reactions to the
           message(s) and dissemination approaches.

      Setting

      The Intervention Communities:

      The nine rural counties within northeast Colorado that make up the High Plains communities
      encompass 15,000-square-miles. The economy is largely agricultural, with a population of
      approximately 90,000. Based on the 2000 census 22% (range 20-29%) of the population is over
      50, which is higher than the state as a whole (20%) or the Denver Metropolitan Statistical
      Area - MSA (18%). There is not a single MSA in the High Plains region and most of the region
      is a frontier area and therefore considered an underserved community.

      The Control Communities:

      We will also utilize the 8 county region in southeastern Colorado as our control communities
      for the intervention evaluation.

      Primary Care Offices:

      This study will be conducted within the community detailed above. The intervention will be at
      the population level. Evaluation of the intervention will include surveys of providers and
      patients within the primary care offices in the High Plains Region (these offices are part of
      the High Plains Research Network [HPRN]) and piloting the intervention will occur in the
      primary care practices that are part of the Colorado Research Network (CaReNet). Both CaReNet
      and HPRN are practice based research networks (PBRNs) affiliated with the Department of
      Family Medicine at the University of Colorado.

      Project Aims (Overview):

      We will combine three different proven research approaches to develop and study a
      community-based intervention to improve CRC screening rates.

      - Component 1: Intervention Planning:

        -  Using a community-based participatory research model, the Joint Planning Committee (JPC)
           composed of members of an established Community Advisory Council for a practice-based
           research network and other community members, we will explore and define the messages
           and the delivery approaches the community members feel are most likely to result in
           actual behavioral change.

             -  Component 2: Assessment of Intervention Effectiveness:

        -  Using a random digit dialing telephone survey, pre and post provider/patient card study
           and a provider survey, we will assess the impact of the intervention.

             -  Component 3: Evaluation of Intervention Process and Implementation:

        -  Using the RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance)
           framework12, we will guide our evaluation of both the community-based participatory
           research process and the effects of the intervention developed.
    
  