
    
      Patients receiving conscious sedation for dentistry and endoscopy are usually treated with
      intermittent bolus doses of intravenous midazolam (administered by the operator-sedationist).
      The safety of such a regime has been questioned with reports of up to 13 % of patients
      desaturating to below 80 % in the recovery area following sedation for endoscopy. Mortality
      occurs in 0.05 % of endoscopy patients (with approximately 60 % of this being due to
      hypoxaemia). The aim of our work, therefore, is to look at providing sedation that is both
      safer as well as being efficacious.

      The drug propofol, the agent most commonly used to induce general anaesthesia in the UK, is
      also frequently administered intravenously by anaesthetists in low doses to provide conscious
      sedation for patients undergoing unpleasant procedures i.e. patients become relaxed,
      anxiety-free, but maintain verbal contact throughout.

      The technique of patient maintained sedation using the drug propofol (the patient can
      increase the amount of sedation (and propofol) they receive by pressing a demand button
      attached to a standard infusion device) has been used by anaesthetists and evaluated since
      1997.

      Several recent studies published and submitted for publication by this research group on
      patient maintained sedation using the drug propofol have shown this method of sedation to be
      safe and effective in dental patients (over 120 patients studied). It was also shown that
      this method, when compared to the established method of sedation in oral surgery (the dentist
      administering doses of midazolam intravenously), to produce both quicker recovery and less
      anxiety prior to the surgery.

      The routine use of propofol traditionally is restricted to anaesthetists, as in high doses
      general anaesthesia is produced with possible loss of airway patency. Currently the safety
      feature is predominantly that as patients become more sedated they cannot press the patient
      demand button and hence cannot increase the amount of propofol they are receiving. Also the
      device ensures that the blood and brain concentrations have equilibrated to within 10% of
      each other before another successful demand for propofol can be made (usually takes
      approximately two minutes) and it only allows a maximum calculated brain concentration of 3
      micrograms/milliliter of propofol. The device also will start to decrease the calculated
      brain concentration of propofol if the demand button has not been pressed for six minutes.

      Despite the encouraging results above we also found in a recent pilot study involving 20
      healthy volunteers who were instructed to try and make themselves unconscious that there were
      2 cases of over sedation (of these one briefly lost verbal contact and the other required
      supplemental oxygen only). Over sedation, however, was not demonstrated with any of the oral
      surgery patients in the previous studies. This may have been due to a higher level of anxiety
      in dental patients affecting response to propofol.

      We have therefore incorporated an additional safety feature into the existing and previously
      studied patient maintained sedation system which may further decrease or eliminate this small
      risk of over sedation. All the above safety features are retained and in addition the patient
      demand button will now also be used to monitor reaction time at one minutely intervals.

      It is known that propofol slows the reaction time of a given individual and in another recent
      study of 40 patients undergoing general anaesthesia for planned surgery using propofol, the
      patients' reaction times were recorded both awake and during induction of anaesthesia by
      instructing the patients to press a button as quickly as possible in response to the handset
      vibrating. The calculated effect site (brain) concentration of propofol was increased
      incrementally and reaction time monitored at each stage until the patient could no longer
      press the button.

      The data from this study (deteriorating patient reaction time with increased brain
      concentration of propofol) was analysed and this information used to provide an additional
      safety feature within the system to prevent over sedation i.e. a patient's reaction time
      deterioration by a certain percentage will prevent himself or herself being able to
      self-administer more propofol. Furthermore the system will actually start to decrease the
      brain concentration of propofol once the patients' reaction time becomes too slow. The
      patient demand button will be used to monitor reaction time at one minutely intervals as well
      as administer more propofol.

      .

      We hope that this will eliminate the small risk of over sedation and wish to conduct pilot
      studies to assess the safety and efficacy of this reaction time safeguarded,
      patient-maintained sedation system in three groups of twenty patients requiring sedation for
      planned procedures.

      We have chosen two groups of dental patients, one group having oral surgery (technically more
      difficult dental work e.g. wisdom tooth removal) and one group having routine dentistry (e.g.
      patients having tooth fillings who are referred for sedation due to high anxiety levels).
      Another of our outcome measures will look at the effect of this technique on the patients'
      anxiety levels and we believe that this technique may be beneficial in reducing anxiety
      levels.

      Patient maintained sedation has also been studied in 20 colonoscopy patients and found to be
      efficacious. However there were also 4 cases of slight over sedation, none of whom required
      any intervention e.g. airway or circulatory. We hope that by incorporating the reaction time
      safeguard that we can again eliminate this small risk.
    
  