
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is defined by the pathological accumulation of fat
      in the liver when no other explanatory disease is present: it encompasses isolated hepatic
      steatosis, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) cirrhosis, and is a frequent accompaniment of
      obesity and insulin resistance. A recent review demonstrated that NAFLD affects 10-35% of the
      adult population worldwide, with the prevalence approaching 85-100% in obese populations.

      Although frequently asymptomatic and relatively benign, NAFLD has the potential to progress
      to cirrhosis. Cirrhosis, when decompensated, has a poor prognosis.

      Also, NAFDL will be accompanied invariably with increased liver volume, which will directly
      increase the level of difficulty of upper gastrointestinal surgery, such as bariatric
      surgery, specifically for the visualization of the gastro-esophageal junction. Bleeding is
      also more frequent with larger fattier left liver lobes. The combination of these factors may
      lead to conversion to open surgery, thus: increasing postoperative pain due to larger
      incisions, prolonging postoperative recovery times and increasing the risks of infection and
      hernias.

      Current standard treatment for liver reduction before surgery is the use of a very low
      calorie liquid diet (VLCLD). Multiple studies have shown that a 2-4 week diet with Optifast®
      will reduce liver volume, in preparation for surgery.

      Omega-3 (Ω-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been suggested as a treatment for
      NAFLD. They have several potential mechanisms of action, the most important being to alter
      hepatic gene expression, thereby switching intracellular metabolism from lipogenesis and
      storage to fatty acid oxidation and catabolism. There is also evidence that they improve
      insulin sensitivity, are anti-inflammatory and reduce TNF levels lipogenesis thus offering
      several potential therapeutic mechanisms.
    
  