
    
      Effects of ALX1-11 on bone mineral density (BMD) have been documented in a dose-finding Phase
      II clinical trial in osteoporotic postmenopausal women, supplemented with calcium and Vitamin
      D3 but without any other treatment for osteoporosis. The anabolic effects of ALX1-11 in the
      lumbar vertebrae were statistically significant after the 12-month treatment period and more
      pronounced than any approved therapy. Additionally, animal studies have shown that the new
      bone formed by treatment with ALX1 11 is of good quality both histologically and
      biomechanically.

      The primary objective of this clinical study is to evaluate whether increases in bone mineral
      density (BMD) for subjects treated with ALX1-11 and receiving no calcium supplementation are
      less than increases in BMD observed for subjects treated with ALX1-11 and receiving calcium
      supplementation.

      A secondary objective of this clinical study are to evaluate whether changes in other
      efficacy parameters, such as bone mineral content (BMC) and biochemical markers of bone
      turnover, for subjects treated with ALX1-11 and receiving no calcium supplementation are less
      than increases observed for subjects treated with ALX1-11 and receiving calcium
      supplementation.

      This is a double-blind, multi-centered, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study
      comprised of 3 treatment groups: ALX1-11 injection plus oral calcium, ALX1-11 injection plus
      oral placebo calcium, and placebo ALX1-11 injection plus oral calcium. All subjects also
      receive 400 IU oral vitamin D3. The dose of ALX1-11 to be used in this study is 100 μg, self
      administered by daily sc injection. The calcium dose is 700 mg/day.

      Additional supplemental calcium and/or Vitamin D3 will not be permitted. Patients will be
      monitored for the development of hypercalcemia and/or hypercalciuria.
    
  