
    
      The aortic root is a complex structure whose single components are of paramount importance in
      assuring proper functioning of the aortic valve. In fact, opening and closing behaviors of
      the aortic leaflets are regulated by the interaction of the various components of the aortic
      root as well as by the characteristics of blood flow.

      Operation was the only possible surgical solution for diseases involving the sinuses of
      Valsalva and the aortic valve. Even in experienced hands, the perioperative mortality was not
      insignificant. However, since the introduction of the exclusion technique, the mortality and
      major morbidity of aortic root replacement have seen a dramatic decline. In recent years,
      groups focused on aortic disease have reported elective operative mortality less than 5%,
      with a marked decline in the incidence of stroke, hemorrhage, and other major postoperative
      complications.

      The composite graft replacement, as originally reported by Bentall and De Bono in 1968, has
      become a milestone in proximal aortic surgery, by providing the solution to a surgical
      problem that was a formidable challenge for that era. From the original report, many relevant
      scientific papers continued to address both the disease (dilatation or dissection of the
      proximal aorta, involving the aortic root and, often, the aortic valve) and its surgical
      correction. This ongoing attention led to several major refinements of the original technique
      and to the development of improved prosthetic material. All these efforts were aimed at the
      solution of two major problems affecting the original inclusion-wrapping technique:
      pseudoaneurysm formation (usually at the site of coronary anastomosis) and transprosthetic
      bleeding due to excessive porosity of the vascular prosthesis. For many years, however,
      little attention was paid to the fact that, in many instances, the aortic valve was
      intrinsically healthy, and nonetheless was substituted, thus unnecessarily exposing the
      patient to the risk of valve-related complications.

      The analysis of the normal anatomy and physiology of aortic root is the basis for
      establishing the surgical transition, in selected cases, from aortic root replacement to
      aortic valve-sparing operation. In 1983, however, Dr Yacoub addressed the issue of aortic
      insufficiency secondary to dilatation of the sinotubular junction and he proposed to resect
      the entire diseased aortic wall, preserving the valve with its commissural posts. A properly
      tailored vascular prosthesis, with three semicircular tongues, was then sutured to a small
      rim of the aortic wall just above the aortic annulus, following its three-cusp, crown-shaped
      line. The entire aortic root was therefore remodelled, thus justifying the appellation of
      remodelling technique, with reconstruction of a bulged root and a well defined sinotubular
      junction. Approximately 10 years later, Dr David introduced the aortic valve-sparing
      reimplantation technique by means of which the valve remnants prepared in a similar manner
      were reimplanted inside a cylindrical Dacron conduit.

      The introduction of techniques for valve-sparing aortic root replacement over 20 years ago
      has allowed for the preservation of healthy aortic valve in patients with severely diseased
      aortic roots. Moreover, an attempt is made to reconstruct as closely as possible all anatomic
      components of the aortic root, thus restoring the physiologic behaviour of the aortic valve
      leaflets within the reshaped root. By maintaining native aortic valve function, potential
      adverse events related to the use of either a mechanical or a bioprosthetic valve are
      avoided, including eliminating the lifelong burden of anticoagulation or the risk of
      structural valve deterioration.

      As such, valve-sparing aortic root replacement is an attractive therapy for aortic root
      pathology with preservation of the native aortic valve. Limited data exist comparing
      valve-sparing aortic root replacement and conventional aortic root replacement with a
      composite valve-conduit. Furthermore, these studies are limited by small patient numbers,
      selection bias.
    
  