
    
      Patients will be recruited from the practices of participating oncologists; therefore,
      physicians will be enrolled prior to their patients. All medical, surgical and radiation
      oncology faculty and hematology/oncology fellows who see patients in the participating
      clinics will be eligible for the study. We will also enroll the mid-level providers (i.e.,
      physician assistants and nurse practitioners) who work with many of these oncologists and any
      third party who comes to clinic with the enrolled patient.

      Biweekly, we will present participating physicians with a list of potentially eligible
      patients (those with advanced disease) and ask them to identify those who should not be
      approached about study participation. Reasons to not approach include dementia or
      inappropriate disease staging. Identified patients will receive a letter from their treating
      oncologist inviting them to participate in the study about oncologist-patient communication.
      Patients who do not wish to be contacted about the study may call a toll-free number to opt
      out. If patients do not respond, a research assistant will contact them by telephone several
      days prior to their clinic visit, explain the study in detail, and obtain verbal consent to
      conduct a phone screener and baseline interview. It is necessary to conduct the screener and
      baseline survey prior to obtaining written consent so that staff may determine eligibility
      and then initiate study procedures at the upcoming clinic visit, if appropriate.

      The baseline survey includes demographic information and several brief scales. Included in
      these is the Impact of Events Scale (IES) to determine level of distress, as the COPE study
      is interested in the subset of patients who are experiencing emotional difficulty with their
      cancer and may be amenable to support in this domain from their provider. The IES is scored
      from 0-44, with anything over 8 signifying at least mild levels of distress. Patients who
      score 10 or below will be excluded from the study. After completing the survey measures,
      arrangements will be made to meet patients in the clinic before their upcoming visit.

      The research assistant will meet the patients in clinic, immediately prior to their next
      visit, and obtain written informed consent. After engaging in the informed consent process,
      the research assistant will place the audio recorder in the exam room, turn it on before the
      oncologist enters the room, exit the room, and then turn off the recorder at the end of the
      visit. S/he will not be present in the exam room during the visit. Subjects will complete a
      survey immediately after the visit to assess affect and quality of communication. Immediately
      after the visit, physicians will complete a very brief questionnaire to assess their
      perception of the subjects' distress and whether s/he talked about their distress.

      Once research assistants determine that participating patients have an appointment with the
      same oncologist within 3 months, they will randomly assign subjects to one of four study arms
      (Control, CHESS, COPE, or CHESS+COPE), stratified by site and gender. Research assistants,
      equipped with laptop computers, will then introduce subjects to the intervention. For
      subjects in the Control arm, research assistants will use the intervention portal to review
      general Internet search tools (e.g., google). For subjects in the three intervention arms,
      research assistants will demonstrate the appropriately modified intervention website and
      ensure subjects' abilities to use it. Subjects will be provided written materials on the use
      of the website, and instructions will also be sent shortly afterward by email. The research
      assistant will call subjects within 7-14 days by phone and administer a 1-week follow-up
      survey to assess affect. This process will be repeated until staff record up to three clinic
      visits with the patient subject.

      Staff will email and call patient subjects between clinic visits to remind them how to access
      the intervention website and answer technical questions. Also, research assistants will
      remind participants that a member of the study team will meet with them at their upcoming
      oncology appointments.

      In the last post-visit call with patient subjects, staff will re-administer the IES. Once
      patients complete 3 audio-recorded visits, post-visits, and one-week follow-up interviews,
      study participation will be complete.
    
  