
    
      Women experience disproportionately high rates of cognitive dysfunction, especially with
      increasing age, compared to men. Some research suggests that older women have a higher
      incidence of cognitive dysfunction with greater severity and more rapid decline.Furthermore,
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) increases the risk for cognitive dysfunction by 29-66% and
      affects 44 million women in the US.

      One particularly distressing type of cognitive dysfunction due to CVD is loss of memory.
      Memory loss leads to reduced independence, lower quality of life, and higher healthcare
      costs. To prevent or delay loss of memory among older women with CVD, there is an urgent need
      to develop lifestyle interventions that can be scaled.

      The long-term goal is to create and implement multi-modal lifestyle interventions
      (interventions that have multiple behavioral components) that will prevent or delay memory
      loss in older adults. The investigators initially focus on women with CVD due to their high
      risk. Physical activity interventions and cognitive training each prevent memory loss in
      healthy older adults.

      Thus, the investigators will evaluate the efficacy of MindMoves, a 24-week multi-modal
      intervention, on memory performance and memory-related serum biomarkers. The investigators
      will examine the serum biomarkers of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and (c) insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Data
      collection will occur at baseline, 24 weeks, 48 weeks, and 72 weeks. MindMoves is a
      combination of two evidence-based interventions. Mind is the cognitive training program
      BrainHQ modified to a lifestyle-focused electronic tablet format. Mind improves memory
      performance in healthy older adults and those with heart failure. Move is a modified
      lifestyle physical activity intervention from the Women's Lifestyle Physical Activity
      Program, which the investigators piloted in women with CVD. The investigators recently tested
      the feasibility of MindMoves.

      Using a 2x2 factorial design, the investigators will recruit 254 older women with CVD from
      cardiology clinics and randomize them to one of the following conditions: (1) Mind, (2) Move,
      (3) MindMoves, or (4) usual care control. This approach will allow us to evaluate main and
      interaction effects of Mind and/or Move on memory performance and memory-related biomarkers
      at 24, 48, and 72 weeks post-baseline.

      Specific Aim 1 (primary): Determine the independent and combined efficacies of Mind and Move
      on memory performance assessed by neurocognitive tests among women ≥ 65 years of age with
      CVD.

      Specific Aim 2 (secondary): Determine the independent and combined efficacies of Mind and
      Move on memory-related serum biomarkers (BDNF, VEGF, IGF-1) among women ≥ 65 years of age
      with CVD.

      Specific Aim 3 (exploratory): Evaluate depressive symptoms and genetic factors as potential
      moderators of the association between changes in target behaviors (physical activity and
      cognitive activity) and health outcomes (memory performance and relevant serum biomarkers).

      The investigators hypothesize that Mind and Move individually will each yield benefits to
      memory. However, it is hypothesized that the combined MindMoves will have a greater impact
      than the sum of the individual effects. Findings will provide key knowledge about the ability
      of practical multi-modal lifestyle interventions to target memory in older women with CVD.
    
  