
    
      Rationale: After a DVT, one in three patients develops PTS of the affected leg, despite
      anticoagulant treatment and elastic compression therapy (ECT) in the acute phase of DVT.
      Considering the major societal burden associated with PTS, supplementation of current
      prevention with an effective pharmacotherapeutic therapy would be of high value. Since the
      pathogenesis of PTS is mediated through persistent inflammation during thrombus resolution,
      causing damage to the vein wall resulting in venous insufficiency, the venoactive flavonoids
      with their vasoprotective and anti-inflammatory properties provide an excellent candidate. As
      investigational medicinal product, the highly effective flavonoid Hydroxyethylrutoside
      (Venoruton) was chosen.

      Objective: To assess the effect of Venoruton on PTS-associated aspects of DVT resolution.

      Study design: A single-center, randomized, controlled, pilot study.

      Study population: Adults presenting themselves at the emergency department (ED) with a first,
      acute, proximal DVT of the lower extremity. Inclusion will be performed within 48 hours after
      diagnosis of DVT.

      Intervention: Administration of 500 mg Venoruton twice daily for 8 weeks following DVT, in
      addition to standard treatment by ECT and anticoagulant therapy.

      Baseline characteristics: Assessments include demographic data, smoking status, site and
      extension of DVT, side of affected leg, duration of complaints at time of diagnosis, risk
      factors for DVT (immobilisation, trauma, etc.), type of ECT, presence/suspicion of pulmonary
      embolism, concomitant medications.

      Main study parameters: The primary study outcome is residual vein obstruction (RVO), assessed
      by duplex ultrasound (DUS) at 12 weeks after DVT. Main secondary outcomes are levels of
      circulating biomarkers and severity of PTS-characterizing clinical signs at baseline, 1 week,
      4 weeks, 8 weeks and 12 weeks. Moreover, we measure quality of life (QoL) and
      PTS-characterizing symptoms at baseline, 4 weeks and 12 weeks.

      Additional study parameters: Medication adherence and ECT compliance at 1 week, 4 weeks, 8
      weeks and 12 weeks. Pill count of Venoruton at 8 weeks. Pill count of direct oral
      anticoagulant (DOAC) at 12 weeks. The occurrence of relevant (serious) adverse events is
      assessed at all visits.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Patients have a follow-up duration of 12 weeks after diagnosis of DVT. In
      addition to their visit at the ED, patients will visit the outpatient clinic four times
      during follow-up. At each visit secondary outcomes are measured through questionnaires, blood
      withdrawal and assessment of the affected leg. The first visit coincides with inclusion and
      two subsequent visits (4 and 12 weeks) coincide with the regular clinical care pathway. The
      primary outcome, RVO, is measured at 12 weeks after DVT by DUS. Patients allocated to the
      intervention group will take two oral tablets daily over a period of eight weeks. Venoruton
      has been established as safe with rarely occurring, mild, reversible side-effects through
      many years of experience.

      Masking: while patients are aware of their treatment allocation, the physicians and
      researchers are not, as to provide unbiased outcome assessment.
    
  