
    
      D. Design and methods

        1. Study design This study is interventional study of intubated or sedated children who are
           in the operating room or admitted to the MSICU (Medical Surgical Intensive Care Unit).
           The intervention is the application of cricoid pressure and also left lateral
           paratracheal pressure. The outer diameter and position of the esophagus will be assessed
           sonographically before and after the intervention is performed. Patients and families
           will be recruited in person either in the pre-op clinic or in the MSICU.

        2. Patient selection and inclusion/exclusion criteria All patients age 0 - 17 years who are
           on the OR (operating room) schedule and all patients admitted to the MSICU will be
           screened for this study. Patients in the MSICU will only be included if they are sedated
           as part of their clinical management.

           Exclusion criteria: 1) history of airway or esophageal malformations (e.g. esophageal
           atresia or trachea-esophageal fistula) or who have had prior surgical procedures
           involving the airway or esophagus, 2) known difficult airways, 3) patients with tenuous
           artificial airways as determined by reviewing the CXR (chest x-ray), 4) patients with
           abnormal blood flow pattern to the head (e.g. history of right carotid ligation or
           interruption, known incomplete circle of Willis, known right IJ venous clots or
           obstruction, 5) patients with left neck CVLs (central venous line), and 6) patients with
           compromised skin integrity on neck.

        3. Description of study treatments or exposures/predictors

           The primary physician/surgeon for each patient will be approached for permission to
           approach the family for consent.

           For operative patients, the study intervention will be performed following completion of
           the procedure when the patient is emerging from anesthesia. This is a period of time
           that often lasts 10s of minutes, has very good pain control, and is asleep. Scanning
           will be performed when the patient is intubated, to identify landmarks, and then as soon
           as the patient has been extubated to assess for the effect of cricoid or paratracheal
           pressure. For patients in the MSICU, the study intervention will be performed on any
           sedated patient who fulfills inclusion and exclusion criteria.

           The study first involves recording a baseline image of the neck anatomy using
           ultrasound, which is a non-invasive, non-irradiating, non-painful imaging modality. Once
           the baseline anatomy has been imaged, conventional cricoid pressure will be applied with
           fingers and/or with the ultrasound probe itself and an image will be recorded. The force
           applied to the cricoid cartilage will be 30 newtons, as determined by a thin force
           measurement sensor (Tekscan flexiforce sensor) placed in between the patient's skin and
           the finger (or ultrasound probe). Next, left lateral paralaryngeal pressure will be
           applied at the level of the cricoid cartilage with fingers and/or the ultrasound probe
           itself, and the image will again be recorded. Left lateral paralaryngeal pressure will
           be 30 newtons, as determined by a thin force measurement sensor placed in between the
           patient's skin and the finger (or ultrasound probe).

        4. Definition of primary and secondary outcomes/endpoints The primary outcome is a change
           in esophagus outer diameter following the intervention. The diameter will be assessed in
           the AP(anteroposterior) plane. In addition, the investigator will also record whether
           the esophageal mucosa is apposed following the application of pressure. Finally, the
           investigator will record the position of the esophagus relative to the airway before and
           after the intervention.

        5. Data collection methods, assessments, interventions and schedule Data will be collected
           at the time of ultrasound and uploaded to a secure REDCap database. Patient specific
           information will be collected, including age, gender, height, weight, primary diagnosis,
           and size of endotracheal tube. It is possible that additional covariates may be
           collected post hoc as necessary to complete analysis.

        6. Study timeline Data collection will proceed until the sample size is achieved. Interim
           data analysis will occur when 50% of the proposed sample size has been achieved.
    
  