
    
      Background:

        -  Cervical cancer is the third most common cause of death among women with gynecologic
           cancers in the United States. Worldwide, cervical cancer accounts for nearly 300,000
           deaths annually.

        -  Virtually all cases of cervical cancer result from chronic infection with high-risk
           human papillomavirus (HPV), the most common type being HPV16.

        -  The treatment of locally advanced cervical cancer consists of chemoradiation +/-
           extended field radiation therapy. Participants with FIGO (revised 2018) stage III-IVA
           have the worse prognosis with approximately 50% of the participants dying from their
           disease within 5 years.

        -  Induction chemotherapy is an active area of study in this type of cancer. The aim of
           induction therapy is to reduce the risk of disease recurrence and improve overall
           survival.

        -  E7 TCR T cells, administered as a single infusion, have demonstrated safety and clinical
           activity in advanced, treatment-refractory metastatic HPV+ cancers.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the feasibility of induction E7 TCR T cell therapy for FIGO (2018) stage
      IIB-IVA, HPV16+ cervical cancer

      Eligibility:

        -  Participants greater than or equal to 18 years old with FIGO (2018) stage IIB-IVA
           cervical cancer.

        -  The cancer must be HPV16+ and participant must be HLA-A*02:01+.

        -  Participants must be treatment-naive (i.e., no prior local or systemic treatment,
           including radiation; prior LEEP procedure or cone biopsy is allowed).

      Design:

        -  This is a single arm, pilot study, testing the feasibility of induction E7 TCR T cell
           therapy.

        -  Participants will receive a conditioning regimen of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, a
           single infusion of E7 TCR T cells, and systemic aldesleukin.

        -  Participants will be referred for standard of care definitive therapy (i.e.,
           chemoradiation +/- extended field radiation therapy) within 6 weeks after infusion of E7
           TCR T cells.
    
  