
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause for liver test
      abnormalities in the western world, and an increasingly rising cause for liver-related
      morbidity and mortality. Vitamin E, a fat-soluble anti-oxidant was recently found to be an
      effective treatment for NAFLD; however, its mechanism of action is unclear. In a controlled
      clinical trial vitamin E treatment was shown to significantly reduce the hepatic fat burden,
      suggesting mechanisms other than reducing oxidative stress are involved. Furthermore, the
      optimal dose of vitamin E to treat NAFLD is unknown.

      We propose a phase IIa study to determine the optimal dose of vitamin E and its mechanism and
      site of action. In this study we aim to enroll up to 90 patients with NAFLD. Initially, all
      patients will undergo 12 weeks of intensive lifestyle modification. Following that, all
      patients will be randomized to treatment with 3 different doses of natural vitamin E (rrr-
      -tocopherol at 200, 400 or 800 IU/d) for 24 weeks. The primary end points for efficacy are
      normalization of liver enzymes and reduction in liver fat contents by magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy. Patients will undergo liver and adipose tissue biopsies before vitamin E
      treatment and after 4 weeks of therapy, and the biopsy samples will be used to measure
      changes in gene expression and markers of oxidative stress. This will be coupled with
      extensive phenotyping before and after treatment using serological, radiological and dynamic
      endocrine testing and is aimed at finding the dose-response characteristics of vitamin E in
      NAFLD, and allowing us to understand the mechanism of its action.

      After 24 weeks of randomized treatment, all patients will be switched to a dose of 800 IU/ml
      and will continue treatment for up to 30 months, at the end of which another liver biopsy
      will be performed. From this phase we will assess the effects of dose increase of vitamin E
      on liver enzymes and fat content, and will determine the effect of long-term treatment on
      histological outcome.
    
  