
    
      Background: Cancer patients experience multiple symptoms throughout the different stages of
      their illness, with pain as one of the most frequent. Even though effective treatment options
      exist, more than 40% of all cancer pain patients do not receive adequate pain management. For
      pain control, in addition to state of the art treatment by professionals, patients and their
      family caregivers (FCs) have to use self care strategies on a daily basis, a complex process
      that profits from targeted support by health care providers (HCPs). In phase 1 of this study,
      the intervention and the study instruments have been translated, adapted and advanced.

      Aims: The purpose of this pilot study is to refine and test an advanced and adapted German
      version of the PRO-SELF© Plus Pain Control Program (PCP), an educational intervention
      directed at cancer pain patients and their families to enhance their pain self management
      abilities, and to calculate effect sizes for the planning of a sufficiently powered
      randomized controlled trial (RCT).

      Methods: The advanced and adapted German version of the PRO-SELF© Plus PCP will be tested in
      a pilot RCT in cancer patients with pain from bone metastasis, compared with standard care,
      with effect sizes being calculated for the planning of a sufficiently powered RCT. A
      qualitative sub study will explore patients' and FCs' experiences with pain management, with
      the educational intervention, and their view of burden and benefit from study participation.

      Intervention: The PRO-SELF© Plus PCP is based on three key strategies: (a) provision of
      information, (b) skill building, and (c) nurse coaching. The 10-week educational program
      comprises a structured part (teaching of pain management skills including the use of a weekly
      pillbox, the use of a pain management diary and written instructions on how to communicate
      with the physician about unrelieved pain) and a tailored part. The patient's answers on
      questions about his knowledge of pain management serve as basis for tailoring the teaching
      (academic detailing).

      Data analysis: Main outcome variables will be average and worst pain as reported daily by the
      patient. In order to determine effect sizes for main effect of group, main effect of time and
      the group by time interaction a repeated measure longitudinal design will be used employing a
      linear mixed model approach. For the qualitative part, interviews will be analyzed using
      content analysis.
    
  