
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive zidovudine IV twice daily on days 1-14, and
           recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV twice daily on days 3-14. Patients achieving clinical
           complete response (CR) proceed to part 1 maintenance therapy; patients achieving partial
           response (PR) receive another 7 days of zidovudine and recombinant interferon alfa-2b
           and then proceed to part 1 maintenance therapy.

        -  Part 1 maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral zidovudine twice daily and
           PEG-interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously (SC) once weekly, beginning on day 14 or 21 and
           continue to day 60. Patients are evaluated after completion of part 1 maintenance
           therapy and proceed to part 2 maintenance therapy.

        -  Part 2 maintenance therapy: Patients achieving CR with undetectable clonal disease
           proceed to group A; patients achieving CR with minimal residual disease (by PCR) or PR
           proceed to group B.

             -  Group A: Patients receive oral zidovudine twice daily and PEG-interferon alfa-2b SC
                once weekly. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Group B: Patients receive oral zidovudine twice daily and PEG-interferon alfa-2b SC
                once weekly for 12 weeks and undergo reevaluation. Patients in continued CR with
                minimal residual disease or stable PR receive oral valproic acid twice daily,
                PEG-interferon alfa-2b SC once weekly, and oral zidovudine twice daily for 6
                months. At that point (month 9) patients with no detectable clonal disease continue
                their previous treatment, while patients with minimal residual disease receive
                PEG-interferon alfa-2b SC and oral zidovudine twice daily in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline, days 1 and 2, and months 3, 6, and 12 for protein,
      genomic DNA, and RNA analysis. Baseline molecular characteristics of the tumor and tumor
      response to treatment is assessed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  