
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common hepatic disorder in the Western
      world, and is a leading cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality. Excessive caloric
      intake and specific nutritional components have been implicated in its pathogenesis, but the
      complex metabolic pathways linking nutrient consumption with hepatic fat accumulation have
      not yet been fully elucidated. Analysis of pathophysiology and the search for biomarkers in
      NAFLD has largely focused on fasting samples; the dynamic response to a caloric load has not
      been interrogated, beyond glucose tolerance testing. Metabolomics is a novel high-throughput
      technique, allowing for simultaneous detection of hundreds to thousands of metabolites, and
      the evaluation of their interconnectivity and causal relationships. We propose a pilot study
      to investigate the metabolic response of patients with NAFLD to a standardized food
      challenge, by applying a metabolomics-based dynamic approach. In this study we will recruit
      up to 50 patients with NAFLD and compare them to 12 controls with metabolic syndrome without
      NAFLD, and 12 healthy controls. Following an overnight fast, subjects will be situated in a
      metabolic chamber for continuous measurement of metabolic rates, and will be given a liquid
      mixed meal containing approximately 30% of daily caloric requirement over a period of 15
      minutes. The energy expenditure (EE) and respiratory quotient (RQ), reflecting preference for
      carbohydrate or fat oxidation, will be measured at 1-minute resolution. Blood will be drawn
      at baseline, and at 30 min, 1, 2, 4 and 24 hours after ingestion. Plasma will be separated
      and stored in -80 (Infinite)C. Following completion of recruitment, stored samples will be
      analyzed at the NCI Laboratory of Metabolism by LC/MS and GC/MS, metabolites of interest
      identified, and individual metabolites quantitated and normalized to their pre-prandial
      level. Study results will hopefully identify novel metabolic markers of disease, and uncover
      altered signaling pathways unique to NAFLD that are activated primarily under fed state
      conditions.
    
  