
    
      Tomblin JB et al.1997, Svirsky MA, 2004 reported that the early restoration of auditory
      ability by cochlear implants significantly improve the commu¬nication skills, albeit with
      varied results. Thoutenhoofd E 2005 concluded that while most children with cochlear implants
      become able to attend school regularly, other remain with significantly limited verbal
      communication skills

      Earlier implantation for children with a congenital profound hearing loss appeared to provide
      improved potential for developing speech perception. which improved steadily with implant
      experience.

      The speech perception can be defined as the process of imposing a meaningful perceptual
      experience from meaningless speech input, wich may be thought of involving a number of
      components as: detection, discrimination, identification, attention, memory and closure .

      In the field of aural rehabilitation, speech perception assessment has an important and a
      critical role to select the signal processing strategy, to adjust the signal processor and to
      determine if appropriate benefit has been achived .

      Young children,being considered apart of the language limited,difficult-to test population,
      efforts were directed towards construction of special hearing test to suit their reduced
      verbal language(Mc Lauchlin,1980).

      The early speech test(EST) is one of these tests,which use low -verbal materials.

      The early speech test is one of the closed-set response speech discrimination tests,using
      object identification technique.It was carefully designed for estimation of speech perception
      abilities in very young children who have extremely low verbal abilities.

      Most studies on the impact of cochlear implants have focused on clinical assessments of
      efficacy (hearing and speech skills, and auditory thresholds). It is not clear how much
      clinical measures of efficacy (speech, hearing, and language measures) truly show the
      effectiveness of cochlear implants in general contexts (such as performance at home, at
      school, and in social settings). Vidas S et al 1992 reported that there is evidence that
      clinical assessment results do not correlate with performance in unstructured settings, these
      measures are only part for assessments of cochlear implant efficacy.

      There are questionnaires that investigate the expectations of parents (Thoutenhoofd E 2005,
      Vaccari C, Marschark M. 1997, Spilker B, Revicki D.1996) their satisfaction level with
      implant, the stresses in this process8, and cochlear implant user and family quality of life
      .

        -  The Meaningful Use of Speech Scale (MUSS) questionnaire was used to analyze and measure
           speech skills (Nascimento et al 1997)and allows the examiner to evaluate a child skills
           in meaningful real world situation.
    
  