
    
      According to the WHO (World Health Organization) the stress has become a worldwide epidemic
      and has been considered as the disease of the century, attaining people of different ages and
      occupations. Stress is defined as a pressure or tension, of a physical, mental or emotional
      type, which overwhelms the individual and adversely affects the performance of his physical
      and intellectual functions. When stress is prolonged, the immune system is affected, leaving
      the body subject to disease and premature aging. Among the psychophysiological reactions
      associated with excessive stress are chronic fatigue, ulcers, depression, hypertension and
      heart attack. In light of these consequences, it is important that measures are taken to
      early identifying the symptoms of stress, allowing people to be properly treated and resume
      their normal activities.

      The studies presented in literature suggest the possibility of using biological signals as
      indicators of the presence of stress. In these studies, certain physiological variables are
      measured and related to this stress on the individual. However, most previous studies focused
      on acute stress, meaning that short-lived. The objective of this study was to relate certain
      physiological indicators with the presence of chronic stress, ie that long-lasting and often
      not perceived by the individual.

      To this end, the investigators performed the measurement of blood pressure values, skin
      temperature, galvanic skin response and heart rate variability, and compared with the results
      provided by the ISSL (Lipp's Inventory of Stress Symptoms for Adults), PSS (Perceived Stress
      Scale) and SRRS (Social Readjustment Rating Scale), as the stress condition of the
      individual. The heart rate variability was checked in both time and frequency domain. All of
      the physiological signals were monitored by non-invasive and non-intrusive sensors and
      totally safe for participants.

      To investigate the relationship between the physiological variables and the existing chronic
      stress condition the investigators used an algorithm for analysis of biological signals based
      on Multilayer Perceptron Neural Network with Backpropagation Algorithm (MLP) and Principal
      Components Analysis (PCA). To evaluate the performance of the classifier on the
      identification of chronic stress the investigators check the indicators of precision,
      sensitivity, specificity and accuracy. The results were then analyzed by Receiver Operating
      Characteristic Curves (ROC).

      Ethical approval was obtained from the Local Ethics Committee (CAAE-28201014.2.0000.5497) for
      the participants. They had been informed about the methodology and confidentiality of their
      personal information. All procedures were performed after written informed consent from all
      participants. Data collection was completed in October 2014.
    
  