
    
      In 2016, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued guidelines for the use of a shorter
      treatment regimen (STR) for eligible patients with RR and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
      (MDR-TB) which was adopted by the South African National Tuberculosis Program (SANTP) in
      2017. The WHO then released guidelines in September 2018 regrouping the medicines for the
      treatment of MDR/RR-TB into three categories and ranking them based on the latest evidence
      about the balance of effectiveness to safety. BDQ, LNZ and fluoroquinolones were moved to
      Category A and should be included in all regimens as core drugs. CFZ and terizidone as
      Category B drugs, should be added to all regimens.

      The current short injectable-free treatment regimen for RR-TB in South Africa is based on
      these WHO recommendations. This South African standard of care, referred to as the Control
      Strategy, is given for a duration of 40 to 48 weeks and consists of BDQ, LNZ, Isoniazid (high
      dose), LVX, ethambutol, pyrazinamide and CFZ. Should a patient have resistance to the
      fluoroquinolones and/or the injectable, the patient is started on a strengthened regimen that
      may include BDQ, LNZ and DLM with other added agents depending on prior exposure and any
      other available resistance testing.

      In addition to the shorter RR-TB regimen recommended by the WHO, there are other shorter
      regimens currently being evaluated in clinical trials. Many of these regimens employ new or
      re-purposed medicines such as BDQ, DLM, and LNZ, which have each been shown to be effective
      in clinical trials. Some of the regimens forgo the use of a second-line injectable, which is
      associated with a high rate of adverse events and is programmatically difficult to
      administer. Although these regimens are currently undergoing testing in clinical trials, the
      programmatic use of these regimens under operational and pragmatic research conditions can
      also provide important data to the global TB community about their effectiveness and safety,
      while also providing more information about programmatic implementation and expanding access
      to their potential benefits.

      For this reason, BEAT Tuberculosis aims to be as pragmatic as possible, with broad
      eligibility criteria including almost all participants diagnosed with RR-TB. It aligns itself
      with the SANTP's goal to investigate an effective treatment regimen for RR-TB, while strictly
      adhering to the high standards of ethical conduct in clinical research. The primary objective
      of the trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the Study Strategy, specifically to
      demonstrate that the intervention or Study Strategy has non-inferior efficacy to the Control
      Strategy.

      The principle behind the Study Strategy is to "hit early and to hit hard" with the agents
      most likely to be effective- it is common that upon the diagnosis of RR-TB, fluoroquinolone
      resistance is unknown. Therefore, the Study Strategy contains three novel agents as core
      drugs -BDQ, LNZ, and DLM against which there is no expected Mtb resistance in the community.
      In addition, there are two other support medications- LVX and CFZ. Treatment will be changed
      on receipt of the second-line line probe assay (LPA) results. The Study Strategy has been
      designed to cover all possible eventualities from rifampicin mono resistant TB to Extensively
      Drug Resistant (XDR-TB) with an all oral regimen. The Study Strategy is given for 24 weeks
      but if culture conversion has not occurred by week 16, the full treatment duration can be
      extended to 36 weeks.

      Participants include adolescents from 12 years of age and adults diagnosed with RR-TB with or
      without resistance to isoniazid (INH) and/or fluoroquinolones. A total of 400 participants
      will be enrolled into the clinical trial. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      receive either the Study Strategy or Control Strategy, with a stratification by clinical site
      and HIV status. All participants will be followed up for 76 weeks from randomization.

      All patients in South Africa who are diagnosed with RR-TB are managed by the SANTP. All study
      tests will therefore be performed by the National Health Laboratory Services, including
      mycobacteriology, blood screening and safety testing and point of contact testing. These
      tests will be done in line with the national programme's schedule of events.

      The trial will be open label, as blinding is not feasible. It is not possible to formulate
      placebos with multiple drugs and durations of treatment. However, the trial will be treated
      as if it were a blinded trial in all ways other than the physician and the participant having
      knowledge of the treatment assignment. Individuals assessing x-rays, cultures, ECGs and other
      participant information will be blinded to treatment assignment.

      BEAT Tuberculosis will be conducted in Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape where there is a
      high burden of drug resistant TB (DR TB). The clinical trial sites are established DR-TB
      initiation and treating sites and have been approved by the national, provincial and district
      TB program with the capacity for long term follow up for safety evaluation. This trial will
      strengthen the drug resistant TB research capacity in an under-researched area such as the
      Eastern Cape.

      All participants will be offered an HIV test, as is standard in South Africa, and must be
      willing to take antiretroviral treatment, should they test positive. Wherever possible,
      participants who are co-infected with HIV will be managed in a joint treatment clinic to
      ensure close co-ordination of management of the two conditions, and to ensure that
      appropriate decisions can be made concerning the management of drug interactions and side
      effects.

      Additionally, there is a pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics (PK-PD) aspect to the trial. There
      are limited data describing the association of drug concentrations with efficacy and
      treatment related toxicities of many of the anti-TB drugs used in the treatment of RR-TB.
      Understanding these PK-PD relationships can result in dose optimization to improve outcomes
      in the relevant patient populations. BEAT Tuberculosis is a unique opportunity to explore
      these relationships.
    
  