
    
      Screening:

      The study staff will talk to your doctor or nurse, and/or look at your medical record, to see
      if you are currently receiving treatment. The study staff will also look at your medical
      record to see if you have any future clinic visits at M. D. Anderson. This is the first step
      of "screening" to help the researchers decide if you are eligible to take part in this study.

      If you are found to be possibly eligible to take part in this study based on the first step
      of screening, the second step of screening will occur:

      At your clinic visit, the study staff will talk to you about this study. You will be asked
      questions about school, which should take about 2 minutes.

      Study Visit If you are found to be eligible and you agree to take part in this study, you
      will look at a list of 34 cancer symptoms if you are a male or a list of 36 cancer symptoms
      if you are a female. You will fill out a questionnaire that asks you to mark each symptom
      that you may be experiencing at this time, and other information about the symptoms such as
      how often they occur.

      After you complete the questionnaire, you will be interviewed by the study staff about how
      you answered some of the questions. For example, you will be asked if the words describing
      the symptoms were easy to understand or if other words may be more clear.

      There are no right or wrong answers to any part of this study. Researchers are interested in
      your thoughts about the words.

      Filling out the questionnaire will take about 10-15 minutes. The interview will take about
      20-30 minutes.

      Study Data:

      The interview will be audio-recorded. Only the study staff will hear the recording. The
      recording will be saved on a password-protected computer that can only be accessed by the
      study staff.

      Your responses will be coded without using your name or other personal identifying
      information. Only the study staff will have access to the code numbers and be able to
      identify you.

      Your responses will not be shared with your doctor without your consent.

      In some of the questions, you will be asked about your feelings (for example, whether you
      feel unhappy or anxious). If your responses show that you may be having emotional
      difficulties, you will be given a list of community agencies that provide services for
      emotional issues. You may also speak to your doctor about your feelings.

      Length of Study:

      After the study visit, your active participation will be over. In some cases, the study staff
      may call you to ask that you clarify some of your answers. Your medical record may also be
      checked to confirm the cancer diagnosis and your treatments.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. Up to 20
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  