
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A study by the investigators showed that a method based on principles of antecedent control,
      namely the provision of food to participants, was successful in almost doubling weight losses
      over a twelve month period compared to those attained in a standard behavioral weight control
      program. These weight losses were associated with substantial improvements in cardiovascular
      risk factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were several studies in this two-center project (R01HL41330 and R01HL41332). Obese
      subjects, male and female, were recruited at the University of Pittsburgh and the University
      of Minnesota. The subjects were randomly assigned to one of five treatment groups: no
      treatment control, standard behavioral nutrition program, standard program with incentives,
      standard program with food provision, and standard program with both incentives and food
      provision. The effectiveness of the treatments was analyzed by assessing changes in body
      weight, coronary heart disease risk factors (lipids, blood pressure, insulin, and glucose)
      and process variables (eating and exercise behavior, knowledge, barriers to adherence) at six
      month intervals for eighteen months.

      The project was renewed in April 1992 and included four studies. Study 1 determined whether
      there were long-term benefits to food provision by reexamining the 202 participants in the
      original study one year after the end of treatment. Study 2 investigated the factors related
      to the successful food provision intervention by comparing the additive effects of standard
      behavioral treatment and the three central components of food provision: structured meal
      plans, prepackaged food and subsidy of the food. It also explored theoretical mechanisms
      which might underlie the food provision effect, specifically decision making and stimulus
      control. Study 3 evaluated the effectiveness of extending the food provision methodology to
      families. Overweight spouse pairs were randomized to treatments in which either one member of
      the pair participated in treatment and received food, or both members of the pair
      participated and were provided with food. Study 4 determined whether the principles of
      antecedent control could also be applied to exercise. Participants were randomized to weight
      control programs which included either the usual exercise instructions or structured plans
      for exercise and free passes to exercise facilities near their home. It was hypothesized that
      providing food for the obese spouse as well as the patient, and providing antecedent control
      for exercise through structured plans and free passes would both improve the maintenance of
      weight loss.

      The studies were renewed in FY 1998 through April, 2002 to compare the long-term weight
      losses achieved in a standard behavioral program with those obtained in an enhanced exercise
      intervention. The exercise goal in the standard program was 1000 kcal/week, while that in the
      enhanced exercise program was 2500 kcal/week. The study was conducted with 180 subjects
      divided equally between men and women, half recruited in Minneapolis and the other half in
      Pittsburgh. The primary hypotheses were that the enhanced exercise intervention group would
      have significantly greater weight losses than the standard intervention group at the end of
      the 18 month treatment program and at the 30-month follow-up. In addition, the two conditions
      were compared at 0, 6, 12, 18, and 30 months with regard to exercise levels, variables that
      might be related to exercise and weight loss, and measures related to quality of life.
      Furthermore, the investigators attempted to determine predictors of long-term weight loss and
      exercise behavior, and examined the effects of social support on exercise level and weight
      loss of the enhanced exercise intervention group.

      Include both R01HL41330 and R01HL41332.
    
  