
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the Central
      Nervous System (CNS) affecting mostly young adults between 20 and 40 years of age. This
      disease is the leading cause of non-traumatic disability in young adults.

      MS has long been considered a predominantly T-cell mediated disease. However, the remarkable
      efficacy of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies in this disease has demonstrated the major role
      of B-cell in the pathophysiology of this disease.

      The B-cell have many functions: these cells are indeed able to secrete cytokines (pro and
      anti inflammatory), to present antigens to T lymphocytes, but also to differentiate into
      plasmocytic cells and thus to secrete immunoglobulins. Several studies have shown that B-cell
      in patients with MS secrete significantly more pro-inflammatory cytokines (GM-CSF, IL-6,
      TNFα). In addition, infiltrates and tertiary lymphoid structures have been found in the
      meninges of patients with MS, particularly in progressive forms of the disease. It seems
      clear to this day that these cells are strongly involved in the development of MS. Despite
      the many advances made recently in understanding the role of B-cell in the pathophysiology of
      MS, the precise involvement of plasma cells and their functions at different stages of the
      disease remains unclear.

      Folluclar helper T cells (TFH) play a crucial role in lymphocyte B differentiation. These
      cells are located within the germinal centers in the secondary lymphoid organs, and their
      memory compartment also circulates in the blood. Several circulating TFH subpopulations have
      recently been defined, with different "helping" capacities.

      This study, an ancillary to ABCD-SEP (NCT03744351), will be interested in more precisely
      characterizing circulating and infiltrating TH cells in Multiple Sclerosis whether at the
      transcriptomic level or at the functional level.
    
  