
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the 24-month complication rate of 5 fraction radiotherapy compared to 25
      fraction radiotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate acute toxicity that occur up to 180 days after radiation. II. To evaluate late
      toxicity that appear or persist 180 days after radiation. III. To estimate the 5-year
      locoregional control, invasive disease-free survival, disease-free survival, cause-specific
      survival and overall survival.

      CORRELATIVE AND EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate patient-reported quality of life outcomes through Mayo Breast Survey, Mayo 10
      (Patient-Reported Outcomes [PRO]-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE]), and
      Mayo Patient Survey.

      II. To evaluate clinical features, treatment technique, dose-volume parameters, histologic
      and genetic variants associated with fair and poor cosmetic outcomes or unplanned surgical
      intervention.

      III. To evaluate the costs and comparative effectiveness of treatment. IV. Compare the use of
      photon therapy with spot scanning proton therapy hypo-fractionated whole breast or
      post-mastectomy chest wall with regional nodal irradiation.

      V. To evaluated cosmetic outcome with patient-reported measures with elements from the Mayo
      Breast Patient Survey and panel assess cosmetic outcome with blinded photographs, and the
      Harvard/National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP)/Radiation Therapy
      Oncology Group (RTOG) Cosmesis Scale.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Within 12 weeks of the last breast cancer surgery or last dose of adjuvant
      chemotherapy and no sooner than 14 days since the last chemotherapy, patients undergo x-ray
      therapy over 25 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Optionally, patients may then receive a 4-fraction boost of x-ray therapy.

      ARM II: Within 12 weeks of the last breast cancer surgery or last dose of adjuvant
      chemotherapy and no sooner than 14 days since the last chemotherapy, patients undergo proton
      beam radiation therapy over 5 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Optionally, patients may receive a concurrent 5-fraction boost of proton beam
      radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 weeks, at 6, 12, 24, and
      36 months, and then at 5 years.
    
  