
    
      Study Background

      Glaucoma is the worlds' leading cause of irreversible blindness with nearly 7 million
      bilaterally blind due to the disease, by some estimates, and as such, represents a disease
      with significant associated morbidity. Furthermore, as glaucoma is primarily a disease of old
      age, as the number of elderly people in the world continues to rise, the number of people
      with glaucoma blindness is likely to have increasing economic burden and public health costs.

      Primary glaucoma is classified into 2 types, Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (POAG) and Primary
      Angle Closure Glaucoma (PACG). Classification depends on configuration of the anterior
      chamber drainage angle, specifically if it is open or if it shows evidence of closure. The
      proportions of people with POAG and PACG are approximately equal, with the latter disease
      more common in Asians and women. Although the result of both diseases is progressive cupping
      of the optic disc with corresponding visual fields loss, the mechanism by which this occurs
      is thought to be quite different in the two diseases. In POAG the mechanism is still to be
      established but in PACG it is thought that apposition of the peripheral iris to the drainage
      angle results in damage to the trabecular meshwork (TM) and the formation of peripheral
      anterior synaechiae (PAS) which act as a mechanical obstruction of aqueous outflow via the
      trabecular meshwork. This in turn results in raised intraocular pressure (IOP) and subsequent
      optic nerve damage. Apposition can occur in anatomically predisposed eyes, although a
      physiological dynamic element is likely to be involved also. Areas of the TM not obstructed
      by PAS are likely to retain some function, although it is not clear if this is at the same
      level as in normal subjects. The functioning of the TM posterior to the areas of PAS has also
      yet to be established and it is hope that this study will help to elucidate this matter.

      Conventional initial management of PACG is to perform laser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) to
      allow flow of aqueous from the posterior chamber to the anterior chamber through the
      iatrogenically created iridotomy. This has two benefits - in those subjects where
      pupillary-block is thought to be the mechanism for angle closure, it can reduce the risks of
      an acute rise in IOP occurring (acute angle closure). In other subjects with PAC, LPI has
      been shown to increase the drainage angle and this has led to lowering of the IOP in some
      subjects. However, in a retrospective review of 65 subjects with PACG who had had LPI, after
      5 years follow-up the vast majority required further interventions (medications and/or
      surgery) to lower the IOP. Furthermore, PAS formation has been show to still occur in the
      presence of a patent PI. Clearly, the current conventional management strategy for PAC/PACG
      is inadequate and likely to lead to further ocular morbidity.

      The poor results of LPI in the long-term for subjects with PACG in terms of IOP control has
      led many clinicians to study the effect of cataract surgery on IOP control in these patients.
      It was thought that removing the lens would increase anterior chamber depth and increase the
      drainage angle and hence increase outflow. Cataract surgery does indeed seem to open the
      drainage angle and its effects on IOP control have been promising. However, opening of the
      drainage angle may be limited in subjects with significant PAS. This could compromise the IOP
      lowering effect of cataract surgery in this group of patients. In such cases, cataract
      surgery with mechanical breaking of PAS (i.e. goniosynechialysis) might lower IOP to a
      greater extent than cataract surgery alone. Phacoemulsification + intraocular lens +
      Goniosynechialysis (PEI-GSL) has been carried out in several published studies, with all
      studies reporting a reduction in post-operative IOP compared to pre-operative. The main
      complications associated with PEI-GSL are excessive post-operative anterior chamber fibrinous
      reaction and anterior chamber bleeding. Theoretically, excessive pressure to break PAS could
      also cause iridodialysis or cyclodialysis, with resultant ocular hypotony. In an effort to
      reduce these complication risks, Varma and Fraser described phacoemulsification + intraocular
      lens + viscogonioplasty (PEI-VGP) in which a viscoelastic is used to break PAS in a non-iris
      contact method, rather than using an instrument to push the iris back. The authors proposed
      that this procedure would reduce the complications of PEI-GSL but still open the angle
      sufficiently. It is not clear however, if PEI-VGP would provide sufficient force to open
      areas of PAS and therefore be as efficacious as PEI-GSL in lowering IOP. Furthermore, there
      is no evidence that either PEI-GSL or PEI-VGP are superior to phacoemulsification +
      intraocular lens (PEI) alone in reducing IOP. Most surgeons will perform cataract surgery in
      patients with PAC/PACG and uncontrolled IOP. By adding the relatively simple step of
      goniosynechialysis during the surgical procedure, it has been proposed that this will result
      in further IOP lowering and hence less risk of glaucoma development/progression. This has yet
      to be proven.

      An alternative treatment modality in subjects with PAC/PACG, visually significant cataract
      and high IOP, would be to perform phaco-trabeculectomy. Two recent randomized controlled
      trials published by Tham and co-workers, compared PEI versus phaco-IOL-trabeculectomy in
      subjects with medically controlled and medically uncontrolled angle-closure glaucoma. For the
      medically controlled group, there was no clinically significant difference in IOP lowering
      effect between the two surgical modalities. For the medically uncontrolled group, both
      modalities reduced IOP but the phaco-IOL-trabeculectomy group had a significantly lower IOP.
      However, the phaco-IOL-trabeculectomy group in both studies had a significantly higher
      complication rate than did the PEI group. Furthermore, only 4/27 (14.8%) of eyes in the PEI
      group (in the medically uncontrolled IOP study) required subsequent trabeculectomy to control
      IOP over the 2 years follow up period. In all these 4 cases, trabeculectomy was carried out
      successfully. Extrapolating from these data it would appear that although
      phaco-trabeculectomy does lower IOP more than PEI in patients with medically uncontrolled
      angle-closure glaucoma, many of these patients would not require 2 combined simultaneous
      procedures. Furthermore, trabeculectomy surgery has significant complication rates, even many
      years after the surgery is performed. Performing either PEI, or PEI-GSL (with or without
      viscoelastic assistance) would likely result in a significant reduction in IOP and still
      leave open the option of trabeculectomy (or glaucoma drainage device surgery) later on as the
      conjunctiva and sclera would be untouched. This multicentre study is designed to determine
      which of these 2 surgical options would superior in terms of efficacy and complications.

      There have been no randomized controlled trials comparing PEI versus PEI-GSL (or PEI-VGP).
      There have been several case series and these will be summarized below.

      Effect of phacoemulsification + intraocular lens on intraocular pressure in subjects with
      primary angle closure In patients with PAC or PACG, there is considerable evidence that PEI
      lowers IOP. Hayashi and coworkers, in a prospective study of 77 eyes of 77 consecutive
      patient with PACG found that IOP decreased significantly from baseline by an average of 6.1 ±
      3.9 mmHg at 1 year follow up.5 Tham and co-workers showed an even more considerable decrease
      in IOP from a pre-operative mean of 24.4 mmHg to a mean of 15.4 mmHg at 15 months in a cohort
      of 27 patients with medically uncontrolled PACG.13 The same group examined the effect of PEI
      in a cohort of 35 eyes with medically controlled PACG.14 Pooling the results from both
      studies, PEI significantly reduced IOP from a pre-operative mean of 20.4 ± 5.8 mmHg to a mean
      of 14.6 ± 2.9 mmHg at 1 year, irrespective of pre-operative IOP control.

      Effect of phacoemulsification + intraocular lens + goniosynechialysis on intraocular pressure
      in subjects with primary angle closure The largest case series on this topic, and the only
      prospective study performed on PEI-GSL was that performed by Teekhasaenee and coworkers.
      Fifty-two eyes of 48 patients (from Thailand) with PACG all underwent laser peripheral
      iridotomy but continued to have raised IOP defined as IOP >21 mmHg. Subjects underwent
      PEI-GSL and IOP decreased from a pre-operative mean of 29.7 ± 7.9 mmHg to 13.2 ± 2.9 mmHg at
      final examination (mean follow up 20.8 ± 15.5 months, range 5-76 months). This is a mean
      decrease of 16.5 mmHg.

      There are 2 studies on the effect of PEI-VGP on IOP control, both retrospective case series.
      In the first, a consecutive series of 15 eyes of patients with refractory PACG, PEI-VGP
      reduced IOP significantly from 27.4 mmHg (on medication) to 14.1 mmHg (off all medication in
      14/15 eyes), at 6 months.13 This represents a decrease of 13.3 mmHg. A subsequent study of 11
      patients (11 eyes) on subjects with PACG (all of whom had refractory control despite patent
      peripheral iridotomy) showed a decrease in IOP from 39.4 mmHg pre-operatively to a mean of
      13.4 mmHg after PEI-VGP at 7.8 months follow up.

      Effect of phacoemulsification + intraocular lens alone or phacoemulsification + intraocular
      lens + goniosynechialysis on angle opening in subjects with primary angle closure

      There are several studies which have shown that the drainage angle opens significantly after
      PEI in subjects with PAC/G.17;18 Only one paper described the effects of PEI on extent of
      peripheral anterior synaechiae. This showed that in subjects with PACG and PAS, there was a
      significant reduction in the extent of PAS after PEI, by approximately 25%.8 Most studies of
      PEI-GSL also describe opening of the drainage angle in subjects with PAC/G. Several studies
      also describe reduction in extent of PAS, including complete elimination of PAS.

      The population to be studied will be all patients attending Singapore national Eye Centre
      (SNEC), Tan Tock Sen Hospital (TTSH), National University Hospital Singapore (NUHS), Vietnam
      National Institute of Ophthalmology, Thailand Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol
      University and Hongkong, Queen Mary Hospital

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, Singapore Good Clinical
      Practice (SGCP) and the applicable regulatory requirement(s).

      Study Objectives and Purpose

      To evaluate and compare the effect of two different surgical interventions in patients with
      primary angle-closure (with or without glaucoma), high intraocular pressure, and cataract.

      These interventions are:

        1. phacoemulsification + intraocular lens (PEI)

        2. phacoemulsification + intraocular lens + goniosynechialysis (PEI-GSL).

      Study Design

      Experimental design This is prospective, longitudinal multicentre randomized control trial.
      The study sites will be SNEC, TTSH, NUHS, Vietnam National Institute of Ophthalmology,
      Thailand Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University and Hongkong, Queen Mary
      Hospital All subjects will undergo baseline and subsequent follow-up and evaluation in a
      standardized manner. Those who complete the informed consent process will be randomized to
      undergo either treatment with PEI or PEI-GSL. Subjects will then be followed-up for 12
      months.

      Study hypothesis We hypothesize that, compared to PEI, PEI-GSL will result in significantly
      lower IOP reduction both in the short and long term, with a reduction in amount of PAS, a
      wider drainage angle and a similar complication rate as PEI.

      Patient Selection All subjects attending the glaucoma clinic at SNEC, TTSH, NUHS, Vietnam
      National Institute of Ophthalmology,Thailand Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol
      University and Hongkong, Queen Mary Hospital will be eligible to be included in the study if
      they fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria (see below).

      Once these criteria are fulfilled, subjects will be enrolled and divided into 2 groups using
      a random number generator. Group 1 will undergo PEI alone and Group 2 will undergo PEI-GSL.

      Randomization and masking Block randomization method is used for randomization in this study.
      A pre-randomized list is generated according to Singapore Eye Research Institute's (SERI)
      standard operating procedure for randomization process by the clinic director and delegated
      stand-in. Following consent the study coordinator will contact the study centre (SERI) to
      obtain the randomization for each enrolled patient. Enrolled patient will be randomized to
      undergo either treatment with PEI or PEI-GSL. Randomization will be of patients and not eyes
      i.e. if two eyes of the same patient are eligible they will undergo the same intervention as
      allocated.

      The investigator will be masked to the IOP measurement. Two individuals (an operator and a
      reader) will perform the IOP measurement. The operator operating the slit lamp and instrument
      dial will not be aware of the readings while the reader will read and record the results.

      Surgical technique Anaesthetic will be general or peribulbar (approximately 3ml volume of
      50/50 mix of 2% lignocaine and Marcaine with hyaluronidase). A superior or temporal clear
      corneal incision will be performed followed by creation of a paracentesis, injection of 3%
      sodium hyaluronate, 4% chondroitin sulfate (Viscoat, Alcon laboratories) and capsulorhexis.
      Hydrodissection is then performed using balanced salt solution and the lens is removed using
      phacoemulsification of the lens nucleus and aspiration (automated or manual) of cortical lens
      matter. After further injection of Viscoat, an acrylic injectable intraocular lens will be
      inserted into the capsular bag, its power having been determined pre-operatively based on
      biometric measurements. The Viscoat will then be removed (automated or manual), in the case
      of subjects undergoing PEI.

      For those subjects PEI-GSL, the goniosynechialysis will be performed after partially filling
      the anterior segment with Sodium Hyaluronate 14mg/ml ("Healon GV", Advanced Medical Optics
      (AMO), California, USA). Using a goniolens (with coupling agent) to visualize those areas of
      PAS (defined pre-operatively), the viscoelastic will be used to break areas of PAS wherever
      possible, without touching the TM or iris. In cases where the viscoelastic is unable to break
      PAS, an iris repositor will be used to gently break the PAS in the areas where it exists.
      After this is performed, the surgery will continue as above, with removal of any remaining
      viscoelastic by automated or manual irrigation and aspiration.

      Surgeries will be performed by senior ophthalmic surgeons. Any intraoperative complications
      (such as posterior capsular rupture, hyphaema, iris damage) will be recorded.
    
  