
    
      Supraglottic airway devices such as LMA-Fastrach® and I-gel® provide patent airways during
      general anesthesia.

      The LMA-Fastrach® is designed to provide a conduit for blind or fiberscopically guided
      tracheal intubations. However, the success rate of tracheal intubation on the first attempt
      through this device varies between 50 and 87%.

      The I-gel® is a newer device for airway management which, with its wide bore, allows direct
      passage of a tracheal tube. Recent studies suggest that the I-gel® is easy to insert and that
      limited experience is needed before a high success insertion rate is obtained. A recent study
      conducted in our center compared the LMA-Fastrach® to the I-gel® supraglottic airway device.
      Our results showed a lower success intubation rate in the I-gel® group. We noticed that there
      was a tendency for the endotracheal tube to impinge on the posterior and lateral aspect of
      the larynx. The endotracheal tube used for intubation in our study was a standard polyvinyl
      chloride (PVC) tube. We believe that an endotracheal tube with a flexible tip(GlideRite®)
      would increase the intubation success rate through the I-gel® device. However, based on our
      clinical experience with the GlideRite® tube, blind tracheal intubation through the I-gel®
      airway device may be associated with a low success rate related to a lack of rigidity of its
      tip. Its use in combination with a fibrescope could compensate for this weakness. A recent
      study performed on mannequins showed a comparable success intubation rate of 99% for the
      I-gel® and LMA-Fastrach® when associated to a fibrescope.

      In this prospective randomized study, we will compare the performance of the LMA-Fastrach®
      and the I-gel® associated with a GlideRite® endotracheal tube for fiberoptic tracheal
      intubation in patients undergoing elective surgery under general anesthesia.
    
  