
    
      Asthma is a major and growing public health problem in Norway and beyond. The reason for the
      increased occurrence of asthma is still poorly understood. However, the disease is a result
      of a complex interplay between genetic and environmental factors. The current view of asthma
      pathogenesis is that an abnormal immune response to environmental agents, such as allergens
      or respiratory viruses, is responsible for initiation and perpetuation of chronic
      inflammation in genetically susceptible individuals. It is also increasingly evident that
      asthma originates early in life. However, intervention measures introduced before birth and
      during the first year of life that reduced or eliminated exposure to house dust, pets, and
      tobacco smoke together with encouragement of breast-feeding and delayed introduction of solid
      foods, only had minor effects in preventing asthma development. Thus, there is an urgent need
      to develop new approaches to asthma prevention in young children.

      Recent evidence suggests that rhinovirus infection is a main and independent trigger of acute
      wheezing and asthma exacerbations in children. Rhinovirus may cause 20-40% of acute wheezing
      episodes (bronchiolitis) in children during the first 2 years of life, and up to 90% of
      asthma exacerbations in older children. Rhinovirus etiology of early wheezing is particularly
      interesting because it has been strongly associated with recurrent wheezing and
      doctor-diagnosed asthma up to 13 years of age. The strength of this effect has been reported
      with odds ratios ranging from 3 to 10 during early life. Previously, personal objective
      markers for increased asthma risk have mainly been related to the presence of atopy
      development, but atopic disease with eczema generally manifests later, at age 2-3 years. This
      understanding of early-life rhinovirus associated wheezing as an early marker for asthma has
      opened a novel opportunity for effective secondary prevention of asthma by identifying
      children with increased risk of asthma.

      Recognizing the role of rhinovirus as an early risk factor for asthma development, has made
      it essential to control viral effects. Unfortunately, no feasible rhinovirus antivirals are
      available for children yet.

      Rhinovirus infection may lead to broken epithelial barriers facilitating development of
      inflammation, and asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways. It is becoming
      increasingly clear that control of early virus induced inflammation that may develop into
      chronic inflammation is crucial to intervene with the asthma disease development.

      Most cases with bronchiolitis are caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and rhinovirus.
      Recent data have shown that RSV is associated with a more severe short-term outcome than
      rhinovirus, whereas rhinovirus more often than RSV is associated with a more severe long-term
      outcome related to atopic predisposition and with increased risk of developing asthma. In
      line with this, several randomized clinical trials (RCT) have failed to show any
      corticosteroid effect in preventing asthma after early-life infection with RSV. In contrast,
      and as a major finding that in fact have led to this project, researchers in Turku, Finland
      have previously reported a post hoc analysis of RCT data showing that a short treatment with
      oral prednisolone during the first wheezing episode caused by rhinovirus, reduced the risk of
      recurrent wheezing over the next 1 - 7 years. Moreover, in a prospective single-center RCT,
      the same researchers confirmed that children with high rhinovirus genome load did benefit
      from systemic corticosteroids by having fewer recurrences during a 12-month follow-up period
      and 25% less asthma diagnoses during a 1- and 4-year follow-up.16;17 Hence, asthma after RSV
      may not be prevented by corticosteroids because RSV infected children less often are atopic
      and less often develop chronic inflammation, whereas early rhinovirus induced wheezing often
      occur in genetic predisposed and/or atopic children, and therefore asthma development may be
      prevented by early corticosteroid intervention. These highly clinically relevant findings
      must be confirmed in an adequately powered multicenter RCT to fully address the clinical
      significance of corticosteroid intervention. We expect that this trial will be a landmark in
      demonstrating long-term disease modifying effects of recurrent wheezing and asthma inception.
    
  