
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cigarette smoking is a vitally important public health problem. It is a major contributor to
      cardiovascular disease and one of the leading causes of cancer and respiratory disease.
      Research in primary care over the last two decades has indicated that smoking cessation
      interventions in medical settings can be effective. However, there have been few published
      reports of research examining the effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions in
      hospital settings. In-patient smoking cessation interventions can potentially reach a large
      number of smokers. A hospital stay can also be an effective "teachable moment" for smoking
      cessation advice. Smoking bans in place in hospitals make it a time of enforced abstinence
      and therefore, an opportunity to overcome the symptoms of physical addiction. Patients are
      removed from their usual environmental cues for smoking, making initial cessation easier, and
      they might be particularly receptive to preventive health messages at a time of ill-health.
      Finally, there is increased access to health care providers whom patients see as valid and
      knowledgeable sources of health information.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      All smokers admitted to three hospitals over a 27-month period were identified as part of the
      admissions process. Those who met eligibility requirements were randomly assigned to one of
      three treatment conditions: minimal care; a low intensity intervention whose centerpiece was
      brief firm advice by health care providers and labelling of the smokers' charts (PA
      intervention); and the PA intervention plus more intensive counseling and follow-up after
      discharge performed by a research nurse (PA+NC intervention). Intervention components
      included provision of smoking cessation manuals and training of health care providers (all
      conditions); structural reminders to health care providers to give smoking cessation advice
      and provision of smoking cessation advice by a variety of health care providers on several
      different occasions (PA and PA+NC); and in-hospital counseling tailored to patient
      characteristics, feedback about a biological marker of smoking, a stepped care approach, and
      follow-up telephone counseling after discharge (PA+NC only). All participants were followed
      for twelve months after discharge from the hospital to examine the relative effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of the smoking cessation programs. In addition, information about smoking
      cessation advice given to study patients by primary care physicians in the twelve months
      after discharge from hospital was gathered to assess the possible synergistic effects of
      advice provided in in-patient and out-patient settings.
    
  