
    
      This study tests the safety and effectiveness of the experimental drug, tipifarnib in older
      patients who have acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The purpose of this study is to test if
      tipifarnib can make patients with leukemia live longer. In this study, half the patients will
      receive tipifarnib and half of the patients will receive the standard treatment. The standard
      treatment will help to control the symptoms of AML and may include hydroxyurea to lower
      levels of circulating leukemia cells. Tipifarnib or the standard treatment will be given
      until the patient's leukemia gets better, or until they experience unacceptable side effects,
      or until the patient or study doctor decide to stop the study medication. Patients assigned
      to tipifarnib will be given tipifarnib tablets. Patients should take 6 tablets with food in
      the morning and 6 tablets with food in the evening, for 21 days in a row. Patients will not
      take tipifarnib for the next 7 days. This 28 day period is called a cycle. The rest period
      may be extended beyond 7 days depending on how well the patients tolerate the treatment.
      Patients will return to the study clinic every week and to visit their study doctor at least
      every two weeks. A blood draw for routine tests will be done every week. Depending on how
      your disease is doing, a bone marrow aspiration may be done at the end of every cycle. When
      patients finish treatment with the study medication, or if they leave the study early, they
      will be asked to see your doctor for one last visit. Routine laboratory tests will be done.
      After this visit the study doctor will continue to check with patients to see how they are
      doing and if they have started a new treatment for leukemia. This check will be made every 30
      days and may be made by phone to the patient or to their health care provider. Tipifarnib;
      six 100 mg in a film coated, compressed tablets are given orally twice a day at for 21
      consecutive days on a 28-day cycle schedule.
    
  