
    
      Up to 50 children between the ages of 5-11 years will participate in this randomized,
      controlled, split-mouth study. There will be no gender restrictions used in this study.
      Participants will be recruited from a continuous sample of patient seen at the UNMC pediatric
      dental clinic and will be selected based on their need for dental treatment. Each child will
      have 2 separate dental appointments.

      Written consent will be obtained from parent or guardian prior to first restorative
      appointment. Verbal consent will be obtained prior to second restorative appointment.

      Dr. Marshall will be the provider for every patient. The same dental assistant will be used
      for each appointment. All treatment will be completed in the same private quiet room. Both
      Dr. Marshall and the dental assistant will wear the same color scrubs and black lab jackets
      during all appointments.

      One appointment patient will receive local anesthetic dental injection with the DentalVibe
      turned on and at one appointment the child will receive local anesthetic dental injection
      with the DentalVibe off. Used strictly as a check/lip retractor. The child will be randomly
      assigned via a random number generator to either the DentalVibe on or off during the initial
      appointment. During the DentalVibe turned on appointment, the DentalVibe will be introduced
      to each child to make him/her familiar with the vibration sensation.

      All patients will receive 5 mins of O2, then nitrous oxide (N2O) will be titrated up to
      50%N2O/50%O2. When appointment is complete the child will receive 5 mins of 100% O2.

      At both restorative appointment a cotton tip applicator with 20% Benzocaine topical
      anesthetic gel (Patterson) will be administered for 1 min. 2% Lidocaine HCl with
      1:100,000epinepherine (Patterson Dental) will the be deposited using a medium-length (0.4mm)
      with 27-gauge short needles. Local anesthetic injections will be referred to as "sleepy
      juice." Buccal and lingual infiltration will perform on the maxilla. Mandibular blocks will
      be performed on the mandible. One cartridge of local anesthetic will be used at each
      appointment. After administration, patient will be shown the Wong Baker FACES pain rating
      scale and asked to rate the amount of discomfort experienced during the injection by pointing
      to the face or number. The following manuscript will be used:

      "Each face represents a person who has no hurt, or some hurt, or a lot of hurt." "Face 0
      doesn't hurt at all. Face 2 hurts just a little bit. Face 4 hurts a little bit more. Face 6
      hurts even more. Face 8 hurts a whole lot. Face 10 hurts as much as you can imagine, although
      you don't have to be crying to have this worst pain." "Touch the face of the hurt you felt
      when I gave you the sleepy juice."

      After child has rated pain Dr. Marshall will continue with restorative treatment. The same
      process will be followed at the second appointment. Appointments will be scheduled 3-4 weeks
      apart.
    
  