
    
      The primary endpoint of this trial in hospitalized patients is an ordinal outcome based on
      the patient's clinical status on Day 7. It includes 7 mutually exclusive categories capturing
      the range of organ dysfunction that may be associated with progression of COVID-19, such as
      respiratory dysfunction and coagulation-related complications. The ordinal endpoint is
      defined as follows:

      7. Death

      6. End-organ failure

      5. Life-threatening end-organ dysfunction

      4. Serious end-organ dysfunction

      3. Moderate end-organ dysfunction

      2. Limiting symptoms due to COVID-19

      1. No limiting symptoms due to COVID-19

      Secondary endpoints include time to the 3 least favorable categories, time to the 2 most
      favorable categories, and the pulmonary only and thrombotic only components of the primary
      ordinal outcome. Mortality, adverse events (AEs), including infusion reactions, and
      biological correlates of therapeutic activity are also assessed. Because there is no
      established endpoint for evaluating the clinical efficacy of treatments for COVID-19, other
      clinically relevant outcomes, including outcomes used in other COVID-19 treatment trials,
      will be recorded. Thus, the randomized groups (hIVIG + SOC versus placebo + SOC ) can be
      compared for multiple outcomes, and results can be compared or combined with other trials.

      Participants will be randomized (1:1) to a single infusion of hIVIG + SOC or placebo + SOC on
      the day of randomization (Day 0). Participants taking remdesivir prior to randomization may
      be enrolled if eligibility criteria are met. Randomized participants who were not taking
      remdesivir before randomization will start taking remdesivir immediately following the
      infusion of hIVIG or placebo unless remdesivir is contraindicated. Participants will be
      followed for 28 days and, if the trial goes to completion, the primary analysis will be
      completed after all participants are followed for 28 days.
    
  