
    
      Background:

      In general, patients referred to cardiac surgery are aging. An increasing number of patients
      are now older than 70 years. [1]This older population of patients undergoing cardiac surgery
      often has several comorbidities and has an increased risk of complications and mortality
      compared to the younger patients.[1,2] Furthermore, several studies have shown that elderly
      patients with cardiovascular diseases may be frail. Frailty is a term used to assess the true
      biological status of a patient and defined as a patient's impaired resistance to stressors
      due to a decline in physiologic reserve.[3-8] In cardiac surgery there are several risk
      scores to assess 30-day mortality exists. The most common are the European system for cardiac
      operative risk evaluation (EuroSCORE) I, EuroSCORE II and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons
      (STS) score. However, the EuroSCORE seems to have a tendency to overestimate the
      perioperative risk in the elderly population and opposite the STS score a tendency to
      underestimate the risk. One of the reasons for this may be that none of the risk scores
      incorporate the biological status of the patients.[9-11] Within the last 5 years a few
      studies evaluating different 'frailty scores' in cardiac patients has been published.
      [3-6,8,12-16] None of these frailty risk scores are fully validated and therefore widely
      adopted. In a German single center study of 400 patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery
      and aged 74 or above frailty was assessed by the comprehensive assessment of frailty (CAF)
      score. The CAF scores assess weakness, self-reported exhaustion, slowness of gait speed, low
      activity and physical performance. [14,15] The CAF score correlates well with the EuroSCORE
      and STS score, but is a very complex and time consuming risk score. In an effort to make the
      test more clinical practical a simpler version of the CAF score has been developed. The
      'frailty predicts death one year after elective cardiac surgery test' (FORECAST) includes;
      chair rise, self-reported weakness, stair climbing, two physicians estimation of frailty and
      serum creatinine level. [14,17]

      Aim:

      In an observational prospective study, we will identify and describe the number of frail
      patients undergoing first time cardiac surgery in our department, compare the risk of
      short-term and long-term complications and compare quality of life in frail versus non-frail
      patients. Frailty will be assessed with the CAF score. In a substudy we will analyze the risk
      of renal insufficiency.

      Hypothesis:

      Patients deemed frail using the CAF score have increased risk of short-term and long-term
      complications. With the frailty score in addition to EuroSCORE or STS score, we can better
      predict complications compared to EuroSCORE or STS score alone.

      Method:

      A) Patients/study population:

      FICS study is a prospective observational study of elderly patients undergoing cardiac
      surgery at the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University
      Hospital, Denmark. Expect to include 600 patients during a two years inclusion period. With a
      minimum of 12 month inclusion period, but all included in the analysis, with a maximum
      follow-up time.

      B) Inclusion criteria:

        1. All patients aged above 65 years old

        2. Patients referred to elective and subacute cardiac surgery

        3. All undergoing CABG (coronary artery bypass grafting), valve replacement and CABG with
           valve replacement.

      C) Exclusions criteria:

        1. Emergent surgery

        2. Clinically unstable

        3. Severe neuropsychiatric impairment

        4. No cooperation (psychiatric diagnosis).

        5. Reoperations

      D) Follow-up:

      Patients are followed after discharge by searching The Danish National Registry, which
      contains informations an all somatic hospital admissions. From which there will be collected
      a copy of the patient record for all hospital admissions. Patient records will be assessed
      for pour predefined outcome measures.

      Information about vital status will be achieved by searching the Danish Central Civil
      Register. The cause of death will be obtained from patients records and death certificates.

      After 30 days we will contact the patients through phone to ask about their quality of life
      and intake/changes in medicine and again a follow up in Danish Central Civil Register at 12
      month.

      E) Substudies:

      Study 1, Short-term follow-up:

      This study describe the proportion of frail patients in our department undergoing cardiac
      surgery. We will further compare the number of complications between the two groups.

      30-day follow-up comparing frail vs non-frail patients undergoing cardiac surgery:

      Primary outcome:

      In this study the primary outcome will be 30-day all-cause mortality in frail vs. non-frail
      patients (hospital mortality or death within 30 days postoperatively).

      Secondary outcomes: MACCE (Major Adverse Cardiac and Cerebrovascular Events) including:

        -  AMI

        -  Stroke

        -  Mortality

      Tertiary outcomes:

        -  Stroke

        -  Renal failure until discharged:

        -  Prolonged ventilation (>24 h)

        -  Days in intensive care unit (ICU)

        -  Readmission in ICU

        -  Deep sternal wound infection (need for operative intervention and antibiotic therapy,
           with positive culture)

        -  Need for reoperation (major bleeding)

        -  Perioperative complications ex gastrointestinal complication (ischemia, gastric ulcer)

        -  Days of hospitalization

        -  Discharged to other hospital or nursing home for ongoing medication or rehabilitation
           and how many days until discharged to home

      Study 2, Long-term follow-up:

      This study do a follow up, so the last one included is follow minimum 12 month. And the first
      one included is followed up until the last is recruited.

      12 month follow-up in frail vs non-frail patients undergoing cardiac surgery:

      Primary outcome:

      In this study the primary outcome is all-cause of mortality after 12 month in frail vs.
      non-frail patients.

      Secondary outcomes: MACCE (Major Adverse Cardiac and Cerebrovascular Events) including:

        -  AMI:

        -  Stroke

        -  Mortality

      Tertiary outcomes:

        -  Discharged to other hospital or nursing home for ongoing medication or rehabilitation
           and how many days until discharged to home

        -  Prolonged hospitalization ( > 14 days)

        -  Number of Re-hospitalization

        -  New diagnosis and medication ( changes and new)

        -  Social support (need for more help, both care and tools)

        -  Other complications.

      Study 3,Predicting postoperative Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) in frail vs. non-frail patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery:

      AKS is a major complication after cardiac surgery and associated with increased mortality and
      morbidity. It has been proven that knowing patients renal reserve before surgery is
      important, both for predicting mortality and AKI outcomes. Since early detection of these
      patients may contribute to improving outcomes. Estimation of the renal reserve by Serum
      creatinine, eGFR, Serum cystatin C, Urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin
      (NGAL), Cr EDTA Clearance and 24 hr. collection of urine to determine Cr Clearance, protein
      and albumin. This samples will be collecte on preoperative day, postoperativly day 5 and 3 a
      follow-up 3 months postoperativley.

      Primary outcome: In this study the primary outcome is development of AKI and the severity of
      AKI in frail vs. non-frail patients, defined as having one of the following:

        -  Diuresis <0,5ml/kg/hr. for >6 consecutive hours

        -  Serum creatinine raised by >26umol/L within 48 hours

        -  serum creatinine rises >1,5 fold from the reference value ( the lowest value recorded
           within 3 months)

      Secondary outcomes:

      - Persistent AKI: Having AKI for 48 hours or longer. Study 4, To examine the correlation
      between frailty score and the other two commonly used surgical risk scores, EuroSCORE and STS
      and their performance characteristics in patients over the age of 65 undergoing cardiac
      surgery. This study compare the commonly used risk estimation systems for patients undergoing
      cardio-surgical procedures, as STS in north America and EuroSCORE in Europe with the frailty
      score CAF and FORECAST for estimation of mortality and morbidity 30 days and 12 month
      mortality.

      F) The Frailty scoring scale:

      CAF:

      Evaluation of frailty by using the comprehensive assessment of frailty (CAF) scoring scale of
      S. Sündermann. [14][15]This is based on a combination of different scoring scales. The first
      part is based on the Fried criteria: weight loss, self-reported exhaustion, low activity,
      slowness of gait speed and weakness. Where CAF includes all except weight loss. Self-reported
      exhaustion are two questions by the original CES-D scale, Center for epidemiological study
      Depression. Low activity by asking to instrumental activity of daily living (IADL). The IADL
      used are, walking, housework, outdoor activity, regular sport and others. Following are
      kilocalories per week calculated by formula: Kilo Cal= (w x frequency of activity x duration
      of activity)/2. Slowness, speed in meters per second, where the patient walk 4 meters in
      normal walking speed and weakness through grip strength by pulling as strong as you can the
      grasp of the dynamometer in kilograms (kg).

      The second part is physical performance tests. Testing the balance, how long you can stand
      still with your feet together, with one feet halfway in front of the other (semi-tandem) and
      with one feet completely in front of the other one (tandem). At each position the time is
      measured and put in to frailty table to score points. In the last element of balance the
      patients is asked to turn around themselves 360 degrees and again the time is obtained. Then
      testing the body control, get up and down from a chair three times, put on and remove a
      jacket and pick up a pen from the floor.

      The last part is Laboratory tests, including level of serum albumin, Creatinine and calculate
      Forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1).

      At the end two physicians, different from the person observing the CAF test (one cardiac
      surgeon and one experienced clinician) estimate the patients frailty after the Clinical
      frailty scale score.

      The Clinical frailty scale is from the Canadian Study of Health and Aging, Which is based on
      a frailty index composed of 70 items, from where you estimate the frailty on a scale 1-7. 1.
      Very fit: robust, active, energetic, well motivated and fit; these people commonly exercise
      regularly and are in the most fit group for their age. 2. Well: without active disease, but
      less fit than people in category 1. 3. Well, with treated comorbid disease: disease symptoms
      are well controlled compared with those in category 4. 4. Apparently vulnerable: although not
      frankly dependent, these people commonly complain of being "slowed up" or have disease
      symptoms. 5. Mildly frail: with limited dependence on others for instrumental activities of
      daily living. 6. Moderately frail: help is needed with both instrumental and non-
      instrumental activities of daily living. 7. Severely frail: completely dependent on others
      for the activities of daily living, or terminally ill.

      Finally to get the patients total CAF score, you add each individual test scores together. It
      has a maximum score of 35 points. That is divided into not frail 1-10, moderately frail 11-25
      and severely frail 26-35.

      Out from the CAF score, there is a ability to score and use FORECAST (Frailty predicts death
      One year after elective cardiac surgery test) which include only 5 of CAF items: chair rise,
      weakness, stair climb, CFS (clinical frailty scale) and Serum creatinine. FORECAST has a
      maximum score of 14 points, which also is divided into, not frail 0-4, moderately frail 5-7
      and severely frail 8-14.[17]

      Statistics:

      Sample size calculation. Based on the CAF frailty score patients will categorizes into the
      non-frail group (CAF score <11) or the frail group (CAF score 11 or above). In a previous
      study Sündermann et al. found that 50% of the patients above 75 years undergoing first time
      CABG were deemed frail using the CAF score. Furthermore, they observed that 1 year mortality
      was 7% in the non-frail group versus 14% in frail-group[17] . Based on a power of 80% and a
      risk of type I error of 5% and the mortality reported above gives an inclusion of at least
      300 patients in each group.

      Data analysis Categorical data will be presented as numbers and percentages and compared
      using chi square test or Fischer exact test, as appropriate. Continuous data will be
      described as means with corresponding standard deviations (SD) and compared using students
      t-test.

      Time to event for the primary and secondary outcomes will be analyzed using a Cox regression
      model. Survival curves will be illustrated with Kaplan-Meier plots.

      A P-value of less than 0.05 will be considered significant.

      Administration:

      The preoperative testing for frailty will take place in the Department of Cardiothoracic
      Surgery Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, Denmark.

      Economy:

      This is a non-profit study. The expenses will be covered by the involving departments at
      Rigshospitalet. The department of cardiothoracic surgery will cover the costs of a project
      nurse during the inclusion period.

      Ethics:

      Today our department use EuroSCORE as a risk score preoperative. The use of frailty score has
      been used in the department of cardiology the last years.

      Admission of frailty scoring in our department is humanly justified since the patient takes
      no risk and there are no side effects.

      We find it financially responsible to introduce, because we hypothetical expect that this
      will lead to fewer readmissions, fewer ICU days and hospitalization days.

      Appendix Definitions Definition MACCE:[18] Non-fatal cardiac arrest: An absence of cardiac
      rhythm or presence of chaotic rhythm requiring any component of basic or advanced cardiac
      life support.

      Acute myocardial infarction: Increase and gradual decrease in troponin level or a faster
      increase and decrease of creatine kinase isoenzyme as markers of myocardial necrosis in the
      company of at least one of the following: ischaemic symptoms, abnormal Q waves on the ECG,
      ST-segment elevation or depression; or coronary artery intervention (e.g. coronary
      angioplasty) or a typical decrease in an elevated troponin level detected at its peak after
      surgery in a patient without a documented alternative explanation for the troponin elevation.

      Congestive heart failure: New in-hospital signs or symptoms of dyspnoea or fatigue,
      orthopnoea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea, increased jugular venous pressure, pulmonary rales
      on physical examination, cardiomegaly, or pulmonary vascular engorgement.

      New cardiac arrhythmia: ECG evidence of atrial flutter, atrial fibrillation, or second- or
      third-degree atrioventricular conduction block.

      Angina: Dull diffuse substernal chest discomfort precipitated by exertion or emotion and
      relieved by rest or nitroglycerin.

      Stroke: Embolic, thrombotic, or haemorrhagic event lasting at least 30 min with or without
      persistent residual motor, sensory, or cognitive dysfunction; if the neurological symptoms
      continue for .24 h, a person is diagnosed with stroke, and if lasting ,24 h the event is
      defined as a transient ischaemic attack.

      Cardiovascular death: Any death, unless an unequivocal non-cardiovascular cause could be
      established.

      Cerebrovascular death: A death caused by cerebrovascular disease.

      Renal Failure: diuresis <0,5ml/kg/hr. for >6 consecutive hours or serum creatinine raised by
      >26umol/L (0,3 mg/dl) within 48 hours or serum creatinine rises >1,5 fold from the reference
      value at the day 0 to 14.
    
  