
    
      The transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is a well-established procedure for
      the treatment of portal hypertensive bleeding, refractory ascites and vascular diseases of
      the liver. TIPS is no longer viewed solely as a salvage therapy or a bridge to liver
      transplantation and is currently indicated for a number of conditions related to portal
      hypertension with positive results regarding survival, particularly when used to treat
      high-risk patients with acute variceal hemorrhage. The major drawbacks of this procedure are
      shunt dysfunction and portosystemic encephalopathy (PSE), reported in 30-70% and 23-55% of
      patients with cirrhosis within the first year, respectively. The availability of
      self-expandable polytetrafluoroethylene-covered stent grafts (PTFE-SGs) has dramatically
      improved the long-term patency of TIPS. However, the incidence of PSE, that has apparently
      decreased with a more careful selection of patients, remains a threatening complication in
      about 50% of patients.

      Current guidelines for TIPS placement recommend that the post-TIPS porto-caval pressure
      gradient (PSPG) should be reduced to less than 12 mmHg, particularly in patients with
      variceal hemorrhage as an indication. However, there is not enough evidence to support the
      use of available 10 mm rather than 8 mm nominal diameter PTFE-SG aiming to achieve this
      hemodynamic goal and the best control of variceal rebleeding and/or ascites. A step-wise
      procedure based on the progressive dilation of 10 mm diameter PTFE-SG by using balloon
      catheters of increasing diameter (i.e., from 8 to 10 mm) at the time of TIPS positioning has
      been proposed. However, if a larger diameter, leads to a higher decrease in PSPG, the higher
      amount of portal blood diverted to the systemic circulation and the lower residual portal
      perfusion of the parenchyma markedly increase the probability of post-TIPS encephalopathy.

      It is conceivable that balloon dilation of TIPS to diameters smaller than those currently
      indicated (to 7 mm or lower) would allow for a sufficient PCG decrease in patients without a
      high post-TIPS portal inflow (i.e., relatively small spleen, lack of extensive portal
      collateralization, relatively hypodynamic circulation). However, currently no tools allow a
      pre-procedural definition of the ideal stentgraft diameter in individual patients. Moreover,
      PTFE-SGs that are specifically designed for TIPS are presently available as 8 or 10 mm and
      are not considered permanently under sizeable/adjustable for their intrinsic tendency to
      expand to nominal diameter. On the other hand, dilating PTFE-SGs far below the recommended
      diameter may increase the risk of TIPS thrombosis, a complication that would require prompt
      re-intervention.

      The Investigators hypothesized that, within the cirrhotic parenchyma, under-dilated PTFE-SGs
      would not self-expand to nominal diameter and their under-dilation would be safe and could
      reduce the rate of post-TIPS encephalopathy, while maintaining clinical efficacy.

      Aim Aim of this study is a) to determine whether "under-dilated TIPS" is a feasible procedure
      and b) to verify if this strategy reduces the incidence of PSE and other complications while
      maintaining clinical efficacy.

      Study design This study is an exploratory proof-of-concept study analyzing feasibility and
      clinical outcomes of under-dilated TIPS in unselected consecutive cirrhotic patients in whom
      TIPS is indicated clinically and who agree to participate in the study. Initially, our
      strategy will be to under-dilate TIPS to 7 mm in 15 patients and, if the procedure won't lead
      to shunt occlusion, the rest of the patients will receive a TIPS under-dilated to 6 mm or
      less.

      The group with under-dilated TIPS to less than 7 mm will be compared to a historical control
      group composed of patients who had standard TIPS placed prior to initiation of the study.

      TIPS placement and hemodynamic evaluation PTFE-SGs (Viatorr® and Viatorr CX®, W.L. Gore &
      Associates Inc., Flagstaff, AZ, USA) will be placed as previously described. Semi-compliant
      balloon catheters will be used both to pre-dilate the intra-parenchymal tract and to dilate
      PTFE-SGs after deployment. The intra-parenchymal tract will be pre-dilated to 6 mm or less in
      all patients. After its deployment, the PTFE-SG will be dilated to 7 (first 15 subjects) or 6
      mm (following group) in patients in whom both the procedure and the final TIPS shape will be
      straightforward. During dilation of the intra-parenchymal tract, balloon pressure will be
      maintained at the nominal value for no more than 15-30 seconds, even in the lack of a
      complete flattening of notches at the level of vascular walls. The intra-parenchymal tract
      and the PTFE-SG will be dilated to 8 mm in patients with a challenging procedure and/or in
      whom the final TIPS shape will be curved.

      For all groups, immediately after TIPS placement, pressures in the portal vein, along the
      intra-parenchymal tract of TIPS, and in the inferior vena cava will be recorded until a
      stable tracing will be obtained in each position (45-60 seconds). Permanent tracings will be
      read with PowerLab computer software (ADInstruments, Inc.). Post-TIPS porto-systemic pressure
      gradient (PSPG) will calculated by subtracting the inferior vena cava pressure from the
      portal vein pressure. All procedures will be performed under monitored anesthesia care
      without intubation and using midazolam and fentanyl as sedative and analgesic, respectively.
    
  