
    
      Atrial fibrillation is the most common arrhythmia to occur after coronary artery bypass graft
      (CABG) surgery. This arrhythmia occurs in approximately 1 in every 3 patients in this setting
      and the rate is even higher after valve or combined valve and CABG procedures. The majority
      of episodes of atrial fibrillation occur within the first 3 days after cardiac surgery and
      for those who have an initial episode of atrial fibrillation, the majority will go on to have
      another recurrence within 2 days of the first episode. Postoperative atrial fibrillation has
      been associated with an increase in neurological, renal and infectious complications as well
      as prolonged hospitalization and a significant increase in overall healthcare costs.

      There is a considerable amount of emerging data indicating that inflammation and oxidative
      stress, by way of reactive oxygen species (ROS), associated with cardiac surgery and
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) may play an important role in the in the development of
      postoperative atrial fibrillation. Prior animal studies have demonstrated that ROS may lead
      to electroanatomical remodeling and increase the vulnerability to atrial fibrillation by
      promoting progressive fibrosis and subsequent alteration of the extracellular matrix. A few
      randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the beneficial effects of pre-treatment with
      anti-inflammatory medications such as statins for the prevention of post-operative atrial
      fibrillation. With this in mind, other anti-inflammatory therapies may also be effective in
      preventing postoperative atrial fibrillation.

      Melatonin (N - acetyl - 5 - methoxytryptamine) is the main product secreted from the pineal
      gland and has been shown to be a powerful scavenger of ROS and is regarded as the most potent
      endogenous antioxidant. In fact, melatonin is more effective than other antioxidants in
      removing free radicals and it has both lipophilic and hydrophilic properties contributing to
      its more consistent penetration through cellular membranes. In addition to being a naturally
      synthesized hormone, melatonin has been shown to have a very favorable safety profile when
      administered in the clinical setting.

      For these reasons, investigators have designed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      trial where patients who are to undergo cardiac surgery and CPB, will be randomized to
      melatonin or placebo and the investigators will determine the incidence of post operative
      atrial fibrillation in both groups. Additionally, the investigators will measure ROS from
      serum as well as right atrial appendage samples of subjects and assess the effects of
      melatonin on ROS levels as compared to placebo.
    
  