
    
      The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (type 2 DM) among adolescents has increased > 10
      fold over the past decade. Type 2 DM reflects the interactions of genes/traits conveying an
      increased risk of impaired function of the pancreatic cells that secrete insulin (islet
      cells)and muscle/liver insulin sensitivity with environmental factors such as reduced levels
      of activity and increasing adiposity. Both impaired islet cell function and insulin
      resistance are independently associated with increased risk of subsequent diabetes mellitus
      and may be considered as 'prediabetic' phenotypes. This study examines the prevalence of
      prediabetic phenotypes and the effects of supervised exercise/nutrition education on risk
      factors for type 2 DM in 6th-8th grade students who will undergo a 5 minute intravenous
      glucose tolerance test, as well as measurements of other diabetes risk factors including
      family history, body composition, circulating concentrations of molecules (cytokines) that
      are markers of inflammation , and lipid profiles, before and after participating in the
      intervention. These studies will also be used to calculate both the ability of the pancreas
      to secrete insulin and the sensitivity of the students to insulin. No previous studies have
      isolated the effects of exercise and nutrition education on different diabetes subphenotypes
      in children. To insure the necessary ethnic diversity necessary to these studies, data will
      be pooled in a multisite study with Mt. Sinai, North Shore/LIJ, Maimonides, and Winthrop
      Hospitals. We will remain in contact with students to track subsequent development of
      diabetes intervention effects on lifestyle. We hypothesize that diabetes risk in most
      students will be reduced by exercise and education in a healthy lifestyle but that the type
      of health benefit (i.e., improved body fatness, improved insulin sensitivity, improved
      insulin secretion, improved cholesterol, or decreased inflammation) will be different between
      ethnic groups. The results of these studies will, we believe, demonstrate the benefits of
      health and physical education programs to all students, regardless of diabetes risk, and will
      also enable us to better understand how diabetes develops in children and what expectations
      we can have for health improvement in different ethnic groups from such an intervention.
    
  