
    
      Urine stream interruption during voluntary voiding is often performed by women as a pelvic
      floor muscle exercise to develop urinary strength and avoid urinary incontinence. To our
      knowledge, there is no recommendation for performing urine stream interruption. Without
      evidence based data, stooping the urinary flow is reported as a risk of post void residual
      and urinary infection. The experts did not recommended to practice urine stream interruption
      as a pelvic floor exercise in urinary incontinence. However, during pelvic floor muscle
      training for urinary incontinence, exercises of urine stream interruption are often performed
      without knowledge of their consequences. The aim of this study is to assess micturition
      characteristic during and after a urine stream interruption exercise.

      In this study, the investigators will compare the two uroflowmetries usually done in a
      Neuro-urology department of a University Hospital. Patient without neurological or urologic
      disease, consulting for a global evaluation of functional digestive disease and performing an
      urodynamic study will be included. During the urodynamic evaluation, two uroflowmetries are
      performed : one conventional uroflowmetry complying with the International Continence Society
      (ICS) recommendations and one uroflowmetry during exercise of urine stream interruption, as
      usually done in the department. Each uroflowmetry will be performed when the patient will
      feel a ''normal'' desire to void. For the urine stream interruption micturition, patients
      will be asked to "begin the micturition, stop at 3 seconds of micturition, when the stream is
      interrupt, start again voiding, again stop at 3 seconds of micturition and repeat this
      maneuver until the end of the micturition". As usual, sonographic estimation of post-void
      residual volume will complete each uroflowmetry.

      The investigators will compare the voiding volume, the post-void residual volume, the maximal
      flow rate, the time to reach the maximal flow rate, the voiding time and the slope of the
      uroflowmetry (corresponding to the flow velocity acceleration) between the two
      uroflowmetries. For each voiding sequence of the urine stream interruption micturition the
      following parameters will be reported and compared: voiding volume and duration, maximal flow
      rate, time to reach the maximal flow rate, the latency to restart the micturition between
      each voiding sequence and the slope of the uroflowmetry.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out using R 3.2.3 software (R Development Core Team,
      http://www.R-project.org) and R studio version 1.0.136. Differences between the two
      uroflowmetries will be evaluated using Student test. Correlation between the place of the
      voiding sequence in the urine stream interruption micturition and the different parameters
      will be evaluated using Pearson's correlations.
    
  