
    
      1) To develop adaptive interventions, including two frontline interventions and four adaptive
      strategies, through collaborative processes (Aim 1): During Month 3 - 9, the investigators
      refine the EBIs to develop adaptive interventions.

      1a) Assessment: The team conducts 4 Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) with MMT patients on local
      taxonomy and patterns of meth use, trigger situations, motivations for seeking treatment,
      motivations and barriers for participating in different EBIs, inputs/advice on proposed
      adaptive design, and barriers and facilitators for retention of participants in each of the
      adaptive steps.

      1b) Decision: The team organizes a workgroup that involves MMT clinical staff,
      representatives of CBOs working with people who use drugs, social workers working with MMT
      patients, and MMT patients themselves to review the contents of FGDs in the Assessment step,
      experiences of pilot intervention in Hanoi, the conceptual and empirical evidence of EBIs to
      make recommendations on core contents of each EBI.

      Contingency management is a 12-week or 6-week low-value escalating schedule. Participants
      give urine twice a week. Matrix group counseling involves twice weekly group sessions that
      last for about 60 to 90 minutes each. Group counseling focuses on relapse prevention.
      SMS-text: Participants receive automated, unidirectional, scripted, theory-based and
      culturally responsive text reminders twice daily plus a weekly self-monitoring assessment
      messages. The text messages are scripted across: 1) drug use, sexual risk reduction, physical
      health and HIV care (for HIV+ participants); and, 2) the theoretical construct of
      cognitive-behavioral therapy including understanding external and internal triggers; relapse
      prevention and relapse analysis and goal setting.

      1c) Administration: At the end of the Decision step, the workgroup put together a framework
      for the adaptive design that include different interventions, sequence, decision rule and
      contents of interventions. This framework is presented and discussed in a second round of
      FGDs with target populations in each city.

      2) Pilot implementation of adaptive interventions (Aim 1): During Month 3 - 9, the study team
      chooses one MMT clinic in each city for piloting the adaptive design. The pilot
      implementation, which lasts 12 weeks, aims to identify issues that need to be addressed
      before the full implementation. The pilot recruits 40 meth-using MMT patients (20 from each
      city, at least 10 HIV positive) and over-recruits women. Inclusion criteria for the pilot
      sample include: 1) 16 years old or older; 2) score of 4-26 (moderate risk) or 27+ (high risk)
      on ASSIST regarding meth use OR urine screen positive for metabolite of meth; 4) having a
      cell phone able to receive texts; (5) and willing to participate in treatment. These
      participants are excluded from the full implementation.

      2a) Pilot Monitoring and Evaluation: The study team in each city monitors the overall
      operation of the pilot to ensure that interventions are carried out as planned. For each
      intervention session, a Master Behavioral Counselor and an ethnographer observe the
      implementation regarding content integrity, flow, location, message clarity,
      interventionist-participant interaction, participant attendance, engagement, and
      responsiveness. Second, after each phase of intervention implementation (self-screening,
      frontline interventions, decision stage, maintenance, enhanced treatment), a FGD is organized
      for all intervention facilitators and another with patients to understand their experiences
      and to gather feedback regarding potential modifications.

      2b) Intervention modification and assessment finalization: The evaluation data helps to
      identify factors that may affect implementation and outcomes. Modifications to intervention
      characteristics to ensure the relevance of the intervention for target settings and
      populations are completed at this stage. This phase gives an opportunity to finalize the
      recruitment and retention strategies as well as assessment tools.

      3) Full implementation of SMART design to compare effectiveness of two frontline
      interventions and four adaptive strategies (Aim 1) 3a) Selection of clinical settings to
      become intervention sites: Criteria for selecting clinics are established. Existing
      statistics are viewed and clinics that meet criteria are shortlisted. 20 MMT clinics are
      selected randomly from the shortlisted candidates (10 from Hanoi, 10 from HCMC).

      3b) Intervention facilitator recruitment and training: The intervention team in each city
      includes one Master Behavioral Counselor with Master-level training in clinical psychology
      and two intervention coaches with bachelor degrees in social work, psychology or public
      health to support and ensure quality of implementation of the EBIs by MMT clinical staff.
      Both Master Counselor and intervention coaches are also facilitators for Matrix group
      counseling where MMT clinical staff will not be able to carry out themselves.

      Once MMT clinics are selected, managers of these clinics nominate a physician, two counselors
      and one nurse to participate in the study as intervention facilitators. Before the start of
      intervention, all intervention staff at MMT clinics (1) receive didactic training on the
      theory behind the approach; (2) pass a knowledge test to evaluate their grasp of the concepts
      within and behind the approach; (3) watch a video of a Master Behavioral Counselor conducting
      intervention sessions and discuss the details of the session, and (4) conduct at least two
      pilot EBIs, which are recorded and observed by the HMU/UMP intervention team and the PIs. All
      subsequent interventions are audio recorded and coded to ensure the presence of essential
      elements of the intervention. Intervention staffs who have lower levels of intervention
      integrity or who have significant drift are provided detailed feedback and supervision.

      3c) Participant recruitment and randomization: The 20 selected clinics are randomly assigned
      into 5 clusters (4 clusters of 4 clinics from the same city and 1 cluster of 4 clinics from
      two cities). In each cluster, CBO members and health care staff distribute flyers and CBO
      members working in each MMT clinic approach patients when patients come daily for their MMT
      dosages to invite them to participate in self-screening with tablet-based ASSIST as well as
      urine drug test and Quick HIV tests. Once agreed, CBO assist with self-screening processes.
      Individuals who participate in self-screening give verbal agreement to participate and
      receive compensation for their time. Those with low-risk scores and urine negative with meth
      metabolites are offered a Brief Intervention by trained CBO members. Those with reactive
      Quick HIV tests are referred to HIV care facilities if these participants have not done so.

      Recruiting participants for adaptive interventions:

      CBO members invite those who are at moderate-risk and high-risk scores for meth or have urine
      positive with meth metabolites to participate in the study. Those who express interest and
      provide contact information are referred to research assistants (RA) who then makes
      appointment to screen for eligibility. At each clinic, RA conduct a brief survey and collect
      urine sample to confirm recent meth use. The study over-recruits women as the majority of MMT
      patients in Vietnam are men. The study aims to recruit 200 HIV+ and 400 HIV-. Those who sign
      informed consent are enrolled in baseline assessment and electronically fingerprinted to
      create unique ID. Participants receive compensation for their participation in baseline
      assessment. Eligible participants at each clinic are first stratified by HIV status, and then
      randomized to low vs. high intensity frontline interventions.

      4) Cost-effectiveness analysis of interventions (Aim 2) 4a) The cost-effectiveness analysis
      has two goals: 1) to determine whether any additional improvement in outcomes associated with
      interventions of different intensity and expense is worth the additional cost; and 2) to
      provide guidance to the Vietnam Ministry of Health on the cost of scaling-up and implementing
      the interventions. This analysis measures the increment in cost between contrasted
      interventions divided by the increment in outcomes. Effectiveness of each intervention for
      HIV+ and HIV- groups is measured by the estimated outcome probabilities for each outcome of
      interest, as in Aim 1.

      4b) Costs are assessed from the point of view of the public health agency. The second
      analysis will include social costs. Implementation costs are calculated based on costs for
      each arm incurred by health care providers, including costs of implementing the intervention,
      mental health and drug treatment services used. An activity-based costing approach is used to
      estimate the cost of fielding the interventions in 20 MMT clinics. A template is used to
      collect data on salaries for personnel and consultants, physical resources, clinical supplies
      and miscellaneous charges that are required to deliver each intervention type. Data is
      collected from participants on medical visits and involvement with the criminal justice
      system. These differences are costed out using local pricing data. Per capita costs for each
      intervention are calculated by dividing the total cost for each site/arm by the number of
      participants in each arm at that site.

      5) Ethnographic evaluation to identify the structural, provider, and patient-level factors
      that influence adoption and scale-up of interventions in MMT clinics. (Aim 3).

      5a) Ethnographic interviews: Two ethnographic researchers conduct pre-post intervention
      in-depth interviews with 12 individuals in each cluster of clinics. Participants include MMT
      manager, MMT clinical staff, CBO members and patients who participate in interventions. In
      each cluster, at least 6 patients are selected. In-depth ethnographic interviews with these
      individuals take place immediately before enrollment and immediately after maintenance or
      enhanced treatments end.

      With CBO and MMT staff, pre-intervention interviews explore experiences with current work;
      experiences with meth users, expectations of whether and how the interventions would work.
      Post-intervention interviews explore actual experiences with delivering interventions as well
      as perceived barriers and facilitators for adoption and scale-up.

      With participants: first interviews explore family of origin, childhood and coming of age;
      histories of sexual and affective relations; histories of drug use and patterns of meth use;
      current social support; broader life goals; motivations to participate in the study, and
      expectations of how the interventions would work. Second interviews explore actual
      experiences and outcomes as well as motivations to stay in the interventions.

      The Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research is used in all interviews to probe
      participant perceptions of the characteristics of the STAR-OM interventions, of outer
      settings, inner settings, provider characteristics and the implementation process.

      5b) Ethnographic Observation: Two kinds of observations take place. The first, carried out
      with in-depth interviews of participants who consent to participate in this additional form
      of data collection, involves having two ethnographers spend time with them to observe
      activities such as individual meetings, group activities and other daily activities in the
      clinical and/or community settings. The second element of observation involve Master
      Counselors to observe randomly selected sessions of interventions in CM and CBT period and
      keep a logbook of SMS messages that are sent out to each participant in the study. A
      checklist is used to assess the fidelity of interventions contents and delivery. Master
      Counselors also assess other contextual information that is useful to determine whether
      interventions are effectively delivered. All observation periods are recorded with detailed
      field notes.
    
  