
    
      Critically ill patients are frequently undernourished. The investigator's observations
      indicate that surgical and trauma patients who require artificial nutrition are likely to be
      markedly undernourished during the first week of critical illness, will often require
      intensive and costly support for organ failure, have prolonged stays in the intensive care
      unit and extended hospitalizations. Nitrogen deficits are typically greater and receive less
      attention than caloric deficits. In some respects, the focus on avoiding caloric deficits may
      have missed the mark. A broader consideration of nutrient needs, such as protein, is
      required. For instance, there are observational data supporting the notion that protein
      intake is at least as important as caloric intake in promoting recovery in critical illness.
      Only recently have national guidelines (ASPEN 2016) begun to specifically address protein
      requirements (1.5 - 2.0 g/kg/day). For a number of years, the approach to these critically
      ill patients has included weekly measurements of 24 hour urine nitrogen excretion in order to
      better understand the protein deficits that develop. Based upon physician preference, the
      investigators can then use enteral protein supplementation to match the urinary nitrogen
      excretion in order to achieve net "zero" nitrogen balance. With supplemental protein
      administration, physicians are able to reduce this deficit and in some cases, generate a
      positive nitrogen balance. However, there are no data to indicate that this approach (which
      is included as part of the 2016 ASPEN guidelines) improves clinical outcomes. The most
      obvious mechanism whereby supplemental protein may influence outcomes by providing more
      metabolic substrate for protein building. Feeding the gut likely creates a more anabolic
      environment and additional protein may facilitate anabolism. However, it is not known whether
      protein supplementation improves markers of anabolism and protein synthesis. In this study,
      the investigators will measure the anabolic effect of supplemental protein by following serum
      transthyretin concentrations as part of the standard clinical care.The investigators
      postulate that supplemental protein will attenuate the drop in comparison to no supplemental
      protein and will hasten the return to normal concentrations.

      The proposed study will test whether early, and standardized protein supplementation: (1)
      Increases protein delivery during the first 2 weeks after injury, (2) increases serum
      transthyretin concentrations at 3 weeks after injury (3) increases ventilator-free days.

      Study aims:

      The aim of this study is to determine the effect of enteral protein supplementation on
      biochemical measures of protein metabolism in critically ill surgical patients. The
      investigators will also collect data on important clinical outcomes, including infectious
      complications, duration of mechanical ventilation and other measures of recovery from
      critical illness. However, this study will not enroll a sufficient number of subjects to
      adequately test for differences in these clinical end-points.

      Hypothesis: That early supplemental protein will, increase serum concentrations of
      transthyretin at three weeks after injury. Secondarily, the investigators will test whether
      supplementation reduces infectious complications and increases ventilator-free days.
    
  