
    
      Malignant pleural effusions (MPE) occur in 25 - 50% of malignancies, represent advanced
      disease and carry with it significant morbidity. It is estimated that 75% of malignant
      effusions are symptomatic at the time of presentation, with dyspnea being the most common
      complaint. Cough, weight loss and chest pain may also be presenting symptoms. The diagnosis
      of MPE often carries with it a poor prognosis with an average survival of 3-9 months. Thus,
      management of MPE is generally palliative, aimed at alleviating the associated symptoms,
      while incurring minimal discomfort and disruption of patients activities of daily living.
      Limiting the number of days spent hospitalized ia also a consideration. Currently, the most
      common treatment for MPE involves tube thoracostomy and pleurodesis using a sclerosing agent.
      Use of Doxycycline as a sclerosing agent has been shown to be both safe and efficacious with
      only minor complications. Traditionally, pleurodesis with Doxycycline has been performed in
      the inpatient setting.

      The Pleurx catheter (Cardinal Biomedical) is the only small bore catheter commercially
      available that has been specifically designed for long term indwelling drainage of MPE. In
      order to reduce the chance of dislodgement and minimize infection rates, it is tunnelled
      under the skin for approximately 5 cm before entering the pleural space. These indwelling
      catheters can provide excellent symptom control and have also been associated with
      spontaneous pleurodesis rates comparable to many chemical pleurodesis rates.

      Pleurx has been compared to inpatient doxycycline pleurodesis via chest tube with no
      difference in survival, safety or efficacy noted. However, hospital stay was significantly
      shorter in the Pleurx group, 1 day versus 6.5 days.

      The aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of outpatient pleurodesis, using
      doxycycline administered via Pleurx catheter. This will be a randomized clinical trial
      comparing the time to pleurodesis in patients with malignant pleural effusion receiving
      doxycycline + Pleurx catheter versus Pleurx catheter alone.
    
  