
    
      The TIC-TOC efficacy trial is a multicenter, adaptive allocation, randomized controlled trial
      of children younger than 18 years with hemorrhagic injuries to the torso and/or brain to
      evaluate the efficacy of TXA on functional outcome as measured by the PedsQL. Children will
      be randomized to one of three arms: 1) TXA 15 mg/kg bolus over 30 minutes, followed by a 2
      mg/kg/hr infusion over 8 hours), 2) TXA 30 mg/kg bolus over 30 minutes, followed by a 4
      mg/kg/hr infusion over 8 hours), and 3) normal saline placebo. A third TXA dose (45 mg/kg
      bolus dose over 30 minutes, followed by a 6 mg/kg/hr infusion over 8 hours) may be added
      later in the trial if a dose effect based on accumulating data is noted. The trial will be
      conducted in the Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research Network (PECARN) across 40 sites
      over 4 years of enrollment for a maximum sample size of 2000 patients.

      A Bayesian adaptive randomization design will be used to evaluate the efficacy of TXA in
      children with hemorrhagic brain and/or torso injuries. Because different types of injury have
      different pathophysiology and potential response to TXA, three different injury strata will
      be evaluated: isolated hemorrhagic brain injury, isolated hemorrhagic torso injury, and both
      hemorrhagic brain and torso injuries. The efficacy of TXA will be analyzed across all
      enrolled children as well as across each type of injury.

      The Bayesian adaptive trial design also efficiently evaluates the effectiveness of TXA across
      different TXA doses. The trial will randomize the first 500 patients to two doses of TXA and
      placebo at a fixed 1:1:1 ratio. Interim analyses will be conducted when 500, 750, 1000, 1250,
      1500, and 1750 patients have been enrolled. At each interim analysis, randomization
      probabilities will be adjusted in order to preferentially allocate patients to better
      performing doses, while allocation to the placebo arm will stay fixed. The adaptive
      randomization will be based entirely on pre-planned rules using accumulating data. A Bayesian
      hierarchical model will be used to estimate the treatment effect for each of the injury types
      to be informed by the data accumulated from all injury types. At interim analyses, if a dose
      effect is noted towards the higher dose of TXA (30 mg/kg bolus then a 4 mg/kg/hr infusion)
      being more efficacious using pre-specified criteria, then a higher dose study arm (TXA 45
      mg/kg bolus then a 6 mg/kg/hr infusion) will be opened later in the trial. If the dose
      response curve is flat, suggesting that TXA is ineffective, then futility stopping rules can
      end the trial early.
    
  