
    
      OBJECTIVE AND HYPOTHESIS Phase 2, randomized study of short-term, combined venetoclax and
      acalabrutinib treatment of newly diagnosed patients with CLL. For patients identified by
      CLL-TIM (the Machine Learning predictive algorithm, Treatment Infection Model) at high risk
      of infection and/or early CLL treatment, it is tested whether grade 3-Infection-free,
      treatment-free survival can be improved by three months of venetoclax+acalabrutinib
      treatment. Changes in immune dysfunction are measured by an extensive translational program
      for correlation with changes in infection.

      BACKGROUND Infection and immune dysfunction in patients diagnosed with CLL leads to
      significant morbidity and mortality, as exemplified by the constant rate of infectious deaths
      in CLL over the last three decades, despite significant improvement in all other causes of
      death. This also affects patients who do not need treatment according to IWCLL criteria, thus
      infections are the leading cause of death among patients with CLL. Based on a novel machine
      learning algorithm, CLL-TIM, patients at high risk (>65% 2-years risk) of severe infection
      and/or CLL treatment can be identified at diagnosis. By a short period of preemptive
      treatment for these patients, the aim is to change the natural history of CLL and immune
      dysfunction.

      METHODS The study is an intergroup study between the HOVON (Belgium, the Netherlands) and the
      Nordic (Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland) CLL study groups. For the phase 2 study, 4-8 sites
      with the capacity of the extensive translational immune phenotyping and/or timely shipment of
      samples will be selected. Patients are randomized between venetoclax+acalabrutinib treatment
      for three months or observation. For each treatment arm, 25 patients are needed (50 in
      total). Thorough assessment of immune function before, during and after treatment as well as
      detailed reporting on infectious complications, the proof of concept of the PreVent-ACaLL
      study's capacity to change the natural history of immune dysfunction in CLL by short-term
      venetoclax-acalabrutinib treatment will be made.

      PERSPECTIVES By addressing the unmet need of improving immune function for newly diagnosed
      CLL patients with high risk of infections and/or early CLL treatment, the aim is to change
      the paradigm for CLL treatment and the natural history of the disease.

      If the phase 2 trial demonstrates a clear signal for safety with indication of benefit for
      patients in the treatment arm, an extension phase 3 study is planned with the potential to
      change the future management of CLL.
    
  