
    
      SUMMARY

      TITLE A randomised controlled study to compare the effects of standardised care plus
      conventional care versus conventional care only on the outcomes of stroke survivors (HIV+ and
      HIV-) and family caregivers in Harare and Chitungwiza.

      RESEARCH QUESTION 1. What are the effects of a standardised care plus conventional care
      versus conventional care only on the outcomes of stroke survivors and family caregivers in
      Harare and Chitungwiza?

      RATIONALE FOR RESEARCH

      Randomising the participants (people that have survived a stroke and their family caregivers)
      into trained and untrained groups and following them up using standardised measurement tools
      will highlight the effect that training has on the quality of life of the stroke survivors
      and their caregivers as well as function and community reintegration of survivors and burden
      of care among the caregivers. It is expected this will provide evidence for the need to
      provide an intervention program that will support family caregivers and improve the outcomes
      of both. It is against this background that this study aims to determine the effect that a
      standardised caregiver training program has on the outcomes and quality of life of the
      caregivers and stroke survivors in Harare and Chitungwiza.

      Objectives of the research

      Broad Objective

      1.To determine the effect of standardized care plus conventional care versus conventional
      care only on the outcomes of stroke survivors (HIV= and HIV-) and family caregivers over a 12
      month period.

      Specific Objectives

      The objectives of the study were to compare the following in the two arms of the study over a
      12 months period:

        1. quality of life of caregivers

        2. caregiver burden among caregivers

        3. functional levels of patients

        4. quality of life of stroke survivors

        5. community reintegration among stroke survivors.

        6. effect of the patient's HIV status on the outcomes of family caregivers.

        7. effect of the HIV status on the outcomes of stroke survivors.

      METHODS This will be a prospective study where the researcher will recruit first ever
      sufferers of stroke and their family caregivers through hospitals in Harare and Chitungwiza,
      Zimbabwe. A baseline survey to describe the characteristics of stroke patients and the
      caregivers will be done at 2 to 14 days post stroke. Medical information about the patients
      will be taken from their medical records.

      A standardized curriculum to train the primary caregivers of stroke patients has been
      developed using the Kern's six step approach to curriculum development for medical education
      and will be tested.

      The outcomes of the stroke survivors and the family caregivers will then be compared in a
      randomized control trial with a conventional group to establish any differences.

      Participants will be consecutively recruited and randomly allocated into the arm of study
      using computer generated random numbers. People who have suffered a stroke and admitted in
      the wards are identified through wards registers. Informed consent and assent for patients
      who cannot communicate will be sought. Baseline assessment on function and health related
      quality of life will be done at least 48 hours post stroke for patients. The caregivers who
      will most likely look after patients will be identified and after giving consent will be
      assessed on baseline caregiver burden and health related quality of life at recruitment.
      Research assistants who are trained will be blinded to the arm to which the patients and
      their caregivers belong. Another research assistant will allocate the participants into the
      intervention or control arms of the study and communicate with the caregivers for training
      appointments and the PI who will do all the training for intra-rater reliability.The
      caregivers are trained on caring for people who have survived a stroke before they are
      discharged home. The training will include both theoretical input and practical
      demonstrations. Handouts will be given for their reference later on. training will occur only
      once. Both the caregiver and patient are then followed up at three months and twelve months.
      The functional outcomes, quality of life and physical and social reintegration will be
      elicited from the patients while caregivers will be asked about caregiver burden and quality
      of life.

      RISKS/BENEFITS TO SUBJECTS There will be no risks to the participants for taking part in the
      study. They would however benefit indirectly by providing useful information to the
      physiotherapy profession and thus enhance services delivered to them and others affected by
      stroke.

      COST AND COMPENSATION INFORMED CONSENT The participants will not be required to pay anything
      and neither will they be compensated for taking part in the study.

      INFORMED CONSENT Before taking part in the study, participants will be required to read,
      understand and sign the informed consent which is in Appendix C of the proposal.

      CONFIDENTIALITY ASSURANCES The information provided by the participants and their names will
      not be divulged to anyone. The participants' names or any form of identification will not be
      required in the questionnaire. The completed questionnaires will be kept securely. The final
      report may include quotations from the questionnaire but they will be anonymous.

      CONFLICT OF INTEREST There are no gains anticipated for carrying out this study except normal
      scholarly gains for which this study is being carried out.

      COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENTS Letters of approval to conduct the study at the study settings are
      attached.

      INTENDED RESULTS The results of the study will be used for purely academic purposes for the
      fulfillment of a Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) in physiotherapy.
    
  