
    
      The insertion of percutaneous femoral catheter is the method of choice for arterial
      monitoring in pediatric patients undergoing cardiac surgery at American University of Beirut
      Medical Center. It is easier to access since it is a bigger vessel and matches better the
      aortic pressure immediately post initiation of bypass than the radial artery. Utilizing
      ultrasound in radial artery cannulation has been well described (1). A meta-analysis of 4
      trials showed that, ultrasound guidance for radial artery catheterization improved first-pass
      success rate compared to the palpation method (2). Two of these trials were for pediatric
      patients where in one study ultrasound-guided radial arterial cannulation in 30 small
      children improved success rate with fewer attempts required with the ultrasound technique
      than with the traditional technique (3). However, in another study of 152 children under 12
      years of age requiring radial artery cannulation, there were no statistically significant
      differences between the groups in time to successful cannulation, total number of attempts,
      number of successful cannulations during the first attempt, or in the number of cannulae used
      for catheterization (4). No previous study compared the use of ultrasound guidance vs
      landmark for femoral artery cannulation in the pediatric age group in particular for the
      teaching of anesthesia residents.

      The hypothesis is that the use of ultrasound guidance by senior residents learning the
      technique of femoral artery catheterization is superior to the landmark technique.

      The investigators will design a prospective randomized trial to compare the use of ultrasound
      guidance versus landmark technique in 110 children undergoing cardiac surgery. The inclusion
      criteria are ASA III or IV children under 12 years of age. Exclusion criteria are hematoma or
      infections at the potential site of insertion, need for emergency surgery, and hemodynamic
      instability.

      The risks to subjects include no more than the usual risks of arterial cannulation (infection
      and hematoma formation). Adverse events will be monitored, reported and treated
      appropriately.

      Privacy and confidentiality will be respected. Data will be kept under lock with the primary
      investigator.
    
  