
    
      Specific Aim 1. Investigate sensory, motor, and cognitive-motor mechanisms governing
      susceptibility to optical flow perturbations. Aging increases the reliance on vision for
      balance control. However, central and peripheral mechanisms underlying aging and falls
      history effects on the susceptibility to optical flow perturbations are unclear. Hypothesis
      1: Entrainment to optical flow perturbations will correlate most strongly with visual
      dependence and decreased somatosensory function, alluding to an age-associated process of
      multi-sensory reweighting. Methods: Multivariate models will quantify the extent to which
      strategically-selected sensory (i.e., visual dependence via rod/frame test, somatosensory
      function), motor (i.e., rate of torque development, timed sit-to-stand) and cognitive-motor
      (i.e., interference) mechanisms underlie inter-individual differences in susceptibility to
      perturbations.

      Specific Aim 2. Estimate the efficacy of prolonged optical flow perturbations to condition
      the neuromechanics of walking balance control in older adult fallers. Pilot data from young
      adults suggests that prolonged exposure to optical flow perturbations may condition reactive
      strategies used to successfully control walking balance. The investigator's premise is that
      dynamic perturbation training can improve resilience to unexpected balance disturbances.
      Here, the investigators conduct a preliminary test of the effects of training with optical
      flow perturbations on walking balance in older adult fallers. Hypothesis 2: (a) Older adults
      with a history of falls will adapt to prolonged exposure to perturbations, conditioning their
      step to step adjustments in walking balance control, and (b) improving their response to
      unexpected balance challenges following training. Methods: In two 20 min sessions, on
      different days in a randomized cross-over design, older adults with a history of falls will
      walk with ("treatment" session) and without ("control" session) prolonged exposure to optical
      flow perturbations. The investigators will assess time-dependent changes in the
      neuromechanics of walking balance during training and after-effects via gait variability,
      dynamic stability, and performance on a series of real-world like targeting and obstacle
      avoidance tasks.
    
  