
    
      Each patient will be informed of the objectives and the total duration of the study as well
      as the benefits and risks to participate. After signature of consent form, Genotyping
      Resistance Test (GRT) and pre-inclusion samples will be done for all patients with HIV RNA >
      1000 copies/mL after 3 months of boosted adherence counselling (BAC). After receiving results
      of the GRT and the pre-inclusion sample, the technical working group (TWG) of HIV national
      program will decide to switch the patient to third-line regimen or to continue second-line
      regimen with new BAC.

      PI-based second-line regimen will be continue if 1/ GRT shows sensitivity to ATV 2/ GRT shows
      sensitivity to at least one of the 3 NRTI recommended in Cambodia (AZT, ABC and TDF). In that
      case, adherence counselling will be boosted according to the new national guidance and the
      patient will not be enrolled in the study.

      In case of intermediate or fully resistance to ATV/r OR sensitivity to ATV but both
      resistances to AZT, ABC and TDF and after confirmation of eligibility criteria, patient could
      be enrolled in the study. A third-line regimen will be started including DRV/r 600/100 twice
      daily + DTG 50 mg once daily + 3TC 300 mg once daily +/- one fully or intermediate sensitive
      NRTI among TDF, ABC and AZT. The choice of the last NRTI will be discussed and decided by the
      TWG according to the HBsAg status, to the result of the GRT and to the medical history of the
      patient.

      At 6 months, plasma HIV-1 RNA will be measured:

        -  HIV1-RNA < 40 copies/mL and no resistance to DRV at inclusion: a switch to DRV/r
           800/100mg once daily will be done and adherence counseling provided to confirm the new
           dosing with the patient

        -  HIV1-RNA > 40 copies/mL and/or intermediate or fully resistance to DRV at inclusion: the
           same regimen will be continued and adherence counseling provided

      For all patients, a new virological assessment will be done at 9 and 12 months.

      DRV and DTG exposure and pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax, Cmin and AUC) will be estimated
      for the 20 first enrolled patients, allowing an intra-patient comparison of the 2 dosing
      regimens of DRV/r for at least 15 patients.
    
  