
    
      NACS scores do not specifically measure feeding behaviors, but rather the five general areas
      of adaptive capacity, passive tone, active tone, primary reflexes, and alertness/crying/motor
      activity. Conversely, the Preterm Infant Breastfeeding Behavior Scale (PIBBS)specifically
      examines neonatal rooting, latching, sucking, and swallowing behaviors as well as general
      activity level, thus producing a comprehensive picture of breast-feeding interactions.

      Beilin et al. previously performed a randomized, controlled, double-blinded study of
      multiparous women who were randomized to receive intrapartum epidural analgesia that
      contained, in addition to bupivacaine, either greater than 150 micrograms total fentanyl,
      less than 150 micrograms, or zero. This study had several limitations. Breast-feeding
      difficulties were not assessed until 24 hours postpartum, long after the neonate would have
      been expected to have fully metabolized the drugs. Like most previous studies, Beilin et al.
      also did not control for skin-to-skin mother-infant contact. According to a prospective
      cohort study of 21,842 mothers in 19 hospitals, the likelihood of exclusive breast-feeding
      throughout the hospital stay is positively, significantly correlated with the number of
      minutes of skin-to-skin contact during the first three hours postpartum, even after
      controlling for intention to breast-feed at the time of hospital admission. Another
      randomized, controlled, double-blinded study found no significant differences regarding
      breast-feeding initiation or breast-feeding rates at 12 months postpartum among women who
      received bupivacaine-only epidural analgesia, combined spinal-epidural analgesia with mean
      fentanyl dose 107.3 micrograms, or epidural infusion with mean fentanyl dose 162.8
      micrograms. All fentanyl was administered only as part of a continuous infusion and never in
      an initial bolus, so the potentially different effects resulting from large loading doses of
      fentanyl compared to gradual infusion could not be studied. The authors did not objectively
      measure neonatal feeding behavior, relying solely upon maternal interviewing at 24-48 hours
      post-delivery, and they studied only nulliparous women.

      In a pilot study of 310 mothers who delivered at University Hospitals Case Medical Center
      (Cleveland, Ohio) between September 2009 and February 2010, we found that duration of
      epidural infusion was significantly correlated with decreased neonatal ability to
      successfully latch onto the breast and audibly swallow during the first three hours of life.
      All infusions contained identical doses of fentanyl and bupivacaine.
    
  