
    
      The investigators will study three groups matched for age and sex: 30 patients with type 2
      diabetes mellitus (T2DM) without coronary artery disease (CAD), 30 patients with T2DM and CAD
      and 30 obese patients (BMI >30 Kg/m²) with abnormal oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). It
      will be a randomized study with metformin or GLP-1R agonist treatment for 1 year. All
      subjects will receive for 1 year: (a) GLP-1R agonist or (b) metformin. At 0, 3, 6 and 12
      months, where 0 is the starting point of treatment, blood samples will be collected.

      At 0, 3, 6 and 12 months the investigators will measure:

        1. Carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV, m/sec) using tonometry by Complior (SP ALAM)
           and augmentation index (AI, %) by the method of arteriography (Arteriograph, TensioMed)

        2. Perfused boundary region (PBR, micrometers) of the sublingual arterial microvessels
           (ranged from 5-25 micrometers) using Sideview Darkfield imaging (Microscan, Glycocheck).
           Increased PBR is considered an accurate non invasive index of reduced endothelial
           glucocalyx thickness.

        3. Coronary flow reserve (CFR) in the left anterior descending artery after infusion of
           adenosine using Doppler echocardiography.

        4. Determination of the following parameters in blood: glucose, insulin, free fatty acids,
           triglycerides, glycerol, C reactive protein (CRP), transforming growth factor-b (TGF-b),
           Lipoprotein-Associated Phospholipase A2 (LP-LPA2), tumor necrosis factor-a (TNF-a),
           interleukins 6 and 10 (IL6 and IL10), propeptide of type I procollagen (PIP), propeptide
           of procollagen type III (PIIINP), matrix metallopeptidases 9 and 2 (MMP),
           macrophage-colony stimulating factor (MCSF), growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15),
           N-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and galectin-3.
    
  