
    
      Fever of unknown origin (FUO) and biologic inflammatory syndrome of unknown origin (SII) are
      two frequent causes of hospitalization or consultation in infectious disease unit and
      internal medicine unit.

      The initial definition for FUO was proposed by Petersdorf and Beeson in 1961 : "fever >
      38,3°C, permanent or recurrent, for more than 3 weeks, without diagnosis after one week
      hospitalisation and explorations". This definition has been updated by Durack and Street in
      1991 who distinguish "classics FUO" from 3 other categories : nosocomial, patient with HIV
      and neutropenia. They also choose an other way of diagnosis : 3 days of investigations in
      hospital OR in consultation.

      Finally, Knokaert and al. proposed a new definition, based on a qualitative criterion: No
      diagnosis after a first step and complete clinical and paraclinical check up.

      The evolution of FUO's prevalence is not describe so much. There are many etiologies,
      classified in four categories: infections, auto-immune disease, cancer and miscellaneous
      causes. The distribution of FUO's causes may change according to geographical localisation,
      and seems to evolve over time, with apparition of new infectious and inflammatory diseases,
      and the advent of new diagnosis tools.

      Currently there is no specifics recommendations to follow a "diagnosis way" of FUO and SII.
      It starts with a complete physical examination and some first lign further exams. Without
      diagnosis, paraclinical explorations are continued with more specific exams, according to the
      presence or the absence of diagnosis clues.

      The TEP scanner has shown a great value in the diagnosis of FUO, and trend to be more
      performed.

      Investigators propose to evaluate professional practices in the diagnosis of fever and
      biologic inflammatory syndrome of unknown origin, and especially the interest of TEP Scan, in
      two units of the University Grenoble Hospital.

      Investigators will study prevalence of FUO and SII, and of each causes of FUO and SII, and
      the prognosis of patients with FUO and SII, according to the presence or the absence of final
      diagnosis, as well as the economic impact of the different complementary exams.
    
  