
    
      All patients will be randomly assigned to two groups after IRB (institutional review board)
      approval, receiving either deep neuromuscular blockade (''Deep NMB'') or intermediate
      neuromuscular block (''Control NMB''). Enrolled patients will be given a number in sequence
      of their enrollment and received a treatment code using a randomization schedule.

      The team taking care of patient perioperatively will be blinded regarding the study; this
      included the surgeons (This study use two different responsible surgeon attendings) and their
      team, the anesthesia care team in the operating room, in the PACU and the pain physician
      responsible for postoperative pain management (same as the protocols of the departmental and
      hospital clinical process).

      An additional unblinded anesthesiologist involved in the study management will present from
      patients' arrival in the operation room to the patients' discharge from the PACU. The
      unblinded study anesthesiologist takes care of the patients' anesthesia induction,
      calibration and documentation of the neuromuscular monitoring and the management of the
      neuromuscular blockade.

      Primary endpoint:

      To compare the measurements of the operation time reduction, the operation time should be
      recorded by institutional electronic medical chart from the incision to the final suture
      closure of surgical wound. A difference of 10% change of operation time between two groups is
      considered of clinically meaningful difference.

      Secondary endpoints:

      By using Mechanical Tension Weighing Scale (MTWS) of mechanical dynamometer and also Shear
      Wave Ultrasound Elastography(SWE), values are taken as followings.

        1. Shear Wave Ultrasound Elastography(SWE):

           SWE score value will be collected 3 times as followings. First, After enrolled, the
           obtained informed consent for this clinical study and screening, SWE score measure will
           be taken prior to surgery as a basal value from the patient.

           Second, After Induction and patient positioning, measure the targeted back muscle
           stiffness by using ultrasonography of SWE.

           Third, SWE score measure finally after the stich out before the discharge.

        2. Mechanical Tension Weighing Scale(MTWS) of mechanical dynamometer:

      After surgical incision, measure the targeted back muscle stiffness by using MTWS. It will be
      compared between the study groups.

      Other check points:

      To compare the safety and benefits of deep neuromuscular block over intermediate conventional
      NMB with corresponding sugammadex reversal.

      (Other check points might be changed before the clinical trial initiation circumstantially)

      The other check point variables will be collected for investigating to compare the safety and
      benefits which are divided into patients, surgeons and anesthesiologists' ones by collecting
      the variety of clinical parameters.

        1. For patients intraoperative radiation amount, operation duration, anesthesia duration,
           post-anesthetic care unit(PACU) stay, transfer rate to SICU for post-op. care,
           post-operative respiratory complication rate, post-op pain score include patient
           controlled analgesia(PCA), post-op nausea and vomiting(PONV), and total hospital costs.

        2. For surgeons unintended movements during surgery, compromised operating field by tense
           surrounding muscles, post-operative complications in regard to operation field, and
           evaluate surgical conditions using a Visual Analogue Scale(VAS score) which will be
           correlated with muscle stiffness measure by weighing scale and SWE.

        3. For anesthesiologists Anesthetic time, intraoperative ventilation parameters of
           patients, intraoperative vital sign monitor values, and evaluate surgical conditions
           using a Visual Analogue Scale(VAS score) which will be correlated with muscle stiffness
           measure by weighing scale and SWE.

      All clinical parameters will be collected within 48 hours after surgery except the total
      hospital costs of the patients.
    
  