
    
      Scientific background

      - Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) is used more and more frequently
      in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and refractory cardiogenic shock despite
      the absence of high level scientific evidence to recommend the use of temporary circulatory
      support devices (TCS) in this setting.TCS support may also benefit to cardiogenic shock
      patients not initially refractory to conventional medical management since their mortality
      exceeds 40% and most of deaths are due to the development of refractory cardiogenic shock and
      multiple organ failure.

      The ANCHOR trial is therefore designed to test the hypothesis that VA-ECMO support associated
      with IABP results in improved outcomes in comparison with optimal medical treatment alone in
      patients with AMI and cardiogenic shock. An ethical rescue option to VA-ECMO will however be
      provided to control patients with cardiogenic shock refractory to conventional medical
      treatment since recent data suggested survival up-to 50% with ECMO support in this setting.

      Main objective - To determine if early VA-ECMO combined with IABP support and optimal medical
      treatment would improve the outcomes of patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated
      by cardiogenic shock as compared with optimal medical treatment alone.

      Scope of the study

      - Patients satisfying all of the Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria will be classified as
      'Eligible'. Consent to research will be obtained from a close relative or surrogate for all
      eligible patients prior to randomization.

      Should such a person be absent, eligible patients will be randomized according to the
      specifications of emergency consent and the patient will be asked to give his/her consent for
      the continuation of the trial when his/her condition will allow.

      Randomization will be possible in centers with robust experience in the management of AMI and
      cardiogenic shock but no on-site ECMO capability providing that an ECMO retrieval team from
      the nearest ECMO center can establish ECMO no later than 2 hours after randomization.

      Before randomization, physicians at the non-ECMO center will check that the ECMO team is
      immediately available and that an ICU/CCU bed is available at the ECMO center. Thereafter, if
      the patient is randomized to the ECMO arm, the mobile ECMO retrieval team will travel to the
      center, initiate VA-ECMO and will rapidly transfer the patient on VA-ECMO to the ECMO center.

      Description of experimental ECMO + IABP Arm

        -  Protocolized conventional management of cardiogenic shock

        -  VA-ECMO will be started as soon as possible

        -  For patients randomized at non-ECMO centers, a mobile ECMO team will initiate ECMO at
           the non-ECMO center and transport the patient to the ECMO center immediately

        -  IABP inserted in the contralateral femoral artery (unless technically not possible)

        -  ECMO management according to protocol

        -  ECMO weaning according to protocol

      Description of conventional treatment Arm

        -  Protocolized conventional management of cardiogenic shock

        -  IABP not recommended. No other TCS device (e.g., ECMO, Impella, Thoratec PHP,
           TandemHeart) permitted

        -  Rescue VA-ECMO only if one of 1 or 2 or 3 applies:

        -  1. Refractory cardiogenic shock defined as

             1. Cardiac index <1.2 l/min/m² or VTI <6 cm AND

             2. Assessment and correction of hypovolemia AND

             3. (dobutamine ≥15 microg/kg/min + norepinephrine ≥1.5 microg/kg/min) OR epinephrine ≥
                0.75 microg/kg/min

             4. Serum lactate >5 mmol/L or serum lactate increased >50% in the last 6 hours

        -  2. Uncontrolled lethal arrhythmia despite K >4.5 mmol/l AND Mg >1.0 mmol/l AND
           Intubation and mechanical ventilation with deep sedation AND IV Loading of amiodarone
           AND IV xylocaine

        -  3. Refractory cardiac arrest

      Mandatory validation of rescue VA-ECMO by an independent adjudicator.
    
  