
    
      The world is currently experiencing unprecedented challenges caused by the global coronavirus
      (COVID19) pandemic. Many countries are enforcing measures to restrict movement of people to
      reduce the spread of the outbreak, including lock-downs, social distancing and
      self-isolation. These methods, although necessary to slow the spread of disease, will have
      negative effects on psychological well-being of large populations. Shortage of health care
      professionals and measures to restrict interpersonal contact means facilitated psychological
      interventions will not be feasible for many, at least during the height of the pandemic.
      There is therefore a need for self-directed psychological interventions that can be
      practically and quickly implemented online.

      Emotional disclosure-based therapies, such as expressive writing (EW), hold potential as
      low-cost, easy to implement means of support, with minimal requirement for facilitation. In
      its original format, EW involved writing daily for 15-20 minutes for 3-4 days about a
      traumatic event. Since its development, it has been adapted in many ways, including writing
      about positive events and writing about stress from a compassionate stance. There is evidence
      that such interventions can provide significant psychological and physical benefits in
      healthy populations and reduce the effects of natural disasters on health and well-being.
      However, to our knowledge this form of psychological intervention has not been tested during
      a rapidly evolving crisis or pandemic.

      The aim of this study is to test whether an online self-compassion and EW based intervention
      (LIO-C) can reduce the negative effects of the COVID19 pandemic on health and well-being. The
      intervention is based on an existing intervention, LIO, that we previously developed for use
      in advanced disease populations, in collaboration with clinical and health psychologists, and
      patient and public representatives. For this study, we have adapted the intervention for
      people living through the current COVID19 pandemic by altering the writing prompts, and
      translating the intervention to an online hub. As this is an unfacilitated intervention, the
      instructions involve writing from a compassionate stance to minimise any potential short term
      negative effects associated with writing about difficult experiences.
    
  