
    
      An healthspan life obey older adults to adhere to an active ageing lifestyle because it
      combat the natural cognitive and physical losses associated with ageing (1-3). Exercise
      programs have shown to be effective interventions for healthspan (2) and its attendance is
      high recommended by health organizations (4). Several studies have analyzed the beneficial
      effects of exercise programs on physical and cognitive performance of older adults, and they
      concluded that multimodal programs involving both physical and cognitive stimulation are more
      benefic than single physical or cognitive program interventions (5). Dance involves both
      physical and cognitive stimulation, since the participants are engaged physical,
      intellectually, and emotionally tasks(6). Dance explore the movement elements (body, space,
      time, dynamic, and relationships) and particularly the Creative Dance explore it through
      tasks that allow the participants to create their own movements and express ideas and
      feelings through body language (7). In Creative dance, tasks can be simplified according to
      specificities/limitations of participants and considering a holist approach (6). This dance
      do not require any dance technique or prior training, and promote socioemotional
      interactions, stimulating positive feelings, joy, and pleasure; furthermore, is a safe
      practice, not requiring expensive resources (6). For these reasons, Creative Dance is
      becoming gradually recommended for older people by investigators (6-9). In fact, Creative
      Dance seems to increase proprioception (8), several physical fitness parameters (7, 9),
      mobility (9) and life satisfaction (7) of older people. Thus, although there are only few
      studies in Creative Dance for older adults, this form of dance seems to be a pertinent
      practice to revert their usual process of loss and decline of motor and mental skills (6). We
      hypnotized, that a Creative Dance program may contribute to the community-dwelling older
      adults' healthspan, particularly we hypnotized that such program may induce improvements on
      physical fitness, on body awareness, and on rhythm perception and reproduction, as well to
      promote improvements on well-being indicators.
    
  