
    
      The number of people aged 65 years and over is expected to rise by over 60% in the next 25
      years, which presents an enormous challenge for the healthcare system. Ageing dramatically
      affects immune function; this phenomenon is known as immunosenescence and partly explains the
      increased susceptibility for infection in older individuals. Influenza is particularly common
      in older individuals and is a major cause of death in older people. Vaccination is
      recommended to protect elderly people against influenza, but immunosenescence also reduces
      the efficacy of vaccination. It has been estimated that 3050% of older adults fail to mount
      protective antibody responses after influenza vaccination, representing a considerable waste
      of resource and a false sense of security for those receiving the vaccinations.

      Probiotics have shown promise in the prevention or treatment of several disease states
      ranging from lactose intolerance, constipation and diarrhoea, alleviation of allergy and even
      to more chronic systemic diseases, such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. Often they are
      taken together with prebiotics, which are carbohydrates that provide a food source for the
      beneficial bacteria when they reach the lower gut. There is particular interest in the
      positive influences of pre- and probiotics in older people, who are subject to alteration in
      gut microflora composition as well as immunosenescence. Several studies have demonstrated
      beneficial effects of specific pre- and probiotics on immune function in older subjects.
      However, none of these studies have taken into account the agerelated shift in immune cell
      populations. Furthermore, there is little understanding of the mechanisms underlying these
      effects. Despite this, probiotics have recently been proposed as prime candidates for
      'antiimmunosenescence' therapy. We propose to investigate the impact of a pre- and probiotic
      mix on the immune response to influenza vaccination in young and older subjects, taking into
      account the age related shifts in immunity due to immunosenescence. The inclusion of both a
      young and older group of subjects will allow us to ascertain whether older individuals derive
      particular benefit from probiotics because of their altered gut microbiota and immune status.

      This proposal brings together a unique combination of expertise in nutrition, gut health and
      immunology to determine the scientific basis for the immunomodulatory effects of pre- and
      probiotics. The chief investigator, Dr Parveen Yaqoob, has been working in the area of diet,
      health, ageing and immune function for 18 years. Professor Ian Rowland has been working on
      the interaction between diet and the gut microbiota and its implications for human health for
      30 years. Dr Kieran Tuohy was appointed Lecturer in Food Metabonomics in the Department of
      Food Biosciences in 2005 and has over ten years experience in the field of gut microbiology
      and functional foods. Professor Margot Gosney is Director of Clinical Health Sciences, The
      University of Reading and a clinician working in elderly care at the Royal Berkshire NHS
      Foundation Trust, Reading. Her research interests include the association between nutrition
      and health of elderly people, ageing, oncology, dental science for stroke patients,
      influenza, incontinence, falls and intellectual decline. Dr Sue Todd is a Reader in Medical
      Statistics at the University of Reading and has over 15 years experience as an applied
      statistician working in the fields of clinical trials and epidemiology, with particular
      interest in sequential clinical trials, Data and Safety Monitoring Boards and statistical
      methods for epidemiology. Professor Richard Aspinall has been working on the hypothesis that
      age related changes in the T cell arm of the immune system are driven by age associated
      thymic atrophy. The Chief Investigator and the other project researchers have no direct
      personal involvement with the funding organisation (BBSRC DRINC) and therefore there are no
      conflicts of interest. The results of this study will also contribute to the PhD thesis of
      two postgraduate students.

      Healthy volunteers (60 young [1835y] and 60 older [6585y]) will be randomly assigned to
      either a pre-and probiotic mix or to placebo (a maltodextrin/milk mix) for 8 weeks in total.
      The probiotic strain will be Bifidobacterium longum bv. infantis CCUG 52486 (10^8 10^9 live
      bacteria per day), which was originally isolated from healthy elderly subjects, and which has
      been demonstrated to have particular ecological fitness and antipathogenic effects in vitro.
      A suitable prebiotic (8g/day) will be selected on the basis of ability to promote optimal
      growth and survival of this probiotic (inulin, fructooligosaccharides [FOS],
      galactooligosaccharides[GOS] and xylooligosaccharides[XOS] will be tested). The pre- and
      probiotic mix and placebo sachet will be manufactured and packaged in the University of
      Reading pilot plant, and tested by Reading Scientific Services Limited for safety. This
      project will assess vaccine efficacy on the basis of both specific antibody titre and
      cellular responsiveness.

      Participants will be required to visit the Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences on 5
      occasions once for screening and 4 times during the study (0, 4, 6 and 8 weeks). The
      screening visit will involve a detailed medical history and several assessments to be
      conducted by a Research Nurse, making the visit approximately 2 hours duration. The study
      visits will be shorter (approximately 1 hour), involving a discussion of the study,
      identifying any problems or concerns and collection of biological samples. Blood (150ml),
      saliva and faecal samples will be collected at baseline and after 4 weeks of supplementation.
      After this sampling, subjects will receive an influenza vaccination (Solvay Pharmaceuticals)
      and further samples will be collected 2 and 4 weeks after vaccination.
    
  