
    
      Obesity is one of the most serious public health problems in the US; its prevalence has
      tripled in the last three decades and is associated with a range of short- and long-term
      medical and psychosocial problems. Adolescence is a critical period for the development and
      persistence of obesity, and is associated with changes in diet, physical activity and
      fitness, fat distribution and insulin sensitivity. There are racial and sex-specific
      disparities in the prevalence and burden of obesity. African-American (AA) females have the
      highest rates of obesity, and the clustered risk factors for coronary heart disease and
      metabolic syndrome are twice that of AA males. The reasons for racial and sex-specific
      disparities in the prevalence and burden of obesity are not well understood. AA experience
      higher stress levels than Non-Hispanic Whites (NHW) due to economic and social inequalities,
      and the effect of stress on energy-dense diet and adiposity is more prominent in females. A
      better understanding of the mechanisms that link stress to obesity, particularly during
      adolescence when high rates of obesity, increased stressful experiences and stronger
      behavioral and physiological responses to stress emerge, will contribute to new clinical
      guidelines for reducing obesity and associated medical conditions in AA females.

      The Physiological stress system affects obesity and mediates its adaptive functions via
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Prolonged stress-induced glucocorticoid secretion
      promotes the consumption of energy-dense diet (EI) and abdominal fat deposition both directly
      and indirectly through its effects on metabolic hormones. Stress also reduces physical
      activity and alters energy balance. The proposed study will examine the effects of stress and
      HPA axis on EI and physical activity-related energy expenditure in 100 AA and 100 NHW
      adolescent females. The effects on EI will be assessed in two contexts, the natural
      environment and under controlled conditions incorporating a standardized psychosocial
      stressor. Stress will be assessed in the natural environment as multiple domains (i.e.,
      individual, family and social), and several indices of the HPA axis will be obtained to
      represent diurnal variation, its status over 12-15 weeks and reactivity to stress.
      Obesity-related parameters will be measured through anthropometry, fat distribution and
      cardio-metabolic biomarkers.

      Associations among stress, HPA activity/function, energy balance and obesity-related
      parameters will be compared between and within AA and NHW samples. In combination they will
      improve our understanding of the social factors and biobehavioral mechanisms of both racial
      and individual differences in obesity and facilitate the development of effective treatments
      within and across racial groups according to the principles of individualized medicine. To
      our knowledge, racial differences in objectively-measured diet intake and energy expenditure
      in response to stress, or their underlying physiological mechanisms, have not been assessed
      in adolescents or adults. This is an important knowledge gap in our efforts to develop better
      evidence-based translational obesity prevention and weight-control interventions as the
      traditional interventions are not effective with minority youth.
    
  