
    
      Background:

      The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination at
      birth to protect against TB in countries with high TB burden. Though the BCG vaccine is
      scheduled at birth, the vaccine is often given with delay, also among children born in Health
      Facilities (HFs), where it should be possible to obtain the vaccine. In 2010 in rural
      Guinea-Bissau, only 38% of children received BCG within the first month of life. BCG is
      supplied in 20-dose vials and unused doses must be discarded 6 hours after reconstitution.
      This has led to a local practice of not opening a BCG vial unless sufficient eligible
      children are present for vaccination. Moreover, the HFs seek to assemble larger groups of
      children eligible for BCG at specific days. Our observations from the field indicate that
      even on these days, vials may not be opened if the number of children is too low. Similar
      practises have been demonstrated in other low-income countries, but this practice is not in
      line with WHO recommendations, which emphasise that multi-dose vials should be opened and
      used to vaccinate one child despite any wastage.

      In 2012, an estimated 73% of all neonatal deaths occurred within the first week of life.
      Several studies have suggested that BCG vaccination is associated with survival benefits
      early in life: In three randomised trials from Guinea-Bissau, BCG-at-birth was associated
      with a 38% lower neonatal mortality and marked reductions already 3 days after vaccination. A
      WHO-commissioned review and meta-analysis conducted in 2014 including five clinical trials
      indicated that BCG-vaccinated children had a relative risk of mortality at 0.70 (95%
      confidence interval 0.49-1.01) compared with BCG-unvaccinated children. Two randomised trials
      from India, both published after the review was conducted, found no effect of BCG at birth on
      neonatal mortality. In both India and Guinea-Bissau, all trials were conducted among low
      birth weight (LBW) children and primary outcome was neonatal mortality. In Guinea-Bissau,
      BCG-Denmark was used in all trials, whereas BCG-Russia was used in the trials from India.
      Strain of BCG has been suggested as a possible reason for the discrepancy between the trials
      in India, and the trials in Guinea-Bissau.

      Therefore, early BCG vaccination may be important, not only for protection against
      tuberculosis, but also for the impact on survival.

      Hypothesis:

      Increasing the availability of BCG and vaccinating children at the first health-facility
      contact can reduce early infant mortality due to other causes than accidents by 25%.

      Methods:

      This study will be a cluster randomized trial of increased BCG availability at the 23 HFs in
      three rural regions (Oio, Biombo and Farim) in Guinea-Bissau. In half of the HFs, BCG will be
      provided as per current practice (typically once a week if a sufficient number of children
      are present for vaccination); in the remaining HFs, additional BCG vaccines will be supplied
      to make BCG available every day and opening a vial of BCG if there is just one eligible child
      present. In collaboration with the national vaccination programme, the investigators will
      ensure that the same strain of WHO-prequalified BCG vaccines will be used at the same time in
      both the control and intervention arm of the study. The allocation of centres will be crossed
      over after 12 months and inclusion of participants will carry on for another 12 months.
      Pregnancies, births and deaths will be monitored through two different levels of
      surveillance:

      Level 1 - Bandim Health Project's (BHPs) rural Health and Demographic Surveillance System
      (HDSS). The BHP teams survey women of fertile age and children below the age of 5 years in
      randomly selected village clusters in all health regions across the country, which involves
      40 village clusters distributed across the three regions included in this study. Through this
      system, it is possible to monitor pregnancies, births, vaccinations and child health.

      Level 2 - Reinforced community health worker monitoring. In all villages in Guinea-Bissau,
      community health workers (CHWs) monitor births and deaths through a national monitoring
      system. The CHWs report aggregated data on pregnancies, number of births and neonatal deaths
      (in two categories: 0-7 days, 8-28 days) in their capture area to the local health centre at
      monthly meetings. This data collection will be reinforced by supervision and further data
      collection from BHP supervisors covering each health centre area. The CHWs will receive a
      visit every 1-2 months from a supervisor.

      All children registered during pregnancy in Oio, Biombo or Farim enter the trial cohort 1 day
      after birth. A pregnancy can be registered in more than one village, but the child will only
      enter the trial if the mother gave birth in the village or the nearby health facility, and
      then was discharged to the village where the pregnancy was registered.

      For all registered deaths, a specially trained field worker will visit the household of the
      deceased child to conduct a verbal autopsy.

      Prior to study start, all 23 HFs in the three regions will be visited by a team from BHP.
      During these visits, refresher training on vaccination technique and assessment of lymph
      glands will be conducted. The training will include general information on the BCG vaccine,
      information on reconstitution and durability of the vaccines, how to check that the vials
      have not been damaged by heat and information on adverse events. During the trial, the HFs
      will be visited regularly by a nurse from BHP, who will observe and supervise the vaccination
      sessions for vaccination technique, attention to registration of adverse event, used strain
      of vaccinations, registration of cold chain and state of vaccine stock.

      Statistical analyses:

      The primary outcome will be non-accidental mortality rate between 1 day after birth and 42
      days after birth, where other vaccines are scheduled to be given. 22,800 infants are expected
      to be included in the study during the two-year study period. With a baseline mortality of
      2.5% (varying between 1.5 and 3.5% by HF) this sample size should result in 88% power to
      demonstrate an effect if the true mortality reduction is assumed to be 25% (power simulations
      based on a logistic regression with Generalised Estimating Equation (GEE)-based correction
      for village cluster). Secondary outcomes are non-accidental hospital admissions,
      non-accidental neonatal mortality and cost-effectiveness of making BCG available at the first
      health-facility contact. The effect of making BCG available at the first HF contact will be
      analysed in logistic regression models with GEE-based correction for village cluster.
    
  