
    
      BACKGROUND

      Sepsis is a common and life-threatening condition defined by organ dysfunction due to a
      dysregulated response to infection (Fleischmann, 2016). Aggressive early sepsis
      identification and treatment initiatives have decreased hospital mortality for patients with
      sepsis (Rhodes, 2017; Kaukonen, 2014). However, sepsis survivors continue to face challenges
      after the acute illness episode, experiencing new functional, cognitive, and psychological
      deficits, and high rates of hospital readmission and mortality in the 90-days after hospital
      discharge (Iwashyna, 2010; Borges, 2015; Annane, 2015; Prescott, 2015; Mayr, 2017). To
      address persistent morbidity and mortality for sepsis survivors, Atrium Health developed the
      Sepsis Treatment and Recovery (STAR) program which uses a nurse navigator to deliver a bundle
      of best-practice care elements for the delivery of longitudinal post-sepsis care for up to 90
      days. These care elements are directed towards the specific challenges and sequelae following
      a sepsis hospitalization and include: 1) identification and treatment of new physical,
      mental, and cognitive deficits; 2) review and adjustment of medications; 3) surveillance of
      treatable conditions that commonly lead to poor outcomes including chronic conditions that
      may destabilize during sepsis and recovery; and 4) focus on palliative care when appropriate
      (Prescott, 2018) These care elements have good face-validity and have shown to be associated
      with improved outcomes for sepsis survivors in observational data (Taylor, 2020). However,
      they are not widely applied in real-world settings for this vulnerable population, likely
      hindered by a gap in understanding key contextual factors underlying how to best integrate
      this bundle of care elements into the complex and fragmented post-discharge setting
      (Brownson, 2012; Bodenheimer, 2008; Coleman, 2004; Kim, 2013)

      RATIONALE

      In randomized controlled trials (RCTs), successfully implemented care transition programs
      using nurse navigators have been shown to reduce hospital readmission and costs. To better
      enhance transitions of care for the highest risk, complex patients with suspected sepsis, the
      investigators propose extending this evidence using a nurse-facilitated care transition
      program for patients in the post-sepsis transition period to improve the implementation of
      recommended care practices and bridge care gaps. This approach, called the Sepsis Transition
      and Recovery (STAR) program, is the next step in the progression of the investigator team's
      work on improving discharge transitions and sepsis processes of care. A key aspect of this
      initiative includes the ability to identify sepsis survivors at the greatest risk for poor
      outcomes. For example, one-quarter of sepsis survivors account for three-quarters of hospital
      readmission and costs, indicating that identifying high-risk sepsis patients for targeted
      facilitation of best-practice care could efficiently impact quality and cost.

      The STAR program uses near real-time risk modeling to identify high-risk patients and a
      centrally located nurse, virtually connected to participating hospitals, to coordinate the
      application of evidence-based recommendations for post-sepsis care, overcome barriers to
      recommended care, and bridge gaps in service that can serve as points of failure for complex
      patients. During hospitalization, high-risk patients enter into a transition pathway
      integrated within Atrium Health Hospital Medicine's Transition Services program and includes
      the following core components: i) Introduction to STAR process prior to discharge (confirm
      provider consults e.g., PT, ID, palliative); ii) Disease-specific education and discharge
      "playbook"; iii) Virtual hospital follow-up evaluation within 48 hours including medication
      reconciliation; iv) Second, post-acute virtual follow-up within 72-96 hours (symptom
      monitoring, confirm provider follow-up); v) Weekly contact with STAR team; vi) Referral to
      provider follow-up (e.g., primary care provider, transition clinic) as appropriate; vii)
      Coordinated transition to the next appropriate care location after 90 days from time of
      discharge. The STAR navigator also meets weekly with the Medical Director of the Atrium
      Health Transition Services program who provides additional clinical oversight of ongoing
      cases.

      The ENCOMPASS (Engagement and Collaborative Management to Proactively Advance Sepsis
      Survivorship) evaluation will examine if implementation of the STAR program within a large
      healthcare system will improve outcomes for high-risk sepsis patients. This cluster
      randomized program evaluation is designed to be a seamless part of routine care in a
      real-world setting to generate knowledge of best practices for implementation and
      dissemination of post-sepsis transitions of care.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN

      Overall Study Design ENCOMPASS is an effectiveness-implementation hybrid type I trial. The
      evaluation component is designed as a two-arm, pragmatic, stepped-wedge cluster randomized
      controlled trial conducted at eight regional hospitals in which each participating hospital
      begins in a usual care control phase and transitions to the STAR program intervention in a
      randomly assigned sequence, with one of eight hospitals assigned to transition at each
      four-month interval (i.e., step). During the time that a hospital is allocated to usual care,
      all eligible patients will receive usual care. Once a hospital has been allocated to the STAR
      arm, all eligible patients will receive STAR during their index hospitalization and extending
      through 90 days from discharge or date of death. The ENCOMPASS trial will compare the
      effectiveness of the Sepsis Transition And Recovery (STAR) program versus usual care on
      post-sepsis care and patient outcomes. The STAR program is informed by existing evidence and
      designed using the Chronic Care Model to increase best-practice adherence and care
      coordination, resulting in improved transitions between hospitals and post-acute care during
      sepsis recovery.

      ENCOMPASS will test the STAR program intervention within the course of providing usual care
      among a large and diverse population of post-sepsis patients admitted to eight hospitals
      within Atrium Health, one of the largest, vertically integrated health systems in the US. The
      eight acute care hospitals participating in this study use the same EHR, which connects
      across all points of care, including outpatient practices, urgent care locations, emergency
      departments and hospitals. Consistent with the pragmatic study design concept, eligibility
      criteria are broad, the sample size is large and diverse, and study procedures are embedded
      into the context of routine care. To be objective in patient selection and allow for program
      evaluation, a data driven approach will be used to identify patients as eligible for program
      referral. Each weekday morning actively admitted patients at eight study hospitals will be
      identified from the electronic health record and Enterprise Data Warehouse and output into
      daily eligibility lists based on the study's inclusion/exclusion criteria. Primary analyses
      will be conducted using an intent-to-treat approach such that all eligible patients will be
      included. Planned enrollment is 4032 patients and STAR program follow-up will be completed 90
      days after hospital discharge. Outcomes data will be tracked for 90 days and captured from
      routinely collected data from the Atrium Health Enterprise Data Warehouse. Given this
      evaluation protocol relies on using evidence-based interventions, only utilizes data
      collected as part of routine care, and is minimal risk to patients, the institutional review
      board granted the request for waiver of informed consent.
    
  