
    
      The right of the patient to exercise autonomy, whether to accept the recommendation of
      physician is not lost when the patient is unable to make health related decision. This is the
      basis of substituted judgment. Without written advance directives, a surrogate has to be
      assigned using relevant state relationship hierarchy, and usually a family member serves as a
      surrogate when the patient no longer has capacity to make medical decisions. Several studies
      showed that surrogates do not predict the patients preference accurately when both are asked
      to respond to hypothetical questions. Patient designated hierarchy predicted the patient
      treatment preferences with 69% accuracy whereas legally assigned proxy was accurate in 68%.
      Even the prior discussion of the treatment preferences did not seem to improve the surrogate
      accuracy. Surrogates make errors predicting patient's preferences in different directions, as
      was found in several studies. Three studies have found that surrogates err by providing
      intervention that patients do not want, while others found no specific trends. Other studies
      showed physicians to be less accurate than surrogates in predicting the patient's wishes.

      Some studies have shown that patients want their surrogates to make decision for them when
      there is disagreement between the patient's wishes and his or her surrogate. No studies have
      looked at patients preferences when there is conflict between the surrogate and the
      physician.

      To choose the right surrogate is a paramount. One way to do this is to analyze the patient's
      trends as to 'how' and 'why' patients choose his or her surrogates. Little is known about
      what factors influence the patients' decisions to choose the surrogate and what would be
      their decision in the event of disagreement between the treating physician and the surrogate.
      Factors such as patient's culture, ethnic or religious background may play an important role
      in patients' preferences at the end of their lives.

      The investigators aim to assess terminally ill patients' decision making preferences at the
      end of life and identify specific factors that determine their preferences.
    
  