
    
      It is a 12 -month dynamic, open, descriptive and analytical type case-control study in
      adults. The present study intends to recruit , all the Pulmonary TB suspects and case
      notified by TB Loop-mediated isothermal Amplification(LAMP), sputum culture or GeneXpert
      Mycobacterium Tuberculosis/Rifampicin (MTB/RIF) Assay, Pulmonary TB+HIV patients, healthy
      control patients, HIV patients without TB. Each patient will undergo at least two tests: the
      Breath Test Measurement and the TB LAMP. The TB LAMP will be used like the reference test for
      positive TB cases.

      The enrolment phase of the participants will take 12 months. After this period, additional 6
      months will be dedicated to the data analysis and dissemination of results.

      Each patient meeting the inclusion criteria will be asked to join the study. Detailed
      information will be provided him/her. In case of acceptance the participants will undergo
      further sampling: breath test measurement. All data will be collected ensuring anonymity and
      privacy. Standard protocols used in the center will not be changed by the research, but each
      patient will be asked to provide 1 additional sample (exhaled breath in the bag sampler).
      Each study participant will be properly informed, and a consent form will be signed.

      Preparation to participate: It will be required to patients to avoid drinking, eating,
      smoking, or brushing their teeth 2 hours before the breath test.

      Sampling collection: In order to collect breath samples, two bags will be used, one for
      collecting airways breath (about 0.5 liter volume) and one for alveolar exhaled air (3
      liters). It is asked to the patient after putting a clip nose, to inspire with the mouth and
      to deeply breath inside the bags through an antibacterial filter connected to the sampling
      apparatus.

      At the end, the second bag (volume of 3 liters) contains the alveolar portion of breath that
      will be analyzed by the TV eNose. During the measurement, the TV eNose will be connected to
      the computer, to read and store the Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) pattern from breath
      given by the sensor array.

      Other data are collected: clinical symptoms, TB LAMP results, and results of others test if
      available: chest X-ray, smear microscopic, sputum culture and GeneXpert MTB/RIF Assay
      examinations.

      All personal data and results of the patients will be collected in a specific sheet
      elaborated by the partners (University di Roma Tor Vergata). It will be an Excel database and
      it will be store in the study site. All data collected will be anonymous.
    
  