
    
      Interested volunteers will be provided with an outline of the study and asked to complete a
      medical and lifestyle questionnaire (in person, by email or over the phone). Potentially
      suitable participants will be identified and asked to attend a screening session after a 12 h
      overnight fast (not eating during this time and only drinking water) during which the study
      will be explained in more detail before a consent form is signed. Anthropometric measurements
      will then be taken including weight, height and blood pressure. A 9 ml blood sample will also
      be collected on site at the Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences (Hugh Sinclair Unit
      of Human Nutrition). Subjects who meet the initial inclusion criteria will be invited to a
      further screening session during which time a dentist will check for dental diseases (e.g.
      current dental cavities or periodontal infection) and saliva flow rate. Volunteers without
      periodontal disease and with normal saliva flow will then be invited to participate in the
      study.

      Eligible subjects will then be randomised to one of two treatments: i) up to 70 ml (the
      amount given will be equivalent to 3.7 mg/kg body weight) beetroot juice (James White Drinks
      Limited, UK) or ii) a matched volume of placebo beetroot juice (control, James White Drinks
      Limited, UK) to be consumed daily for 8 weeks. As drinking water is a major source of dietary
      nitrate, subjects will be provided with a water filter to reduce the nitrate level in their
      tap water for drinking and cooking during the study period. There will be a wash out period
      of 4 weeks between the intervention juices. In total, volunteers will be involved in the
      study for 20 weeks (five months).

      On the day before each baseline study visit (weeks 0 and 12), volunteers will be required to
      fast overnight after having a low nitrate evening meal and only drinking low nitrate mineral
      water (Buxton mineral water), which will be provided to them, during this time. They will
      refrain from strenuous exercise and alcohol. On the morning of the study visit, the
      volunteers will be asked not to brush their teeth before they come to the clinical unit for
      their study visit.

      When they arrive in the fasted state, the participants will be asked to provide a spot urine
      sample and a stool sample. Body weight and composition will be measured using the Tanita
      weighing scale, saliva sample and an oral bacteria sample will be collected by swabbing the
      tongue with a cotton swab. Volunteers will be asked to lie down for 20 minutes prior to the
      measurement of blood pressure and pulse wave analysis (PWA) using the Mobil-O-Graph device
      followed by the assessment of microvascular reactivity using Laser Doppler Imaging with
      iontophoresis. A blood sample of 20 ml (equivalent to just over 1 tablespoon) will then be
      taken before a light breakfast is provided. Volunteers will then be given a toothbrush and
      toothpaste to brush their teeth and asked to complete an online food frequency questionnaire
      (EatwellUK).

      During the four-week wash-out period between interventions, participants will be instructed
      to avoid any beetroot juice drinks and maintain their usual dietary and lifestyle habits.
    
  