
    
      This is a one center, Phase IIa, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study designed
      to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two Aramchol doses in subjects 18 to 75 years of age,
      with newly formed cholesterol gallstones in their gallbladder following bariatric surgery
      confirmed by gallbladder ultrasound performed in a period of 3 & 6 months following surgery
      before entering the study. All patients have ultrasonography evidence of clear gallbladder
      before the bariatric surgery.

      Eligible subjects will be enrolled into three treatments arms: Aramchol 400 mg and 600 mg
      tablets and placebo tablets in ratio 1:1:1.

      The subjects will be evaluated at study sites for 6 scheduled visits: at weeks -4 - 0
      screening visit, Day 0 - baseline, weeks 2, 4, 8& 12 (Termination/early termination visit).

      During the screening period the presence and number of cholesterol gallstones will be
      evaluated by gallbladder Ultrasound.

      During the study the following assessments will be performed:

        -  Vital signs will be measured at each study visit.

        -  A physical examination will be performed at the screening visit, and termination/early
           termination visit.

        -  The following safety blood tests will be performed: complete blood count (CBC), serum
           chemistry (including electrolytes, liver enzymes, direct and total bilirubin, glucose,
           HbA1C, lipid profile which include cholesterol, HDL, LDL and VLDL, CPK, creatinine,
           urea, albumin, alkaline phosphatase), coagulation (fibrinogen, PT/INR, aPTT), ESR and
           urinalysis during the screening visit, baseline, week 2, 4, 8 and 12 (termination/early
           termination) visits. Serology (HBV, HCV and HIV) will be performed during the screening
           visit. β-hCG in women of child bearing potential will be performed during the screening
           visit.

        -  Body weight will be measured in screening, baseline and end of treatment visits. Height
           will be measured during the screening visit.

        -  ECG will be performed during the screening and end of treatment visits.

        -  Blood for Metabolomics will be collected at baseline and end of treatment visits.

        -  Ultrasound will be performed at screening visit, baseline, week 4, 8 and
           termination/early termination visits.

        -  Adverse events will be monitored throughout the study.

        -  Concomitant Medications will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  