
    
      Population: Recruit and study 24 pre-menopausal women with the following inclusion criteria:

      Age range 20 yrs to 50 yrs, BMI > 30 kg/m2 to < 55 kg/m2 Fasting glucose < 110 mg/dl and 120
      minute OGTT < 170 mg/dl glucose Design: The study is designed to determine the follow

      To compare the effects of high protein (HP) versus high carbohydrate (HC) diet during energy
      restriction on weight loss, body composition (lean and fat body mass) and bone mineral
      density in a free living out patient setting.

      To assess the effects of HP versus HC diets on metabolic parameters including insulin
      sensitivity, protein and muscle break down, lipoprotein metabolism and basal metabolic rate.

      Procedures: SCREENING VISIT 1:Individuals fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be invited for the first screening visit (VS1). A brief study overview will be given
      along with a brief history and physical examination, height and weight measurements and blood
      drawn for chemistry profile and and Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) to determine normal
      glucose handling.

      SCREENING VISIT 2 (VS2):Individuals fulfilling all the criteria will be contacted and invited
      for a second screening visit (VS2). Block food frequency questionnaire to assess baseline
      dietary profile will be given along with a pre-study orientation with the help of a
      nutritionist.

      SCREENING VISIT 3 (VS3): At the final screening visit (VS3) the food diary will be reviewed.
      Individuals will be randomized into one of the two diet groups using a randomization table.
      Participants will be asked to participate in the additional studies of euglycemic
      hyperinsulinemic clamp and indirect calorimetry.

      Study participants will either follow a HP or a HC diet for 6 months, where all food is
      supplied to them. Randomization will be performed using a randomization table. HP diet will
      be based on 30% Kcals from protein, 40% Kcals from carbohydrate (CHO) and 30% Kcals from fat.
      In contrast, HC diet will comprise 15% Kcals from protein, 55% Kcals from CHO and 30% Kcals
      from fat. Subjects will come in weekly for their food pick up and weight checks.
    
  