
    
      Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is a major health problem affecting more than 26 million
      Americans. Notably, more patients with CKD die of cardiovascular complications than progress
      to dialysis. An overactive sympathetic nervous system is a well known cardiovascular risk
      factor present in CKD. The increase in sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) may not only
      contribute to hypertension, but also accelerates the progression of end organ damage that is
      independent of any rise in blood pressure. Indeed, elevated SNA is associated with poor
      prognosis and increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Thus, the sympathetic
      nervous system constitutes a primary novel drug target needed for improving cardiovascular
      outcomes in CKD patients. However, limited effort has been directed at identifying the
      mechanisms driving sympathetic overactivity in CKD and importantly, SNA remains high in these
      patients despite standard drug therapy including angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and
      angiotensin II receptor blockers. Thus, a better understanding of the mechanism(s) of the
      elevated SNA would enable us to devise more effective countermeasures and help reduce the
      subsequent morbidity and mortality among CKD patients. A potential signal driving SNA
      involves accumulation of the endogenous nitric oxide synthase inhibitor asymmetric
      dimethylarginine (ADMA). ADMA is elevated in CKD and is a strong, independent predictor of
      future cardiovascular events in these patients. Much of the work with ADMA has been
      correlational in nature with a focus on the well-known vascular endothelial properties of
      nitric oxide. However, increasing functional evidence indicates that nitric oxide is also a
      key signaling molecule involved in the tonic restraint of sympathetic outflow from the
      brainstem. Indeed, the investigators have recently demonstrated that systemic experimental
      inhibition of nitric oxide synthase causes sympathetic activation in healthy humans. In the
      current study, the investigators will target the pathophysiological nitric oxide synthase
      inhibition caused by elevated ADMA concentrations in CKD and its role in mediating
      sympathetic overactivity. Recent work has reported that thiazolidinediones, such as
      pioglitazone, reduce ADMA likely by upregulating dimethylarginine dimethylamino-hydrolase
      (DDAH), the enzyme responsible for the breakdown of ADMA. Indeed, analysis of the DDAH gene
      revealed the presence of a thiazolidinedione binding site, implying that thiazolidinediones
      can directly regulate DDAH expression and subsequently ADMA levels. Thus, thiazolidinediones
      may provide a promising therapy in CKD. Indeed, in a recent study, CKD patients treated with
      pioglitazone were less likely to reach the composite end points of cardiovascular morbidity
      and mortality. Importantly, this effect was independent of the level of renal impairment
      suggesting protective effects even in moderate CKD. However, the mechanisms for these
      improvements remain unclear. In this study, the investigators hypothesize that these
      favorable cardiovascular effects are through a lowering of ADMA and SNA. Thus, the ability of
      pioglitazone to reduce ADMA and SNA in CKD patients will be tested.
    
  