
    
      This open label, multi-center, two-by-two factorial, randomised controlled trial aims to
      compare the effectiveness of cervical pessary to cervical cerclage and also to determine the
      effectiveness of vaginal progesterone for the prevention of PTB in women with a twin
      pregnancy and a cervix ≤28 mm.

      All women with a twin pregnancy will undergo cervical length measurement and digital
      examination at screening. Prior to CL measurement, women will be given a short brochure
      outlining risk factors and available PTB prevention methods. Only women with a CL ≤28 mm will
      be eligible for the study. Eligible participants will be screened by midwives or
      gynaecologists, then they will be provided a full participant Information Sheet, Consent Form
      and will be invited to a full discussion with investigators about the study. Eligible women
      will further undergo a speculum examination to assess the feasibility of treatment with
      either cerclage or cervical pessary with or without progesterone and to exclude premature
      rupture of the membranes (PROM), acute vaginitis and cervicitis. All eligible women will be
      invited to participate in the study.

      After written informed consent, women will be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to receive
      a cerclage, pessary, cerclage plus progesterone or pessary plus progesterone. Assignment to
      treatment allocation will be done via a web portal hosted by HOPE Research Center, Vietnam.
      The randomisation schedule will be computer-generated at HOPE Research Center, with a
      permuted random block size of 4 or 8. Blinding will not be possible due to the nature of
      interventions. However, neonatologists assessing the children will be unaware of treatment
      allocation. Apart from randomisation, patients will be followed up and treated according to
      local protocol.

      Women allocated to a cervical cerclage will be receiving the intervention according to local
      protocol, within a week after randomisation. Briefly, 2 to 3 senior clinicians, who had
      experienced with cerclage, will perform cervical cerclage, using Mc Donald technique, under
      spinal anaesthesia with a single dose of prophylactic antibiotics.

      For those who randomised to pessary group, a soft, flexible, silicone pessary, purchased from
      the manufacturer (Arabin®, Dr Arabin GmbH & Co KG, Germany), will be inserted through the
      vagina, upward around the cervix by 4 senior clinicians, who had experienced with pessary
      used, within one week of randomisation. The size of the pessary will be determined at the
      time of speculum inspection (Arabin and Alfirevic, 2013).

      In the cerclage plus progesterone group, 400 mg vaginal progesterone, purchased from the
      manufacturer (Cyclogest® 400mg, Actavis, United Kingdom), will be applied once daily at
      bedtime, within two days after cerclage insertion. Participants will be asked to record their
      drug application in a patient diary sheet for up to 140 days.

      In the pessary plus progesterone group, 400 mg vaginal progesterone, purchased from the
      manufacturer (Cyclogest® 400mg, Actavis, United Kingdom), will be applied once daily at
      bedtime, within two days after pessary insertion, in addition to the pessary that has been
      placed. Participants will be asked to record their drug application in a patient diary sheet
      for up to 147 days.

      In all groups, participants will be re-assessed at 14 days post-randomisation for any
      possible adverse event. After that, participants will be seen monthly or weekly per local
      protocol. CL measurement will not be performed routinely after randomisation, unless for
      patients' preference. In case the CL was shortened, further intervention, if any, will be
      based on the clinician's decision after a discussion with the patient.

      In case of premature rupture of the membranes, active vaginal bleeding, other signs of
      preterm labor or severe patient discomfort, the vaginal progesterone and pessary or cerclage,
      will be removed. If participants develop (threatened) preterm labor, they will receive
      treatment per local protocol. Intervention will be stopped at 37 0/7 weeks of gestation or at
      delivery.

      Compliance rate to progesterone will be calculated by dividing the number of progesterone
      doses used since the last visit by the number of progesterone doses that should have been
      used since the last visit. Women will be defined as compliant when the compliance rate are
      over 80%.

      Statistical analysis will be conducted according to the intention-to-treat principle, in
      which all randomised women will be considered in the primary comparison between treatment
      groups. The per-protocol analysis may be conducted, but these results would be considered
      exploratory only. All tests will be two-tailed, and differences with p-value <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.

      In view of the two-by-two factorial design, the analysis will be done separately for cerclage
      versus pessary and for progesterone versus no progesterone. We will test for interaction
      between CL and treatment effect on PTB <34 weeks and the composite of poor perinatal
      outcomes.

      A pre-specified subgroup analysis in women with a CL <25th percentile, and at the 25-50th
      percentile, 50-75th percentile and >75th percentile is planned. The percentile will be
      determined based on the CL from all women after randomisation.

      A separated detailed statistical analysis plan will be developed and completed prior to data
      lock.

      Individual participant data that underlie the results reported in this article, after
      deidentification (text, tables, figures, and appendices) and study protocol will be
      available, upon request from investigators whose proposed use of the data has been approved
      by an independent review committee ("learned intermediary") identified for this purpose to
      achieve aims in the approved proposal. Data will be available at the beginning 9 months and
      ending 36 months following article publication. Proposals should be directed to
      bsvinh.dq@myduchospital.vn. To gain access, data requestors will need to sign a data access
      agreement. Data are available for 5 years at https://www.project-redcap.org/.
    
  