
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine if increasing the methotrexate dose in combination with standard treatment is
           feasible in patients with advanced small noncleaved cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or
           B-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia.

        -  Assess the toxicity of this intensified therapy in these patients.

        -  Assess the feasibility of treating these patients that have CNS disease at diagnosis
           with this intensified therapy plus etoposide and ifosfamide.

        -  Assess toxicities and late effects of this intensive therapy on the central nervous
           system, cardiac function, and fertility in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to stage and disease
      (stage III non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) vs stage IV NHL with no CNS involvement vs stage IV
      NHL with CNS involvement vs B-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL) with no CNS involvement
      vs B-ALL with CNS involvement).

      Patients receive methotrexate and cytarabine intrathecally on days 1, 4, 11, and 36 (on day
      40 for patients with stage IV NHL or B-ALL only) in combination with alternating courses of:
      A) cyclophosphamide IV every 12 hours for a total of six doses on days 1-3, doxorubicin IV
      over 30 minutes on day 4, vincristine IV on days 4 and 11, dexamethasone IV or orally twice
      daily on days 1-5, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SQ) or IV over 30 minutes beginning
      on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover and B) methotrexate IV over 24 hours on
      day 18, methotrexate intrathecally on day 18, dexamethasone IV or orally twice daily on days
      18-22, leucovorin calcium IV or orally every 6 hours for a total of 6 doses on days 20-21,
      cytarabine IV over 48 hours on days 20-21, and G-CSF SQ or IV over 30 minutes beginning on
      day 22 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients with stage III NHL receive at
      total of 5 courses of treatment (A-B-A-B-A) and patients with stage IV NHL or B-ALL with no
      CNS involvement receive a total of 6 courses of treatment (A-B-A-B-A-B).

      Patients with CNS involvement receive a third course of treatment: C) etoposide IV over 1
      hour on days 36-40, ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 36-40, oral dexamethasone twice daily
      on days 36-40, and G-CSF SQ or IV over 30 minutes beginning on day 41 and continuing until
      blood counts recover. Patients with CNS involvement receive a total of 7 courses of treatment
      (A-B-C-A-B-A-B).

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 4 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 27-80 patients will be accrued for this study over 24 months.
    
  