
    
      5.1.1 Sample The 526,761-inhabitant region of West Pomerania comprises 28 pediatric
      practices. Every mother presenting her newborn for the first time in the pediatric practices
      will be screened. Of these, all women smoking at the date the female received verification of
      her pregnancy are eligible for the study. A power analysis on grounds of data from Johnson et
      al. (2000) and using the software nquery (Elashoff, 2000) revealed that a sample size of 259
      women per group will provide a power of 80 % using the five percent one-tailed significance
      level to compare the experimental and the control group with regard to the prevalence of
      sustained smoking abstinence 6 months after intervention by a two groups continuity corrected
      Chi2-test of equal proportions. Assuming an attrition of approximately 25 %, it results in a
      sample size of 330 women per group. According to the statistical regional authorities of the
      mentioned region, 3,527 babies were born alive in the year 1998. Therefore 1,234 mothers
      smoking at the beginning of pregnancy (35 %) per year are expected. Assuming a pediatric
      practice participation rate of 70 % and an 80 % participation rate of women eligible for the
      study, about one year of data gathering will be necessary to reach the estimated total sample
      size of 660 mothers.

      5.1.2 Procedure Procedure of the study This study is a randomized controlled trial following
      a repeated measures factorial design and enabling the comparison of one intervention group
      with a control group. The work plan of the study incorporates 6 months of preparatory work
      including the adaptation of instruments for the assessment of core constructs of the
      Transtheoretical Model and a pre-test, 12 months of screening by receptionists in pediatric
      practice and the recruitment of eligible women for the study by the pediatrician after giving
      written informed consent (figure 1). Random assignment to control and intervention group will
      be done after forwarding the women's addresses to the liaisonal service provided by research
      staff. The intervention phase of the study will be completed 6 months after the last
      recruitment. Follow-ups will be carried out 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after baseline
      assessment. Data analyses and publication will be started in the third year. Analysis of the
      18 and 24 month data will exceed the three year period of support.

      Figure 1: Time schedule postpartum tobacco smoking relapse prevention intervention

      Procedure for participants Figure 2 details the succession of steps for participants. Every
      woman at her first postpartum visit to a pediatric practice (usually 4 to 6 weeks after
      giving birth) will be screened by receptionists concerning her smoking status, considering
      the time at the beginning of the pregnancy, and informed about the study by the pediatrician.
      All participants will receive treatment as usual at the time of preventive examination of
      newborns by the pediatrician. After baseline assessment by phone, the intervention group will
      receive an initial face-to-face counseling at home one week after the pediatric practice
      visit at home. Two brush-up counseling sessions will be provided by phone 3 and 6 months
      later. Follow-up assessment will be conducted by phone.

      Figure 2: Procedure for participants

      5.1.3 Intervention In the intervention group, motivational interviewing will be conducted by
      psychologists qualified by a comprehensive training curriculum offered at the University of
      Greifswald according to Miller & Rollnick (1991). Face-to-face and phone counseling will be
      tailored by data from baseline assessment and are conceived for a duration of up to 45
      minutes. A tailored information and self-help manual will be given at the initial counseling.
      If the allowance of the participant is received, a tape recording of a random selection of
      counseling sessions will be done for intervention control. The control group will receive
      advice as usual from the pediatrician.

      5.1.4 Measures To ensure cross-study comparison, all measures will be operationalized by
      internationally standardized and validated state of the art instruments, if available.

      Pre-intervention measures

        -  pregnancy history

        -  smoking behavior and history, severity of nicotine dependence

        -  environmental smoking

        -  health behavior

        -  child health

        -  Adapted Transtheoretical Model core constructs (Stage allocation, processes of change,
           decisional balance, and temptation/self-efficacy) based on previous work of Ruggiero et
           al. (2000) and Bane et al. (1999).

      Post-intervention measure

        -  Current and sustained smoking abstinence prevalence, amount of cigarettes smoked per day

        -  Adapted Transtheoretical Model core constructs

      Statistical analysis for the main outcome measure will be done by Chi²-test, T-test and
      repeated measure MANOVA. Outcome predictors will be analyzed by logistic regression analysis.

      5.2 Collaboration 5.2.1 Within EARLINT There will be a close cooperation within EARLINT with
      all studies comprising motivational enhancement intervention by personal counseling. Quality
      assurance and training curricula will be matched for all projects.

      5.2.2 External This study will be conducted in cooperation with pediatric offices in West
      Pomerania. Contact has been established with the regional professional organization of
      pediatricians and Prof. Fusch (Department for Pediatrics at the University of Greifswald).
      Further collaboration exists with the only research group with comparable work in Germany
      (Dr. Lang, Prof. Greiser, University of Bremen).

      5.3 Ethical and legal correctness All ethical and legal safeguards have been met. The study
      is currently being refereed by the local ethical committee. The study involves no risk to
      participants. To the contrary, health benefits are expected. Individuals will be informed of
      their right to refuse to participate in any or all aspects of the study and will be given
      opportunities to terminate enrollment. Informed consent forms and an introductory letter will
      assure individuals that their participation is voluntary and that data protection laws have
      been met.
    
  