
    
      EXCeL Registry is a multi-center, post-market, non-interventional, non-randomized,
      single-arm, prospective observational study, initiated by the Department of Vascular Surgery
      at Catharina Hospital Eindhoven, The Netherlands. The study has a single-arm without
      controls, as it is descriptive in nature, 150 consented subjects from up to 10 high-volume
      sites across Europe will be included into this registry.

      Study enrollment is open to consecutively enrolled subjects who in the opinion of the
      investigator and according to Table A (p.9) -Anatomic measurement table and group specific-
      are suitable for being treated. An independent core lab will validate pre-requisite anatomy
      measurement to evaluate candidates for endovascular AAA repair with the GORE® EXCLUDER®
      Conformable AAA Endoprosthesis.

      EXCeL Registry does not intervene with the physician's decision to choose for endovascular
      treatment with a GORE® EXCLUDER® Conformable AAA Endoprosthesis. Follow-up measurements are
      requested at 1 month, 12 months, and yearly thereafter, as minimally required by the
      reporting standards for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair. Beyond this, sites can schedule
      the subject's follow-up visits as usual in their clinical practice, as this study does not
      intervene in or influence the follow-up regimen. For data completion it is, however, possible
      that a telephone-contact with subjects will be requested.

      This study will assess the safety and effectiveness of the GORE® EXCLUDER® Conformable AAA
      Endoprosthesis in patients who meet the IFU anatomic criteria and in patients with
      challenging anatomic presentation that may fall outside the IFU anatomic criteria and
      identified in the protocol as challenging anatomy treatment cohort. Consented subjects placed
      in the challenging anatomy cohort will be followed per the protocol and any data analysis on
      this cohort will be descriptive in nature only.

      Up to 11 clinical investigative Sites will enroll a total of 150 subjects to allow for the
      broad range of aortic necks lengths and aortic neck angulations to be in the study.
      Consecutive consented subjects meeting protocol criteria will be part of the enrollment
      strategy:

        -  Subjects with neck length of ≥15 mm and neck angulation of ≤90°

        -  Subjects with neck length of ≥10 mm and neck angulation of ≤60˚ An independent Core Lab
           will read each subjects' pre-operative CT images and measure neck length and neck angle.
           These core lab measurements will determine if subject's anatomy meets IFU criteria
           (regarding neck length and neck angle) or if this subject has to be placed in the
           challenging anatomy treatment cohort.

      The EXCeL Registry, by itself, has a prospective observational study design, and focuses on
      patients with infrarenal abdominal or aorto-iliac aneurysms with Regular and challenging
      anatomy, scheduled for EVAR treatment with the GORE® EXCLUDER® Conformable AAA
      Endoprosthesis. No hypotheses testing will be carried out within this study design. However,
      the EXCeL Registry aims at creating a database that can analyze the performance of the GORE®
      EXCLUDER® Conformable AAA Endoprosthesis in different anatomies.

      Sample size calculation was precision based in order to achieve a desirable confidence
      interval width. An assumption of freedom from any endpoint event of 90% and a desired
      Confidence Interval (CI) of 10% or less results in a sample size of 150. Calculations
      performed with PASS13.

      A Subject will be considered lost to follow-up and withdrawn from the study once they have
      missed two consecutive follow-up visits and three documented attempts have been made by the
      Investigator or designee to contact the Subject or next of kin. In the event that the Subject
      is lost to follow-up, the date of discontinuation of the study will be recorded as the last
      contact with the Subject by the investigative site.

      A Subject has completed the study when they have completed the three year follow-up visit.
      Any Subject that does not complete these requirements due to voluntary withdrawal, physician
      withdrawal, death, or any other reason will be considered a withdrawal.

      Data collected on each subject will be recorded on an online electronic CRF. A paper version
      of the CRFs may be printed at the sites to use as a working copy. Instructions for proper
      completion of the electronic CRF and how to use it online will be provided to the clinical
      site. The investigator or an authorized member of the investigational team must sign all
      completed CRFs, by using a unique signature code. This code will be provided to the user at
      the start of the study.

      The Statistics & Data Analysis team at the Department of Vascular Surgery, Catharina
      Hospital, Eindhoven will check the data entered on the CRFs for consistency and completeness
      on a regular basis, both manually as well as by using statistical monitoring of the clinical
      database. Sites will be contacted for data inconsistencies in order to recover incomplete,
      inconsistent, or missing data.

      In case of multiple futile attempts of data completeness data and non-respond from clinical
      sites monitors of the Department of Vascular Surgery, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven will
      visit sites. They will then collect data from source documents in a final attempt to complete
      the applicable CRFs. To enhance data quality, additional site visits may be conducted to
      crosscheck CRFs with patient files in approximately 20% of enrolled subjects. The local
      investigator will timely be informed of this scheduled visit.
    
  