
    
      The current study is a randomized phase II study comparing high speed, single arc,
      LINAC-based prostate stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) with conventional external
      beam radiation treatment (EBRT), along with androgen suppression (AS), in men with
      intermediate and high risk prostate cancer, who are either unsuitable for or unwilling to
      have brachytherapy. The two primary objectives of the study are to assess the feasibility of
      randomization, and to compare the rates of acute and late toxicities. Should randomization
      prove feasible, and toxicities comparable, a future phase 3 trial will be pursued.

      Primary objectives:

        1. To determine the proportion of eligible patients who are willing to be randomized

        2. To estimate and compare the proportions of acute and late toxicities, focussing on grade
           3 and 4 complications of the treatment interventions as delivered in the British
           Columbia (BC) Cancer Agency

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare the disease free survival as reflected in biochemical relapse free survival
           at five years between the two interventions

        2. To compare the health related quality of life as reflected in changes on the EPIC
           questionnaire between the two interventions

        3. To quantify the degree of intra-fraction motion with the proposed SABR technique

      Research Method

      To determine the willingness of eligible patients to be randomized, a screening log
      documenting the number of eligible subjects approached for participation will be maintained.
      Subjects who are approached but who decline participation will undergo a short interview by
      the Clinical Research Associate as to the reason for non-participation. The Clinical Research
      Associate will read from a script with statements to make sure that subjects who refuse the
      trial know that they are free to provide or not provide the reasons for declining the trial
      and that their answers will not affect the care they will receive. They will be asked to list
      up to five reasons for non-participation in the trial. At the conclusion of the trial,
      qualitative analyses will be done for the reason of non-participation.

      The two radiation treatment protocols, conventional EBRT and SABR, will be compared in a
      randomized, phase II study.

      Patients with biopsy-proven intermediate or high risk prostate cancer will be accrued. T3 or
      T4 disease, men with International Prostate Symptom Score >20 and prostate volume > 90 cc are
      not eligible. Men with high risk disease must have a <15% risk of pelvic lymph node
      involvement to be eligible.

      Eligible subjects will be identified by the treating oncologist and enrolled through the
      clinical trials unit of the participating regional cancer centre. Once the consent form is
      signed, a Study Entry Form will be sent to the trial administrative centre located at the
      Vancouver Island Centre of the BC Cancer Agency. A Patient Identification Number will be
      assigned and the patient will be randomized to a treatment arm. This study proposes that
      eighty (80) patients be randomized in a 1:1 ratio.

      Subjects randomized to Arm 1 (conventional EBRT) will receive 73.68 Gy in 28 fractions (5
      treatment days per week over 5.5 weeks).

      Subjects randomized to Arm 2 (SABR) will receive a prescribed dose of 36.25 Gy in 5 fractions
      over 5 weeks (one treatment day per week).

      Subjects randomized to the SABR arm will undergo an additional procedure prior to radiation
      treatment to place gold seed fiducials (placement of gold seed fiducials is optional in the
      EBRT arm and is at the discretion of the treating centre).

      Androgen-Deprivation Therapy (ADT) will be administered to all patients on both treatment
      arms. ADT will consist of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist monotherapy,
      but total androgen blockade is also permitted at the discretion of the treating oncologist.
      The total duration of ADT will be 6 months for men with intermediate risk disease, and 18
      months for those with high risk disease. ADT is to be initiated prior to the start of RT.

      PATIENT ASSESSMENTS AND FOLLOWUP

      Pre-radiotherapy assessment:

      All patients must have a biopsy indicating prostate adenocarcinoma within 365 days of trial
      registration. A full history and physical examination, with digital rectal examination, must
      be done within 60 days of registration. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis and nuclear
      medicine bone scan must be done within 60 days of registration. Baseline PSA and testosterone
      must be done not more than 60 days before registration and repeated in the week before
      radiotherapy to document response to androgen deprivation therapy. Physician assessment must
      be done within 60 days of randomization. Baseline QOL assessment (EPIC), prostate symptom
      score (IPSS), and sexual health inventory (SHIM) are to be done prior to the start of
      radiotherapy.

      Assessments during radiotherapy:

      All patients will be seen by a radiation oncologist (or clinical associate) weekly during
      radiotherapy. QOL assessment (EPIC), IPSS/SHIM, and adverse events assessment (CTCAEv4,
      modified Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG)/SOMA) will be done during week 5 of
      radiotherapy for both Arms 1 and 2.

      Post-radiotherapy assessment and follow-up:

      All patients will be assessed 2 weeks and 8 weeks post-radiotherapy, then every 6 months
      until 2 years, and then yearly until year 5. At each of these time points patients will
      undergo physician assessment, PSA/testosterone, QOL assessment (EPIC), IPSS/SHIM, and adverse
      events assessment (CTCAEv4, modified RTOG/SOMA).

      Data Analysis

      Actuarial rates of acute (defined as occurring ≤ 6 months after initiation of treatment) and
      late (defined as occurring > 6 months after initiation of treatment) as well as the
      prevalence of late toxicities at 1, 2 and 5 years will be determined. Grade 3 and 4
      toxicities will be compared between intervention groups using exact test statistics (SAS FREQ
      procedure, SAS Gary, NC). Stratified analyses will also use the SAS FREQ procedure and
      Zelen's exact test for equal odds ratios, exact confidence limits for the common odds ratio,
      and an exact test for the common odds ratio. Quality of life scores and EPIC scales will be
      compared between interventions using the t-test statistic.
    
  