
    
      The primary goal of this pilot study (R21) is to address the urgent need for theoretically
      and empirically informed interventions that prevent poor female youth's rural-to-urban
      migration for child labor in low and middle-income countries. The International Labor
      Organization (ILO) estimates that 11% of children (ages 5 to 17) worldwide are child
      laborers. ILO recently drew attention to migrant child laborers as an underreported, but more
      vulnerable group to adverse outcomes relative to children working locally. Sub-Saharan Africa
      (SSA) continues to be the continent with the highest rates of child labor, with Ghana
      registering one of the highest incidence rates at 22%, including unaccompanied child migrants
      engaged in labor. Adolescent girls make up the majority of unaccompanied rural-to-urban
      migrants in search of better economic opportunities. Studies document the myriad of serious
      threats to health and emotional well-being experienced by female adolescent migrants engaged
      in child labor. These threats underline the urgent need for theoretically-informed preventive
      interventions, specifically tailored to address the root causes of female child migrant labor
      and the needs of girls from economically insecure families and communities. Hence, this
      application titled ANZANSI Family Program focuses on girls before they drop out of school,
      but as they begin exhibiting possibility of dropping out. Specifically, ANZANSI is an
      innovative combination intervention program, combining an evidence-informed family-level
      economic empowerment (EE) aimed at creating and strengthening financial stability through the
      use of matched children savings accounts (CSA) and microfinance in poor households with a
      multiple family group (MFG) intervention addressing family functioning and parental beliefs
      around gender and child labor/ education. Informed by asset theory, parental ethnotheories
      framework; and the investigative team's research in SSA on child-wellbeing and poverty, the
      study uses a cluster randomized control design (N=10 schools; n=100 girls ages 11-14 at risk
      of dropping out of school and their caregivers), assigned to two study conditions (N= 5
      schools; n=50 children at risk of dropping out of school and their caregivers in each
      condition). The control group will receive bolstered usual care, including books and school
      lunch and treatment group will receive a combination intervention (Family EE+MFG) called
      ANZANSI, to address the following specific aims: Aim 1: Pilot test the (i) feasibility and
      acceptability of ANZANSI; and (ii) preliminary impact of ANZANSI by comparing the control arm
      to the treatment arm on specific child development outcomes; Aim 2: Explore multi- level
      factors (individual, family, and programmatic) impacting participation in and experiences
      with the ANZANSI. This study is aligned with NICHD's mission to support research relevant to
      the psychological, behavioral, and educational development and health of children worldwide.
      Ultimately, our findings may guide approaches to address youth's unaccompanied rural-to-urban
      migration and involvement in child labor in SSA, and the associated negative consequences.
    
  