
    
      Fifty thousand cases of colon and rectal cancer (CRC) could be prevented each year through
      screening, increased exercise and improved diet. Obesity alone increases risk of CRC by 33%
      and is associated with increased CRC mortality. Red and processed meat consumption is
      associated with increased CRC risk, most often in the context of dietary patterns, which
      juxtapose "Western" and "prudent" diets. A recent meta-analysis of 24 case control studies
      and 11 prospective cohort studies (n=1,295,063 men and women) found an 18% reduction in risk
      for colon cancer in the groups consuming the highest levels of cruciferous and green leafy
      vegetables. Risk reduction with high green leafy vegetable consumption remained significant
      regardless of whether pooled studies controlled for meat and/or total energy intake.

      Heme-induced genotoxicity of the colon is prevented by chlorophyll in rodent models; an
      important finding that has not been tested in clinical trials though is supported by
      epidemiological observation.

      This trial utilizes a crossover design to assess the feasibility of a dietary intervention in
      adults at increased risk of CRC. The overall intent of this line of research is to elucidate
      a CRC risk-reducing dietary pattern that is accessible to the general public. Therefore,
      obese, meat-eating participants will be randomized to an intervention and control diet: 1)
      high chlorophyll (green leafy vegetables) and high heme (normal meat) consumption; and 2)
      habitual high heme, low chlorophyll diet (control). During the intervention periods, all
      participants will receive individual dietary counseling from a registered dietitian two days
      per week to reinforce daily consumption goals based on the amounts of chlorophyll and heme in
      various foods. This study translates preclinical models, utilizes an appropriate at-risk
      population, and if feasible, has the potential to be tested for efficacy for the reduction of
      colon cancer risk.

      Participants will be recruited through the Auburn University Pharmaceutical Care Clinic and
      throughout the Auburn community. After completing all baseline procedures, participants will
      be block randomized by gender due to potential differences in fecal microbiome. All
      participants will receive the intervention; the order in which it is received will be
      randomly generated. For the high chlorophyll study arm, a goal of 1 cup cooked dark leafy
      green vegetables will be prescribed, and participants will be instructed to consume at least
      ½ cup cooked dark green leafy vegetables during the same meal they consume red meat. The high
      chlorophyll group will also receive a variety of frozen dark green leafy vegetables,
      including, spinach, kale, collards, mustard greens, and turnip greens. Frozen vegetables are
      provided because flash-freezing minimizes nutrient loss and prevents chlorophyll degradation.
      Though the chlorophyll content varies between these species, it is exponentially higher than
      other green vegetables in the brassica family. Participants will be instructed to consume
      cooked vegetables, rather than raw, to increase the bioavailability of chlorophyll and reduce
      the volume of the needed amount of vegetable.

      After each 4-week period, participants will complete questionnaires, return unused frozen
      vegetables (which will be tracked), provide a stool sample, and undergo phlebotomy. Study
      staff will obtain two 24-hour dietary recalls on non-consecutive days. Participants will be
      provided with an additional fecal collection kit for the sample that will be obtained prior
      to the next dietary arm assignment.

      The behavioral framework of this intervention will utilize Social Cognitive Theory as the
      basis for behavior change in each intervention arm. Participants will increase self-efficacy
      of dietary adherence by setting goals and logging daily food intake (self-monitoring), which
      will be assessed in twice weekly counseling sessions with a registered dietitian.
    
  