
    
      Heart transplantation is the only hope for children with end stage heart disease. Eventually
      cardiac deterioration occurs and leads to death or re-transplantation. Our understanding of
      the pathophysiology of cardiac dysfunction in these children is incomplete. The time course
      of the dysfunction process either in the RV and/or the LV, systole or diastole has never been
      studied in children. No meaningful TSI quantitation has ever been performed in a large
      pediatric OHT patient population. The long-term goal of this study will be the detection of
      functional myocardial changes associated with known stages post heart transplantation using
      TDI and TSI. These achievements impact the survival and quality of life of children after
      cardiac transplantation.

      Research Design and Methods

      All subjects who are treated in the transplant clinic will be approached for possible
      participation into the study. These patients will include newly transplanted (OHT) patients
      as well as patients who underwent OHT prior to the enrollment year. The following procedures
      will occur at each study visit:

      Echocardiographic assessment Standard 2-dimensional, M-mode, and Doppler or 3-dimensional
      echocardiography evaluation will be performed. We will assess cardiac function using left
      ventricular shortening (SF) and ejection fractions (EF). The EF will be calculated using both
      M-Mode and by Simpson's rule. We will also perform tissue synchronization imaging (TSI) and
      tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) using the GE Vivid 7 echocardiographic system. Both TSI and TDI
      will assist investigators in assessing mechanical synchrony. In newly transplanted patients,
      these echocardiographic assessments will occur during the first 5 days to serially measure
      ventricular synchrony during the acute post-operative period. For older transplant patients
      and for new transplant patients greater than five days out from transplantation,
      echocardiographic studies will occur at all follow-up clinic visits as determined by
      physician preference.

      Clinical assessment Clinical evaluation will be performed during all follow-up visits in
      order to track unrecognized complications or adverse events. As is standard, all patients
      undergoing transplantation follow-up will have an electrocardiogram (EKG) performed to assess
      rhythm.
    
  