
    
      Objective

      To generate natural history data for cohort-based comparisons to serve as the basis for
      hypothesis-driven studies and to contribute to the clinical and physiological understanding
      of traumatic brain injury (TBI) through the description of manifestations of the injury and
      the relationship among radiological, hematological, clinical variables and standard
      functional outcome measures.

      Study Population

      One thousand male and female adult subjects with history of recent head injury with or
      suspected non-penetrating acute TBI, will be enrolled. Subjects having varying degrees of TBI
      severity will be recruited from the collaborative programs between NIH and non-NIH hospitals.
      We anticipate approximately 80% of subjects will be classified as mild TBI, concussion, or no
      injury.

      Design

      This is a prospective study of subjects with known and suspected non-penetrating acute
      traumatic brain injury. Subjects presenting to the emergency department or trauma service at
      participating hospitals with a history of recent suspected head injury will be studied during
      the course of their hospital stay and after discharge using radiological, hematological,
      clinical and functional outcome measures. Subjects will be stratified according to findings
      and time of initial imaging into cohorts for comparison.

      The design is intentionally broad in scope to allow acquisition of data for the development
      of future hypothesis-driven research. Research performed under this protocol will not
      interfere with standard of care and subjects will not be treated with experimental therapies
      as part of the research study. Data collected under this research study may be shared without
      personal identifiers with other researchers if subjects approve this option on the informed
      consent. Data and samples collected under this protocol and other protocols that allow data
      sharing will be combined for secondary analysis under this protocol.

      Outcome Measures

      A variety of outcome measures will be used including diagnosis, evidence of injury on
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET), functional
      impairment, and quality of life (QOL) assessments. Research questions will focus on a
      positive diagnosis of brain injury and monitoring the natural history. Statistical analysis
      plans will be developed as specific research questions and hypotheses are generated.
    
  