
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To estimate the probability of survival at 1 year in patients with advanced
           hematological malignancies or other diseases treated with non-myeloablative unrelated
           donor umbilical cord blood transplantation.

      Secondary

        -  Six month non-relapse mortality.

        -  Chimerism at days 7, 14, 21, 28, 56, and 80, at 6 months, and at 1 and 2 years.

        -  To determine the incidence of neutrophil engraftment at day 42.

        -  To determine the incidence of platelet engraftment at 6 months.

        -  To determine the incidence of grade II-IV and III-IV acute graft-versus-host-disease
           (GVHD) at day 100.

        -  To determine the incidence of chronic GVHD at 1 year.

        -  To determine the incidence of clinically significant infections at 6 months and at 1 and
           2 years.

        -  To determine the probability of progression-free survival at 1 and 2 years.

        -  To determine the probability of survival at 2 years.

        -  To determine the incidence of relapse or disease progression at 1 and 2 years.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to disease status and prior therapy (hematologic
      malignancy or other disease that was treated with an autologous stem cell transplant or ≥ 2
      courses of multiagent chemotherapy within the past 3 months vs hematologic malignancy or
      other disease that was treated with an autologous stem cell transplant > 12 months ago or
      with ≤ 1 course of multiagent chemotherapy or immunosuppressive chemotherapy within the past
      3 months vs refractory leukemia or lymphoma for which patient was rendered aplastic either by
      induction chemotherapy or radioimmunoconjugated monoclonal antibody therapy).

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour on days -6
           to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV on day -6. Patients also undergo total body irradiation on
           day -1. Some patients also receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV on days -6 to -4.

        -  Umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT): Patients undergo UCBT on day 0.

        -  Immunosuppressive therapy (graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis): Patients receive
           cyclosporine IV over 1 hour or orally (as tolerated) every 8 or 12 hours beginning on
           day -3 and continuing for approximately 6 months. Patients also receive mycophenolate
           mofetil IV every 8 hours on days -3 to 5 and then orally on days 6-30.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 months and then annually
      thereafter.
    
  