
    
      Hepatic sinusoidal obstructive syndrome (SOS), also known as veno-occlusive disease, is a
      complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) that is associated with high
      morbidity and mortality. 57,000 patients in the United States and Europe undergo HCT annually
      and SOS affects up to 15% of these patients. SOS pathogenesis is thought to be caused by
      damage to the hepatic venous endothelium due to the preparative regimen used before HCT. This
      damage results in obstruction of blood flow through the liver. Pathology shows collagen
      deposition in the sinusoids and fibrosis of venous lumens. The severity of the disease is not
      correlated to the number and severity of the histological changes. Mild and moderate SOS can
      resolve with supportive treatment. Severe SOS (30% of SOS) is commonly associated with
      multi-organ failure and has a mortality rate of 80% despite available prophylaxis and
      treatment.

      SOS is most commonly defined by two clinical criteria: the modified Seattle criteria and the
      Baltimore criteria. The modified Seattle criteria state that at least two of the following
      criteria must be present within 20 days of HCT: bilirubin > 2mg/dL; hepatomegaly and/or
      ascites; and/or weight gain > 5% above baseline weight (6). Pediatric SOS incidence in HCT is
      20% and is higher compared to adults. Death or multi-organ dysfunction affects 30-60%
      children who develop SOS. The most common definition of severe SOS is retrospective, namely
      death from SOS-related causes or persistent multi-organ dysfunction at 100 days post HCT.
      However, the European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation has proposed new
      prospective SOS diagnosis and grading schemes that could become standard of care since it can
      be performed prospectively and thus can guide treatment.

      Defibrotide is a DNA derivative from porcine intestine that protects and repairs endothelial
      cells. Prior trials showed that defibrotide decreased the incidence of multi-organ failure
      and death from SOS. The main caveat is that treatment must be initiated very close to the
      time of clinical diagnosis using the Baltimore criteria to be effective (14). A study showed
      that 31/33 (94%) patients had complete remission of their SOS when treated with defibrotide
      <3 days after diagnosis, whereas only 3/12 (25%) patients had complete remission when treated
      >3 days of diagnosis. However, universal prophylaxis is difficult due to high drug costs
      ($155,000 for 21-day course). There is a critical need for an early and effective SOS
      diagnostic test that can identify patients who would benefit from defibrotide treatment.

      Several adult and pediatric prospective studies have evaluated the efficacy of grayscale and
      Doppler ultrasound (US) in diagnosing SOS and have concluded that the clinical criteria are
      superior to US criteria for SOS diagnosis. The main reason for this conclusion is that
      conventional US is able to diagnose SOS only after the clinical diagnosis. This research has
      resulted in multiple recent guidelines recommending US only for confirming clinical diagnoses
      or following disease progression and not for primary diagnosis. Ultrasound shear wave
      elastography (SWE) has been shown to effectively diagnose passive hepatic congestion. Fontan
      physiology is the best studied example. SWE values markedly increased after the Fontan
      operation. This surgery connects the hepatic venous circulation to the pulmonary arteries
      exposing the liver to increased resistance from the pulmonary circulation thereby increasing
      hepatic venous congestion. Additionally, the effect sizes in the Fontan studies are large
      compared with the effect sizes in hepatic fibrosis studies. The common thread of hepatic
      venous congestion between Fontan physiology and SOS physiology led us to hypothesize that SWE
      could be useful in SOS diagnosis. Additionally, preliminary SWE studies in adults showed that
      it might be useful in the setting of SOS.

      The investigators of this study recently conducted a single site prospective cohort study
      involving 25 patients undergoing myeloblative HCT patients from December 2015 through June
      2017. The investigators found increased velocities in all patients who developed SOS. US SWE
      velocity values showed no difference between pre-conditioning median US SWE velocity in the
      SOS group (1.24 + 0.09 m/s) and non-SOS group (1.41 + 0.18 m/s) (p=0.06). By day +5, patients
      with SOS had US SWE velocities that significantly increased by 0.25 + 0.21 m/s from baseline
      compared to 0.02 + 0.18 m/s in patients without SOS from baseline (p=0.02). By day +14,
      patients with SOS had US SWE velocities that significantly increased by 0.91 + 1.14 m/s from
      baseline compared to 0.03 + 0.23 m/s in patients without SOS from baseline (0.01). These
      values are both clinically and statistically significant, demonstrating that patients with
      SOS have significantly increased liver stiffness as measured by US SWE compared to patients
      without SOS. Additionally, SWE changes happened on average 9 to 11 days before clinical
      diagnostic criteria became positive. The sensitivity and specificity of this test were 60-80%
      and 67-93% in our small cohort of 25 patients depending on the threshold used and the test
      timing.

      Data Collection Procedures: Candidates for the study will be identified by a HCT physician
      taking care of the patient and will be identified as a potential candidate for the study.
      Subjects will be approached for consent by a member of the research team prior to start of
      conditioning regimen. Consented subjects will have demographic, laboratory and clinical data
      collected from the chart at each ultrasound time point.

      Consented subjects will have an US SWE within two weeks prior to starting their conditioning
      regimen and at the following time points based on disease course:

        1. All Patients: patients will undergo ultrasound elastography within two-weeks prior to
           admission for conditioning AND twice per week through Day +30 or discharge, whichever
           comes first.

           Patients whom are still an inpatient after Day +30, and are not clinically suspicious
           for SOS/VOD, will undergo ultrasound elastography every 30 days (Day +60 and Day +90)
           until discharge.

        2. Late Onset SOS/VOD as INPATIENT (AFTER DAY +30): patients will undergo ultrasound
           elastography twice a week during course of SOS/VOD treatment. If patient is still
           admitted at end of treatment, patient will undergo ultrasound elastography once every 30
           days through day +100 or discharge, whichever comes first.

        3. Late Onset SOS/VOD as OUTPATIENT (DAY +30 - DAY + 100): patients will undergo ultrasound
           elastography once a week during course of SOS/VOD treatment
    
  