
    
      BACKGROUND: tDCS is a safe and easy to use technique that has emerged as a promising tool to
      induce plasticity and to facilitate sensorimotor rehabilitation with potential application in
      various clinical populations. tDCS has been shown to induce changes that outlast the duration
      of the stimulation, by modulating neuronal membrane potential of the targeted brain region.
      Depending on the flow of current, tDCS can increase or decrease neuronal excitability; anodal
      tDCS induces membrane depolarization and enhanced excitability of cortical neurons, whereas
      cathodal tDCS induces membrane hyperpolarization and reduced excitability of cortical
      neurons. As such, tDCS has the potential to prime the plastic potential of a given brain
      region, making it more responsive to another intervention. For example, it has been shown
      that five days of anodal tDCS combined with training promotes motor skill acquisition still
      detectable three months later; an effect significantly superior to sham tDCS. These effects
      most likely are due to the augmentation of synaptic plasticity that requires the presence of
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor.

      Coupled with sensorimotor training, tDCS can lead to subsequent sustained clinical gains.The
      beneficial effects of tDCS combined with sensorimotor training to normalize motor cortical
      activity and to enhance rehabilitation have been shown in populations with neurological
      injuries, such a stroke. In musculoskeletal populations, anodal tDCS over M1 has also been
      shown to lead to significant pain level reduction. Evidence suggests that tDCS over M1 may
      relieve pain through inhibition of thalamic sensory neurons and disinhibition of neurons
      located in the periaqueductal gray matter. In these latter studies, tDCS was specifically
      aimed at reducing pain and was not coupled with sensorimotor training. In fact, evidence on
      the effect of tDCS coupled with sensorimotor training in musculoskeletal populations is
      scarce, and the effect of such intervention has never been evaluated in individuals with RC
      tendinopathy. Considering that RC tendinopathy is associated with impaired motor control and
      that pain can decrease the excitability of the motor cortex and impair motor learning, the
      investigators believe that it is relevant to determine whether tDCS can enhance sensorimotor
      training, and improve outcome.

      PURPOSE - The primary objective of this randomized control trial is to compare, in terms of
      symptoms and functional limitations, a group receiving a rehabilitation program centered on
      sensorimotor training combined with anodal tDCS to a group receiving the same rehabilitation
      program combined with sham tDCS in individuals with RC tendinopathy. A secondary objective is
      to explore the effects of these interventions on shoulder control and corticospinal
      excitability.

      METHODS - Study Design: This triple-blind (patients, therapist & evaluator), parallel-group
      randomized control trial will include four evaluation sessions over 6 months (baseline, week
      3, week 6, 3-month) and a 6-week rehabilitation program.

      Interventions: Each participant will take part in the same 8-week rehabilitation program
      supervised by an independent physiotherapist. This program, previously shown effective,
      targets the deficits described in individuals with RC tendinopathy. It includes sensorimotor
      training, strengthening, and patient education. Each session lasts 40 minutes, with at least
      75% for sensorimotor training. The rest of the session is used to teach and revise home
      exercises. tDCS will be applied during sensorimotor training (30 min),but only during the
      first five sessions, as these sessions will be during the first phase of motor learning,
      characterized by considerable improvement in performance.

      Statistical Analyses - Descriptive statistics will be used for all outcome measures at each
      measurement time to summarise results. Baseline demographic data will be compared
      (independent t-test and Chi-squared tests) to establish the comparability of groups. All data
      will be tested to check the distributional assumptions for the inferential statistical
      analyses. An intention-to-treat analysis will be used in which all participants will be
      analysed in the group to which they were originally assigned. All dropouts and the reason for
      dropping out of the study will be reported. Any harm or unintended effects during the
      programs will be recorded. A 2-way ANOVA (2 tDCS [Real or Sham] x 4 Time [week 0, 3, 6, 12])
      will be used to analyse the effects of tDCS on primary outcome and secondary outcomes.
    
  