
    
      The EnSeal Device is FDA approved for surgery in ligating and dividing vascular tissue during
      abdominal surgery. Electrical energy is converted into heat energy and resultant simultaneous
      division of tissues. This allows surgery to be bloodless and sutureless. It has been
      successfully used by many individual practitioners for hemorrhoidectomy, with apparent
      advantage and success; but to date, no comparative study has been done to assess the
      advantages and disadvantages of this method of hemorrhoidectomy, when compared to traditional
      excisional techniques. The investigators propose to use this device in the current study in
      the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease where vascular tissue is excised in bloodless and
      sutureless fashion. It is currently being used in institutions throughout the United States
      and Europe.

      After surgery, patients will receive the same standard postoperative instructions as for
      conventional hemorrhoidectomy, which include wound care, pain medicine, and other standard
      instructions. The patient will be followed in the office with visits at 3 to 4weeks, and 3
      months postoperatively.

      At these visits, they will be assessed for postoperative complications including but not
      limited to: bleeding, urinary retention, fecal impaction, hospital re-admission and pain.
      Delayed complications -greater than four weeks- will be followed including impaired healing,
      constipation, abscess, fistula formation, fissure, and stenosis. The patient's pain score and
      type and amount of pain medications taken will be recorded by the patient daily for the first
      2 weeks then weekly for a month postoperatively. This will be assessed using a pain diary
      which includes a visual analog pain scale (allowing the patient to describe their pain level
      on a scale between 1 and 10) and space to note the quantity of pain medications used. During
      each office visit, the operating surgeon will evaluate the patient.
    
  