
    
      Participants

      This study is a dyadic intervention. Target populations are older adults and informal
      caregivers with chronic pain. A pair of informal caregiver and older adult will be regarded
      as a dyad. Dyads will be recruited in the community following the snowball sampling, the
      eligibility will be accessed based on the following details:

      Older adults

      Inclusion criteria for older adults:

        1. Aged 65 or above;

        2. Have an informal caregiver willing to participate this program;

        3. Can understand Chinese;

        4. Have a history of non-cancer pain in past 6 months;

        5. Pain score should be at least 2 measured by Numeric Rating Scale, a 11-point numeric
           scale ;

        6. Have behavioral abilities to do a light exercise and stretch program;

        7. Able to attend the whole sessions in community activity center.

      Exclusion criteria for older adults:

        1. Have serious organic disease or malignant tumor;

        2. Have a history of consciousness or mental disorder diagnosed by neurologists or
           psychiatrists;

        3. Have a further medical/surgical treatment in two months or have joined in other pain
           management program.

        4. Experience a drug addiction problem

      Informal caregivers Inclusion criteria for informal caregivers

        1. Aged 18 or above;

        2. As an informal caregiver for one older adult;

        3. Can understand Chinese;

        4. Have a history of non-cancer pain in past 6 months;

        5. Pain score should be at least 2 measured by Numeric Rating Scale, a 11-point numeric
           scale ;

        6. Own a smartphone and can assess the internet;

        7. Able to attend the whole sessions in community activity center.

      Exclusion criteria for informal caregivers

        1. Have serious organic disease or malignant tumor;

        2. Have a history of consciousness or mental disorder diagnosed by neurologists or
           psychiatrists;

        3. Have a further medical/surgical treatment in two months or have joined in other pain
           management program.

        4. Experience a drug addiction problem

      Outcome measures It is a dyadic intervention so outcomes will be measured from older adults
      and informal caregivers.

      Primary outcome The Brief Pain Inventory-Chinese Version It is a tool to evaluate the
      intensity, site, quality, relief, interference and causes of pain in patients. Four items for
      the degree of pain severity, one item for the degree of pain relief and seven items for
      degree of pain interferes will assess, numbering the different pain sites from 0 to 10. For
      BPI-C, the Cronbach's α for the pain severity and pain interference items are 0.83-0.89 and
      0.90-0.91 and has good acceptable test-retest reliability .

      Secondary outcomes:

      World Health Organization Quality of Life-Brief It is a self-report questionnaire which
      assesses 4 domains of quality of life, including physical health, psychological health,
      social relationships, and environment. Participants will express how much they have
      experienced in the preceding two weeks on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all)
      to 5 (completely). Previous studies showed that WHOQOL-BRIF has good internal consistency and
      validity.

      Depression Anxiety Stress Scale It is a self-administered psychological instrument to
      evaluate the degree of depression, anxiety and stress involving 21 items. Every part has
      seven items on a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 0 to 3. The instrument was used in
      previous studies and had good internal consistency and validity.

      Pain Self-efficacy Questionnaire It is a tool to measure the self-efficacy in coping with
      daily activities with pain . A Chinese version of the PSEQ will be used in this study.
      Participants will express participants' confidence in performing ten activities experiencing
      pain on a 7-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all confident) to 6 (completely
      cinfident). Previous studies illustrated the test-rest reliability coefficient of PSEQ was
      0.75 and internal consistency, Cronbach's alpha was 0.95, which was reliable .

      Satisfaction and acceptability Participants' satisfaction and acceptability of the dyadic
      intervention will be assessed at the end of the grogram. Some open-ended questions will be
      asked, including "What topics, content, or concepts could have been covered in more/less
      detail?" "As a result of participating in dyadic pain management intervention, did you make
      some positive changes in your life?" "Would you feel the group discussions interesting and
      informative? Did the activities and exercises relieve your pain symptom?" These questions
      were used in previous studies to evaluate the satisfaction and acceptability of intervention
      program.
    
  