
    
      For a majority of patients with advanced heart failure, medical treatment is only partially
      effective in relieving heart failure symptoms. Therefore, it is recommended that palliative
      care be initiated soon after diagnosis. There is a need for complementary, nonpharmacologic
      interventions that could be easily implemented by health care providers to provide palliative
      care. Three major pathologic pathways underlying heart failure symptoms have been identified:
      fluid overload, inflammation, and oxidative stress. Prior research has demonstrated that
      three nutrients-sodium, omega-3 fatty acids, and lycopene-can alter these pathologic
      pathways. Clinical trials to date have only tested each nutrient individually. There is
      strong theoretical rationale that a combined intervention targeting all three nutrients would
      have substantial benefit in relieving symptoms in advanced heart failure. Therefore, the
      purposes of this study are to test the effects of a 6-month nutrition intervention of dietary
      sodium reduction combined with supplementation of lycopene and omega-3 fatty acids on heart
      failure symptoms, health-related quality of life, and time to heart failure rehospitalization
      or all-cause death. The aims of this placebo controlled study are 1) to determine the effects
      of a 6-month nutrition intervention on symptom burden (edema, shortness of air, and fatigue)
      and health related quality of life at 3 and 6 months, and time to heart failure
      rehospitalization or all-cause death over 12 months from baseline; 2) compare dietary sodium
      intake, inflammation, and markers of oxidative stress between the nutrition intervention
      group and a placebo group at 3 and 6 months; and 3) compare body weight, serum lycopene, and
      erythrocyte omega-3 index between the nutrition intervention group and a placebo group at 3
      and 6 months. A total of 150 patients with advanced heart failure will be randomized to
      either the nutrition intervention or placebo group (75 per group). The nutrition intervention
      group will receive a theory based education and skill building intervention designed to
      decrease dietary sodium intake to ~2 g per day. A research nurse will make 4 home visits and
      one follow-up telephone call over 6 months to provide the education-skill building
      intervention. The intervention group will take 3 omega-3 fatty acid capsules (350 mg
      eicosapentaenoic acid and 50 mg docosahexaenoic acid) and consume tomato juice or other
      tomato-based products containing 20-25 mg of lycopene daily for six months. The placebo group
      will receive the same number of visits and phone calls but only general nutrition information
      will be provided. They will take 3 placebo capsules containing rice oil (500 mg/capsule) and
      consume their choice of fruit juices that do not contain lycopene daily for six months. Data
      will be collected in person at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months by a research assistant
      blinded to the group assignment. Patients will be followed for an additional 6 months by
      telephone to collect longer term data on symptom burden and quality of life as well as heart
      failure hospitalization and all-cause mortality at 9 and 12 months.
    
  