
    
      About 30% of women evaluate their childbirth as traumatic and 3-4% women could develop
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in response to traumatic childbirth. There is also a
      high co-morbidity between post-traumatic stress symptoms and post-partum depressive symptoms.

      The aims of the present research project are:

        -  to investigate the effectiveness of Eye Movement Desesitization and Reprocessing (EMDR)
           therapy in treating post-traumatic and post-partum depressive symptoms in women who have
           just experienced a traumatic childbirth as compared to Supportive Expressive Dynamic
           Psychotherapy (SEDP);

        -  to evaluate the differences between EMDR and SEDP in preventing the onset of PTSD and
           Post-partum Depression diagnoses after three-months post-partum;

        -  to evaluate the effectiveness of EMDR and SEDP on associated anxiety symptoms and on
           mother-child bonding both after the treatment and at the follow-up evaluation;

        -  to compare the effects of EMDR and SEDP on physiological indexes (i.e. HRV and skin
           conductance) measured during the first and last treatment sessions;

        -  to evaluate if these physiological indexes could predict the treatments outcome (e.g.
           respondents vs. non respondents).

      The design of this study is a multicenter, randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Patients will be consecutively recruited from three clinical centers:

        -  Sant'Anna Hospital, Città della Salute e della Scienza of Turin, Italy, affiliated with
           University of Turin, Italy.

        -  Humanitas San Pio X Hospital, Milan, Italy.

        -  San Paolo Teaching Hospital, Milan, Italy.

      Participants The subjects of the study will be 60 women who have experienced a traumatic
      childbirth in the previous 2 days. Those who have a score on the Impact of the Event Scale -
      Revised (IES-R) equal or greater than 24 (in order to consider also sub threshold
      post-traumatic stress symptoms) will be asked for their participation in the study.

      Assessments The psychological evaluation will be performed at baseline (T0), within the third
      day postdelivery, with a limited number of questionnaires, in order not to weigh down the
      patient given the context of urgency and hospitalization.

      The following instruments will be administered:

        -  Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R).

        -  The Edimburgh Post-natal Depression Scale (EPDS).

        -  Peritraumatic Dissociative Experiences Questionnaire (Marmar, 1996).

      Two follow-up assessments will be scheduled in order to evaluate the outcomes of the
      psychotherapeutic interventions and to monitor symptoms levels over time:

        -  at 6-weeks post-partum (i.e. after the end of the psychotherapeutic intervention) (T1);

        -  at 12-weeks post- partum (T2).

      During these follow-ups the following questionnaires will be administrated:

        -  Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R);

        -  Edimburgh Post-natal Depression Scale (EPDS);

        -  Generalised Anxiety Disorder Assessment (GAD-7);

        -  Postpartum Bonding Questionnaire (PBQ);

        -  Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview-Plus (MINI-Plus; Sheehan et al., 1998).

      Interventions All the participants, regardless of the type of treatment, will receive between
      2 and 4 (according to women's availability) individual 60-min-long treatment sessions
      conducted over 4-5 weeks.

      The first two sessions will be carried out before the woman's discharge from the maternity
      ward, and the next three sessions will be performed on an outpatient basis.

      The EMDR treatment will follow the EMDR Recent Birth Trauma Protocol. This protocol can be
      used to intervene immediately after birth, or at later times. The main purposes of early
      intervention is to prevent the onset and development of PTSD and Postpartum Depression in the
      mother during the months following childbirth and to facilitate mother-newborn bonding.

      The SEDP treatment is one of the most widespread treatments and can be considered the
      treatment as usual in Italian maternity wards. This intervention includes both supportive
      techniques (to create a positive, helpful and empathic relationship with the patient) and
      expressive techniques (aimed at helping the patient to express and to understand and change
      problems).

      Physiological measures of psychotherapeutic process During the first and last treatment
      sessions, women will be asked to wear a simple wristband (similar to a wristwatch) that will
      monitor the physiological parameters of HRV and skin conductance for the entire duration of
      the session. These data will be then correlated with the outcome of the interventions
      detected at the follow-up assessments and with the clinical data obtained at the beginning
      and end of each session.

      PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOMES The primary outcome of this study will be differences between
      EMDR and SEDP in reducing the IES- R and the EPDS clinical scores after treatment and at the
      12-weeks post-partum follow-up.

      Secondary outcomes of the studies are:

        -  to compare differences between EMDR and SEDP in preventing the onset of PTSD and
           Post-partum Depression diagnoses at the 12-weeks post-partum follow-up;

        -  to compare the effects of EMDR and SEDP on HRV and skin conductance measured during the
           first and last treatment sessions;

        -  to evaluate if these physiological indexes could predict the treatments outcome
           (e.g.respondents vs. non respondents).
    
  