
    
      Neurocognitive disorder is a major cause of disability among older people and its incidence
      is increasing due to an aging population. Neurocognitive disorders globally are estimated to
      affect 44.35 million people and it is expected that by the year 2050 the number of affected
      people globally will triple to 135.46 million.

      The absence of effective pharmacological treatment that stops or slows down the development
      of the disease has aroused interest in non-pharmacological therapies as a complement to
      pharmacological treatment that may improve the quality of life of people with neurocognitive
      disorders. One of the most investigated and most traditional non-pharmacological therapy in
      this field is Reminiscence Therapy (RT).

      RT involves discussing past activities, events and experiences, usually with the help of
      triggers, such as photographs, household objects and other familiar items from the past,
      music… that is, any object or stimulus that serves to stimulate remembrance. In its
      application to dementia, RT is based on the fact that the memory impairment of people with
      dementia means that they are able to recall events from their past life, especially from
      childhood to early adulthood, but cannot remember more recent facts. It focuses on preserved
      memories and abilities, promotes communication, and enables the person to connect with
      his/her past and regain his/her sense of personal identity. Thus, RT can be understood as an
      intervention on the edge of those of cognitive orientation and emotion-centered, with
      potential interactive effects on autobiographical memory and psychological well-being.

      The investigators can distinguish at least two RT approaches. The first one is the "life
      review" where participants are guided through meaningful experiences from their biography
      trying to make sense of their life. This type of RT is more structured and is usually
      conducted in an individual format. It may imply the construction of "life books". This
      approach is considered to have an integrative function aimed at achieving a sense of
      validation, coherence and reconciliation with the person's past. Another approach is the
      simple reminiscence which involves the stimulation of autobiographical memory during
      conversations about specific themes of the past (such as holidays, food and drinks, work…)
      using stimuli that trigger memories. It has been described as an unstructured narrative of
      autobiographical memories. This reminiscence format can be conducted both individually and in
      groups and promotes communication between participants who share their memories and stories.

      In any of the TR formats it is essential to introduce triggering stimuli (photographs, music,
      antique objects…) to aid in recall. These triggers may be generic, reflecting common
      experiences in the lives of people relevant to their age group (for example a textbook may
      serve to recall the experience during their school stage), or specific, with stimuli related
      to the individual's own experiences (for example photographs of an important life event such
      as your wedding day or a trip during your youth).

      Regarding the effectiveness of RT, according to a recent Cochrane review, there is some
      evidence for its positive effects on cognition, QoL, communication, and possibly mood of
      people with dementia, although benefits are small. Despite the distinction between the two
      different approaches to RT (simple reminiscence vs. life review), the modality of therapy
      does not seem to be as important for positive effects as the individual or group format of
      the sessions and the context in which the intervention is administered (people who live in
      the community or people who are institutionalized).

      According to the results of one review study, RT seems to be able to generate a small benefit
      on cognitive function immediately after the intervention, although it usually does not
      persist after a follow-up period. Regarding the administration format, individual RT effects
      seems slightly superior on cognition both immediately and after a follow-up period. In any
      case, its effects appear to be comparable to those of other cognitive stimulation therapies.

      As for the effect of RT on QoL, a life-review-based individual RT study showed an improvement
      in Qol-AD. Effects with a group format do not seem consistent, showing little or no effect on
      QoL, although the key factor may be the application context (community vs. institution), with
      better results of group RT in institutionalized patients.

      Group RT was associated with an effect on communication both after the intervention and at
      follow-up. This effect was not replicated in individual RT, with uncertain results.

      Finally, despite evidence of the effect of RT on mood of older people without dementia, in
      the case of people with dementia only a small effect on mood was found for those
      participants. in individual RT.

      Therefore, this research proposal aims to evaluate the ability of individual RT using a
      simple reminiscence format to improve the overall cognitive function, memory, executive
      function, mood and quality of life (QoL) of people with neurocognitive disorder attending
      social responses for the elderly.
    
  