
    
      This was an ambulatory-based 24-week study followed by an additional 24-week open label
      phase. It was a subject- and investigator-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel
      group, non-confirmatory study to assess the clinical efficacy of ACZ885 administered s.c. in
      six injections given 28 days apart (in each phase of the study).

      Pediatric and young adult subjects diagnosed with sickle cell anemia (SCA) were planned to be
      randomized to either ACZ885 treatment or placebo treatment in a 1:1 ratio,.

      For each subject, there was a maximum 28-day screening period that included recording of
      daily pain frequency and intensity by e-diary for at least 1 week. Subjects who met the
      eligibility criteria at screening underwent evaluation of baseline clinical and biomarker
      assessments prior to first dose administration.

      On Day 1, monthly s.c. dosing with ACZ885 started at 4 mg/kg for subjects weighing ≤40 kg and
      300 mg for all other subjects. Subjects in the placebo treatment arm were injected with
      placebo in a like manner. All subjects returned to the study centers for safety checks on a
      monthly basis when they received treatment with either ACZ885 or placebo.

      The final blinded dosing was given on Week 20, followed by blinded clinical assessments at
      Week 24. Subjects from both study arms were then offered optional, open label monthly dosing
      of ACZ885 for an additional 24 weeks (Weeks 24-48) with clinical outcome assessment.

      Subjects returned for the end of study (EOS) visit at Week 56. For subjects who chose not to
      participate in the optional, open label portion of the study, or for those stopping treatment
      early for any other reason, an EOS visit occurred approximately 8 weeks after last dose
      received.

      After enrollment of 49 subjects, Novartis decided to terminate the study early due to
      strategic reasons not related to safety and decided that no additional enrollment was needed
      in order to interpret the study objectives.
    
  