
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the risk of developing lymphedema, defined as a 10% difference in volume
      between the affected and unaffected arm, within 24 months of regional nodal irradiation (RNI)
      between patients assigned to short versus standard RNI.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the maximum standardized difference in arm volume between the affected arm and
      the unaffected arm within 24 months after completion of RNI between the two treatment arms.

      II. To compare maximal acute (within 6 weeks of treatment) and late (more than 6 weeks after
      treatment) skin and soft tissue toxicities using the National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version (v)4.0 scale between patients
      assigned to short versus standard RNI.

      III. To compare patient-reported arm and shoulder function for the two treatment arms using
      the 9-item Disabilities Arm Shoulder and Hand questionnaire (QuickDASH-9).

      IV. To compare patient quality of life for the two treatment arms using EQ-5D-3L and the
      Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue SF 6a.

      V. To compare the peripheral blood cytokine profile at the end of radiation between patients
      assigned to short versus standard RNI.

      VI. To evaluate the effect of the peripheral blood cytokine profile at the end of radiation
      on developing lymphedema.

      VII. To evaluate the effect of homocysteine levels prior to radiation on developing
      lymphedema.

      VIII. To evaluate time to locoregional recurrence, time to distant metastasis, disease-free
      survival and overall survival for patients assigned to short versus standard RNI.

      IX. To evaluate the effect of lipid profiles prior to radiation on the time to locoregional
      recurrence.

      X. To evaluate if deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair capacity contributes to the presence of
      acute radiation related toxicity and patient-reported quality of life decrements including
      fatigue and arm and shoulder symptoms.

      XI. To evaluate changes in echocardiography global longitudinal strain measurements and
      cardiac serum biomarkers, based on measurements performed before and after radiation therapy
      (RT), in patients assigned to short versus standard RNI.

      XII. In a separate cohort of 30 patients who will receive RNI before surgery, to collect
      information on number of patients developing lymphedema within 24 months of RNI on
      reconstructive complications, and on patient reported quality of life, in those assigned to
      short versus standard RNI.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo hypofractionated RNI in 15 fractions 5 consecutive days a week for 3
      weeks.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard RNI in 25 fractions 5 consecutive days a week for 5 weeks.

      In both arms, patients undergo additional boost dose of radiation therapy in 5 or 7 fractions
      on consecutive days following completion of RNI.

      PATIENT EVALUATION: Patients participating in the trial will have their arm measured prior to
      radiation, during the final week of radiation and when they return for follow up visits.
      Patients will be checked for any arm swelling that may develop. Patients will also fill out
      questionnaires before treatment and when they return for follow up visits. Patients return 3
      and 6 months after radiation, then every 6 months through two and a half years after
      radiation and then on a yearly basis until ten and a half years after finishing radiation. At
      some of the follow up visits, we measure arm volume and ask participants to complete
      questionnaires.
    
  