
    
      All procedures described in the present study were approved by the Institutional Review Board
      of our hospital, and all patients gave written informed consent to participate in the present
      study. Between November 2012 and July 2013, forty-two patients with rotator cuff tear who had
      undergone arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs were enrolled in this study. Rotator cuff tears
      were diagnosed by use of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and the size of a
      rotator cuff was confirmed at the time of arthroscopic operation. Indication for surgery was
      symptomatic full thickness rotator cuff tear or partial thickness rotator cuff more than 50%
      thickness in case of failed conservative therapy. Among them, 21 patients were randomly
      allocated into group I, and received suprascapular nerve block (SSNB) and axillary nerve
      block (ANB) with each 10mL ropivacaine. The other 21 patients were allocated into group II,
      and received SSNB with 10mL ropivacaine and ANB with 10mL normal saline.

      For the cases in this study, the inclusion criteria were (1) an definite rotator cuff tear on
      preoperative MRI which needed repair, (2) accept an arthroscopic surgery including rotator
      cuff repair, (3) more than 20 years old,(4) accept preemptive regional block and patient
      controlled analgesia (PCA). Some patients were excluded for the following reasons (1)did not
      underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (2) stopped PCA before postoperative 48 hours due
      to associated side effect (3) history of previous shoulder operation or fracture, (4) a
      concomitant neurologic disorder around the shoulder

      Visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) shoulder
      score, Constant score, height, and weight, etc were checked preoperatively. All the regional
      blocks were preemptively performed under sono-guidance. PCA was set at the fixed dose (0.05
      ug/kg of loading dose and 0.03ug/min.kg of continuous dose, fentanyl) to remove the effect of
      variable amount of PCA. VAS pain score, patient's satisfaction (SAT), the percentage of
      lateral pain of affected shoulder, and Lateral Pain Index (LPI: VAS × the percentage of
      lateral pain of shoulder ÷ 100) was checked postoperative 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, and 48
      hours. VAS pain score was selected from 0 to 10. 0 was no pain and 10 was severe pain that
      the patient had ever experienced.1 SAT was also selected from 0 to 10. 0 was unsatisfactory
      and 10 was very satisfactory. The percentage of lateral pain was determined as a value
      between 0 and 100. LPI was determined as VAS pain score × the percentage of lateral pain of
      shoulder ÷ 100. Rebound of postoperative pain was confirmed if there had been an increase of
      VAS pain score after postoperative 1 hour.

      Power analysis indicated that a total sample size of 34 patients (17 patients in each cohort)
      would provide a statistical power of 99% with a 2-sided α level of .05 to detect significant
      differences in VAS at postoperative 6 hours, assuming an effect size of 1.56 (mean
      difference: 2.5, standard deviation: 1.6). This was based on the mean and standard deviation
      of VAS at postoperative 6 hours observed in a pilot study of 20 patients. Double blinded
      randomization was performed as follows. The 48 patients who had met the inclusion criteria
      were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups depending on the combined ANB. Randomization was
      performed with a computer random sequence generator by an independent nurse, who prepared a
      syringe for combined ANB according to the assignment. The patient and all the medical staff
      who participated in the operation were blinded of the assignment. After this study, according
      to the exclusion criteria, two patient with no rotator cuff tear and three patient with only
      rotator cuff fraying who underwent only arthroscopic debridement were excluded from this
      study. One patient who stopped PCA at postoperative 1 hour was done, too. In the end, the 42
      patients were included in this study. Among them, 21 patients belonged to group I, and the
      other 21 patients belonged to group II.

      All the regional blocks were preemptively performed. When the patient was positioned in beach
      chair position, SSNB and ANB were performed by one anesthesiologist under sono-guidance. 23
      gauge spinal needle was used. Just after skin preparation using povidone Iodine solution, a
      thin layer of sterile ultrasound transmission gel was placed between the ultrasound
      transducer and the skin. SSNB was done at first and the entry site was the mid point between
      an anterolateral angle of acromion and medial end of scapular spine. With the linear probe
      parallel to the scapular spine, the suprascapular notch was identified and the block was
      performed penetrating the transverse scapular ligament because the scapular nerve and artery
      were located at the suprascapular notch. Just after the SSNB, ANB was performed and the entry
      site was the point 1.5 cm medial and 2cm inferior to posterolateral angle of acromion. With
      the linear probe parallel to the longitudinal axis of the humerus, posterior circumflex
      artery was identified and the block was done at just above the artery. The color Doppler
      sonography may be helpful for identifying the arterial structures, but they were sometimes
      undetectable, and therefore they could be identified by detecting a pulsatile motion.

      All the patients in this study underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and subacromial
      decompression. All procedures were performed by one surgeon who had specialized in shoulder
      and elbow surgery, and sports medicine. Four routine arthroscopic portals (anterior,
      posterior, lateral, and posterolateral) were used in arthroscopic surgery. After bursectomy,
      arthroscopic subacromial decompression was performed with acromioplasty and spur removal in
      all patients. Suture bridge technique was mainly used for rotator cuff repair with 5.0mm
      Bio-Corkscrew suture anchor (Arthrex, Naples, Florida, USA) and 4.75mm Bio-SwiveLock
      (Arthrex, Naples, Florida, USA). Tendon to tendon suture was sometimes used for small to
      medium tear located around musculotendinous junction. According to the concomitant diseases,
      long lead of biceps (LHB) tenotomy or tenodesis, distal clavicle resection, and anterior
      capsulotomy were performed simultaneously.

      Postoperatively, a shoulder-immobilizing sling with an abduction pillow was prescribed to
      each patient. The postoperative rehabilitation was individualized according to the size of
      rotator cuff tear and the tissue quality of torn rotator cuff. The patients without a rotator
      cuff tear were allowed passive forward elevation using a pulley at postoperative 48 hours
      just after PCA had been removed.

      The normally distributed data between the groups was analyzed using a t test for independent
      samples. Otherwise, a nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test. Probable factors which might affect
      rebound of pain were analyzed using univariate logistic regression. Statistical analysis was
      performed using the SPSS 13.0 (SPSS Inc, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.). The significance level
      was set at P<.05.
    
  