
    
      The purpose of this study is to integrate two pharmacy-focused educational interventions
      designed to increase pharmacy based naloxone (PBN) dispensing and improve opioid safety. The
      intervention is comprised of two successful demonstration research projects (RESPOND, PI:
      Hartung; MOON, PI: Green), which include online and one-on-one educational outreach (i.e.
      academic detailing) demonstrated to provide knowledge and training for pharmacists to
      identify and effectively engage with patients who may be at high-risk for an opioid overdose.
      This study tests the combined interventions' effectiveness at improving opioid safety
      engagement and naloxone-related outcomes in community pharmacies. The following primary
      specific aims will drive this research:

      For Aim 1: The research team and study pharmacy partners will work collaboratively to
      integrate MOON and RESPOND into MOON+, including the creation of a website to host
      intervention components. Feedback from community partners and pharmacy professional
      associations will be sought to finalize the MOON+ content and materials.

      For Aim 2: We will conduct a stepped wedge, cluster randomized design in 160 pharmacies
      throughout Oregon, Washington, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. Implementation will occur
      across five waves, each of which will include a baseline survey, toolkit orientation session,
      academic detailing, an online course, and access to printed onsite materials (algorithm,
      checklists, stickers, posters). The targeted population is pharmacists and pharmacy managers
      in CVS pharmacies (MA and NH) and Albertsons Companies (OR and WA) across the study states
      and who volunteer to participate in the educational intervention. We will recruit 40
      pharmacies per state, 160 pharmacies total, providing a sample of approximately 450
      pharmacist participants. Each store will have a pharmacy champion (a pharmacist or pharmacy
      manager), who will be the point of contact for the intervention. Only pharmacies with a
      consenting pharmacy champion will be eligible for the study; pharmacists at those sites may
      opt to participate. Data collection will occur at baseline, 6-, and 12-month follow-up, using
      surveys (pharmacist-level), store dispensing data and daily faxed counts of naloxone
      encounters (store-level). Note that no identifiable health information about the patients
      will be collected in these forms, only basic counts and communication descriptors. The follow
      up surveys for pharmacists consist of brief questionnaires about the training, attitudes and
      perceptions of naloxone and naloxone dispensing, sale of syringes over the counter, and
      dispensing of buprenorphine.

      For Aim 3: We will use a mixed methods approach to identify facilitators and barriers (e.g.
      state-specific policies, store policies, region) to intervention implementation and
      effectiveness. Methods will include an environmental scan of extant laws and policies,
      fidelity checking, pharmacist focus groups (n=50), and interviews with patients who have
      received or would be eligible for receiving naloxone (n=28).
    
  