
    
      In this study urine and fecal samples will be collected from children until the age of 4
      years old. The metabolome and microbiome of children with IgE mediated cow's milk allergy (1)
      (CMA) will be compared to that of children in three control groups: (2) children suspected of
      IgE mediated CMA, but with negative diagnosis, (3) children with an IgE mediated food allergy
      other than cow's milk and (4) healthy brothers and sisters of the first 3 groups. Children
      will be divided into these four groups based on the current diagnostic tests, including IgE
      measurements (skin prick tests and IgE measurements in venous blood samples), clinical
      history of the patients and their response to elimination diets. Samples will be collected
      shortly after diagnosis.

      In a second phase of this study several patients will be followed up for several years (3 - 4
      years), for which yearly a urine and fecal sample will be collected. Children included in
      this part will be younger than 1 year at the moment of their first sample donation, and
      diagnosed with IgE mediated CMA. This longitudinal follow-up is based on the microbial
      difference at the age between 3 to 6 months between children that will have a persistent
      allergy and the ones that will grow out of their allergy. These differences are anticipated
      to be translated in to the metabolomes of these children.

      The samples will be collected at home and have to be frozen immediately after sample
      collection, after which they will be picked up by the researchers. The samples will be
      analyzed using a technique called metabolomics, using UHPLC-HRMS (Ultra-High Performance
      Liquid Chromatography coupled to High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry). After analysis the
      metabolic profiles of the different groups will be compared to each other using multivariate
      statistical analysis. This methodology will be applied to find biomarker candidates with good
      sensitivity and specificity for future CMA diagnosis or prognosis. Additionally, the
      identified biomarkers could provide more insights into the mechanisms behind the disease,
      which can aid in future therapy.

      Microbiome analysis will be performed using qPCR and 16S rRNA sequencing.
    
  