
    
      Asthma that has persisted in adolescents is likely to persist into adulthood. For 25-30% of
      Americans, adolescence is also the period at which they experience their greatest weight
      gain, particularly as they approach the final stages of puberty. Asthma management may be
      more of a challenge in the overweight adolescent compared to a normal weight youth. Asthma
      related morbidity is increased in overweight patients, reflected in higher health care
      utilization for this subgroup. Little guidance is given to physicians caring for obese
      adolescents with asthma, but findings suggest that interventions designated to achieve
      control in these patients are necessary. Because of the psychosocial factors often associated
      with obesity and asthma (e.g. low self-esteem, depression and low quality of life) successful
      interventions should incorporate a patient-centered approach.

      Patient-centered care (or patient focused care) involves a partnership between the patient
      and the physician, shared discussion making, as well as productive communication and health
      promotion. The objective of this project is to collect the information necessary to develop a
      tailored discussion guide for use by the physician caring for the obese teen with asthma.
      Project results will provide an evidence base for the development and evaluation of
      additional patient-centered health interventions for obese adolescents with asthma. The
      investigators will conduct this study among patients whom eligibility can be determined using
      the electronic medical record (EMR). The specific aims of this proposal are to:

      Qualitatively collect information on outcomes important to obese adolescents with asthma:

      Create a tailored discussion guide that incorporates patient preferences and treatment goals
      that can be used by providers caring for overweight adolescents with asthma:

      Conduct a randomized trial to determine if patient-centered and clinical outcomes improve for
      patients whose physicians use the tailored discussion guide compared to those who do not.
    
  