
    
      Over one million persons in the United States are aphasic subsequent to a stroke. Most of the
      individuals improve through spontaneous recovery and treatment. However, there are no precise
      methods for predicting which patients will improve and, for those who do, how much
      improvement will occur. There is a need to improve prognostic precision in aphasia. Currently
      employed prognostic methods miss improvement levels by substantial margins. Prognostic
      information could have a great economic and social impact on patients, their families, and
      their treatment.

      The purpose of this investigation is to test the precision of auditory evoked responses
      (AERs) to provide a prognosis for improvement in aphasia subsequent to a left hemisphere
      thromboembolic infarct. We hypothesize that the presence, absence, and pattern of the AER
      responses will predict severity of aphasia and prognosis for improvement. Phonemic,
      phonologic, semantic, and syntactic language tasks will be used to elicit AERs, including the
      auditory late response, the mismatch negativity response (MMN), the N400, and the P600.
      Twenty moderately aphasic subjects, 20 severely aphasic subjects, and 20 age-matched, normal
      subjects will be tested. All aphasic subjects will be evaluated with the AER test battery and
      a language test battery: Western Aphasia Battery (WAB), Porch Index of Communicative Ability
      (PICA), the Token Test (TT), the Auditory Comprehension Test for Sentences (ACTS), and the
      ASHA Functional Assessment of Communication Skills for Adults (ASHA FACS). All tests will be
      repeated in 6 and 12 weeks, during which the aphasic subjects will receive treatment. Aphasic
      subjects will receive follow-up testing 3 and 6 months after the treatment phase is
      completed. The patterns of the AERs will be examined. Correlations and analyses of variance
      (ANOVAs) will be used to assess the relationships between AER measures and improvement in
      aphasia quantified by behavioral measures. A multiple regression technique will be used to
      determine the best predictor(s) of improvement in aphasia. Correlations and analyses of
      variance (ANOVAs) will be used to assess the relationship between AER measures and severity
      of aphasia. Correlations and assessment of composite CT/MRI reconstructions for subject
      groups will be used to determine the relationship between size (correlations) and site of
      lesion, AERs, and severity and improvement in aphasia.
    
  