
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze the impact of combined treatment of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) (aspirin) and
      zileuton on smoking-related gene expression signature in the nasal epithelium in current
      smokers and to analyze any difference between the ASA and zileuton intervention and placebo
      control.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of ASA and zileuton on three lung cancer gene signatures (an 80-gene
      bronchial signature, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase [PI3K] pathway gene signature and a
      nasal diagnostic gene signature) and to compare this to placebo control.

      II. To determine whether the change in the smoking-related gene expression signature and the
      three lung cancer gene signatures of nasal epithelium persists 10-14 days off agent
      intervention.

      III. To measure urinary prostaglandin E metabolite (PGE-M) and leukotriene E(4) (LTE[4])
      levels in current smokers after ASA and zileuton.

      IV. To assess the safety in current smokers of 12 week exposure to ASA and zileuton.

      V. To evaluate a gender effect in the modulatory effects of ASA and zileuton on smoking
      related-gene expression signature.

      VI. To explore the effect of ASA and zileuton on the metabolomics profile of the arachidonic
      acid pathway.

      VII. To explore, in a discovery-driven fashion, the effect of ASA and zileuton on
      whole-genome gene expression.

      VIII. To analyze the impact of ASA and zileuton on karyometric analysis of buccal cells.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive aspirin orally (PO) once daily (QD) and zileuton PO twice daily (BID)
      for 12 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive aspirin placebo PO QD and zileuton placebo PO BID for 12 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 weeks.
    
  