
    
      All procedures will be approved by the ZIV Helsinki ethics committee. Recruitment and
      clinical assessment: 40 MDD patients will be recruited for this study, as well as 20 healthy
      age-matched participants (as a control group). A psychiatrist not involved in the study will
      assess the qualification of the patients for signing informed consent. Following signing of
      informed consent, stool and blood (20 ml) samples will be collected from all participants,
      for microbial composition assessment, and blood measures of inflammation and protein
      expression. According to clinical assessment of the diagnosed MDD patients, the psychiatrist
      will recommend SSRI or ECT treatment, and the patients will be divided accordingly to
      treatment group. Clinical status will be assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale
      (HAM-D) scored by a psychiatrist at the starting point (before treatment), after 4 weeks of
      treatment (as ECT-group patients receive 8-12 treatments on average). A lowering in the HAM-D
      score will be considered clinical improvement which may be attributed to treatment. The
      investigators expect a treatment success rate of over 50% for ECT according to our past
      experience. The investigators will collect blood and stool samples from MDD patients after 4
      weeks of treatment, repeat inflammatory, protein expression and microbial measurements and
      compare them to initial results. Additional data recorded will include age, BMI, ethnicity,
      previous medication use, and number of ECT treatments or current medication.

      Inclusion criteria: MDD patients with stable depression clinically diagnosed by a
      psychiatrist according to the Hamilton Depression Scale. Patient age may range between 18-80
      years, as depression is more common in older people as represented by a median age of over 55
      in the treated population at the Ziv Medical Center.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients receiving antibiotics in the past 3 months prior to sampling,
      patients suffering from chronic gastrointestinal diseases or other chronic diseases such as
      autoimmune or cancer, patients with comorbidities such as schizophrenia.

      Blood samples: Whole blood will be centrifuged and serum samples will be kept at -80C until
      analysis for inflammatory measurements. Additionally, lymphocytes will be purified, RNA will
      be extracted and qRT-PCR will be performed to test immune protein and receptor expression
      (IL-1β, IL-1R1, IL-6, TNF-α, TNF1, TNF2) as well as additional proteins related to MDD (e.g.
      cannabinoid receptor 1- CNR1, CD38, oxytocin receptor- OXTR, brain-derived neurotrophic
      factor - BDNF).

      Inflammatory measures in the serum: We will measure levels of pro and anti-inflammatory
      cytokines by multiplex tests including IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and TNFα using a Bio-Plex kit
      (Bio-Rad). The assay plate will be read on a MAGPIX multiplex reader (Bio-Rad).

      Stool samples: stool samples will be stored within 4 hours from collection at -80C until
      processing.

      Microbial analysis: Microbial DNA will be purified from stool and a barcoded 16S rRNA library
      from each subject will be generated from which we will obtain ~300,000 reads per sample using
      the Illumina MiSeq platform (NGS sequencing) at the Faculty of Medicine, Bar Ilan University.
      Sequences will be analyzed by QIIME. Additionally, microbial RNA will be extracted from stool
      in order to test microbial gene expression via metatranscriptomics (NGS sequencing).

      Statistical analysis: All assays will be conducted using statistical software SPSS version 24
      (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  