
    
      Krabbe disease is a rare, hereditary degenerative disorder of the central and peripheral
      nervous systems. It is characterized by the presence of globoid cells (cells that have more
      than one nucleus), the breakdown of the nerve's protective myelin coating, and destruction of
      brain cells. Krabbe disease is one of a group of genetic disorders called the
      leukodystrophies. These disorders impair the growth or development of the myelin sheath, the
      fatty covering that acts as an insulator around nerve fibers, and cause severe deterioration
      of mental and motor skills. Myelin is a complex substance made up of at least 10 different
      enzymes. Each of the leukodystrophies affects one (and only one) of these substances. Krabbe
      disease is caused by a deficiency of galactocerebrosidase, an essential enzyme for myelin
      metabolism. The disease most often affects infants, with on-set before age 6 months, but can
      occur in adolescence or adulthood.

      Symptoms include irritability, unexplained fever, limb stiffness, seizures, feeding
      difficulties, vomiting, and slowing of mental and motor development. Other symptoms include
      muscle weakness, spasticity, deafness, and blindness.

      Overall calculated European frequency is 1 case per 100,000 populations, with a higher
      reported incidence in Sweden of 1.9 cases per 100,000 populations. An unusually high
      incidence, 6 cases per 1000 live births, is reported in the Druze community in Israel.

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize in the blood (plasma)
      of affected patents specific metabolic alterations that allow to diagnose in the future the
      disease earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity. Therefore it is the goal of the
      study to develop new biochemical markers from the plasma of the affected patients helping to
      benefit the patient by an early diagnose and thereby with an earlier treatment.
    
  