
    
      Patients with epilepsy are at elevated risk for automobile crashes, causing great personal
      suffering and financial costs to society. Most collisions involving epileptic drivers are not
      seizure related but may instead result from cognitive effects upon driving performance of
      epilepsy and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Several million American drivers take AEDs for
      treatment of medical conditions besides epilepsy and may also be at risk for cognitive
      impairments that can reduce driving performance. Empirical evidence of the effects of AEDs on
      driving performance would enable development of driving guidelines that could lower the risk
      of injurious motor vehicle collisions; however, this evidence is currently lacking.

      The broad goal of the current project is to determine the specific effects of AEDs on
      cognitive function and driving performance. To address this goal we will assess driving
      performance and cognitive abilities in neurologically normal volunteers taking phenytoin
      (Dilantin), the most commonly prescribed AED. Effects of phenytoin on driving performance and
      cognition will be addressed in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover
      study. Driver cognition will be assessed using a battery of neuropsychological tests. Driving
      performance will be objectively assessed in all participants on standardized tasks enacted in
      a state-of-the-art driving simulator. Our 3 Specific Aims are:

      Aim 1: To assess the effects of phenytoin on cognitive abilities that are crucial to the
      driving task, including perception, attention, memory, and executive function.

      Hypothesis 1: A driver's cognitive abilities will decline during steady-state phenytoin
      administration compared to placebo. Drivers with higher blood levels of phenytoin will show
      greater decline.

      Aim 2: To assess effects of phenytoin on driving performance and safety errors in a
      state-of-the-art driving simulator.

      Hypothesis 2: Driving performance will decline and driver safety errors will increase during
      phenytoin administration compared to placebo. Drivers with higher blood levels of phenytoin
      will show greater impairments of driving.

      Aim 3: To assess the effects of phenytoin-related cognitive impairments upon driving
      performance in a state-of-the-art driving simulator.

      Hypothesis 3. Impairments of cognitive function affecting perception, attention, memory,
      executive function, and arousal will increase the likelihood of driver errors that may lead
      to a crash.

      Our hypotheses would be supported if the drivers taking phenytoin, as opposed to placebo,
      demonstrate worse cognitive performance on neuropsychological tests, and more safety errors
      and crashes in the simulator. The hypotheses would also be supported if drivers with higher
      phenytoin levels show greater impairments of cognition and driving. Once the effects of
      phenytoin on driving performance are demonstrated in this project, we will have evidence to
      support more comprehensive research addressing specific dosing and serum levels and acute
      versus chronic administration.

      There is currently no evidence concerning the effects of phenytoin on driving performance.
      Accurate driving performance data on patients receiving phenytoin would allow determination
      of fair and accurate criteria for making recommendations to drive or not to drive affecting
      millions of patients taking AEDS for epilepsy and other conditions. These data could also
      help reduce the risk of car crashes due to medication side effects.
    
  