
    
      Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer worldwide. The
      overall newly diagnosed ALL cure rate is approaching 90% however children with relapsed ALL
      often do not survive. The frequency of ALL in adults is significantly lower however more
      challenging to treat compared to childhood ALL. Adult ALL is more resistant to chemotherapy
      and patient have reduced treatment tolerance (particularly the elderly population) therefore
      overall survival rates are low. Therefore there is a need to develop more effective treatment
      which improves survival rates for this patient population.

      Those eligible in the paediatric setting are in their second or further relapse, often after
      a previous allogeneic stem cell transplant (SCT), and usually in a palliative situation.
      Adult patients who are not suitable for more intensive therapy can enter the trial in first
      relapse. The trial offers an out-patient based treatment approach of this heavily pre-treated
      patient group. The trial includes patients with B-cell precursor and T-ALL irrespective of
      Central Nervous System (CNS) disease status.CNS positive patients and patients with T-ALL are
      usually excluded from other early phase clinical trials. If treatment is successful, patients
      could continue with other therapies/trials once complete remission achieved (e.g. Chimeric
      Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapy).

      Selumetinib is a small molecule inhibitor of MEK, a protein in the RAS-pathway. Mutations in
      genes in the RAS pathway have been found in a large proportion of patients with ALL.
      Selumetinib targets this over-activated pathway to arrest cancer cell growth. Dexamethasone
      is a steroid important in the treatment of leukaemia to stimulate the death of cancer cells.
      The SeluDex trial is for patients with relapsed or refractory RAS-pathway mutated ALL.

      The primary objective of this trial in Phase I is to see what dose of selumetinib can safely
      be given in combination with dexamethasone in participants. During Phase II, the primary
      objective is to assess the preliminary information regarding the effectiveness of this
      combined treatment.
    
  