
    
      The purpose of this competing continuation study is to test the efficacy of the core
      9-session BBTF program (held over12-weeks) on: (1) improving father outcomes (psychological
      well-being, relationship quality with the child's mother, parenting competence); (2)
      father-mother relationship quality; (3) father involvement (material support, in-kind
      support, direct father-child interaction); and (4) child outcomes (behavioral, social,
      emotional). The study will use an experimental design and randomly assign 180 AA fathers who
      are not currently involved with the criminal justice system and their 2-5 year old children
      to the BBTF or an attention control condition and assess outcomes at baseline, 12 weeks, and
      24 weeks. Custodial mothers of the children will be recruited to concurrently complete child
      outcome measures, measures of father-mother relationship quality, and father involvement
      measures.

      The specific aims and hypotheses are as follows:

      Aim 1: Test the direct effects of the 9-session BBTF program on: (1) father's outcomes
      (psychological well-being, parenting competence, and communication and problem solving) and
      (2) paternal involvement (material support, in-kind support, and direct father-child
      interaction), controlling for father characteristics (demographics, history of criminal
      justice system involvement, social support) and child characteristics (age, gender).
      Hypothesis 1: BBTF program fathers will report better father outcomes and greater paternal
      involvement than the attention control group at 12 weeks and 24 weeks.

      Aim 2: Test the mediating effects of father-mother relationship and father outcomes on
      paternal involvement across the two conditions. Hypothesis 2: Father-mother relationship
      quality and father outcomes will mediate intervention effects on paternal involvement.

      Aim 3: Compare the effects of the BBTF program, controlling for father outcomes,
      father-mother relationship, and paternal involvement on child outcomes (behavioral,
      emotional/social development) as compared to the attention control group. Hypothesis 3a: BBTF
      children will have improved child outcomes relative to the control group at 12 weeks and 24
      weeks. Hypothesis 3b: Child outcomes will be mediated by improvements in father outcomes,
      paternal involvement and father-mother relationship.
    
  