
    
      Conventional DBS most commonly uses 60µs pulse width stimulation. Higher pulse widths are
      less well tolerated by patients as a result of adverse effects. The ability to use short
      pulse width (30µs) DBS in chronically implanted STN-DBS patients has been made possible as a
      result of the provision of a novel software flashcard (8870 XBP application card) developed
      by Medtronic, compatible with the routine Medtronic N'Vision 8870 Clinician Programmer. The
      Medtronic 8870-XBP flashcard will enable shorter pulse width (30µs) to be used with
      previously implanted conventional Medtronic DBS hardware, however this is not licensed at
      present.

      The aim of this clinical investigation is to confirm the longevity of response and the
      clinical relevance of DBS-30µs versus DBS-60µs in DBS patients using "optimized" stimulation
      amplitudes for each pulse-width. This project will be conducted in patients with Parkinson's
      disease who have had long term bilateral sub thalamic nucleus Deep Brain Stimulation
      implants. As such, they will be regular attenders at the Unit of Functional Neurosurgery,
      National Hospital for Neurology & Neurosurgery, and will have had frequent previous attempts
      at adjusting their DBS parameters including overnight stays, and off- medication assessments
      to optimize motor function and minimize adverse effects. They will be familiar with all
      procedures to be used in this study. They will be aware that the objective of the study is to
      identify whether additional improvements in dysarthric speech can be achieved by the use of a
      short pulse width setting and therefore will be highly motivated to participate.

      This investigation is designed such that each patient will be assessed under the DBS-30µs and
      DBS-60µs pulse width condition, in a randomised order. The patients and rating clinicians
      will be blinded to randomisation order. An unblinded clinician will be responsible for
      programming the stimulation. The use of a crossover design allows each patient to essentially
      act as their own control subject, and will maximise the ability to judge using paired
      statistical tests whether there is a consistent advantage in speech intelligibility using the
      shorter pulse width (DBS-30µs).
    
  