
    
      Background

      Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD), including its more pathologic consequence,
      non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), is believed to be the most common chronic liver disease
      worldwide, affecting between 6 to 37% of the population. NAFLD is a so called 'silent
      killer', as clinical symptoms only surface at late stages of the disease, when it is no
      longer treatable. Untreated, NAFLD/NASH can lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma,
      culminating in liver failure. Several factors may contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD,
      including genetic assessment and mitochondrial dysfunction. Genetic factors might affect the
      pathophysiological aspects of NAFLD and its natural history. The European population appears
      to host genetic variants which can play a role in this respect. Recently, the common variant
      p.I148M of the enzyme adiponutrin (PNPLA3) has emerged as a major genetic determinant of
      hepatic steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis as well as its pathobiological sequelae
      fibrosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular cancer. PNPLA3 encodes a lipid droplet-associated,
      carbohydrate-regulated lipogenic and/or lipolytic enzyme. Homozygous carriers of the PNPLA3
      variant (i.e. the presence of the PNPLA3 allele [M]) are prone to develop cirrhosis in the
      absence of other risk factors such as alcohol or viral hepatitis. Moreover, PNPLA3 p.I148M
      variant is associated with greater reduction of liver fat content after bariatric surgery, in
      comparison to carriers of PNPLA3 wild-type alleles.

      Other variants might also play a role and include transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2
      (TM6SF2) p.E167K, and membrane-bound O-acyltransferase domain containing 7 (MBOAT7) rs641738.
      Neither PNPLA3 nor TM6SF2 risk alleles impair the response to dietetic intervention in NAFLD.
      MBOAT7 polymorphism is associated with increased triglyceride, total cholesterol, low density
      lipoprotein, and serum glucose levels, all factors associated with metabolic syndrome and
      liver steatosis.

      Patients with NAFLD/NASH display disturbances of intestinal permeability, and gut microbiota.
      In most cases, NAFLD/NASH is strongly linked to other metabolic conditions, including
      visceral adiposity.

      Liver biopsy is the gold standard for the diagnosis and staging of NAFLD but is invasive in
      nature and not easily usable as screening tool. Other imaging techniques include
      ultrasonography which is non-invasive, can detect hepatic steatosis (>20%-30%) and can be
      easily used in follow-up studies. Computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and
      spectroscopy are alternative imaging techniques used for the detection of hepatic steatosis.
      However, they have failed to show better accuracy, are expensive and can bring adverse
      effects (e.g., radiation). Therefore they are not feasible as screening tools. Liver enzymes
      represent surrogate markers of liver disease but have limited accuracy. By ultrasound, NAFLD
      prevalence ranges from 11%-30%. In the United States, ultrasonographic NAFLD appears to range
      between 5%-33%. Liver fibrosis may be non-invasively assessed by acoustic radiation force
      impulse imaging (ARFI), an ultrasound-based approach for estimating liver stiffness, a
      surrogate marker of liver fibrosis. ARFI imaging is based on short-duration, high-intensity
      acoustic pulses to produce mechanical excitation in tissue. Localized tissue displacement and
      shear wave propagation follow the tissue excitation. The velocity of the waves correlates
      with the degree of fibrosis, implying that the shear wave velocity increases as the amount of
      fibrosis increases. Optimal cut-off values are provided by various studies. In the study by
      Crespo et al. (2012), the sensitivity of ARFI imaging in 88 patients for ≥F2 fibrosis was 85%
      using a cut-off of 1.44 m/s and for F4 fibrosis was 92 percent using a cut-off of 1.9 m/s.
      The corresponding specificities were 76 and 87 percent, respectively. In another study, ARFI
      was compared with ultrasound-based transient elastography in 321 patients undergoing liver
      biopsy for chronic liver disease. No difference was found between ARFI and ultrasound-based
      transient elastography for the diagnosis of cirrhosis or severe fibrosis and ARFI was better
      in lean patients. Among non-obese patients the area under the receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curves for cirrhosis and severe fibrosis were 0.92 and 0.91,
      respectively. For obese patients they were 0.63 and 0.63, respectively.

      Several serologic markers, either direct or indirect, have been elaborated but not invariably
      validated. Major limitations include the fact they are considered as surrogates, not
      biomarkers, none of the markers are liver-specific (concurrent sites of inflammation may
      contribute to serum levels) and because they typically reflect the rate of matrix turnover,
      not deposition, results tend to be more elevated when the inflammatory activity is high. On
      the other end, even in the presence of minimal inflammation, extensive matrix deposition can
      occur. Lastly, serum levels are influenced by clearance rates (i.e. not only sinusoidal
      endothelial cell dysfunction but also impaired biliary excretion) (Table 3). Overall, studies
      of the various panels suggest that serologic tests have good ability to differentiate
      patients with significant fibrosis (F2 to F4) from those without significant fibrosis (F0 to
      F1), although no standard test has emerged so far yielding definitive distinction between
      different types of F scores.

      Breath Tests (BT) represent novel indirect "dynamic" tools which provide additional insights
      in functional diagnosis and follow-up of patients with liver diseases.

      Principles of BTs in hepatology are based on both biochemical and pharmacological
      considerations. Mechanisms of liver damage often include dysfunction of subcellular
      organelles such as microsomal hypertrophy, mitochondrial abnormalities, activation of
      peroxisomal metabolism (i.e. long chain fatty acids). Thus, assessing specific functions of
      such organelles by BTs may provide useful information to clinicians. Also, BTs allow the
      study of specific time-dependent metabolic processes by assessing the hepatic clearance of
      metabolically active substances. In this context, for a given exogenous substrate:

      HEPATIC CLEARANCE = HEPATIC PERFUSION x HEPATIC EXTRACTION (where HEPATIC EXTRACTION is the
      ratio of the difference between inflow and outflow concentration ÷ by inflow concentration of
      the probe).

      Hepatic clearance is defined as flow-limited (range 0.7-1.0) or enzyme-limited (<0.3).

      The intrinsic complexity of liver metabolic pathways does not allow a single functional test
      to explore the whole liver function. Different substrates are therefore used to assess
      cytosolic, microsomal or mitochondrial function. Such substrates are marked with the natural
      stable isotope of carbon 13C (currently the most widely used isotope). After intestinal
      absorption, the given substrate undergoes liver metabolism at different levels which
      ultimately results in the production and appearance of 13CO2 in expired air, as a marker of
      specific liver metabolic functions.

      BTs for the study of liver microsomal function include the use of methacetin, a derivative of
      phenacetin which is metabolized rapidly by the hepatic microsomal enzyme systems CYP1A2 into
      acetaminophen and 13CO2 by a single O-dealkylation step. Since methacetin has a high
      extraction (E>0.8) and undergoes extensive first-pass clearance, its metabolism can be
      altered by hepatic blood flow alterations and by hepatic "first-pass" effect. The methacetin
      metabolizing capacity is lower in elderly than adults. Methacetin BT was shown to accurately
      assess the degree of liver damage in patients with histologically proven chronic liver
      diseases and to distinguish chronic aggressive hepatitis from liver cirrhosis and between
      early cirrhosis (Child A) from non-cirrhotic patients. Methacetin BT was a useful predictive
      markers of clinical outcomes in chronic HCV patients. Moreover, methacetin BT can better
      estimate the degree of fibrosis in patients with chronic HCV infection than biochemical
      parameters (i.e. aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio, aspartate aminotransferase to
      alanine aminotransferase ratio) or Fibroindex. Ketoisocaproate (KICA) is an intermediate in
      the metabolism of leucine. The decarboxylation of KICA and the generation of CO2 reflects the
      mitochondrial branched-chain amino acid decarboxylation function. This step is observed when
      the transamination to leucine (the major competing pathway for KICA elimination) is
      suppressed by the concomitant administration of fixed doses of leucine. This metabolic
      pathway of KICA has been tested in experimental models, in isolated mitochondria, in healthy
      subjects treated with acetylsalicylic acid or with low ethanol intake, and in patients with
      liver diseases. We found that the mitochondrial decarboxylation capacity of KICA was lower in
      patients with advanced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) compared with healthy subjects
      and patients with simple liver steatosis. Notably, the 13CO2 cumulative recovery values
      following 13C-KICA was inversely related to the extent of fibrosis, to serum hyaluronate, and
      to body size in NASH patients. We extended the studies with 13C-KICA BT and found that KICA
      decarboxylation was significantly lower in cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC) compared with cirrhotic patients without HCC and identical Child-Pugh score. Moreover,
      KICA decarboxylation was deranged following radiofrequency ablation but not after
      transarterial chemoembolization. Finally, the recurrence of HCC was associated with an early
      decrease of KICA decarboxylation. In a different context, we recently found that 13C-KICA BT
      was abnormal (and therefore suggesting mitochondrial malfunction) in a female patient
      suffering from massive liver echinococcosis. Of note, mitochondrial liver function improved
      following pericystectomy and limited hepatectomy. KICA BT is useful for the assessment of
      drug effects on liver mitochondrial function. Liver injury might occur following the use of
      such drugs which accumulate into mitochondria and interfere with respiratory complexes or
      electron transfer. KICA BT may be helpful to ascertain the integrity of these organelles
      before the administration of potentially toxic drugs and to detect drug-induced mitochondrial
      damage before the appearance of symptoms in order to timely manage patients and prevent
      adverse effects. Examples are tacrolimus, aspirin, and ergot alkaloids. Potential
      applications are also with amiodarone, valproate, and retroviral drugs.

      Aim of the study

      The objective of the mtFOIE GRAS Uniba H2020 Project is to conduct a randomized controlled
      trial of 3 year-long weight reduction in the management of NAFLD/NASH patients using a
      lifestyle-dietary intervention program. Overweight or obese individuals with biopsy or
      ultrasonography (US) -proven NAFLD/NASH will be randomized to receive either standard medical
      care and educational sessions related to NAFLD/NASH, healthy eating, weight loss, and
      exercise (control group); or to an intensive weight management with a goal of at least 7-10 %
      weight reduction (lifestyle intervention group). The weight loss intervention will be
      modelled on Mediterranean-intervention-diet. We hypothesize that a 7-10% weight reduction
      through intensive lifestyle intervention will lead to improvement of clinical, US,
      anthropometric, and biochemical features of NAFLD/NASH as well as of intestinal permeability
      and faecal microbiota.
    
  