
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel and concurrent radiotherapy (as measured by
           pathologic response rates) in patients with stage II or III breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the toxicities of this treatment regimen.

        -  Correlate paclitaxel-induced tumor response with local recurrence-free survival, distant
           disease-free survival, and overall survival.

        -  Evaluate protein expression profiles by mass spectrometry in biopsy material and blood
           specimens collected before and after treatment with paclitaxel.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 3-4 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy,
           patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour twice weekly and undergo radiotherapy once
           daily, 5 days a week, for 6½ weeks.

        -  Surgery: At 6-8 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo surgical
           resection (e.g., modified radical mastectomy or lumpectomy and axillary node
           dissection).

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy: Beginning 4-6 weeks after surgery, patients receive doxorubicin
           hydrochloride IV over 20 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Hormonal therapy: After completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, patients with estrogen
           receptor- and/or progesterone receptor-positive tumor receive hormonal therapy at the
           discretion of the treating physician.

      Patients undergo blood and tissue sample collection periodically to analyze changes in cell
      cycle by flow cytometry; antibody assays; kinase assays for cyclin B1/CDC2; genetic assays
      for p53, p21, and other molecular markers; and protein expression assays by mass
      spectrometry.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  