
    
      Study 1: The transition from the hospital is a vulnerable time for patients and stressful for
      caregivers-new treatments have been initiated, conditions require close monitoring, and the
      plan of care is in flux. Achieving a high-quality transition requires effective understanding
      of the discharge plan by patients/caregivers as well as seamless communication with key
      inpatient providers to address patients' concerns during and immediately after
      hospitalization. We designed an interactive patient-centered discharge toolkit (PDTK) that is
      accessible from an acute care patient portal. The PDTK allows patients and/or caregivers to
      self-assess discharge preparedness via a validated, pre-discharge checklist tool and
      communicate directly with key members of the care team. Information entered by the patient
      regarding their discharge preparedness is presented to the unit-based care team on an
      interactive safety dashboard so that providers can address any barriers prior to discharge.
      After discharge, patients can communicate directly with providers about issues or concerns
      that arise prior to follow-up with their ambulatory providers.

      The PDTK will be implemented and evaluated for patients admitted to and discharged from
      general medicine units. The RE-AIM (reach, effectiveness, adoption, implementation, and
      maintenance) framework will be used to inform research questions and methods that guide
      implementation and evaluation. A pre-post study will be performed in which the primary
      outcome is analyzed as the proportion of patients with Patient Activation Measure (PAM)
      Levels 3 or 4 at discharge. Approximately 358 patients will be enrolled to provide adequate
      power to detect an improvement in the primary outcome from 72% to 84%. Quantitative and
      qualitative methods will be used to assess implementation, adoption, and use of the
      intervention.

      Study 2: Our project proposes to address gaps in functionality of commercially available EHR
      systems through evaluation of novel, EHR-integrated HIT tools. We previously designed,
      developed, and implemented the patient safety dashboard and interactive pre-discharge
      checklist to engage clinicians and patients in systematically addressing safety threats in
      each of several domains. By integrating clinical data of several different types, these tools
      serve to reduce cognitive load and improve decision-making for clinicians. In this way, these
      tools represent a preventative intervention that mitigates risk in each domain by suggesting
      corrective action corresponding to institutional safety guidelines.

      Studying the effectiveness of these tools on post-discharge outcomes will improve knowledge,
      technical capability, and clinical practice related to patient safety during transitions of
      care. Specifically, our project will advance scientific knowledge by quantifying the
      post-discharge impact of an intervention that changes clinical practice by enabling
      hospital-based clinicians to proactively institute corrective action for "at risk" patients
      who may require additional surveillance and supportive services during transitions. Also, we
      will establish the technical feasibility of spreading customized, third-party digital health
      applications that fill critical safety gaps in commercially available EHRs; expanding to a
      community hospital has clear implications for adoption and validation of this technology in
      different practice settings.
    
  