
    
      The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of mouth-opening exercise training
      with follow-up telephone calls for preventing postoperative trismus in patients with oral
      cancer. The specific aims were to test the intervention effects on enhancing mouth-opening
      exercise practice, MIO, and mandibular function. We hypothesized that the intervention group
      would show 1) better adherence to mouth-opening exercises, 2) greater MIO, and 3) better
      mandibular function over time, compared to the control group.

      The study is a randomized clinical trial using repeated measures. A convenience sample of 68
      oral cancer patients was recruited and randomly assigned to either the intervention or
      control group according to a list generated by the Random Allocation Software. Subjects in
      both groups received two 30-minute individual trainings on the mouth-opening exercises before
      discharge from the hospital. Subjects were instructed to practice the mouth-opening exercises
      three times a day, every day, for 12 weeks. Subjects in the intervention group received
      additional 6 follow-up phone calls (at 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 and 12-week after discharge) from the
      interventionist to enhance mouth-opening exercise adherence. Data on MIO and mandibular
      function impairment were collected before surgery, at one-month, and three-months after
      discharge, using the TheraBite Range-of-Motion scale and the Mandibular Function Impairment
      Questionnaire. The study was approved by the research ethics committee of the hospital where
      the data were collected.

      All statistical analyses were carried out using the SPSS statistical package version 20.0
      (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Characteristics of the subjects were summarized by
      percentages, means, and standard deviations (SDs). Chi-squared tests or Fisher's exact tests
      and two independent samples t-tests were used to examine group baseline equivalency. Value
      changes of study outcomes (MIO and mandibular function impairment) and mouth-opening
      exercises performed from T1, T2, to T3 were expressed in two study groups. A general linear
      model was used to model these outcomes as a function of main group effect and main time
      effect. An interaction term (group difference by time) was added into each model to
      investigate the synergistic effect of the intervention with time. Both the stability analysis
      and the analysis of repeated relationships were performed by generalized estimation equations
      (GEE).
    
  