
    
      Over 7 million Canadians suffer from chronic pain with 1 in 4 patients having neuropathic
      pain (NP), a condition caused by injury to nerves in the body. NP tends to have an extremely
      unpleasant character, severe intensity, and a persistent unremitting course. Conventional
      medical management (CMM) is often ineffective in relieving NP in majority of these patients.
      Paresthesia-Based Spinal Cord Stimulation (PB-SCS) has been used to treat NP but it has
      limitations in terms of preserving analgesic benefit and it is often associated with adverse
      effects. Recently introduced Paresthesia-Free SCS (PF-SCS), available at all tertiary level
      pain centers, has the potential to overcome these limitations but knowledge gaps remain in
      understanding and applying this modality.

      The study design will be a prospective, exploratory study with randomization of order of no
      stimulation with novel modes of PF-SCS during the SCS trial and blinding of subjects (as per
      clinical standard of care) and outcome assessors. Participants with appropriate indications
      for trial of SCS with novel paresthesia-free modes will be enrolled. Baseline demographic and
      pain-related data including opioid intake in Oral Morphine Equivalents Per day in mg (OMED)
      will be collected. Pre-SCS trial neuroimaging (fMRI, MEG) and QST will be performed to
      establish parameters for future comparisons. Data on physical activity and sleep will be
      collected using actigraphy, as per standard of care. Data on pain and its related domains
      will be collected using validated questionnaires on the Manage My Pain app, in which all
      questionnaires administered are part of the patient's clinical standard of care. Ninety
      subjects will undergo a percutaneous trial of SCS that will last 12 days and the trial will
      be divided into three phases. All subjects will trial a conventional paresthesia-based SCS
      mode in the first four days of the trial. Subjects will then proceed the next four days (day
      5-8) with no (placebo) stimulation, followed by one of the three novel PF-SCS modes (Burst,
      High Frequency, High Density) for the last 4 days of the trial. This process is currently
      adopted for all patients receiving SCS as standard of care. Neuroimaging (fMRI, MEG) and QST
      will be performed at the end of the SCS trial. Subjects who achieve significant reduction in
      pain, disability and sleep disturbance questionnaire scores with one of the novel PF-SCS
      modes will be offered percutaneous implantation of SCS system 4 to 6 weeks after the end of
      the trial using the novel PF-SCS mode they experienced during the trial. MEG and QST will be
      performed and data from validated questionnaires on the Manage My Pain app will be collected
      at 6 months after implantation.

      Use of fMRI (functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging), MEG (Magnetoencephalography), and QST
      (Quantitative Sensory Testing) in this study will help improve understanding of the
      alteration in brain in NP and the analgesic action of PB/PF-SCS. Validation of wearable
      technology and of app-based digital platforms will allow these available but
      infrequently-used modalities to improve success of analgesic treatments in patients with
      chronic pain. Healthcare systems will benefit through efficient use of resources to treat
      chronic pain made possible by understanding what works, who does it work for, and how to
      predict analgesic benefit.
    
  