
    
      Epilepsy is a disease characterized by seizures, which are abnormal electrical discharges in
      the brain that temporarily disrupt normal brain function. Seizures are classified as
      "generalized," involving all or most of the brain at the same time, or "partial onset,"
      starting in one area of the brain. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures are also referred to as
      grand mal seizures and are common in people with generalized epilepsy in which the cause is
      not known. In a tonic-clonic seizure, the person loses consciousness, the body stiffens
      (tonic phase), and then the individual falls to the ground. This is followed by jerking
      movements in which the muscles contract and relax quickly (clonic phase). After a minute or
      two, the jerking movements usually stop, and the person regains consciousness. Antiepileptic
      medications, such as topiramate, are selected based on a patient's seizure type. Topiramate
      is a drug that is currently widely used for the treatment of seizures in adults and pediatric
      patients (2 to 16 years of age). This is a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
      placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of topiramate as an add-on
      therapy in patients with Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic (PGTC) seizures. The study is in
      two phases: baseline (8 weeks) and double-blind treatment (20 weeks). Patients are given
      diaries to record information about their seizures during the phases of the study. During the
      baseline phase, the patient continues to receive a constant dosage of one or two
      antiepileptic drugs they have been taking. In the double-blind phase, patients are randomly
      assigned to either topiramate or placebo. The double-blind phase is divided into two periods:
      titration, in which the topiramate dose is gradually increased (8 weeks) (patient's
      antiepileptic medication continues; this dose remains the same) and stabilization (12 weeks).
      The dose of both topiramate and the patient's antiepileptic drug remain constant during the
      stabilization period. Based on the investigator's judgment, patients completing the
      double-blind treatment could enter a long-term extension phase of the study to continue
      treatment. The primary assessment of effectiveness is the percent reduction in primary
      generalized tonic-clonic seizure rates from baseline to the double-blind phase. Safety
      assessments include the frequency of adverse events during the study, results of clinical
      laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry, and urinalysis), measurements of vital signs and
      body weight, physical examination and electrocardiogram (ECG) findings, plasma levels of
      topiramate and other study antiepileptic drugs, and neurological examinations. The study
      hypothesis is that topiramate as an add-on is superior to placebo in reducing the seizure
      rate from baseline to the double-blind phase of the study. Topiramate (25 mg or 100 mg
      tablets) or placebo, taken by mouth, starting at a dose of 25 or 50mg/day, gradually
      increasing to a maximum daily dose of 175 mg to 400 mg (based on body weight) or to a maximum
      tolerated dose (whichever dose is less). Maximum dosage continues for 12 weeks.
    
  