
    
      Background and significance: Though the problem of bullying among adolescents is evidently
      increasing and of a serious social concern, it is often undetected, overlooked and noticeable
      only after serious outcomes have surfaced. In the recent years, along with the rapid
      expansion of internet, social network services (SNS) and smart phones, bullying through such
      electronic means, "cyber-bullying", has been growing. Compared to the traditional bullying
      cyberbullying is unique in nature and potentially more hazardous in terms of invisibility,
      lack of control, where it enables communication with a broad range of people at any time and
      at any place. This study is based on mixed methods study. The investigators hope that the
      investigators study could contribute to the deeper understanding of the magnitude and impact
      of the bullying among adolescents in Taiwan and to inform public policy and future health
      intervention programs which may be beneficial not only to the Taiwan but to Asia, as a whole,
      as many Asian countries now suffer the similar problems of bullying among adolescents as the
      countries share similar characteristics of development (spread of internet, SNSs and smart
      phones) having resembling lifestyle and values.

      Study purpose: The purpose of this study is to investigate the prevalence of traditional
      bullying and cyberbullying and the association between cyber-bullying and traditional
      bullying with mental health among Taiwanese adolescents.

      Study design: A mixed methods research design with qualitative study followed by quantitative
      study will be used in this research. Senior high school students will be included in Taiwan.
      For qualitative phase of this study, purposive sampling will be used to recruit students. For
      the quantitative phase of the study, sampling will be conducted by probability proportionate
      to size sampling procedure. For the qualitative phase of this study, in depth interview will
      be used to develop the quantitative questionnaire. An anonymous questionnaire developed from
      qualitative will be used to measure the variable of self-esteem, depression, suicidal
      ideation, traditional bullying and cyberbullying.

      Data analysis: For qualitative study, all interviews will be voice-recorded, transcribed,
      analyzed by thematic analysis procedure. Quantitative data will be statistically analyzed by
      using SAS software. Descriptive data will be calculated for all variables. Multiple
      regressions will be performed to understand the relationship between socio-demographic
      variables, cyberbullying, traditional bullying, self-esteem, depression and suicidal ideation
      which separated by gender.
    
  