
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) and early clinical benefit in patients treated
      with hafnium oxide-containing nanoparticles NBTXR3 (NBTXR3) activated by stereotactic body
      radiation therapy (SBRT) reirradiation, with concurrent pembrolizumab.

      II. To assess the safety profile and estimate early clinical benefit of NBXTR3 activated by
      dose reduction intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or intensity modulated proton
      therapy (IMPT) reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab, in subjects with locoregional
      recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) not eligible for SBRT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate tumor response after NBTXR3 activated by SBRT reirradiation with concurrent
      pembrolizumab.

      II. To evaluate tumor response after NBTXR3 activated by dose reduction IMRT/IMPT
      reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

      III. To evaluate the safety profile of NBTXR3 activated by SBRT reirradiation with concurrent
      pembrolizumab.

      IV. To evaluate time-to-event outcomes of NBTXR3 activated by SBRT reirradiation with
      concurrent pembrolizumab.

      V. To evaluate time-to-event outcomes of NBTXR3 activated by dose reduction IMRT/IMPT
      reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate lymphedema/fibrosis & dysphagia-related toxicities and functional outcomes of
      treatment with NBTXR3 activated by SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent
      pembrolizumab.

      II. To assess functional and patient reported outcomes (PRO) of treatment with NBTXR3
      activated by SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

      III. To associate radiomic measurements with outcomes of treatment with NBTXR3 activated by
      SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

      IV. To evaluate biomarkers of response in subjects treated with NBTXR3 activated by SBRT or
      IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive NBTXR3 intratumorally (IT) on day 1. Patients then undergo SBRT
      every other day (QOD) on days 15-29. Beginning the first day of radiation therapy, patients
      also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3
      weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II: Patients receive NBTXR3 IT on day 1. Patients then undergo IMRT/IMPT every day
      (QD) on days 15-50. Beginning the first day of radiation therapy, patients also receive
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  