
    
      Recent evidence indicates that there is a marked increase in the mobilization of lead from
      maternal bone stores into circulation during pregnancy and lactation. Furthermore, data from
      our group and others indicate that this phenomenon carries a significant risk of fetal
      toxicity in the form of growth (decreased birth weight, head circumference, birth length) and
      subsequent cognitive development. These findings pose a major public health problem, even
      among societies with declining lead exposure, given the persistence of pockets of high lead
      exposure (including some communities living in proximity to hazardous waste) as well as the
      long residence time of lead in bone (years to decades). One possible strategy for suppressing
      the mobilization of maternal bone lead stores during pregnancy is nutritional intervention.
      We are conducting a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial of dietary
      supplements containing 1,200 milligrams of calcium as a means of suppressing bone resorption
      and the resulting mobilization of lead from bone into plasma during pregnancy, and into
      breast milk during the postpartum period. We are taking maternal measurements of
      pre-pregnancy and postpartum bone lead using our K-x-ray fluorescence technology; bone
      resorption (by assaying N-telopeptide of type I collagen in urine [urinary NTX]), whole blood
      lead, and plasma lead (using special collection techniques and measured by IDTIMS) during
      pre-pregnancy, the first, second, third trimesters and at one and four months postpartum; and
      breast milk lead levels at one and four months postpartum.

      We are measuring maternal plasma and breast milk lead levels as these are the most direct
      sources of fetal and infant lead exposures, and recent research suggests that maternal venous
      blood lead levels do not adequately reflect either of these parameters. We are testing the
      hypothesis that supplements will significantly decrease urinary NTX, plasma lead, and breast
      milk lead levels. We are also exploring the relationship of plasma lead levels to birth
      anthropometry measures. This research, if successful, may provide a means of preventing
      secondary toxicity from accumulated lead burdens among women of reproductive age.
    
  