
    
      The ORBIT (Online Remote Behavioural Intervention for Tics) trial is comparing the
      effectiveness of two treatments delivered online for children and young people with Tourette
      Syndrome or Chronic Tic Disorder. Families in England with a child/young person (aged 9-17
      years) who experiences tics are being asked to take part. Interested families undergo a
      telephone screen with a researcher and then asked to complete an online questionnaire. They
      then attend a screening appointment at either Great Ormond Street Hospital (London) or
      Queen's Medical Centre (Nottingham).

      Families that are eligible and want to take part are randomly allocated to one of two
      treatments. One treatment uses behavioural therapy (BT), the other involves psychoeducation.
      Both treatments last for 10-weeks and involve completing online chapters (for the parent and
      child) with the support of a therapist, there are also some tasks to complete offline. After
      finishing the treatment, families are asked to complete more questionnaires (at 3, 6, 12 and
      18 months after starting the treatment). A smaller sample of families and healthcare
      professionals are also interviewed about their experience of participation. The study is
      looking to see if the online delivered treatment may be effective at helping children and
      young people manage their tics. The study is also exploring whether the online programme is
      acceptable to families, identifying any problems in getting families to take part/complete
      the programme and also healthcare professionals' views about the programme. It is important
      to research online therapy for tics because, at the moment, many people with tics do not get
      any therapy because there are not enough trained tic therapists. If online delivered
      treatment is effective, this may mean more children and young people could access tic
      therapy.
    
  