
    
      Long-lasting lung diseases like asthma and chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) -
      collectively called chronic respiratory disease (CRD) - place a heavy and growing burden on
      people living in low and middle income countries. Many of them could be healthier if their
      disease was accurately diagnosed and correctly treated, but many are not. Doctors and nurses
      working in primary health care clinic are best placed people to diagnose and treat CRD,
      especially where local clinics are near and free. But this raises three questions: 1. How to
      ensure that CRDs get the priority they need in overloaded clinics? 2. How to train clinicians
      to diagnose and manage CRDs without special test equipment? 3. How to ensure rational
      evidence-based diagnosis and prescribing for CRD?

      The investigators have developed a way of improving primary health care for people who have
      CRD, who often also have other long term health conditions. It is a patient management tool
      (PMT), that is, a printed manual of flowcharts taking doctors and nurses from symptoms to
      diagnoses to treatments, tests or referrals, with advice on how to make decisions along the
      way about diagnoses, tests, treatments and referrals. They are prompted to think of other
      diseases and health problems that might be undetected or neglected. The package also includes
      a method of training known as outreach education. First trainers are trained, then trainers
      train groups of doctors and nurses at their workplaces, showing them how to use the
      guidelines, and using their own patients and clinical problems as examples. This outreach
      training is repeated several times in short sessions. The investigators' research in Africa
      has shown that this approach can be effective, cost effective, feasible and sustainable. It
      has been rolled out throughout South Africa and other African countries. But it has have not
      yet been shown to be effective for this combination of diseases (CRDs together with
      cardiovascular disease, diabetes, tuberculosis and back pain). The investigators have also
      not tried or evaluate it in Latin American countries, which have different health systems,
      and have many more doctors providing primary health care. Now co-investigators in the
      Brazilian city of Florianopolis have decided to put this educational package in place
      throughout the city, and have agreed to do so as a randomised controlled trial. This will
      clearly show whether PACK Brazil is effective, cost effective and feasible under Brazilian
      conditions.

      The core of the research will be the randomised controlled trial. 48 primary care clinics in
      the city will be randomly chosen either 1) to get the whole package of patient management
      tool plus training, or 2) only to get the patient management tool (which we expect will make
      little difference without training). The investigators will compare patients in these two
      groups of clinics to see the effects of the training. They will use the clinics' electronic
      medical records to identify about 2000 adults diagnosed with asthma or COPD. After the
      training starts they will follow these patients up for a year, and assess whether they are
      being appropriately treated and tested. They will also compare the rates of new diagnoses of
      asthma and COPD in each clinic, and various health indicators.
    
  