
    
      The study's participants will be adults hospitalized with malaria at four tertiary referral
      hospitals in Myanmar. The study will be a collaboration between clinicians at Insein General
      Hospital North Okkalapa General Hospital and Thingangyun General Hospital in Yangon and
      Naypyidaw General Hospital in Naypyidaw, Myanmar and the Department of Global Health at
      Menzies School of Health Research.

      The study's participants will be cared for by local doctors and nurses according to current
      WHO guidelines for the management of severe malaria. Management will include a systematic
      screen for bacterial infection with a detailed history, examination, radiological and
      laboratory studies, including the collection of blood cultures in all patients (this is
      recommended in WHO guidelines, but rarely performed in the resource poor setting). The only
      difference to the current WHO guidelines for the management of severe malaria will be the
      administration of empirical antibacterial therapy to all participants with falciparum malaria
      on admission. Participants with vivax malaria - who have a much lower incidence of
      complicated disease - would be managed according to the existing WHO guidelines, which
      suggest that antibacterial therapy should only be commenced in the presence of convincing
      evidence of severe bacterial co-infection.

      After informed consent is obtained, artesunate is administered and a detailed work up for
      bacterial co-infection is performed, all participants with falciparum malaria will receive
      empiric levofloxacin. This will continue until 48 hours when, if the patient is improving and
      the work up for infection is negative, antibiotics will be ceased. Conversely if cultures are
      positive, targeted antibacterial therapy will be commenced as soon as sensitivity data are
      available. In the setting of convincing clinical evidence of bacterial infection when
      cultures are negative (a patient with a chest x-ray consistent with pneumonia but in whom
      cultures are negative for example), appropriate antibacterial will be continued. Participants
      who deteriorate in the first 48 hours will have their antibacterial therapy escalated to
      vancomycin and meropenem (based on microbiological findings in our pilot study).

      Participants hospitalized with vivax malaria will also receive parenteral antimalarial
      therapy and have a detailed work up for infection, but empirical antibacterial therapy will
      not be commenced. Study clinicians may start antibacterial therapy in the setting of positive
      cultures or unequivocal evidence of bacterial infection if cultures are negative.

      The subsequent clinical course of the participants and the frequency of confirmed bacterial
      co-infection would be compared to historical controls at the study sites to determine the
      utility of empirical antibacterial therapy in adults hospitalized with malaria in Myanmar.
      These data would be generalizable to other low transmission settings potentially.

      The plan is to continue the study for 3 years; we expect that this will allow sufficient time
      to enrol enough patients to answer the study questions. The data will be analysed annually by
      independent safety monitors (from the University of Medicine 2, Myanmar and The Kirby
      Institute, Australia) and the study terminated if clear benefit or harm is identified.
      Independent safety monitors will also follow the study locally, review all deaths and be
      available to address any concerns of the participants and their families.
    
  