
    
      Diabetes mellitus is the most common endocrine disease in developed countries, with
      prevalence estimates ranging between 2 to 5% of the world's population. Diabetic retinopathy
      and diabetic macular edema are common microvascular complications in diabetic patients and
      may lead to decreasing of visual acuity, eventually to blindness. The Wisconsin Epidemiologic
      Study found an incidence of macular edema of 20.1% in the younger-onset group and of 14 to
      25% in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus over a period of 10 years.

      Diabetic macular edema is characterized by the accumulation of extracellular fluid in Henle´s
      layer and the inner nuclear layer of the retina. There pathogenesis involves the interaction
      of several factors: the breakdown of the blood-retinal-barriers, production of biochemical
      factors, tissue hypoxia, retinal circulatory changes and vitreous tractions.

      Laser photocoagulation is the most common treatment modality for diabetic macular edema.
      Perifoveal focal/grid laser coagulation was found to be effective saving the visual acuity in
      only 50% of patients with diabetic macular edema and just 3-14% of treated patients had an
      improved visual acuity post-operatively. The decent results of laser coagulation are
      associated with potential side effects as paracentral scotomas[4], change of color
      discrimination, development of epiretinal gliosis and subretinal fibrosis and expansion of
      laser scar size.

      In the past few years, several studies investigating the effect of intravitreal steroids such
      as triamcinolone in patients with diabetic macular edema found a significant reduction in
      macular edema. Therefore intravitreal steroids have become part of standard therapy in the
      treatment of diabetic macular edema.

      Furthermore, some studies showed that the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the
      major angiogenic stimulus responsible for increase of vasopermeability, cell proliferation
      and angiogenesis in diabetic retinopathy (DRP). Evaluation of VEGF levels in the vitreous
      have indicated a role for VEGF in diabetic macular edema: vitreous samples of patients with
      diabetic macular edema contain elevated VEGF concentration and injection of VEGF in
      experimental studies led to breakdown of the blood-retina barrier.

      Not only in age-related macular degeneration but also in other diseases like in diabetic
      macular edema we can find an increasing evidence for a therapeutic role of anti-VEGF drugs.
      Intravitreal injections have become the most favored treatment procedure for administering
      anti-VEGF drugs.

      The side effects and the modest results of laser treatment on the visual acuity in diabetic
      macular edema led to studies using anti-VEGF therapy. Unpublished study results on the
      aptamer pegaptanib (Macugen®) are promising. A study using the antibody fragment Ranibizumab
      (Lucentis®) is in progress.

      Currently there is one anti-VEGF drug already on the market: Bevacizumab (Avastin®), which
      has approved as intravenous infusion for the treatment of metastatic colo-rectal cancer.
      Previous studies have shown that systemic use of Bevacizumab (Avastin®) can obtain very
      promising results on patients with choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) by age-related macular
      degeneration. This drug, a monoclonal full-length antibody, designed to bind all isoforms of
      VEGF, is a large molecule. But case reports in patients with CNV caused by age-related
      macular degeneration and with macular edema from central retinal vein occlusion indicate that
      intravitreally given Bevacizumab (Avastin™) is effective in diseases originating from the
      choroids and also the retina. These findings imply a sufficient penetration of the retina by
      Bevacizumab (Avastin®).

      A recent study investigating the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin®) in patients
      with diabetic macular edema found a significant reduction in macular edema.

      Based on these new findings and the important role of VEGF in diabetic macular edema and in
      proliferative diabetic retinopathy, we propose a double-masked, randomised pilot study for
      treatment of diabetic macular edema with intravitreally administered anti VEGF
      (Avastin®/Lucentis®) compared with intravitreally administered triamcinolone (VolonA®).
    
  