
    
      This is a single-center prospective study to evaluate the prognostic role of the change of
      arborescent air bronchogram, a typical ultrasonographic finding of lung consolidation due to
      pneumonia, in the management of CAP in terms of: 1) impact on rate of uncomplicated
      respiratory infections [rate of uncomplicated CAP], 2) relationship to the time of resolution
      of clinical signs [time to resolution of fever], 3) change of antibiotic therapy not guided
      by microbiological examinations and, 4) length of hospitalization.

      At admission, the Pediatric will evaluate clinical signs of respiratory distress, request
      microbiologic tests (nasopharyngeal swab specimens and pneumococcal urinary antigen) to
      detect causative pathogens of CAP, and laboratory tests (complete blood cell count,
      acute-phase reactants C-reactive protein). Finally, all children will undergo chest
      radiography (CXR). If CXR should be performed before the admission to Pediatric Unit, the
      radiological exam will be not repeated.

      Ultrasonographic evaluation will be performed by Pulmonologists. The first examination will
      be performed within 12 hours from admission. The Pulmonologists will be blind to clinical and
      radiological data.

      In order to characterize the lung consolidation, a grading system based on the presence and
      the features of air bronchogram [static, dynamic, dynamic with areas of lung recruitment]
      will be adopted. The operator will collect and store images and videos (10seconds), these
      findings will be reviewed by an expert Clinician in chest US blind to other data.

      After 48h from the admission, all children will undergo follow-up laboratory tests and lung
      US.

      In case of clinical deterioration, children will undergo further ultrasonographic evaluations
      according pediatric indications.

      Finally, all children will undergo lung US after 7 ± 2 days from discharge.
    
  