
    
      Research Participants take part in a 16 week Wellness Program, which includes either
      traditional physical exercise with brain training(Group A), Wii exergaming with brain
      training(Group B) or brain training alone (Group C). Participants are randomly assigned to
      groups.

      A comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests, surveys and assessments are given prior
      to start of the intervention, at completion of the 16 weeks, and again 3 months post
      completion.

      The program involves 4 days of physical activity each week for groups A & B. The physical
      exercise/activity portion will involve warm up stretching and then either Group A-traditional
      exercise (like riding a stationary recumbent bicycle or walking on a treadmill), Group B-
      playing Nintendo Wii Exergames with a television based video game, or Group C- NO exercise at
      all.

      Every 4th week the 16 week intervention period, all participants in all three groups will
      also complete 80 minutes of brain training activities each day of the week. This is in
      addition to the previously assigned physical activity for Groups A & B. The brain training
      regimen consists of Posit Science Insight computer based brain games.

      The Insight program consists of five different modules that focus on visual processing,
      attention, and memory. Each of the modules are described below:

        1. Bird Safari: This module involves identifying and ordering simple visual stimuli that
           flash on a screen. The goal is to improve ability to respond quickly to visual stimuli
           and to segment rapidly changing visual pictures.

        2. Jewel Diver: This module involves tracking objects as they become hidden by distractors.
           The goal is to improve ability of visual system to rapidly identify and discriminate
           objects in the visual periphery.

        3. Master Gardener: This module involves visual working memory and matching pairs of
           pictures.

        4. Road Tour: This is a simulated driving exercise that involves divided attention to
           oncoming cars and road signs. The goal is to improve ability of visual system to
           continuously track multiple objects against a field of distractors.

        5. Sweep Seeker: In this exercise, participants identify complex moving visual stimuli. The
           goal is to improve rapid, sequential eye movements to salient visual targets, process
           relevant information and then make rapid decisions to identify, discriminate and
           classify targets.

      Questionnaires regarding the participants mood before and after the brain training weekly are
      administered. In addition, brief questionnaires on attention and memory are given to measure
      thinking and memory progress.
    
  