
    
      Sedation is an integral part of treatment in caring for the critically ill, ventilated
      patient. Adequate sedation has been found to reduce stress, promote relaxation, induce
      amnesia, improve the tolerance of ventilatory support, and generally assist nursing care.
      However, all the sedative agents produce significant side effects such as loss of
      consciousness, amnesia and haemodynamic instability. In view of the complex characteristics
      associated with sedative agents, it is important to systematically assess and evaluate their
      effectiveness in the clinical area. Two issues are important in determining the effective use
      of these agents. The first issue relates to the use of specific sedation scales to facilitate
      consistent interpretations among clinicians. The use of such scales is limited in Australia.
      The second issue relates to the practice of protocol-directed sedation. Despite support for
      decision-making tools to assist clinicians choice of sedative agents, few studies have
      evaluated their effectiveness. This research aims to compare the effectiveness of
      protocol-directed sedation management with traditional non protocol-directed practice in an
      Australian intensive care unit (ICU). In many Australian ICUs, the bedside nurse titrates the
      mechanical ventilation and sedation administration in consultation with the medical staff,
      usually in an unstructured manner.

      This project builds upon a significant North American study that found a substantial decrease
      in the duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay and rate of tracheostomy insertion
      following the implementation of a structured sedation protocol by nurses. However an exact
      replication of the protocol is not possible due to the lack of drug availability in Australia
      and the preferred drug regimes of RMH intensive care consultants. In addition, there are very
      few studies that document patients' memories of their experience being ventilated whilst
      sedated, despite documented discomfort such as anxiety, panic and difficulty synchronizing
      with the ventilator. There is a similar lack of literature on staff perceptions during the
      implementation of a multidisciplinary sedation protocol.

      The research questions for this study are designed to examine three areas:

        1. the differences between patients receiving protocol-directed sedation management
           compared with non protocol-directed sedation management;

        2. the differences in patient perceptions of mechanical ventilation during
           protocol-directed sedation management as compared to non protocol-directed sedation
           management following extubation, and;

        3. staff perceptions of using a sedation protocol in managing critically ill mechanically
           ventilated patients.

      The design is a prospective, randomised, controlled trial studying 316 patients. There will
      be 158 patients recruited to the control group and 158 patients in the experimental group.
      The control group will receive the current management and the experimental group will receive
      protocol-directed sedation management. To explore patient perceptions of their experience,
      the patients will be interviewed using a semi-structured questionnaire following extubation
      and after receiving a rating of 4 on the sedation scale for 24 or more hours. In addition,
      staff perceptions will be surveyed on their attitudes and perceptions of the protocol.

      This study will determine the efficacy and outcomes of protocol-directed sedation management
      of critically ill mechanically ventilated patients in an Australian context. The study will
      also improve our understanding of the patients' memories and perceptions during this period,
      which could lead to improved clinical practices and better patient outcomes. In understanding
      staff perceptions of the sedation protocol and its implementation, it will assist us to
      identify changes to improve education for new staff and compliance issues for ongoing
      implementation. It may be further useful in the future development of decision-making tools
      and their subsequent implementation and evaluation phases.
    
  