
    
      HIV patients could develop immunological failure despite being treated with antiretroviral
      therapy (ART). Thus resulting the increase of morbidity and mortality among HIV patients,
      especially in Indonesia. The immunological failure is associated with decreased gut integrity
      and immunity, increased gut inflammation, and gut bacterial translocation to the blood.
      Memory CD4+ T cell damage in gut associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) by HIV-1 virus leads to
      decreased production of Th17 in gut mucosal layer. Furthermore, low level of Th17 facilitates
      bacterial translocation in HIV patients.

      Probiotic supplementation (Lactobacillus) could decrease the gut inflammation in some
      diseases including HIV infection; thus helps increasing the gut integrity and immunity by
      repairing the gut mucosal tight junction, increasing mucin production, and regulating gut
      Th17. As a result, the gut inflammation and bacterial translocation decreases. Nevertheless,
      the benefit in HIV patients with immunological non responder status has not been established.

      The investigators plan to perform double blind randomized clinical trial of probiotics
      (containing Lactobacillus plantarum, Streptococcus thermophiles, Bifidobacterium bifidum) in
      HIV patients with immunological non responder status. The Subject who fulfill inclusion
      criteria, willing to participate and sign informed consent will be randomized into two
      groups: the group receiving probiotics (n=40) and the group of placebo (n=40). Intervention
      will be held for 12 weeks. This study will evaluate the gut mucosal integrity and immunity by
      Th17 measurement; bacterial translocation by 16S ribosomal RNA (16S RNA) measurement; and gut
      inflammation by fecal calprotectin measurement before and after the intervention. Moreover,
      the investigators will measure the CD4+ level to assess immune status recovery before and
      after the intervention. Side effects, HIV symptom index, Food Frequency Questionnaire will
      also be assessed every 4 weeks.

      Statistical analysis will uses: paired and independent t test (if normally distributed) or
      using Wilcoxon and Mann Whitney test (if not normally distributed). HIV symptom index and
      Food frequency will be reported descriptively.
    
  