
    
      1. It has been one of unsolved issues and unmet needs in CHB management to develop an
           optimal combination regimen to manage multidrug resistant HBV characterized by selection
           of variants with two or more classes A of signature genotypic resistant mutations1-3

        2. Currently adding on Adefovir(ADV) has been generally recommended in Lamivudine(LAM)- or
           Telbivudine(LdT)-resistant patients but little is known about the optimal management of
           CHB patients who developed multidrug resistance4

        3. Recent report has shown that the combination of LAM plus ADV did not suppress HBV DNA
           effectively in CHB patients with resistance mutations to both drugs. Only 12.2% of these
           pts achieved virologic response(VR; HBV DNA <60 IU/mL) at 12 months and multivariable
           analysis showed that LAM+ADV group and the presence of the rtA181V/T mutation were
           independently associated with a decreased rate of virologic response (HBV DNA <2,000
           IU/ml) at 12 months4

        4. ETV has been demonstrated to be effective in patients with ADV resistance but not in
           patients with proven YMDD mutation. In contrast, TDF has been shown to be effective in
           patients with YMDD mutation but not necessarily in all patients with ADV resistance.1-3

        5. Thus theoretically, the combination of the most potent nucleoside analogue and
           nucleotide analogue with non-overlapping resistance profiles, such as ETV plus TDF, is
           expected to be a promising salvage treatment for multidrug resistant HBV but clinical
           evidence is limited

        6. Therefore, this study will explore that adequate management of multidrug resistant
           patients using ETV plus TDF combination may lead to faster and greater viral suppression
           and prevent further emergence of antiviral resistance

      All subjects will orally take investigational drugs once daily for 48 weeks. All subjects
      will be assessed at baseline, Week 4, 12, 24, 36 and 48. Evaluations at each visit will
      include vital signs, physical examinations, laboratory tests and HBV DNA levels. They were
      also questioned about adverse events and concomitant medications. At baseline and every six
      months thereafter, serum will be assayed for HBV serology. Genotypic analysis will be
      performed at baseline and 48 weeks.
    
  