
    
      -  Dementia is a general term of several neurodegenerative diseases that jointly affects
           approximately 7% of the general population older than 65 years, and 30% older than 80
           years (O'Brien, 2003). Importantly, these statistics are expected to almost double every
           20 years (Prince, 2013), making disorders of cognition a priority for healthcare
           (O'Brien, 2014).

        -  Animal and human studies have shown associations with mastication and cognitive function
           through the medial temporal lobe (i.e., hippocampus) and its role in learning and
           memory. (Ono, 2010. Weijenberg, 2011. Ohkubo, 2012. Teixeira, 2014. Klineberg, 2014)

        -  Although tooth loss and loss of oral function is widespread in older people, it is still
           an underexplored modifiable risk factor contributing to the development of dementia.

        -  The aim of this study is to conduct an intervention study on elderly people where
           rehabilitation of masticatory functions is performed and evaluated, with cognitive
           measures and brain imaging, to investigate a "cause-effect" relationship between
           mastication and cognition in humans.

        -  The hypothesis is that rehabilitation of masticatory function will improve cognition
           primarily in the performance of episodic memory and executive function tests along with
           the corresponding neural changes mainly in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex.

        -  A total of eighty (80) participants, 65-80 years of age, indicated for prosthodontic
           rehabilitation at Eastmaninstitutet (Stockholm, Sweden) will be randomly assigned to
           either the experimental or the control group. The difference between the groups is that
           the participants in the experimental group will begin with the rehabilitation
           immediately after the first measurement while the control group will do one more
           measurement before the onset of the rehabilitation procedure. The two measurements
           conducted before treatment in the control group are to rule out for test-retest effects.
           Three months and one year after completed prosthodontic treatment participants will
           conduct the last measurements, as a post-test to evaluate potential treatment effect.

        -  The neuropsychological assessments will be conducted together with MRI assessments, oral
           health-related quality of life instrument, chewing function test (two coloured chewing
           gum) and saliva samples recorded at different time points (i.e., pre-test, post-test 1,
           post-test 2, post-test 3) in both the groups.

        -  The data from the study will be entered in a Microsoft Excel sheet and exported to
           Statistics is a software package SPSS Inc, Statistica, StatSoft Inc (or similar advanced
           analytics software package for analysis). The result from the cognitive testing will be
           analysed as repeated measure Analysis of covariance (ANCOVAs) with groups (experimental
           and control) and time (pre- and post-rehabilitation) as factors. Group-by-time
           interaction, main effect of group, and main effect of time will be evaluated. To compare
           the magnitude of gains, the effect size (partial eta-square) will also be calculated. By
           using time-length between pre- and post-tests as a covariate of interest with aiming to
           better control group differences. Models that mainly predicts cognitive test measures
           (neuropsychological assessments) will by developed to predict the intervention outcomes.
           Predictive ability is defined as the amount of variance in the outcome that can be
           explained by pre-test cognitive status (slope method). Explained variance in outcome
           will be obtained by analysing linear regressions.

        -  Preprocessing and statistical analyses of MRI data will be performed with Statistical
           Parametric Mapping (SPM) run in Matlab (MathWorks). Movement correction will be
           performed by realign and unwarp to the first image in the series. To consider
           group-specific anatomical brain differences, all participants will be normalized to
           Monteral Neurological Institute (MNI) echoplanar-imaging template. Cortical thickness
           measures will not be normalized but rather used in their raw form. For cortical
           segmentation, a Freesurfer pipeline will be applied to the MRI images to produce
           regional cortical thickness and volumetric measures. To investigate
           rehabilitating-related changes repeated measures ANCOVAs will be performed with the
           groups (experimental and control) and time (pre- and post-rehabilitation) as factors.
           The Bonferroni-Holm method will be used to control for multiple comparisons.
    
  