
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is considered the third most common type of cancer all over the world
      and the fourth common cause of cancer-specific mortality.Surgical management for rectal
      cancer is challenging due to the narrow pelvis and extreme proximity to contiguous organs
      hence, recurrence rates are commonly reported.

      The advent of total mesorectal excision (TME) together with minimally invasive techniques
      such as laparoscopic colorectal surgery have not only improved surgical results but have also
      improved surgical technique, operative ability and surgical visibility. Lap TME has been
      shown to give similar results to the classical open approach with regard to peri-operative
      morbidity, surgical margins, quality of the surgical specimen, and number of resected lymph
      nodes, local recurrence and overall survival.

      However, laparoscopic resection of mid and low rectal cancer is technically difficult due to
      tapering of the mesorectum in the pelvis and the forward angle of the distal rectum rendering
      this part of the rectum less accessible from the abdominal cavity. This may lead to
      incomplete mesorectal excision and involved circumferential resection margins (CRMs), with
      consequent local recurrences.Previous pelvic radiation can make laparoscopic pelvic
      dissection more difficult, and tumors located on the anterior rectal wall have an increased
      risk of inadequate oncological clearance. The use of laparoscopic staplers in a narrow pelvis
      is difficult and the multiple firings of staples across the low rectum is of concern.

      Trans-anal Total Mesorectal Excision (TaTME) was recently developed to overcome technical
      difficulties associated with Lap TME and open TME. It may address some of the difficult
      aspects of laparoscopic or open TME, such as exposure, rectal dissection, and distal
      cross-stapling of the rectum and sphincter preservation. It does not only facilitate
      dissection of the difficult distal part of the TME dissection in the narrow pelvis but it
      also allows clear definition of safe, tumor-free, radial and longitudinal margins. Moreover,
      the specimen could be extracted through the anus excluding the need for minilaparotmy.
    
  