
    
      The KISS Study is a Phase II, multicentre, open-label, prospective non-randomised study of
      treatment modification in response to maintenance of MR3.0 at 12 months. Patients must be
      newly diagnosed with chronic phase CML (CML-CP) (<3 months) and previously untreated with the
      exception of hydroxyurea.

      Patients will be recruited from hospital haematology clinics. The majority of patients will
      have been referred to a haematologist due to suspected CML. Written informed consent will be
      ensured before any study-specific procedures are undertaken or study data collected, however
      the majority of assessments carried out for this study are based on standard of care.

      Patients' eligibility will be determined by the usual procedures carried out for CML
      diagnosis. Results from both diagnostic procedures and confirmatory screening procedures will
      constitute baseline data. Once a patient has had their eligibility confirmed and has signed
      informed consent, they will be enrolled into the trial.

      The trial consists of two stages:

      Stage 1: The first 12 months after recruitment (before the possible switch to imatinib).

      Stage 2: Months 13 - 37.

      The following measurements/data will be recorded throughout the trial at protocol specified
      time points:

        -  Haematology and biochemistry.

        -  PB Q-PCR for BCR-ABL1.

        -  Chest x-ray, ECG, ECHO.

        -  Medical assessment including physical exam, ECOG performance, weight, vital signs,
           assessment of extra medullary disease (liver, lymph nodes and spleen), spleen
           measurement below left costal margin, adverse events and concomitant medications.

        -  Haematological and molecular response assessments.

        -  Treatment adherence assessment.

        -  Patient questionnaire (MDASI-CML).

      All patients will commence dasatinib (Sprycel®) 100 mg daily. Molecular monitoring of blood
      BCR-ABL1 transcripts to measure molecular response will occur 3 monthly by Q-PCR as per
      standard of care procedures. Patients who achieve a BCR-ABL1 level of ≤ 0.1% (MR3.0) by 12
      months on treatment will switch treatment to imatinib 400 mg daily if MR3.0 is confirmed at
      13 months (and they give their consent to switch). Those patients who do not achieve MR3.0 at
      12 months or MR3.0 is not confirmed at 13 months, will remain on dasatinib. Patients with
      confirmed MR3.0 who choose not to switch to imatinib will continue on dasatinib. Patients
      that are intolerant of dasatinib in the first 12 months, those that switch to imatinib at 12
      months and then lose MR3.0 or those intolerant of imatinib will be treated off study.
    
  