
    
      Substance use (including cigarette and illicit drug use) and HIV represent major public
      health problems facing America's youth (CDC, 2007; Johnston, O'Malley, Bachman, &
      Schulenberg, 2007). Hispanic adolescents report higher use across all drug categories (with
      the exception of amphetamines) and higher cigarette use than non-Hispanic White and African
      American adolescents (Johnston et al., 2007). Hispanic youth also engage in higher rates of
      unprotected sexual behavior at last sexual intercourse than non-Hispanic White and African
      American adolescents (CDC, 2007). Compared to non-Hispanic Whites, Hispanics are also
      disproportionately represented among HIV/AIDS cases, accounting for 18% if all such cases in
      the United States (CDC, 2006). These disparities are especially disconcerting because
      Hispanics are the largest and fastest growing minority group in the United States (Marotta &
      Garcia, 2003). Preventing substance use and HIV in Hispanic adolescents is therefore if vital
      importance.

      Familias Unidas is delivered through family-centered, multi-parent groups that place parents
      in the change agent role and through family visits. Each parenting skill is discussed and
      role-played in parent-group sessions and is then enacted with the parent and the adolescent
      in a family visit. During the group sessions, the facilitator offers support for parents and
      gently corrects maladaptive interactions between parents and adolescents (during the
      group-session role plays, the role of adolescent is played by another parent). During family
      visits, facilitators assist families in practicing skills and restructuring family
      interactions. The parent group sessions focus on parental investment in the adolescent's
      worlds (e.g., peer and school worlds), family communication, family support, behavior
      management/positive parenting, parental monitoring, adolescent substance use, and adolescent
      unsafe sex and HIV. Consistent with our prior Familias Unidas efficacy studies, all parent
      group sessions and all family visits will be conducted in Spanish and will take place in the
      evenings and on Saturdays at the school or at a community site that is preferred by the
      families.

      The proposed study will be guided by four aims. AIM 1 is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      Familias Unidas, relative to Community Practice (i.e., standard prevention services), in
      preventing illicit drug use in a community sample of Hispanic adolescents; AIM 2 is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of Familias Unidas, relative to Community Practice in preventing
      cigarette use in a community sample of Hispanic adolescents; AIM 3 is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of Familias Unidas, relative to Community Practice, in preventing unsafe sexual
      behavior in a community sample of Hispanic adolescents; and AIM 4 is to assess the extent to
      which family functioning mediates the effects of the intervention on illicit drug use,
      cigarette use, and unprotected sexual behavior.

      Hypothesis 1. Familias Unidas will be more effective than Community Practice in reducing
      adolescent illicit drug use (defined as frequency of illicit drug use in the past 90 days)
      over time.

      Hypothesis 1a. The effect of Familias Unidas on illicit drug use will be partially mediated
      by improvements in family functioning, defined as parental involvement, parental monitoring
      of peers, parent-adolescent communication, social support, and positive parenting.

      Hypothesis 2. Familias Unidas will be more effective than Community Practice in reducing
      cigarette use (defined as frequency of cigarette use in the past 90 days) over time.

      Hypothesis 2a. The effect of Familias Unidas on cigarette use will be partially mediated by
      improvements in family functioning, defined as parental involvement, parental monitoring of
      peers, parent-adolescent communication, family support, and positive parenting.

      Hypothesis 3. Familias Unidas will be more effective than Community Practice in reducing
      unsafe sexual behavior (defined as unprotected sexual behavior at last sexual intercourse)
      over time.

      Hypothesis 3a. The effect of Familias Unidas on unsafe sexual behavior will be partially
      mediated by improvement in family functioning, defined as parental involvement, parental
      monitoring of peers, parent-adolescent communication, family support, and positive parenting.

      Inclusion/Exclusion criteria

      a) Female and male adolescents of Hispanic origin, defined as self-identified Hispanic by the
      Primary caregiver.

      (b) Adolescents attending 8th grade at baseline

      (c) Adolescents living with an adult primary caregiver who is willing to participate

      (d) At baseline, families must live within the catchment areas of the 24 participating middle
      schools
    
  