
    
      The trial was designed to prove the efficacy and safety of the invisa-RED Technology Elite
      Low-level Laser Therapy (LLLT) device. The trial compared results between two groups; the
      first group was treated using a fully functional invisa-RED Technology Elite device; this
      group was designated the Usual Care Group.

      The second, a control group, was treated utilizing a nonfunctional invisa-RED Technology
      Elite device; this group is referred to as the Sham Group.The sham device consisted of an
      invisa-RED Technology Elite device that will appear to operate as the Usual Care Group device
      to the operator and participants, but the laser diodes will be disabled and will receive no
      power providing a placebo effect. If staff or a participant questions the efficacy of the
      sham device, an assertion may be made that only a near infrared, non-visible frequency of
      light, is being employed.

      The trial was conducted employing a double blind study methodology; participants were
      randomly assigned to each group through a drawing, neither participants nor clinicians knew
      to which trial group they were assigned. To ensure the double blind; treatment for the two
      groups occurred separately using clinicians exclusive to each group.

      A simplified weight loss protocol was employed based on the "Consultation Protocol" from the
      invisa-Red Training Manual. All study participants received nine (9) therapy sessions of 20
      minutes each; power settings were based on the participants Fitzpatrick Scale skin type. For
      skin types i and ii a power setting of 7 was used, for skin types iii and iv a power setting
      of 6, for skin types v and vi a power setting of 4 was employed. At the conclusion of the
      nine (9) therapy sessions; the change in weight of body fat, body fat as a percentage of
      total body weight, and inches lost of the two groups were statistically analyzed to determine
      the efficacy of the invisa-RED Technology Elite as a therapy to reduce adipose tissue. The
      occurrence of any medical errors were documented and included in the statistical analysis.
    
  