
    
      The study is divided in a Phase I and a Phase II part. The phase I part uses an open-label,
      dose escalation design in order to find the appropriate, feasible dose of eltrombopag to
      achieve a durable increase in platelet count.

      In phase II, patients will be randomized (2:1 eltrombopag : placebo) to explore the efficacy
      and confirm the safety of the identified eltrombopag dose from Phase I. Eltrombopag/placebo
      will be administered before starting each cycle and will continue during all cycles of
      treatment until subjects finish treatment with chemotherapy. The schedule and days of
      eltrombopag dosing in Phase II will be determined based on data analyzed from Phase I, but
      will not exceed the defined maximum tolerable dose (MTD).

      Severe thrombocytopenia is a frequently associated hematologic condition in patients with
      CLL. In the earlier stages of the disease, mild thrombocytopenia is common in approximately
      25% of CLL patients. Later in the disease, the bone marrow will become more extensively
      infiltrated by the neoplastic cells, which results in more severe thrombocytopenia.
      Thrombocytopenia in patients with CLL could result from the disease, a packed marrow or from
      autoimmunity/ITP. For patients with CLL who develop severe thrombocytopenia, treatment
      options are limited and administration of platelet transfusions is common. Additionally,
      treatment of CLL patients with chemotherapy to treat the disease can be hampered due to
      severe thrombocytopenia. The clinical consequences of severe thrombocytopenia include an
      increased tendency for bleeding, probably due to thrombocytopenia, compromised hemostasis,
      and delayed administration of chemotherapy with the consequence of less optimal disease
      control.

      Eltrombopag is an orally bioavailable small molecule TPO receptor (TPO-R) agonist being
      developed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a treatment for thrombocytopenia. Eltrombopag has been
      shown to stimulate platelet production and elevates platelet counts in healthy volunteers and
      in patients with chronic ITP, and in patients with thrombocytopenia related to hepatitis C
      virus (HCV) (Jenkins, Blood 2007; Bussel, NEJM 2007; McHutchinson NEJM 2007).

      The optimal dose of eltrombopag for thrombocytopenic patients with CLL is currently unknown.
      As such, one objective of this study is to define a safe and effective dose of eltrombopag
      for thrombocytopenic patients with CLL prior to alkylating agent and/or fludarabine-based
      therapy. The eltrombopag doses proposed for administration in this study are 75 mg up to 300
      mg once daily.

      As a prerequisite for the trial, detailed studies have been performed in laboratory of the
      principal investigator on the in-vitro effects of eltrombopag on CLL cells regarding cell
      survival, differentiation and proliferation. The results suggest that eltrombopag is unlikely
      to act as a growth factor in CLL. Therefore clinical trials investigating its effect on
      platelet counts in CLL are warranted (Zenz T. et al., ASH 2009).
    
  