
    
      The rate of repeat induced abortion varies from 30% to 38% in northern Europe. Young women,
      parous women and those with a history of abortion were found to be the main risk factors
      associated with recurrent termination of pregnancy. Young women may lack knowledge or access
      to conventional methods of preventing pregnancy, as they may be too embarrassed or frightened
      to seek such information. Contraception for teenagers and young adults presents a huge
      challenge for the clinician as more than half of all unintended pregnancies occur as a result
      of inconsistent or discontinued use of contraceptives . Possible solution is promoting the
      use of long acting reversible contraception, (LARC) among them the intrauterine device (IUD),
      that was found well suited even for adolescents. Because IUDs do not require active use once
      they have been inserted, and have a very low failure rate, their increased use has the
      potential to substantially reduce unintended pregnancies. IUD provide safe, highly effective,
      long-term contraception, but they are underused.

      Immediate initiation of any contraceptive method after an abortion has been linked to a
      reduced risk of repeat abortion. Immediate IUD insertion after the termination of pregnancy
      (TOP) is a very convenient way to provide contraception as it is an opportune moment to carry
      out this short, easy, and safe procedure. As the cervix is dilated, insertion is virtually
      painless. Following insertion, the woman is protected immediately, before ovulation returns,
      usually within 7-10 days after first-trimester abortion.

      Lately, a new intrauterine device directed for young women was introduced. It is a T-shaped
      intrauterine delivery system which slowly releases a small amount (13.5 mg) of levonorgestrel
      after its installation inside the womb. The system is intended for contraception for a period
      of up to 3 years. It works by reducing the monthly growth of the lining of the womb and
      thickening of the cervical mucosal layer.

      To the best of the investigator's knowledge this is the first study to compare insertion of
      13.5 mg levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system after surgical abortion immediately
      versus delayed insertion (at menstruation) .
    
  