
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the patterns and distribution of comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA)
      scores and physical activity levels and quality of life measures in older (>= 65) patients
      with non-metastatic or metastatic head and neck or lung cancer undergoing upfront surgery
      followed (may be followed by adjuvant therapy) or upfront definitive radiation (with or
      without chemotherapy at the same time) to cure the disease.

      II. To describe the incidence and type of grade 2-5 toxicities in this patient population.

      III. To describe the family caregiver (FCG)-reported caregiving burden level and quality of
      life (QOL) scores.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify areas of vulnerability in this patient population using the geriatric
      assessment.

      II. To identify potential referrals based on geriatric assessment results. III. To describe
      other healthcare resource use and potential treatment modifications (unplanned
      hospitalization, emergency room (ER) visits, readmission rates, breaks in radiation and/or
      chemoradiation (CRT), dose modifications).

      IV. To explore changes in geriatric assessment and patient-reported symptoms, QOL, weight,
      and functional status from pre-treatment to 3-months, 6 months post-treatment.

      V. To explore changes in family caregiver (FCG)-reported caregiving burden and QOL from
      pre-treatment to 3-months, 6 months post-treatment.

      VI. To explore the relationship between geriatric assessment results and patient-reported
      symptoms and QOL.

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients complete comprehensive geriatric and quality of life assessments within 1-4
      weeks of treatment (either upfront surgery which may be followed by radiation with or without
      chemotherapy or upfront radiation which may include CRT) initiation (baseline), and at 1, 3,
      and 6 months following CRT completion.

      GROUP II: Family caregivers complete quality of life assessment at baseline, and at 1, 3, and
      6 months following patient radiation or CRT completion.
    
  