
    
      The investigators hypothesize that early institution of TNFα inhibitor therapy in patients
      with severe COVID-19 infections will prevent further clinical deterioration and reduce the
      need for advanced cardiorespiratory support and early mortality. To address this hypothesis,
      a prospective, single center, phase 2 trial is proposed to assess the efficacy of infliximab
      or infliximab-abda in hospitalized adult patients with severe or critical COVID-19.
      Observations from this study will inform the conduct of prospective randomized controlled
      studies to follow.

      Infliximab and Infliximab-abda are TNFα inhibitors currently FDA-approved for the treatment
      of autoimmune disorders, including Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis. The risks and
      adverse reactions are described in the approved prescribing information for infliximab (or
      infliximab-abda). Infliximab will be used when available. Should infliximab be unavailable in
      the pharmacy, infliximab-abda, a biosimilar, will be used.

      Treatment with infliximab or infliximab-abda 5mg/kg IV should ideally be administered within
      6 hours of enrollment, and no more than 24 hours following enrollment. Pre-medication with
      Tylenol 650 mg once 30 minutes prior to infusion would be recommended. Other pre-medications
      may be given at the discretion of the treating physician. These include diphenhydramine 50mg
      by mouth, as well as prednisone 20mg by mouth, both given 30 minutes prior to infusion. Pulse
      and blood pressure should be monitored every 30 minutes during the infusion, and patients
      should be monitored for at least 30 minutes following the infusion.

      Retreatment with infliximab is permitted at treating physician discretion 7-21 days following
      primary therapy and based on initial response; the usual treatment schedule is every 2 weeks,
      this interval is not strictly enforced given the uncertainty of outcomes with primary
      therapy.
    
  