
    
      1.1 Background

      Naturally acquired infections with Plasmodium knowlesi, the fifth human malaria, are growing
      [1]. Since 2004 increasing numbers of cases have been reported from residents and returned
      travelers predominantly from Malaysia and other countries in South-East Asia including
      Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines [2-8]. Cases coincide
      with the geographic distribution of its natural simian hosts (long-tailed and pig-tailed
      macaques) and Anopheles leucosphyrus group mosquito vector [9, 10], with potential
      human-to-human transmission unknown. Eastern Malaysia appears to be the epicentre, with
      around 1400 PCR-confirmed P. knowlesi human mono-infections reported in 2009, comprising 41%
      of 2,189 total malaria cases in Sarawak [11] and 343 cases from selected samples sent to
      Sabah's State Reference Laboratory [12]. P. knowlesi is also now the most common cause of
      malaria in different contrasting regions, including 70% of malaria admissions in the heavily
      forested area of Kapit in Sarawak [1, 13], 63% of samples from the interior division of Sabah
      [14], and in 87% of malaria admissions in the deforested coastal area of Kudat in Sabah,
      where it is also the major cause of malaria in children [15].

      Despite the increase in reported incidence, difficulties with microscopic diagnosis and a
      lack of PCR based epidemiological surveillance studies throughout South-East Asia mean the
      true disease burden is underestimated. P. knowlesi is microscopically misidentified as P .
      falciparum and P. malariae due to morphological similarities in the early trophozoite, and
      late trophozoite and schizont life stages respectively, with studies showing up to 80% of P.
      malariae [16-19] and 7-12% of P. falciparum [1, 16] in this region are actually P. knowlesi
      when definitively evaluated with PCR. Current rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) for malaria can
      distinguish falciparum Current rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) for malaria can distinguish
      falciparum from other Plasmodium species with a sensitivity of up to 99% at parasite counts >
      1,000/ μL [20], but a knowlesi specific antigen has not been developed and current antibody
      panels are unable to differentiate between P. knowlesi and other mixed Plasmodium spp.
      infections [21]. Misdiagnosis has concerning treatment implications, as unlike P. malariae,
      knowlesi malaria has a rapid 24-hour replication rate and can cause hyperparasitaemia, severe
      complications and fatal outcomes [13, 17, 18], while the inadvertent use of chloroquine for
      widely chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum may also have fatal consequences.

      1.2 Treatment

      Initial observational and retrospective studies have suggested both chloroquine and
      artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) are effective therapy for uncomplicated P. knowlesi
      infection [15, 16, 22, 23]. Justification for treatment selection for this trial is based on
      this literature review. Case reports predominantly from returned travelers to South-East Asia
      also document uncomplicated knowlesi malaria responding well to conventional anti-malarials
      such as chloroquine, mefloquine, atovaquone with proguanil, doxycycline and quinine [4, 24-
      31], supporting its zoonotic and drug naïve origin. However to date there have been no
      prospective randomised trials to compare chloroquine and ACT as the anti-malarials currently
      used for uncomplicated P. knowlesi infection in Malaysia, and there are no current
      recommendations on how to treat P. knowlesi infection in the WHO 2010 malaria treatment
      guidelines. As ACTs are already being used for treating P. falciparum and are recommended for
      the increasingly chloroquine-resistant P. vivax found in the surrounding countries in South
      East Asia [32], the potential benefit of a unified treatment policy to facilitate prompt and
      effective treatment of all Plasmodium species needs evidence of ACT as the optimal treatment
      for P. knowlesi infection also.

      Malaysian Ministry of Health guidelines currently recommend chloroquine and primaquine as
      first line treatment for the erythrocytic and hypnozoite life stages of uncomplicated P.
      vivax malaria respectively. While resistance to chloroquine has previously been documented in
      Sabah [35] and Peninsular Malaysia [36-38], the unstable transmission dynamics and recent
      reduction in P. vivax incidence due to public health measures mean the current risk of
      chloroquine-resistant P.vivax transmission is likely to be low. Despite this, due to
      increasing resistance in surrounding countries including Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, and
      PNG [39], transient populations of migrant workers, and recent concerns of the failing
      efficacy of hypnozoite eradication by primaquine [40], the need for ongoing therapeutic
      efficacy monitoring is recommended [41].

      1.3 Artesunate-mefloquine

      Artesunate-mefloquine (AS-MQ) is a common and widely available ACT, and along with
      artemether-lumefantrine (A-L) is one of only 2 first line WHO recommended options for the
      treatment of uncomplicated P. falciparum infection which are registered in Malaysia and
      produced according to international good manufacturing practice (GMP) standards. ACTs are the
      current mainstay of malaria elimination efforts [33], with a mechanism of action resulting
      both in a rapid reduction in parasite mass and resolution of clinical features, while the
      long acting component eliminates residual parasites and delays the development of de novo
      resistance [34, 35]. Safety and tolerability of all ACTs are dependent on their partner drug
      [36], and while gastro-intestinal and self-limiting neuro-psychiatric adverse events have
      been reported with mefloquine, multiple safety and efficacy trials have recommended its use
      in both adults and children for uncomplicated falciparum malaria [37-40]. Due to concerns
      over the safety of mefloquine in the first trimester of pregnancy [41], and its use in
      patients with pre-existing psychiatric disorders or those who have previously had cerebral
      malaria, it is currently not advised for these groups [36].

      The only reported use of ACT for knowlesi malaria is from our retrospective study at a
      tertiary referral hospital in Sabah, where a small sample size of 8 out of 34 patients with
      PCR- confirmed uncomplicated P. knowlesi infection were treated with oral artemether-
      lumefantrine. Median microscopic parasite clearance time was 1 day (range 0-3), which was
      significantly faster than those receiving chloroquine (median 2.5 days, range 1-3, p = 0.01)
      [23]. There are no published reports of other ACTs used in the treatment of P. knowlesi
      infection, although currently both AS-MQ and A-L are being used in Sabah for uncomplicated P.
      knowlesi and P. falciparum malaria, including in children >5kg, as recommended by local
      guidelines.

      Mefloquine as a single agent has also been used in the successful treatment of a Swedish
      traveller returning from Sarawak, Malaysia with PCR confirmed uncomplicated P. knowlesi
      infection in 2009 [24]. The long half life of mefloquine of around 14 days also means when
      used as the partner drug in an ACT for uncomplicated malaria caused by other Plasmodium
      species such as P. vivax, there is a significant reduction compared to A-L in the day 42
      treatment failure rate [42].

      1.4 Chloroquine

      Chloroquine with primaquine was initially suggested to have favourable treatment outcomes for
      uncomplicated P. knowlesi human infections after a retrospective review of patients from
      Kapit Hospital in Sarawak in 2004 [16]. Following this a single prospective observational
      study conducted at the same site between 2006-7 administered chloroquine as a total base dose
      of 25mg/kg and primaquine as a gametocidal agent to 73 patients with uncomplicated
      PCR-confirmed P. knowlesi malaria, with results showing median fever clearance of 26 hours,
      mean times to 50% and 90% microscopic parasite clearance of 3.1 and 10.3 hours respectively,
      and a median PCR adjusted clearance time of 3 days. None of the 60 patients who completed the
      28-day follow up demonstrated any evidence of resistance, re-infection or recrudescence [22].
    
  