
    
      Infection of the umbilical cord of the newborn is a serious condition that can even lead to
      infant death. It has been well documented that the sources of infection among infants in
      hospitals is cross-contamination from other infants; S aureus is carried from infant to
      infant by nursery caregivers. Current and accepted cord care practices include aseptic
      techniques in cutting the umbilical cord, applying antimicrobial agents, hand washing, dry
      cord care and rolling the diaper below the cord to enhance drying (Evens, et. al, 2004).

      Many studies have been performed to identify the best cord care practice. Zupan, et. al
      (2004) performed a meta-analysis of 21 studies that investigated cord care. Between all 21
      studies many antimicrobial agents were used, including alcohol, triple dye, silver
      sulfadiazine, zinc powder, chlorhexidine, and salicylic sugar powder, along with dry cord
      care. It was identified that limited research has not shown a significant difference in
      outcomes between antimicrobial agent use and simply keeping the cord clean and dry. In
      high-income countries where mortality is low, important outcomes must include infections in
      the first month of life, maternal satisfaction, and time to cord separation. At the current
      time, there is no research that identifies the usefulness of applying colostrum, which has
      bacteriostatic properties, to the umbilical cord.

      A prospective controlled trial was conducted by Golombek, S., et. al (2002) to compare only
      cord separation times between infants treated with triple dye as compared to alcohol. Of the
      634 patients enrolled, one infant in the triple dye group was diagnosed with omphalitis; and
      one infant in the alcohol group was diagnosed with an ear infection. There was a
      statistically significant difference in cord separation time, with the alcohol group having a
      shorter separation time by 3 days (alcohol group 10 days, versus triple dye group 13 days)
      (p<0.0001). Nursing staff reported more satisfaction with alcohol alone. Parents universally
      expressed relief with cord separation in both groups.

      Janssen, P., et al (2003) compared cord bacterial colonization and morbidity among newborns
      whose cords were treated with triple dye and alcohol versus dry cord care. Seven hundred
      sixty six infants were enrolled and randomized to a triple dye and alcohol group or a dry
      cord care group. Study groups were similar in all respects. Significantly more mothers in the
      dry care group stated that their infant's physician had mentioned concerns about infection to
      them compared with none in the triple dye group. There were no differences in reported rates
      of mothers contacting physicians in regard to concerns about infection. The most significant
      difference of observations of community health nurses between the two groups was
      periumbilical area exudates (p< 0.001) and foul odor (p<0.04) was more noticed in the dry
      cord care group. Though only one infant in the entire study developed omphalitis, which was
      in the dry cord care group, infants in the dry care group were significantly more likely to
      be colonized by E. coli, coag-neg staph, S. aures, and group B strep. Topical antimicrobial
      cord care may reduce bacterial colonization of the cord; there is no firm relationship
      between colonization and infection. Parents have expressed apprehension about cleaning the
      cord because of it's black appearance and brittle, rigid texture suggest that it will break
      off or hurt the infant if touched. Though not reported in scientific literature, increasing
      rates of breastfeeding may offer some protection to the newborn from infection. The study
      suggests that omphalitis remains a clinical entity and that there is potential risk in
      discontinuing bacteriocidal treatment of the umbilical cord stump. Cessation of bactericidal
      care of the umbilical stump must be accompanied by vigilant attention and education of
      parents to the signs and symptoms of omphalitis.
    
  