
    
      Helicobacter pylori is a gram-negative bacillus responsible for one of the most common
      infections found in humans worldwide1. In general, the prevalence is high in developing
      countries and the infection is acquired at a young age. Most children infected with H pylori
      are asymptomatic. Antral gastritis is the most common manifestation in children. Duodenal and
      gastric ulcers may be associated with H pylori gastritis in 1.8 % children2. Antibiotic
      resistance is the major cause of failure in the treatment of H pylori infection3. Most of the
      studies worldwide confirmed an increase in macrolide resistance, while metronidazole
      resistance either decreased or remained stable. In a prospective multicenter European study,
      primarily comprised of adults, found a 31.8% resistance rate to clarithromycin and 25.7% to
      metronidazole in the study4.

      If the strain is resistant to one of the antibiotics used, treatment success will be
      compromised5. As a result therapies that are recommended should be based on antibiotic
      susceptibility testing. If this testing is not available, then clarithromycin-based triple
      therapy should not be used as part of first-line therapy due to high rates of clarithromycin
      resistance rates6 The European Society for Paeditric Gastroenterology Hepatology and
      Nutrition/North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition
      made the recommendations in 2017 for the Management of Helicobacter pylori in Children that
      antimicrobial sensitivity should be obtained for the infecting H pylori to tailor eradication
      therapy accordingly and the effectiveness of first-line therapy should be evaluated in
      national/regional centers7.

      If the strain is susceptible to clarithromycin (CLA) and to metronidazole (MET), triple
      therapy (PPI, amoxicillin [AMO], CLA) for 14 days and doses of proton pump inhibitor and
      antibiotics should be calculated based on the bodyweight8.

      We aim to study efficacy and safety of clarithromycin vs metronidazole based triple regimen
      for the eradication of H pylori in children with peptic ulcer disease.
    
  