
    
      Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is the sixth most common cancer in the world.
      More than 50% of patients diagnosed with advanced regional disease will relapse locally or at
      distant sites. Initial therapeutic options include irradiation, surgery and chemotherapy. The
      most commonly used agents are cisplatin and carboplatin, generally in combination with 5-FU
      or a taxane. Erbitux has been approved for use in first-line with radiation and in
      second-line as monotherapy. Only about a third of the patients will respond to first-line
      platinum-based therapy and the median overall survival is about 6-9 months.

      Preliminary assessment of a Phase 1-2 study conducted in the UK investigating the combination
      of REOLYSIN, carboplatin and paclitaxel suggested that patients with head and neck carcinomas
      may represent a group of patients in whom this treatment combination is active. Studies have
      also shown that paclitaxel and carboplatin combination therapy may be effective in head and
      neck cancers, even in heavily pretreated patients and those resistant to previous treatment.
      These results strongly support the utility of the carboplatin/paclitaxel combination as a
      control arm for salvage therapy in platinum refractory patients, a patient group with few and
      poor treatment options and with no gold standard therapy.

      This Phase 3 study is designed to compare response rates following intravenous administration
      of REOLYSIN (Reovirus Type 3 Dearing) in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin versus
      chemotherapy treatment alone, in patients with metastatic or recurrent Squamous Cell
      Carcinoma of the Head and Neck.

      Overall survival is a primary endpoint of this trial. Patients will be clinically evaluated
      after each course of treatment and radiologically every 6 weeks on and after treatment. The
      safety of the paclitaxel and carboplatin with intravenous blinded placebo or intravenous
      blinded REOLYSIN will also be assessed.
    
  