
    
      The management of acute exacerbations of COPD today is qualitatively the same as it was 40
      years ago: bronchodilators, corticosteroids, and antibiotics. Because of the prominent
      pathophysiological role of neutrophils in exacerbations of COPD, neutrophils and their toxic
      oxidants and proteases represent therapeutic targets which are currently unchallenged in the
      treatment of this aspect of the disease. Ideally, to disrupt neutrophilic airway
      inflammation, one would both block neutrophilic influx from the vascular space into the
      airway, as well as neutralize or inactivate prominent neutrophilic toxins such as the
      proteases HLE and cathepsin G.

      Heparin is a sulfated mucopolysaccharide that slows blood clot formation by inhibiting the
      reactions that lead to formation of fibrin clots. Physicians use heparin to prevent blood
      clot formation during open-heart surgery, bypass surgery and dialysis. Heparin also prevents
      previously formed clots from becoming larger and causing more serious problems. Heparin has
      other biological properties, most notably anti-inflammatory activity. At doses required to be
      therapeutically beneficial as an anti-inflammatory, heparin can cause severe, potentially
      life-threatening hemorrhage. ParinGenix has chemically modified heparin to retain the
      anti-inflammatory activity while reducing anti-coagulant properties.

      Heparin has long been known to be a potent inhibitor, both in vitro and in vivo, of the
      cationic neutrophil proteases HLE and cathepsin G. However, heparin also has numerous other
      important anti-inflammatory effects. P-selectin is the primary endothelial attachment
      molecule mediating neutrophil rolling along the vessel wall. At concentrations close to those
      achieved in plasma near the high range of therapeutic anticoagulation, heparin inhibits
      P-selectin and P-selectin mediated interaction of leukocytes with endothelium. Heparin also
      blocks the leukocyte integrin Mac-1 (CD11b/CD18) and Mac-1-dependent leukocyte adherence to
      endothelial ICAM. These combined effects on rolling, integrin-dependent attachment and
      perhaps other aspects of cellular passage through the basement membrane prevent neutrophil
      accumulation in areas of inflammation. As an example, when given in much higher
      concentrations than those appropriate for therapeutic anticoagulation, heparin efficiently
      blocks neutrophilic influx into ischemic reperfused myocardium and brain reducing the size of
      both myocardial infarction and ischemic stroke. Thus, heparin and heparin analogues may have
      the potential to also reduce inflammatory influx of neutrophils into the airway during
      exacerbations of COPD.

      All subjects will receive standard of care treatment, including corticosteroids, beta-2
      agonists, and antibiotics as well as ODSH or placebo.
    
  