
    
      Short-term Efficacy of Transperineal Laser Ablation (TPLA) With Image Fusion and
      Multi-parametric (mpMRI) Follow-up in Focal Low-intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer. It is an
      interventional pilot study.

      The recruitment and evaluation of eligibility will be done by the Multidisciplinary Neoplasms
      Group of the Uro-Genital System, already operating within the Tor Vergata Polyclinic
      Foundation and formed by the following Operating Units:

      UOSD Urology, UOC Diagnostic Imaging, UOC Medical Oncology, UOC Radiotherapy, UOSD
      Pathological Anatomy, UOC Nuclear Medicine. The Multidisciplinary Group will propose and
      evaluate patients that can be recruited based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      patient considered eligible for the study will be adequately informed by the UOSD Urology /
      UOC Diagnostic Imaging regarding the therapeutic possibilities for the specific disease
      stage.

      If the patient expresses an interest in participating in the study, he will be given informed
      consent.

      Once the informed consent has been signed, the patient will be considered enrolled in the
      study.

      Pre-procedural evaluation

      Pre-treatment clinical-instrumental-blood chemistry tests include:

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  Complete blood count, blood ureanitrogen (BUN), creatinine, sodium, potassium,
           coagulation tests

        -  Urine examination and urine culture

        -  Evaluation of the post-voiding residue

        -  Uroflowmetry (if IPSS> 7)

      Questionnaires:

        -  IPSS-QoL

        -  IIEF

      Focal laser ablation treatment (FLA):

      The treatments will be performed by the Diagnostic Imaging team, on a Day Hospital basis,
      using the combined Echolaser XVG system (Elesta s.r.l - Calenzano (FI)).

      The EchoLaser Therapy is a micro-invasive percutaneous procedure that uses the laser light
      transmitted through applicators (optical fibers) for a few minutes, causing the affected
      tissue to warm up until it is irreversibly damaged in "situ", without the need to remove it.

      All this thanks to the combined action of an increase in the local temperature and the
      exposure time. The interaction of laser radiation with a wavelength of 1064nm (in the range
      of the therapeutic window) is excellent, with low radiation absorption and excellent light
      penetration. The laser light is conveyed from the source to the fabric through extremely
      flexible, small-caliber (300 micron diameter) flat-tip quartz optical fibers, introduced
      percutaneously by thin needles (21 Gauge).

      The EchoLaser Therapy, through flat-tipped fibers, produces an ellipsoidal coagulation area
      (an area where the tissue has irreversible damage). A possible multi-fiber approach can
      extend the coagulation area.

      The EchoLaser Therapy can be performed under ultrasound guidance for real-time monitoring of
      the correct positioning of the laser light applicators and the effective extension of the
      damage to the tumor lesion.

      The procedure will be performed with a patient in a lithotomy position and in safe conditions
      according to the current legislation for treatments with laser systems (such as protective
      glasses).

      Treatment includes local anesthesia of the perineal region, under ultrasound guidance. At the
      discretion of the medical team, intravenous sedation can be performed.

      1-2 spinal needles 21G will be inserted into the intralesional site by ultrasound-guided
      transperineal route after MRI / TRUS image fusion. In each needle a 300 micron optical fiber
      will be inserted (Elesta s.r.l., Calenzano (FI)). For each lighting, for about 6 minutes, a
      maximum energy of 1800 J per fiber will be delivered, with a power of 2-5 Watts. If
      necessary, the needle and fiber will be retracted for about 1 cm ("pull-back"). Further
      lighting will follow, with delivery and duration and power equal to the previous one.

      Immediately after the procedure, the patient will be asked to complete the VAS score for the
      assessment of pain felt during the procedure.

      Complications: The potential complications of the FLA technique are:

        -  Peri-operative: perineal and hypogastric pain, perineal hematoma, hematuria, acute
           urinary retention, fever, dysuria

        -  Postoperative: perineal pain, LUTS, persistent hematuria, hematospermia, erectile
           dysfunction, urinary incontinence Complications will be investigated prospectively using
           the Clavien-Dindo classification

      Follow-up: The clinical evaluation will be carried out at different times:

      Post procedural follow up A multi-parametric prostate MRI will be performed immediately after
      the treatment. At the end of the treatment the resumption of spontaneous diuresis will be
      checked and in the case of acute urinary retention / clinically significant hematuria a
      bladder catheter will be inserted.

      An oral cortisone drug (Deflazacort 30 mg) or other anti-edema therapy will be prescribed if
      specifically contraindicated by the patient.

      Any complications will be recorded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification The patient
      will be discharged with antibiotic therapy, pain relief when needed and gastroprotective for
      5-7 days.

      Patients will receive a telephone contact to use to communicate any post-operative
      emergencies.

      Post-discharge follow-up The specialist follow-up visit to 1 (T3), 6 (T4), 12 (T5) and 24
      (T6) months from the procedure will be conducted by the UOSD Urology.

      Any reported complications will be recorded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification.

      The patient will be asked to complete the IPSS-QoL and IIEF questionnaires and will view the
      total serum PSA (T4-T5-T6).

      Multi-parametric prostate MRI will be performed at T4-T6. Transperineal prostatic control
      biopsy will be performed with fusion target (ablated zone) and systematic technique (T4-T6).
    
  