
    
      Uncorrected refractive error is a frequent cause of visual impairment in children most
      prevalent in rural or underserved areas in the global population. In 2006, the World Health
      Organization released global estimates on visual impairment. According to their findings,
      there are approximately 314 million people in the world whose vision is impaired. Of this
      population 90% of those individuals live in developing countries and 153 million cases are
      believed to be due to uncorrected refractive error. Children, ages five to 15 years, suffer
      from refractive errors (mostly myopia, hyperopia, and astigmatism) that can be improved to
      normal vision. It is estimated that by 2020, approximately one third of the world's
      population (2.5 billion) will be affected by myopia alone14. The prevalence of refractive
      error in school-aged children is significant especially the impact on a child's life in terms
      of education and development.

      Studies in Western populations have collectively shown that myopia occurs <5% in children 8
      years and younger. Sampling studies in other countries worldwide have shown that there is
      higher prevalence of myopia among Southeast Asia children and less among Australian
      children.1-11 Refractive error study in Eastern Nepal found 2.9% of children had vision of
      20/40 or worse of which 56% of the 200 eyes tested was caused by refractive error due to
      myopia, hyperopia and astigmatism.12

      The challenge is to determine the most effective and accessible method of detecting
      refractive error and dispensing spectacles for better vision. Children who have access to
      clinical setting typically receive prescriptive spectacles to correct refractive errors.
      However, in underserved areas where standard eye care may be absent, children are unable to
      receive the benefits of normal or near normal vision. The challenge is to determine the most
      effective and accessible method of detecting refractive error and dispensing spectacles for
      better vision

      In the clinical setting, refractive error is corrected by prescribing spectacles or contact
      lenses on a daily basis. Typically the patient will first undergo autorefraction, in which a
      computer-controlled machine objectively calculates the refractive error present as a starting
      point for the subjective refraction test. This machine, however, is cumbersome and not easily
      transportable abroad. Typically the machine is held up to the patient's forehead and they are
      asked to look into the machine at a distant object. While they are looking at this object the
      machine calculates the refractive error.

      First-Sight is a simplified way to correct refractive error. It is easily portable, making it
      accessible to remote areas of the world. Unlike the study cited above, First-Sight can be
      taken to remote areas where clinics are not available and patients are not able to afford to
      pay for the clinic visit. As it is a simplified technique, local health care workers may
      easily be able to learn how to use First-Sight and dispense spectacles to those in need.
      Lastly, sponsors of First-Sight will provide the refracting kit and dispense custom-made
      spectacles at no cost to health care workers and children respectively.
    
  