
    
      Breast cancer is the most common malignancy for females in North America. Around 5-15% of the
      estimated 200,000 new cases diagnosed each year will present with locally advanced breast
      cancer (LABC) (The definition of what constitutes "LABC" is complex and variable. Clinically
      these tumours are usually considered to be those greater than 5cm in size and/or extend
      beyond the breast tissue into the surrounding skin or muscle. Patients with matted axillary
      lymph nodes (N2) or internal mammary nodes (N3) or ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node
      involvement are also considered to have LABC. In view of the extensive nature of these
      tumours at presentation, women with LABC have a poor outcome in terms of both local and
      systemic recurrence. Standard treatment for these patients is usually neoadjuvant systemic
      (chemotherapy or less frequently endocrine therapy) followed by surgery and radiotherapy.
      Patients who have hormone receptor positive tumours will then receive endocrine therapy. With
      the use of multidisciplinary therapy, 10-year disease free survival rates of 50% for Stage
      IIIA and 33% for Stage IIIB disease have been reported.

      The impetus for undertaking this study is that we are searching for imaging methods that
      could potentially serve as surrogate indicators of pathological response. One such modality
      that we wish to investigate as it may be ultimately useful in this patient population is
      diffuse optical spectrometry. This modality depends on differentiating oxygenated from
      deoxygenated tissue but is also sensitive to other changes in tissue characteristics. It has
      been used before in proof-of-principle studies differentiating benign from malignant disease
      but we hypothesize that it may be more useful in terms of monitoring tumour responses to
      treatment. This is a non-invasive imaging modality that is easy to administer and relatively
      inexpensive.
    
  