
    
      The goal is to conduct a confirmatory effectiveness RCT (and an implementation evaluation) of
      VIT by comparing employment and recidivism outcomes of offenders receiving vocational
      services as usual (SAU) plus VIT (SAU+VIT) with the outcomes of offenders receiving only
      services as usual (SAU-only). To meet the criteria in the funding announcement, the plan
      calls for participants to include offenders who are at moderate to high risk for reoffending
      (with an emphasis on violent-crime reoffending) who are currently enrolled in a Vocational
      Village. The investigators are well prepared to conduct this study because the team has
      extensive experience with evaluating VIT in several settings (schools and mental-health
      service providers) and has previously collaborated with the Michigan Department of
      Corrections, which administers the Vocational Villages.

      Objective 1. Evaluate whether SAU+VIT, compared with SAU-only, enhances employment outcomes
      and reduces recidivism among this population (i.e., effectiveness). At the individual level,
      the investigators hypothesize (H) that SAU+VIT trainees, compared with SAU-only trainees,
      will have higher employment rates (H1), greater improvement in job-interview skills (H2), and
      reduced recidivism (H3) by six-month follow-up. At the system level, the investigators
      hypothesize that SAU+VIT will be more cost-effective than SAU-only (H4). Subobjective 1.
      Explore whether use of the computerized VIT system frees up SAU staff time for
      non-interview-practice-related vocational training, relative to SAU-only (system
      level).Objective 2. Evaluate the mechanisms of employment outcomes and explore the mechanisms
      of recidivism.

      Based on Corbiere's model, the investigators hypothesize that interview-skill improvement and
      measured role-play interview performance will mediate the effect of interview training on
      employment outcomes (H5). Also, The investigators will explore whether employment outcomes
      mediate the relationship between interviewing skills and recidivism at six-month follow-up
      and twelve month follow ups.

      Objective 3. Conduct a multilevel, mixed-method initial process evaluation of VIT
      implementation to assess the acceptability, scalability, generalizability, and affordability
      of VIT. The investigators will use focus groups, surveys, and interviews (among offenders,
      staff, and leaders) to identify facilitators and barriers to implementing VIT in a
      prison-based vocational service program (the Vocational Village). The investigators will use
      budget-impact analysis to estimate the cost of implementing VIT at the Vocational Village.

      1.1 Virtual Interview Training (VIT). This is an immersive simulation that allows trainees to
      have a virtual conversation with, and influence the behavior of, a simulated character.
      Previous studies suggest that virtual reality simulation training is engaging, and as a
      result, trainees will practice willingly for hours. The VIT simulation far exceeds typical
      interview training by combining video, speech recognition, and nonbranching logic (described
      below) to create an interactive environment in which trainees encounter complex social cues
      and realistic interpersonal exchanges with a virtual hiring manager. VIT was designed as part
      of a collaborative partnership between SIMmersion LLC and the research team to improve
      interview skills using behavioral-learning principles. These principles help develop
      sustainable changes in behavior.

      The team developed the VIT learning objectives, which the investigators re characterized
      using terminology from the literature. The job-related interview content objectives target
      dependability, negotiating skills (e.g., asking for a day off), teamwork, and honesty (e.g.,
      following company policies). The interviewer performance objectives target comfort level
      during the interview, sharing information in a positive way, sounding interested in the
      position, sounding professional, and establishing a rapport with the interviewer. VIT
      includes the following components to help the trainee achieve the learning objectives:
    
  