
    
      Detailed Description Prospective Randomized Study Comparing Topical versus Intravenous
      Tranexamic Acid in Anterior Total Hip Arthroplasty A. Study Background and Purpose Hip and
      knee arthroplasty is one of the most successful procedures for relieving pain and correction
      of deformity in patients with degenerative arthritis of the hip and knee with approximately 1
      million procedures performed every year in the United States. However, these joint
      replacements are associated with substantial amounts of blood loss varying between 500 and
      1,500 milliliters often necessitating allogeneic blood transfusions in the post-operative
      period. This potentially leads to delays in discharge, physical recovery, and increased
      complications. In addition, it can escalate the cost of total joint arthroplasties in
      healthcare organizations. Several strategies have been employed in the past with varying
      efficacies to reduce transfusion requirements including preoperative autologous donation,
      erythropoietin use, intra-operative hypotensive anesthesia, fibrin spray, cell salvage, and
      post-operative auto-transfusions drains. Over the past decade the anti-fibrinolytic agent
      tranexamic acid, a synthetic analog of the amino acid lysine, has been used extensively in
      lower extremity arthroplasties to minimize intra-operative blood losses. Tranexamic acid
      prevents the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin on the surface of fibrin, thereby
      inhibiting fibrinolysis and reducing blood loss. Despite its almost universal use and
      documented safety, there is significant controversy regarding the optimal route of
      administration with several studies documenting equivalent efficacy of intravenous and
      topical administration, with both routes of administration currently considered standard of
      care in both hip and knee arthroplasties. Anecdotally, the senior author has found that
      topical use of tranexamic acid has led to greater post-operative drainage and reduction in
      hematocrit compared to intravenous use. This may be secondary to the absence of tamponade
      effect with anterior total hip arthroplasty. However, few studies have compared the efficacy
      of topical versus intravenous use of this medication in direct anterior total hip
      arthroplasty. Therefore, in this prospective randomized study, the investigators will attempt
      to evaluate if there exists any significant difference in the post-operative outcomes of
      topical versus intravenous tranexamic acid following anterior total hip arthroplasty.

      B. Study Design This will be a prospective randomized study in which subjects who have
      exhausted non-operative treatment for hip osteoarthritis and are opting for total hip
      arthroplasty will be randomized into 3 groups in a 1:1:1 ratio based on a computer generated
      algorithm following inclusion and exclusion criteria as described below. The patients will be
      recruited into the study by the principal investigator from his practice cohort. They will be
      consented to enroll in to the study by any one of the co-investigators. They will either be
      recruited in the office at Bone and Joint Center, 1367 Washington Avenue, Albany New York or
      at Albany Medical Center, 43 New Scotland Avenue on the day of surgery. Patients will be
      further stratified according to BMI (body mass index) as this may be a confounding variable
      affecting blood loss. The patients will be distributed in to 3 groups as follows: Group A:
      Intravenous Tranexamic acid at a dose of 1 gram administered 30 min prior to skin incision
      and 1 gram 3 hours after the procedure. (Total dose administered is 2 grams); Group B:
      Topical Tranexamic acid at a dose of 1 gram injected in to the peri-articular tissues prior
      to closure and 1 gram injected into the joint through the drain following wound closure.
      (Total dose administered is 2 grams); Group C: Combined Intravenous 1 gram given intravenous
      30 min prior to skin incision and topical tranexamic acid (1 gram) injected in to the
      peri-articular tissues prior to closure. (Total dose administered is 2 grams). Women who are
      premenopausal will have a pregnancy test prior to total hip arthroplasty as per institutional
      protocol. This will be covered by the patient's health insurance. Subjects will be assigned a
      unique identification number. The principal investigators will maintain a list identifying
      all subjects by their subject identification number and initials. Subjects will be screened
      at the time of scheduling surgery in the outpatient clinic. Study procedures and information
      regarding the nature of the study will be reviewed with potential subjects, and written
      informed consent will be obtained prior to any study-related procedures. Alternatively,
      patients may be contacted by phone regarding the study. In this case, the study information
      will be reviewed with the subject over the phone and subjects will be asked to electronically
      sign a consent form sent via e-mail. Patients will be given a flyer when they are booked for
      surgery which will briefly outline our study and inform them that they may be contact about
      the study via telephone. The phone consent will be performed by one of the primary or
      co-investigators listed on this study. Adobe E-sign software will be used to send subjects a
      consent form via e-mail after the phone conversation. The patient will be given an
      opportunity to review the consent document and then the investigator will place a second call
      to the subject to review any questions or concerns. The subject and the investigator will the
      electronically sign the consent in succession. The Adobe E-signature software provides a date
      and time stamp. After the consent is signed by both parties the subject will be provided a
      copy of the signed consent by email. A copy of the consent will be maintained in a secure
      network drive provided by Albany Medical Center which will be accessible by the investigators
      listed on the study. A printed copy of the signed consent will be placed into the patients
      chart on the date of surgery. A second printed copy will be placed in a locked file cabinet
      in the preoperative unit at Albany Medical Center. All patients will have the right to
      voluntarily withdraw from the study. Any intra-operative or post-operative adverse events
      prior to discharge from the hospital will be recorded.

      Other screening procedures are as follows:

      i. Review inclusion and exclusion criteria. ii. Collect demographic information including
      age, sex, weight, height, BMI, American Society of Anesthesiology status, co-morbidities, and
      medication use.

      iii. Record medical history. iv. Collect baseline data with regards to pre-operative
      hematocrit, creatinine levels, and coagulation profile.

      All patients will have combined spinal with 0.75% bupivacaine heavy with lumbar and sacral
      plexus blocks. The total hip arthroplasties will be performed through a direct anterior
      approach. A closed suction drain will be placed intra-operatively and daily outputs measured
      will be recorded. The drain will be clamped in all patients for 1 hour in the immediate
      post-operative period after wound closure. For group B, the drain will be clamped after 1
      gram tranexamic acid is injected through the drain following completion of wound closure.
      Blood transfusion postoperatively will be dictated by the institutional policy of
      post-operative hemoglobin concentration of <7 g/dl or hematocrit of <21 or when patients
      developed any anemia-related organ dysfunction such as alteration of mental status,
      respiratory distress, or palpitations. The total blood loss will be calculated using a
      modification of the Gross formula where, if a reinfusion or an allogeneic transfusion was
      performed, the total blood loss will be equal to the loss calculated from the change in the
      hematocrit plus the volume transfused 20-22.

      Prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism will be administered according to standard
      practice at our center which includes anti-embolic stockings, intermittent pneumatic
      compression, and early physical therapy on the day after surgery, aspirin 325 milligrams
      twice daily started on first post-operative day and continued at discharge. Analgesic
      irrigation with 7.5 ml of 1% Ropivacaine, 0.25 ml of Epinephrine 1mg/1ml, 1 ml of Morphine
      10mg/ml, 1 ml of Ketorolac 30mg/ml, 1 ml of methylprednisolone acetate 40mg/ml, and 60 ml of
      normal saline will be administered for wound infiltration in the peri-capsular tissues prior
      to closure unless the patient possesses allergies to any of the aforementioned medications.
      Post-operatively, all patients (Groups, A, B, and C) will receive standard post-operative
      analgesic medications. All patients will be discharged with pregabalin 75 mg twice daily
      (BID), celecoxib 200 mg BID, Oxycodone/acetaminophen 5/325 mg to take 1-2 tabs every four
      hours as needed for pain control, and aspirin 325 mg BID for thromboprophylaxis unless they
      possess allergies to the aforementioned medications.

      Duration of the study The proposed data collection period of this study is two years.
      Patients will not be brought back for follow-up beyond their normal post-operative visit
      schedule. They will be seen earlier if any complications arise. During their visits metrics
      that will be specifically assessed include wound infections rates and incidences of deep vein
      thrombosis/ pulmonary thromboembolism (DVT/PE). Emergency department visits and readmissions,
      if any, will be recorded.

      Withdrawal

      Any of the subjects may withdraw from the study at any time without prejudice. However, every
      attempt should be made to encourage subjects to complete the study. If a subject discontinues
      from the study, the reason given must be fully evaluated and recorded appropriately in source
      documentation and the electronic health record. If the subject is withdrawn because of an
      adverse event (AE), that AE must be indicated as the reason for withdrawal. The investigator
      can discontinue a subject at any time if medically necessary. The primary investigator may
      replace subjects that are withdrawn. In addition, subjects meeting the following criteria
      must be withdrawn from the study:

        -  Occurrence of any adverse event (AE), post-operative bleeding complications requiring
           return to operating room or a vascular intervention radiology procedure, or laboratory
           abnormality which, in the opinion of the primary investigator, warrants the subject's
           permanent withdrawal from the study;

        -  Subject noncompliance, defined as refusal or inability to adhere to the study schedule;

        -  At the request of the subject, primary investigator, or regulatory authority

        -  Subject is lost to follow-up.

      C. Subject Population The subjects will be male and female patients of the principal
      orthopedic surgeon's practice who are eligible for unilateral anterior total hip
      arthroplasty. They must meet the above stated inclusion criteria and be willing to
      participate in the study and receive any of the three routes of tranexamic acid. They will be
      preoperatively evaluated for medical clearance by either their primary care physician and/or
      cardiologist as they otherwise would regardless of study inclusion.

      D. Study Location The study will be conducted at Albany Medical Center, 43 New Scotland
      Avenue, Albany New York, Zip 12208, (Phone: 518-262-4000) and Bone and Joint Center, 1367
      Washington Avenue, Albany New York, 12206 (Phone 518-489-2666).

      E. Data analysis All data metrics including demographic variables and primary and secondary
      endpoints will be tabulated in to an excel spreadsheet (Microsoft Inc., Redmond, WA). Data
      analysis will be performed using software GraphPad Prism (GraphPad Software Inc., CA).
      Quantitative data will be analyzed using non-directional analysis of variance (ANOVA) with
      Tukey's test for multiple comparisons. Non-normality or heteroscedasticity of data will
      either be corrected by transformation or a non-parametric (Kruskal Wallis) test will be used.
      Data will be presented as mean and standard deviation if normal or median and interquartile
      range if not. Categorical data will be analyzed using chi-square tests (or Fisher's exact
      test if any cells expected value is 5 or less). A p-value <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. Risks of total hip arthroplasty, equally applicable to all
      participants in the study, include intra-operative fracture, post-operative infection,
      deep-vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, post-operative hip pain, and need for future
      surgery. Complications associated with the use of tranexamic acid include unforeseen allergic
      complications.

      G. Benefits The primary advantage, which study subjects may derive from being a part of this
      study include considerable improvements in blood loss in the immediate peri-operative period.
      The benefit expected for study subjects enrolled in this study may include a reduction in
      length of stay, fewer blood transfusions, and earlier achievement of rehabilitative outcomes.

      H. Confidentiality All primary data, or copies thereof (e.g., laboratory records, data
      sheets, correspondence, photographs, and computer records), which are a result of the
      original observations and activities of the study and are necessary for the reconstruction
      and evaluation of any study report, will be retained by the Principal Investigator. Data
      sources will be Albany Medical Center Sorian electronic health record and from Electronic
      health records (EHR) at Bone and Joint Center. The results from screening and data collected
      during the study will be recorded in the electronic health records and/or source documents,
      as appropriate, for each subject. To maintain confidentiality, the subjects will be
      identified by numbers and/or initials on the electronic health records. Beginning on the day
      of surgery, all patients included in the study will be given a number associated with a
      randomly assigned opaque envelope. The only association between patients and their assigned
      numbers will be stored in the principal investigator's locked file cabinet in the locked
      office. However, as an inpatient, all data will be stored under the patient's name in the
      medical record in standard fashion. After discharge, data will be copied onto a file by one
      of the co-investigators and stored under the patient's confidential number. From this point
      on, all data identifying information will be de-identified from the patient.

      I. Options Since intraoperative tranexamic acid use has been shown to be standard of care,
      option of not using tranexamic acid increases the risks of bleeding and post-operative blood
      transfusions.
    
  