
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of nicotine salt (nicotine benzoate) and free-base nicotine in
      different flavored e-liquid solutions on puffing behaviors and systemic exposure to nicotine
      from electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) by:

      Ia. Assessing short-term effects on nicotine cravings, withdrawal, and satisfaction from
      single use of ENDS refilled with flavored nicotine salt or flavored free-base nicotine
      solutions with two different flavors (tobacco or unflavored) in current daily ENDS users
      following an overnight fast.

      Ib. Comparing users' perceptions and preferences towards inhaling vapors containing nicotine
      salt (nicotine benzoate) or freebase nicotine with two different flavors (tobacco and
      unflavored) versus their regular brand.

      II. This project provides important information on whether the pharmacokinetics of nicotine
      delivery differ between salt and free-base forms of e-liquid of equivalent nominal
      concentration using the same device, and whether the previously observed effects of flavors
      on subjective effects differ between salt and free-base forms.

      III. Determine whether maximum concentration of nicotine in plasma (Cmax) or time to maximum
      concentration (Tmax) differ between free-base and salt-based versions of the same liquid,
      controlling for flavoring and nominal nicotine concentration [main effect of salt].

      IV. Determine whether the effect of flavoring on subjective effects (e.g., harshness, liking)
      differs between matched free-base and salt-based e-liquids [flavor X salt interaction].

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Examine effects of salt and flavoring on abuse liability using the Experimental Tobacco
      Marketplace (ETM).

      OUTLINE:

      After 8-10 hours after nicotine abstinence, participants attend 4 vaping sessions over 2-2.5
      hours, 5-7 days apart. During each session, participants take 20 puffs over 10 minutes (one
      puff every 30 seconds) of vaporizer filled with freebased nicotine electronic (e)-liquid
      solution of unflavored, free-based nicotine e-liquid solution of tobacco flavor, salt-based
      nicotine e-liquid solution of unflavored, or salt-based nicotine e-liquid solution of tobacco
      flavor assigned in a random order.
    
  