
    
      This was a cross sectional study involving 300 subjects ,30-60 years of age. 80% was
      calculated as the power of the study and error was set at 5%. The ethical clearance for the
      study was obtained from the University central ethics committee. A consent form, was given to
      all the subjects, which was explained to them and a written consent was taken before
      enrolling them. As per the prepared case history format, case history was taken for all the
      subjects who were part of the study The body mass index (BMI) was assessed and subjects who
      were overweight & obese, with a BMI above 25 , were not included in the study.7 Of the total
      of 300 subjects,100 subjects who did not have any systemic diseases were included in group I
      and III, and 100 subjects with diabetes mellitus type II, who were not suffering from any
      other systemic diseases were included in group II. The diabetic patients in group II were on
      oral medication (Metformin derivatives) and appropriate diet control measures, for a period
      of at least one year but not more than five years.

      Group I and II patients had chronic generalized severe periodontitis.8 Subjects in group III
      were systemically healthy and not suffering from any periodontal disease. A single trained
      investigator examined the periodontal status of all the subjects. Any other type of
      periodontitis was not included in the study.

      Subjects were excluded if they had taken antibiotics any time in the last 4 weeks. Vitamin
      and mineral supplement intake and those who underwent periodontal treatment procedures in the
      course of the last 6 months were eliminated from the study. Tobacco users, alcoholics,
      pregnant as well as lactating women were not included in the study.

      Only subjects who had a a RBS score of less than 120 and HbA1c score of less than 7 were
      accepted in the study.

      Then a periodontal examination was carried out, the status of the periodontal condition was
      determined, and the subjects were alloted to the three groups by the single trained
      investigator,patient was also referred to a physician to determine the systemic condition.

      Following this the patients were allotted to the various groups as per the inclusion
      criteria. Patients not fulfilling the various criteria were excluded from the study.

      5ml of venous blood was taken from the ante cubital vein from each of the study subjects. The
      blood from each of the subjects was centrifuged and then stored at -20°C. The serum samples
      were then analysed for the various anti oxidants.

      Statistical Analysis Statistical analysis of the data was done using SPSS version 17
      software. The comparison of the means of the 2 groups was done using the students 'T' test.
      Analysis of variance (ANOVA) two tailed test was used to compare the means of more than 2
      groups. HSD tukey test with ANOVA jointly,was used to find means that were significantly
      different from one another. 'p' value (level of significance) less than 0.05 was taken to be
      statistically significant.

      Biochemical Study:

      5 ml venous blood which was taken from each study subject was divided into 2 parts. 2 ml of
      it was collected in EDTA coated vacutainer tubes and 2 ml in plain tubes. The blood in the
      EDTA coated tubes was used to assess GSH & SOD. The blood in the plain tubes was used to
      assess the CAT and total antioxidant levels . It was centrifuged and the serum obtained was
      stored at - 200C for subsequent analysis Superoxide dismutase, glutathione and catalase were
      assessed by u.v double beam spectrophotometer and total anti-oxidant levels by
      spectrophotometer.

      Total antioxidant capacity of serum was determined by the phosphomolybdenum method . The
      estimation of superoxide dismutase enzyme was carried out by Beauchamp and Frodovich method.
      The catalase activity was assessed using the Hydrogen Peroxide reduction method and
      estimation of glutathione was by the DTNB method.
    
  