
    
      Our objective is to develop an IBEHR (Image-Based Electronic Health Record) to help patients
      to transfer and reproduce at home the exercises they were prescribed by their physical
      therapist (PT) in clinic. More than 17 million (M) patients are diagnosed with conditions
      that may benefit from PT in the U.S. each year. Adherence to home exercise is the most
      important factor in functional recovery, and feedback from the exercise prescriber is the
      most important factor in achieving patient adherence. However in current practice the patient
      only gets feedback at clinic visits which may be weeks apart.

      The proposed IBEHR will give patients visual feedback in real time comparing their
      performance at each repetition at home with a recording of themselves performing the exercise
      correctly in the clinic under the PT's supervision. The visual graphics show the patient how
      to better position his/her body and extremities. Such feedback is likely to improve adherence
      with the treatment regimen in terms of frequency, duration, and correctness of exercise, and
      thus facilitates transition of care between clinic and home.

      The IBEHR is also a telemedicine tool because the patient can transmit recordings of home
      exercise to the PT for rapid review and feedback.

      A third benefit of the IBEHR is to improve health care decision making by the PT. In current
      medical practice, it is difficult for a PT to determine why a patient fails to recover as
      expected. By recording the exercise performed at home, the IBEHR provides monitoring data
      that informs the PT whether the patient adhered poorly to prescribed exercise frequency or
      duration, the patient performed the exercise incorrectly, or the PT prescribed the wrong
      exercise.

      Our Specific Aims are to 1) develop the IBEHR software, 2) perform alpha testing of device
      accuracy and beta testing of user interface ease of use, and 3) perform preliminary
      evaluation of the efficacy of the IBEHR to improve adherence.

      The HEALTH CARE BENEFITS of the IBEHR for patient self monitoring are: improved transfer of
      physical therapy exercise from clinic to home, increased adherence to the exercise
      prescription, and recording home exercise to assist PT decision making.
    
  