
    
      Background: Cancer patients are at a greater risk of malnutrition. Limited data exists on the
      development of malnutrition during chemo - radiotherapy, particularly in rural and remote
      areas of Australia. Additionally, there is no data on the nutritional status of cancer
      patients in the Northern Territory or areas with a high proportion of Indigenous Australians.
      While considering the aforementioned dearth of literature, we are conducting a study in
      Darwin, Northern Territory of Australia. This study aims to establish a baseline of the
      nutritional status of chemo - radiotherapy patients undergoing treatment at the Alan Walker
      Cancer Care Centre (Darwin), to identify contributing factors to nutritional deterioration,
      and to determine if there is a difference between Indigenous and non-Indigenous patients.
      This study will provide a prospective analysis of malnutrition and a clear insight of
      nutritional status of cancer patients. It presents the first of its kind to address the
      nutritional status of cancer patients in Indigenous Australians.

      Methods/ design: Using the Patient Generated-Subjective Global Assessment; all eligible
      patients will be assessed for malnutrition and consented for participation into this study.
      Each participant's nutritional status will be assessed at baseline, first week of treatment,
      final week of treatment, and at one month post treatment. Prevalence data will be analysed
      using percentages. Comparative data will be analysed using chi-square tests. A linear
      regression analysis of the results will be undertaken. Data will be analysed using SPSS
      version 20 (IBM SPSS).

      Discussion: Weight loss and malnutrition among cancer patient is well documented, however,
      results from our study might appear to be more remarkable when compared with the other
      published data, because of our participants demographic, assessment tool used: the Patient
      Generated-Subjective Global Assessment has not been validated for use in Indigenous
      Australian Keywords: Nutritional status, malnutrition, prospective analysis,
      chemo-radiotherapy
    
  