
    
      Study Design: This is a prospective laboratory study using human volunteers.

      Study Setting and Subjects: The study will take place in The John B. Pierce Laboratory where
      volunteers will be subjected to lower body negative pressure using the on-site LBNP chamber.

      Protocol: Study subjects will be instructed to refrain from caffeine, alcohol, or cigarettes
      within 12 hours of the protocol, but will otherwise be allowed their routine oral intake
      prior to enrollment. The chamber is constructed of a sealed wood and acrylic box that is
      connected to a vacuum. Subjects will be placed into the chamber, which is sealed to the level
      of their pelvis by a neoprene skirt. Chamber pressure is transduced to an electronic digital
      manometer. The pressure in the chamber will reduced rapidly and held for 15-minute intervals
      at -5, -10, -15, and -20 mm Hg. If the subject becomes lightheaded, nauseated, or does not
      tolerate the test run in any way; negative pressure will be stopped.

      Subjects will be monitored with continuous electrocardiogram monitoring, a standard automated
      blood pressure cuff, and a noninvasive beat-to-beat hemodynamic monitor (Finometer, Finapres
      Medical Systems, Amsterdam, The Netherlands). All carotid ultrasound measurements will be
      performed by specifically trained emergency physicians, using a Philips ultrasound machine
      (Philips Medical Systems, Andover, MA) equipped with phased and linear array probes
      programmed with Doppler capability. For transcranial Doppler imaging, we will use a 5- to
      1-MHz sector array transducer and an Iu-22 ultrasound system (Philips Healthcare, Best, the
      Netherlands). Duplex sonography will be performed at the lower end of the frequency range
      (1-2 MHz) for better sound wave penetration of selected bone windows. For both the common
      carotid artery and transcranial portion of this study, we will obtain spectral Doppler
      waveform tracings and record measurements of corresponding vessel diameters. We will use data
      generated from software analysis of these spectral tracings to calculate hemodynamic
      parameters of interest to our study. Calculations are based on Bernoulli's principles of
      fluid dynamics.
    
  