
    
      Background

      A number of publications has shown a relatively high rate of complications that are related
      to the treatment and not to the disease. Such iatrogenic incidents are an important influence
      on patient morbidity and increase healthcare costs. Therefore, patient safety and minimizing
      the risk of iatrogenic harm has become a major concern in healthcare. Surgical site infection
      (SSI) is one of the most frequent complication in patients that undergo surgery, leading to
      considerable costs.

      In a previous study, the investigators established an empirical relationship between
      communication during surgery and SSI was shown in a prospective observational study in 167
      patients undergoing major elective open abdominal procedures. An analysis of 11383
      communication events observed by a team of trained work psychologists showed a relationship
      between intraoperative communication and SSI. Adjusted logistic regression analysis revealed
      that more case-relevant communication during the entire procedure was associated with a
      significant reduction in organ/space SSI (odds ratio 0.861, 95% confidence interval
      0.750-0.987; P=0.034). Interestingly, case-irrelevant communication during the last 20
      minutes of the procedure was associated with a significant increase of incisional SSI (odds
      ratio 1.1153, 95% confidence interval 1.040-1.196; P=0.002). Distractors such as noise and
      traffic were also assessed but had no effect on SSI. The current study is based on these
      observations, which reveal that case-relevant communication protects from organ/space SSI and
      case-irrelevant communication during the last 20 minutes of the procedure is a risk factor
      for SSI.

      These findings can be interpreted in light of previous studies assessing communication in
      surgery and similar collaborative tasks which showed that explicit task-relevant
      communication fosters the development of a shared mental model of the task within the team.
      This facilitates coordination, because all team members are informed about the state of task
      progress, and can better anticipate their contribution. This is particularly important in
      critical phases of the procedure, as well as in OR teams composed of members with different
      levels of knowledge and expertise. Explicit task-related communication may be particularly
      useful to inform non-sterile team members (anesthetists, scrub nurses) that do not have full
      sight of the operative field at all times.

      Although case-irrelevant communication in surgical teams has been found to foster a positive
      team-climate, it can be seen as a distractor if it diverts the attention away from the main
      task. This is more likely during the closing phase (last 20 minutes), because for most of the
      team members, the central task is already finished, and clearing and cleaning are routine
      tasks. If during routine tasks the team engages in too much non-patient relevant
      communication, attention to the closure may be diverted.

      Given the previously found results, the introduction of a clinically applicable intervention
      (described below) has been tested in pilot studies. This intervention aims to assure a short
      discussion of case-relevant aspects at specific moments of the procedure, draw the attention
      of the on case-relevant communication during the main phase and to prevent a high increase in
      case-irrelevant communication at the end of an operation.

      Objective

      To perform a prospective clinical trial to test the impact of structured intraoperative
      briefings on SSI. The incidence of SSIs will be compared before and after the introduction of
      this intervention.

      Methods

      - Intraoperative briefings: First briefing: after exposure of the organ of interest, Second
      briefing: Intraoperative briefing before closure of the operative field.

        -  Trainings and Retrainings

        -  Optional Interventions: Transparent drape between anesthesia and sterile team;
           Controlling noise and potential distractors during wound closure; Nutritional support
           during the operation
    
  