
    
      A previous preliminary study performed at Vanderbilt University with funding from the
      Leukemia Society of America demonstrated that the response of leukemia cells in vitro to the
      chemotherapeutic agent idarubicin in the microculture kinetic assay for apoptosis (MiCK
      assay) predicted survival in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In
      this previous study, achievement of complete response (CR) to induction therapy with
      idarubicin and cytarabine was used as the clinical indicator for determining whether leukemia
      specimens taken prior to treatment were sensitive or not sensitive in the MiCK assay. This
      group of patients has been followed for 7 years and their long term survival rates show that
      their responses in the MiCK assay to idarubicin but not cytarabine predict survival. In the
      present proposal a separate group of patients with newly diagnosed AML will be recruited to
      provide leukemia cell samples that will be used to establish criteria for sensitivity and
      non-sensitivity to idarubicin and cytarabine in the MiCK assay. The achievement of CR will be
      used to determine in vitro sensitivity as it was done in the previous study. With the in
      vitro sensitivities as determined in this proposed study, the long term survivals of patients
      in the previous study will be analyzed prospectively.

      STUDY DESIGN

        1. Recruit patients and assign them unique number at the time of sample collection. All
           samples and data will be recorded by unique number. The key to the unique numbers
           assigned to each patient will be kept by the principal investigators at Vanderbilt.

        2. After obtaining informed consent, collect specimens from patients whose induction
           therapy will include cytarabine and idarubicin. Collect and ship to DiaTech by overnight
           courier fifty (50) bone marrow or peripheral blood [if available, both bone marrow and
           peripheral blood] specimens from newly diagnosed patients with AML. Newly diagnosed AML
           patients include those diagnosed de novo or arising from a previously diagnosed
           myelodysplastic syndrome, but do not include patients with previously treated leukemia
           that has relapsed. An adequate specimen for analysis will contain sufficient numbers of
           viable leukemia cells to perform the MiCK assay with 7 doses of cytarabine and 7 doses
           of idarubicin..

        3. Each patient's clinically recognized predictors of leukemia treatment outcome will be
           recorded. These predictors include age, sex, presence or absence of preceding
           myelodysplastic syndrome, blood leukocyte count at diagnosis, percentage of leukemic
           cells in the blood, and leukemic cell karyotype.
    
  