
    
      The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans emphasizes consumption of 4.5 cups of fruits and
      vegetables daily. However, US adults only consume on average 2.6 cups of fruits and
      vegetables daily. This low consumption may further result in the limited availability of fat
      soluble, health-promoting, phytochemicals such as carotenoids (CAT) from these foods. Dietary
      CAT have beneficial biological properties including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects
      and scientific research supports the protective effects of CAT against many degenerative
      diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, age-related macular degeneration, and some types
      of cancer. Therefore, either low intake or inefficient bioavailability of CAT from fruits and
      vegetables may reduce their potential effectiveness to retard or prevent disease. Recently
      completed randomized and crossover study found that co-consuming 150g (3 eggs) of scrambled
      whole eggs (SWE) which contains18g of lipid, increases overall CAT absorption from a
      mixed-vegetable salad >7-fold compared to a the same salad without eggs (3g of co-consumed
      lipid) in young healthy men. However, the occurrence of this benefit in women and older
      adults is unknown. Aging may affect CAT bioavailability due to age-induced physiological
      changes including reduced gastrointestinal tract function and modifications of chylomicron
      metabolism. Eggs are known to be a highly bioavailable source of CAT, presumably due to the
      presence of lipid and phospholipid in egg yolk. The highly bioavailable nature of CAT from
      eggs suggest that egg-derived factors may be leveraged to improve bioavailability of other
      CAT found in co-consumed vegetables. While promising, very limited data exist on the impact
      of a co-consumed food source of lipid to enhance CAT absorption in women or in older adults.

      Vitamin D (VIT D) insufficiency is widespread with nearly 2/3 of Americans not meeting the
      current Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendation for serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D)
      concentration. VIT D has an essential function to regulate calcium homeostasis, including
      stimulating calcium's active intestinal absorption and renal excretion. Thus, maintaining
      adequate VIT D status is critical for overall skeletal health and the prevention of
      osteoporosis. Post-menopausal women are at high risk of having osteoporosis and this risk is
      reduced when adequate VIT D status is maintained. VIT D is fat-soluble and only a limited
      number of foods naturally contain it. Also, while VIT D absorption is enhanced by dietary
      lipid, the optimal amount of lipid required for maximal absorption has not been determined. A
      paucity of data exists regarding the effect of a co-consumed food source of lipid to enhance
      VIT D absorption and the impact of aging on VIT D bioavailability in women.
    
  