
    
      People with multiple sclerosis (MS) often have problems with fatigue that can interfere with
      other treatments. As many as 90% of individuals with MS experience persistent fatigue and 40%
      of individuals with MS describe fatigue as their most debilitating symptom. Fatigue in
      individuals with MS is also associated with greater distress and lower overall quality of
      life. Unfortunately, available treatments provide inadequate relief for most people. There
      remains an urgent need for additional treatment options for MS-related fatigue. The purpose
      of this study is to see if self-guided psychological treatments delivered through audio
      recordings can help decrease fatigue severity in people with MS.

      This study will evaluate the efficacy of two promising and innovative psychological
      treatments, Mindfulness Meditation (MM) and Self-Hypnosis (HYP), for helping individuals with
      MS manage fatigue. Since these treatments are self-guided, findings will provide evidence for
      the efficacy of highly accessible treatments, ultimately resulting in treatment interventions
      that can be easily disseminated without the need for highly trained specialist clinicians.

      Primary Aim: The primary aim of the proposed research is to evaluate the beneficial effects
      of two treatments (HYP and MM) for reducing MS-related fatigue, relative to Treatment as
      Usual (TAU).

      Primary Hypothesis (stated under the alternative): Participants assigned to HYP and MM
      conditions will report significantly greater reductions in fatigue at post-treatment, the
      primary end point, than those assigned to the TAU condition.

      The proposed research also has three secondary aims:

      Secondary Aim 1: To investigate whether there are beneficial effects of the two active
      treatments, relative to TAU, on pre- to post-treatment changes in secondary quality of life
      outcomes (e.g., sleep quality, pain intensity).

      Secondary Aim 2: To investigate whether there are longer-term benefits of the two active
      treatments, relative to each other and to TAU, on the primary and secondary outcomes, up to 6
      months post-treatment.

      Exploratory Aim 3: To investigate whether there is participant preference for either of the
      two active treatments, and investigate their relative effects on the study outcomes in an
      "open label" effectiveness analysis.
    
  