
    
      This is a double-blinded, prospective, randomized, pilot, study in thirty-two subjects with
      clinical CLI on background treatment with a statin. Subjects will be assessed based on their
      medical history and physical examination. Eligible subjects must meet all inclusion criteria
      and none of the exclusion criteria. There will be a treatment group and a placebo group, each
      with equal number of participants (n=16 patients in each group). After consent and
      enrollment, subjects will have a venous blood sample drawn to perform a lipid profile, serum
      vascular growth factors such as: vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), soluble VEGF
      receptor-1 (sVEGFR-1), soluble VEGF receptor-2 (sVEGFR-2), fibroblast growth factor (FGF),
      von Willebrand factor (vWF), tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) and plasminogen activator
      inhibitor -1 (PAI-1) and endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). The investigators will then
      perform lower extremity arterial perfusion assessment of the affected and unaffected limb as
      rest ankle-brachial index (ABI), toe-brachial index (TBI), bilateral transcutaneous partial
      pressure of oxygen (TcPO2), spatial frequency domain imaging (SFDI), femoral studies (FMT,
      compliance, distensibility and stiffness), brachial endothelial function testing (FMD after
      hyperemia and maximal vasodilation). The study participant subjects will receive monthly
      subcutaneous injections of evolocumab 420 mg or placebo injections.

      The LDL cholesterol will be measured at the baseline and a blinded measurement will also be
      performed at 3 and 12 months.

      In patients with active wounds, healing will be evaluated at baseline and every month for six
      months by photographic analysis using planimetry and 2D/3D topographic analysis.

      The study participants patients will be seen at 3, 6, and 9 months for follow up.

      After 12 months +/- 2 weeks, all tests will be repeated.
    
  