
    
      2. This study is conducted in outpatient ambulatory care clinics at the Baylor Family
      Medicine Worth Street clinic and the Irving Interfaith clinic. The average census for
      warfarin patients Friday clinic is 10. The anticoagulation clinic consists of an
      interdisciplinary team including physicians, medical assistants, nurse practitioners, and
      pharmacists. Patients initially visit with the provider and subsequent follow up INR checks
      are performed by the pharmacists or medical assistants. Currently, pharmacists manage the
      anticoagulation clinic on Fridays and medical assistants manage the clinic on Monday through
      Thursday. All providers provide patient education through written brochures.

      3. Study Design

      a. This study is a prospective, single-centered, randomized controlled quality improvement
      pilot study.

      4. Warfarin Education Procedures

        1. Each Friday morning, the pharmacist will identify the patients with appointments for INR
           checks.

        2. As each patient checks in for their appointment, the pharmacist will ask the patient for
           consent to be a part of the study

        3. If the patient says yes, the pharmacist will have the patient complete a warfarin
           questionnaire and health literacy test to see the patient's baseline knowledge on their
           warfarin therapy

        4. Intervention patients (iPAD® video)

             1. The patient will then watch a warfarin education video on the iPAD®

             2. After the video the patient will receive point of care INR check and have their
                warfarin dose adjusted

             3. Patient will then complete the same warfarin questionnaire

             4. After completion, answers to the questionnaire will be presented to the patient. A
                written brochure will be given.

             5. A satisfaction survey will be given

             6. 30-60 days days later the pharmacist will follow up with the patient to repeat the
                warfarin questionnaire

           5. Description of iPAD video

      a. Setting: a pharmacy b. Description: A pharmacist will provide education about warfarin
      using not only verbal instructions but also provide illustrations of directions. Please refer
      to Appendix for dialogue.

      6. Control group

      a. Patients' INR will be taken and warfarin education will be given verbally similar to
      Monday-Thursday clinic. A written brochure will be given.
    
  