
    
      Background:

      SOM or middle ear effusion is the most common cause of hearing impairment in children.
      Hearing loss occurs due to the accumulation of fluid in the middle ear. In most of the cases,
      SOM follows acute otitis media (AOM). In cases when the SOM is bilateral and persists for
      more than 3-6 months, operation with grommet insertion under general anaesthesia is
      indicated. 10000 children with SOM are operated with grommet insertion every year in Sweden.
      In cases of unilateral hearing loss caused by SOM, grommet insertion is rarely indicated if
      the duration of symptoms is less than one year. Some patients develop persistent perforation
      in the eardrum after extrusion of the tympanostomy tube.

      A new method of middle ear pressure equalisation has been developed at the Sahlgrenska
      University Hospital. 45 children in the age of 2-8 years with SOM that persisted for more
      than 3 months had been treated with this new method under the waiting period for grommet
      insertion. 80% of these children had been cured with regaining of normal hearing and avoided
      operation. No complication/side effects were noticed and the compliance was good.

      Aim of the study:

      The study aims to compare the surgical treatment with the new non surgical treatment of SOM.
      The effect of both treatment methods on hearing level and health economics will be assessed.

      Hypothesis:

      Can hearing improvement be achieved by the new non surgical treatment method of children with
      persistent SOM.

      Material and Method:

      80 children in the age of 2,5-7 years with 3-6 months duration of bilateral SOM associated
      with hearing loss and type B or C2 tympanogram will be offered inclusion in the study. All
      the patients will undergo during the first visit microscopic examination of the ears,
      audiogram and tympanogram. The children will be randomised thereafter into two groups. The
      first group is treated with the new method for one month. While the other group is operated
      with grommet insertion under general anesthesia. If the waiting time for the operation
      exceeds four weeks, the child undergo a new audiogram and tympanogram and if the results are
      still abnormal, the operation is performed. The second group will act as a control. Both
      groups undergo one month after completed treatment new examination with microscopic
      examination of the ears, audiogram for both groups and tympanogram for group one, due to the
      fact that tympanogram results are not conclusive in the presence of grommet in the ear drum.

      Intervention:

      The first group with verified middle ear effusion is treated with the new nonsurgical method
      of middle ear pressure equalisation. A face mask is connected to a tube to which a coloured
      balloon is attached. The tube is also connected to balloon. A safety valve is used to prevent
      too high air pressure. A balloon is hidden in a green soft toy in the form of frog. The
      parent and the child hold the face mask against the mouth and the child blows the balloon. On
      need, mainly in the beginning of treatment course, the parent presses the frog's abdomen in
      order to fill the balloon with air. During the first week, a low pressure balloon is used,
      then it is changed with a higher pressure balloon after one week. Full compliance for the
      treatment is defined as 20 blows (5 minutes) in the morning and evening for one week.

      Expected results and importance:

      The investigators expect that the study will show that the new treatment method of SOM, can
      effectively improve hearing of the affected child. This can be of great significance from
      medical, social and economic point of view. Hearing impairment in the paediatric age group
      has a great negative impact on speech development and are not only disadvantageous to the
      child and the parent but also for the whole society.
    
  