
    
      While spinal fusion remains the standard surgical treatment for progressive idiopathic
      scoliosis, concerns about the long-term effects of spinal fusion have led to the
      investigation of growth-modulation techniques. Anterior Vertebral Body Tethering (AVBT) is
      one such technique that utilizes growth modulation to remodel the shape of the vertebra and
      straighten scoliotic curves in skeletally immature individuals. In this technique, screws are
      inserted at each vertebral level for the length of the convex side of the curve. A strong
      cord is connected through the screw tulip heads and used to initially straighten the curve as
      each level is fixed with a set screw. Following surgery and during the growth period the
      spine begins to remodel according to the Hueter-Volkmann Law, bone growth is relatively
      inhibited in areas of increased pressure (convex or tethered side) and relatively stimulated
      in areas of decreased pressure or tension (concave side). Following this principle, AVBT has
      been shown to alter spinal growth with the potential to correct scoliosis while maintaining
      spine flexibility.

      The objective of the study is to assess the ongoing safety and probable benefit of The Tether
      HUD which was approved by the FDA under an HDE. Subject enrollment and data collection will
      be managed by the Harms Study Group (HSG) and Setting Scoliosis Straight Foundation (SSSF)
      Registry. Institutions that are HSG members or affiliates, with Investigators/surgeons that
      are trained and approved to perform surgeries with The Tether, will participate in the
      registry. Ten sites from this group will be identified as study sites specific to this Tether
      post-approval study (PAS). Consecutive subjects from these sites, that meet the eligibility
      criteria of this study, will be flagged in the registry as the PAS cohort and the study
      endpoints will be assessed across this population.
    
  