
    
      Introduction: The detection of cardiomyocyte injury as quantified by blood concentrations of
      cardiac troponin T (cTnT) or I (cTnI) is central in the diagnosis of acute myocardial
      infarction (AMI). While multiple cardiac disorders other than AMI may also lead to
      cardiomyocyte injury and therefore elevations in cTnT and cTnI, latest generations of cTnT
      and cTnI assays are considered to have near exclusive cardiac-specificity. Overall, both
      analytes (cTnT and cTnI) seem to have comparable diagnostic accuracy among patients
      presenting with suspected AMI to the emergency department (ED). However, their use in the
      diagnosis of AMI in patients with a skeletal muscle disease is questioned, as especially cTnT
      was found to be elevated in this setting. These increased cTnT levels have been successively
      attributed to a possible re-expression of cTnT isoforms in the diseased muscle, to a primary
      cardiac involvement associated with the muscle disease or to a cross-reaction of the hs-cTnT
      assay with TnT of muscle origin.

      Aim: To characterize cTn levels in patients with a skeletal muscle disease to assess their
      utility in the field of cardiology (through their implication in AMI diagnosis and their
      diagnostic and prognostic accuracy regarding a possible cardiac involvement) and in the field
      of neurology (for the detection and risk-stratification of the muscle disorder itself).

      Methodology: This study will be conducted at the University Hospital of Basel, at the
      Kantonsspital Aarau, both in Switzerland, and at the University Hospital of Innsbruck,
      Austria. A prospective cohort patient will be recruited through the neurology, rheumatology
      and cardiology clinics of these three hospitals. This prospective cohort of patients
      presenting with skeletal muscle disease will allow us to systematically screen patients for
      cTn increases, to investigate the prevalence and characteristics of a possible primary
      cardiac involvement (as documented by electrocardiogram, echocardiography, magnetic resonance
      imaging, cTnI, NT-proBNP (N-terminal pro-B-type Natriuretic Peptide) and any available
      further cardiac testing) and to explore the origins of the elevated cTn levels using muscle
      biopsies. Furthermore, this prospective cohort will document the role of these biomarkers in
      the diagnosis, prognosis and risk-stratification of the muscle disease. Patients will receive
      a 1- and 3-year follow-up visit with blood draw in order to measure cTn and other biomarkers
      and record the impact of the evolution and treatment of the muscle disease on these levels.
      Major adverse cardiac events including cardiovascular death, AMI, hospitalization for heart
      failure, and the development of clinical or subclinical heart failure as quantified by
      elevated blood concentrations of NT-proBNP will be recorded during follow-up.

      Potential significance: Elevated cTnT levels do not only have consequences regarding the
      diagnosis of AMI but also raise many questions regarding their possible use as a diagnostic,
      prognostic and risk-stratification marker regarding the different muscle injuries and their
      possible primary cardiac involvement.
    
  