
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is increasingly recognized as a cardiovascular risk factor. OSA
      is a cause of hypertension and has strong association with atherosclerosis, coronary heart
      disease, diabetes stroke , and fatal cardiovascular events. Endothelial dysfunction is a
      preclinical vascular abnormality that predicts subsequent development of vascular disease .
      Patients with OSA demonstrate endothelial dysfunction in the absence of any manifested
      vascular disease . The mechanism of endothelial dysfunction in OSA is largely unknown.
      Endothelial dysfunction in OSA is reversible with antioxidants, suggesting a role for oxidant
      overproduction in the decreased NO availability in OSA. This provides parallels to other
      cardiovascular diseases in which oxidative stress induced endothelial dysfunction is
      important.

      Recent studies reported evidence of dysfunction or decreased expression of endothelial nitric
      oxide synthase (eNOS) in association with increased peroxynitrite in harvested venous
      endothelial cells of OSA patients. We endeavored to perform the first direct quantification
      of microvascular endothelial genes from OSA patients. We hypothesized that patients with OSA
      who are free of any cardiovascular disease will have early functional changes in the
      microcirculatory endothelial cells that are associated with OSA, and therefore would resolve
      with treatment. Given the role of oxidative stress in the vascular disease of OSA, we
      expected to find evidence of superoxide overproduction in the microcirculatory vessels. We
      expected these functional changes to be reversible with treatment of OSA.

      Measurement of superoxide will be done on the subcutaneous biopsy tissue using quantitative
      Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR) and immunohistochemistry techniques and image analysis
      software. Measurement of endothelial function will be done using Doppler ultrasound.
    
  