
    
      Participants using the e-health solution (called Parkwood VIP4SCI) will have access to
      features that connect them directly with their clinician(s) such as Virtual calling
      (initiated by the clinician), Messaging (email) and Scheduling/Calendar features. Platform
      use will be supported by a "VIP Coach. The clinician, coach and patient participants will
      also be able to use the e-health solution to create and monitor progress associated with
      self-management goals and also use embedded educational resources. These resources will also
      support the patients in best meeting their goals in a timely manner.

      User Manuals for both the Client (i.e. Patient) and Provider (i.e. Clinician) are provided
      and contain screenshots and descriptive text that outline all the features of the
      intervention.

      Patient participants will either be inpatients or outpatients, whereas healthcare team
      participants will consist of any provider assigned to the patient participant's circle of
      care at Parkwood Institute. The patient participants can choose to have their caregiver also
      access the platform - however, due to technical limitations, only 1 account is provided for
      the patient/caregiver dyad. Health care provider participants will have access to the
      platform for a specific patient at any time that patient is in the "Platform access" group as
      described below. The inpatient participants will be randomly allocated to 1 of 2 groups -
      either 1) "Platform access" or 2) "Standard care" with delayed access to the platform. In the
      "Standard care" group, the platform will be provided 6 weeks after inpatient discharge with
      support provided by the VIP coach. Those in the "Platform access" group will receive access
      within 2 weeks of admission to the inpatient or outpatient team at Parkwood Institute. For
      those patients transitioning from inpatient to outpatient care, their access to the platform
      will be guided by which group they were originally assigned to in addition to their needs and
      discharge circumstances as some of these patients may or may not be picked up by the Parkwood
      Outpatient team. The criteria influencing this will continue to be guided by the clinical
      team as per standard care. Participants seen by the outpatient team that were previously
      enrolled as inpatients in the "Standard care" group will be able to access the platform after
      6 weeks of outpatient therapy with VIP coach support only, while those in the "Platform
      access" group can continue to use the platform with their outpatient health care providers.

      Patient participants will complete surveys at specific time points throughout the study
      including measures at baseline (within 2 weeks of admission), discharge from inpatient
      program (or 6 weeks from admission for outpatients) and then 6 weeks after that. In the case
      of the "Standard care" group, there will be an additional follow-up survey to assess outcome
      measures 6 weeks after they have been provided access to the platform. The outcome measures
      will assess feasibility, usability, usage analytics and several patient-reported outcomes
      including self-management-related outcomes, healthcare utilization and prevalence of
      secondary complications.
    
  