
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Production of precise, unbiased estimates of treatment effects for the constituent
      therapies and rescue treatment pathways.

      II. Development of the predictive algorithm, using the same machine learning techniques
      described in the preliminary data, to estimate the probabilities that an individual with a
      given pattern of baseline covariates will successfully quit smoking at the six and twelve
      week time points.

      OUTLINE:

      STAGE I: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Participants receive varenicline orally (PO) daily or twice daily (BID) for 6 weeks
      in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Participants who quit smoking continue treatment for
      6 additional weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Participants also receive
      behavioral smoking cessation counseling.

      GROUP II: Participants receive nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) consisting of a patch,
      lozenges, or gum daily for 6 weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Participants who
      quit smoking continue treatment for 6 additional weeks in the absence of unacceptable
      toxicity. Participants also receive behavioral smoking cessation counseling.

      STAGE II: After 6 weeks, participants from Stage I who do not quit smoking are randomized to
      1 of 5 groups.

      GROUP III: Participants continue to receive varenicline as in Group I or NRT as in Group II
      for 6 weeks depending on which group they were assigned to. Participants also receive
      behavioral smoking cessation counseling.

      GROUP IV: Participants switch to a different therapy and receive varenicline as in Group I or
      NRT as in Group II for 6 weeks depending on which group they were assigned to. Participants
      also receive behavioral smoking cessation counseling.

      GROUP V: Participants receive a higher dose and continue to receive varenicline as in Group I
      or NRT as in Group II for 6 weeks depending on which group they were assigned to.
      Participants also receive behavioral smoking cessation counseling.

      GROUP VI: Participants continue to receive varenicline as in Group I or NRT as in Group II
      for 6 weeks depending on which group they were assigned to. Participants also receive
      bupropion hydrochloride (bupropion) PO daily for 6 weeks and behavioral smoking cessation
      counseling.

      GROUP VII: Participants receive varenicline as in Group I and NRT as in Group II for 6 weeks.
      Participants also receive behavioral smoking cessation counseling.

      After starting study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.
    
  