
    
      Design

      The design will be a randomized, double blinded, single institute prospective study with
      patients undergoing Open or Robotic Assisted cystectomy procedures at Charleston Area Medical
      Center in Charleston, West Virginia. All patients following informed consent that meet the
      inclusion criteria are eligible to participate in the study.

      Procedures and Protocol

      This study will have two groups. Each group will follow a standardized post cystectomy
      protocol to reduce confounding factors in regards to postoperative management.

      Study Group

      Group A: The lidocaine infusion group will receive the lidocaine bolus 30 minutes prior to
      skin incision and the infusion will continue until 60 minutes after skin closure.

      Control Group

      Group B: Patients will be randomized to the control group and receive a normal saline bolus
      and infusion in the same procedure as the study arm.

      All patients in both groups will have pain scores documented at the time of the surgery. A
      baseline level of abdominal pain will be assessed using a 0 to 10 verbal analog scale (VAS),
      in which a rating of "0" indicates "no pain" and a score of "10" indicates the "worst pain
      imaginable". This data, which is the baseline preoperative pain score, will be used by
      statistician for data analysis.

      After surgery, nursing staffs will record the exact time the patient passes first flatus and
      have first bowel movements; nurses will also routinely asked each patients of these bowel
      activities during the patient assessments. Postoperative nausea and/or vomiting will be
      assessed in a similar fashion by the nursing staff. From Postoperative Day 1 until discharge
      (or up to 108 hours), at specified time intervals patients will be asked to score the average
      pain on a scale of O-10 (0 = none; 10 = worst pain imaginable) and any nausea/vomiting was
      experienced. The numeric rating scale is being used in this study because it is used commonly
      in patients post-operatively and due to its common use in other pain assessment studies. This
      information along with medication use during the same time intervals will be recorded by the
      nursing staffs at Charleston Area Medical Center.

      The American Pain Society Patient Outcome Questionnaire (APS-POQ-R) will be used to assess
      pain management during the first 24 hours after surgery. This questionnaire measures six
      aspects of pain including: pain severity and relief; impact of pain on activity, sleep, and
      negative emotions; side effects of treatment; helpfulness of information about pain
      treatment; ability to participate in pain treatment decisions; and use of nonpharmacological
      strategies. This has been validated in multiple studies to assess pain of patients and can be
      used in reference to other literature in regards to pain management previously published.

      In order to compare each arm for primary outcomes, namely improved pain control, decreased
      opioid consumption, and improved resolution of ileus, a descriptive analysis will be
      performed with means, standard deviations, ranges and percentages being reported for the
      prospective variables. In addition subgroup analysis will be conducted using statistical
      tests between study and control group to examine the differences between medication use, pain
      relief satisfaction, and post procedure pain scores. Continuous variables will be analyzed
      using the Student's t-test and categorical variables using chi-square or Fisher's Exact Test.
      Logistic regression will be used if needed to determine if any the variables are associated
      with study group. A p < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  