
    
      Certain bacteria, particularly Gram negatives, are major causes of inflammation. In fact, the
      lipopolysaccharides from these bacteria are used in vast numbers of studies to induce
      inflammation and study disease. Many cancers are the result of inflammatory processes. Breast
      cancer is a major cause of illness and death in women and inflammatory processes are one of
      the foci of investigation; however, not yet from the stand point that bacteria in the breast
      may be the instigators of cancer development. The investigators were the first in the world
      to describe the breast microbiota and show that the bacterial profiles are more pathogenic in
      women with cancer than in tissues of healthy controls. This work has been validated by
      others. Although this does not prove a cause-and-effect link with breast cancer, such
      linkages have been shown in stomach and colon cancers. If researchers assume there is a link,
      then how can the inflammatory microbiota be re-set to one that is somehow beneficial and able
      to reduce inflammation and potential cancer induction?

      The concept of probiotics emerged from the quest to reset the disrupted microbiota of the gut
      and upper respiratory tract. This investigational group has led the world in doing the same
      in the urogenital tract of women.

      The researchers would like to test their theory that taking probiotic lactobacilli by mouth
      can lead to these organisms reaching the breast tissue and helping displace the harmful
      bacteria and reducing inflammation. A study in Spain has shown that oral intake of probiotic
      lactobacilli can not only cure mastitis, but lead to the lactobacilli reaching the milk
      glands. Women who breast feed for more than six months (and thereby pass along lactic acid
      bacteria to the infant from the breast milk) have a reduced risk of breast cancer.

      The investigators hypothesize that the breast microbiome of women at risk of cancer has the
      same profile as women with cancer and that oral administration of probiotic lactobacilli can
      reset this to one found in healthy women. They also hypothesize the breast tissue of these
      at-risk patients is contaminated by environmental toxins.

      The project plan is to test the concept of re-setting the breast tissue microbiota in women
      at risk of cancer, to one more aligned with health.

      Samples will be tested for relative bacterial abundance to determine any shift in bacterial
      breast tissue composition by next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics. Samples will also
      be tested for inflammatory markers using Luminex technology, and for mercury, arsenic and
      pesticides using LC-MS as described in previous studies.

      Twenty women at high-risk for breast cancer (See Inclusion Criteria) will be randomized (10
      each) to receive either probiotic or placebo, once a day for 90 days. This capsule is
      approved in Canada and widely available and contains 2.5 billion CFU viable bacterial cells
      of each of the following strains: Lactobacillus rhamnosus GR-1 and Lactobacillus reuteri
      RC-14. Both active capsules and placebo will be provided by the manufacturer Chr Hansen
      (Denmark). Samples will be collected at t=0 (enrollment), t=1 (end of 90 days) and t=2(30
      days post-treatment).

      Twenty women will act as healthy controls (See Inclusion Criteria) and will be randomized (10
      each) as described above for the high-risk group.

      At each time point, samples collected will include:

        -  Breast skin swab - a cotton tipped swab with be moistened with sterile water and the
           passed over the skin on the breast 10 times.

        -  Needle aspirate - a 22-gauge needle into the breast tissue with repeated passage under
           suction until aspirate material is identified in the needle hub. This material would
           then be placed in normal saline.

        -  Nipple aspirate - the participant will be asked to massage their breast from chest wall
           to nipple for several minutes as needed. Using a hand-held modified breast pump placed
           over the nipple, nipple aspirate fluid will be drawn out and into a capillary tube.

        -  Blood draw - one 6mL EDTA plasma tube using standard phlebotomy procedures. Samples will
           be analyzed for relative bacterial abundance (next-generation sequencing), inflammatory
           markers (Luminex technology).

        -  Urine - 100mL sample that will be tested for heavy metals and pesticides using LC-MS.
    
  