
    
      Aim of the study

      To explore if there is an impact of LL COMT genotype on clinical and biological outcome
      variables in patients undergoing cardiac surgery compared to HH genotype.

      Background

      Cardiac surgery has been shown to be an effective method for prolonging life in patients with
      severe coronary artery disease or valvular disease or a combination thereof.

      Catechol-O-Methyl-Transferase (COMT) catalyses the O-methylation of biologically active
      catechols and is responsible for the degradation of catecholamines and catecholestradiols.

      COMT is an intracellular enzyme, which is widely distributed throughout most of all human
      tissues (Roth, Maennistoe) Because COMT is expressed ubiquitously, it appears that the COMT
      genotype significantly affects levels of catecholamines throughout the body.

      25 % of Caucasians are homozygous for low COMT activity, (COMT LL=Met/Met), 25% are
      homozygous for high activity of COMT (COMT HH=Val/Val), and about 50% are heterozygous (COMT
      HL=Val/Met). (Palmatier, Spielman, Boudikova)

      Thus, COMT polymorphism may play an important role in the outcome of patients after cardiac
      surgery.

      So far, studies due to this polymorphism exist only for chronic, non-cardiac surgery
      disorders like psychiatric diseases, breast cancer and alcoholism.

      In a prospective observational study, we used this model of CPB-induced stress-mediated
      vasodilatory shock to investigate the impact of COMT polymorphism on relevant postoperative
      clinical outcomes. Within this model we tested the hypothesis that, in cardiac surgery
      patients, the LL COMT genotype is associated with alterations in catecholamine metabolism and
      adverse hospital outcomes such as prolonged vasopressor support and acute renal failure
      compared to HL and HH COMT genotype.

      Patients with a L/L COMT polymorphism are probably used to higher concentrations of
      endogenous catecholamines, because a low COMT enzyme activity can cause an impaired
      degradation of catecholamines. Patients with a L/L COMT polymorphism require presumably
      higher catecholamines support than other patients to maintain cardiovascular stability in
      extreme stress-conditions occuring during CPB procedures.

      Acute renal failure (ARF) is a common postoperative complication in cardiac surgery patients
      that is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Catechol-O-methyltransferase
      (COMT) shows high activity in proximal tubular epithelial cells - target cell in ARF. We
      hypothesized that the COMT met158 genotype might be associated with increased risk of acute
      renal failure compared to COMT val158 genotype.

      CPB activates components of the non-specific immune system, which leads to the generation of
      compounds containing oxygen free radicals. A study of 14 patients undergoing cardiac surgery
      found increased levels of serum lipid peroxidation products (thiobarbituric acid reactive
      substances) within 15 minutes of the commencement of CPB, which returned to preoperative
      levels by the following morning. The total serum antioxidative capacity was correspondingly
      decreased intraoperatively, and remained decreased at 24 hours postoperatively.

      Outcomes will be the length of vasopressor support in patients with LL COMT genotype compared
      to patients with HL and HH COMT genotype. We hypothesize that there is a significant increase
      in the duration of vasopressor support in patients with LL COMT compared to patients with HL
      and HH COMT genotype.

      Additional outcome measure and hypotheses

      We hypothesize that differences similar to that seen in the duration of vasopressor support
      will be seen in a higher proportion of postoperative acute renal failure (increase in serum
      creatinine >50% from baseline to peak value), longer duration of ICU and hospital stay in LL
      COMT patients compared to HL and HH patients.

      COMT genotype will be determined and levels of endogenous catecholamines will be measured
      before and after cardiac surgery. We hypothesize that higher levels of endogenous
      catecholamines will be measured for patients with LL COMT genotype.

      Study Design - overview and rationale

      COMT genotype and outcome measurements of patients after cardiac surgery will be analyzed in
      this study. Concentrations of plasma catecholamines and important degradation products will
      be determined before and after the use of CPB. The duration and dose of postoperative
      vasopressor support as well as stay in ICU and stay in hospital will be documented.

      Data collection

      age, sex, body mass index (BMI), body surface area (BSA, insulin (IDDM) or non-insulin
      dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
      preoperative serum creatinine, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), smoking status,
      peripheral vascular disease (PVD), carotid artery disease, myocardial infarction (MI) or
      stroke within last six months, atrial fibrillation (AF), and grade of left ventricular
      dysfunction defined by the left ventricular ejection fraction using EuroScore definition.
      Pre-operative medication including: platelet inhibitors,
      ACE-inhibitors/angiotensin-II-receptor1-antagonists, beta-blocker, calcium channel blocker
      and statins.

      Intra-operative data on type of cardiac surgery (valvular or coronary artery bypass (CABG),
      concomitant or complex cardiac surgery involving the ascending aorta), Redo operation, take
      back to operating room, electronically stored MAP and duration of CPB. The intra- and
      post-operative use of vasopressor (norepinephrine, epinephrine, phenylephrine, ephedrine, and
      metaraminol) and inotropic medications (milrinone, dobutamine)hourly until discharge from the
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU). We will note the lowest MAP and the lowest cardiac index (CI)
      every 6 hours. Postoperative serum creatinine will be measured daily. Finally, ICU and
      hospital length of stay as well as hospital mortality were documented.

      Withdrawal The treating clinician will have the right to withdraw the patient from the study
      if he or she believes that continued participation is jeopardising the patient's well being.

      Ethical Issues Given the potential knowledge for the future the balance of benefits and
      risks, we consider it ethical to proceed and seek informed consent. This is not a drug trial
      or an interventional trial.

      Indemnity This is an investigator-initiated study and is not sponsored by industry. The
      investigator is a member of staff at Austin Hospital; the hospital is responsible for
      indemnifying the investigator in relation to this study. Warringal Private Hospital will be
      responsible for indemnification for patients recruited there.
    
  