
    
      The Grb2 gene has been mapped to the human chromosome region 17q22-qter, a region that is
      duplicated in leukemias and solid tumors, which may result in an increased copy number of the
      Grb2 gene product. As Grb2 is important for the transformation of murine hematopoietic cells,
      and the proliferation of human leukemia cells that express high levels of oncogenic tyrosine
      kinases, inhibition of Grb2 may have a significant impact on the natural history of
      leukemias. The study drug (BP1001) may be able to inhibit the cells from making Grb-2.
      Researchers hope that without this protein, the leukemia cells will die.

      Researchers hope that the combination of BP1001 and Das will provide a benefit to Ph+ CML
      patients, including chronic phase patients who have failed initial TKI therapy, accelerated
      or blast phase Ph+ AML, and high-risk Ph+ MDS patients.

      This is a Phase Ib/IIa, multicenter, study of BP1001 in combination with Das in participants
      with Ph+ CML, including chronic phase patients who have failed initial TKI therapy,
      accelerated or blast phase Ph+ AML, and high-risk Ph+ MDS.

      This is a Phase Ib/IIa, multicenter, study of BP1001 in combination with dasatinib in
      participants with Ph+ CML who are in chronic phase who have failed initial TKI therapy,
      accelerated or blast phase, Ph+ AML or high-risk Ph+ MDS.

      This trial will utilize a single arm, open label design to assess the safety profile, DLT,
      MTD, PK, and efficacy of BP1001 in combination with dasatinib.

      The Phase Ib study employs an open-label, sequential, dose-escalation design to assess
      safety, tolerability and toxicity, tumor response and anti-leukemic activity.

      A standard "3+3" design will be used in which successive cohorts of patients are being
      treated with BP1001 at the MTD (or highest tested dose [HTD] if the MTD is not defined) and 1
      level below the MTD (or HTD) in combination with a fixed dose of dasatinib to characterize
      safety and biological effect, as well as identify the recommended Phase IIa dose.

      Up to 6 evaluable participants are expected to participate in the Phase Ib part of the study
      and up to 40 evaluable participants are expected to participate in the Phase IIa part of the
      study.
    
  