
    
      Conventional rehabilitation following spinal cord injury (SCI) emphasizes functional gains
      through strengthening and compensation, using braces and assistive devices to achieve
      mobility. Rehabilitation practice using compensatory approaches is based on the prevailing
      assumption that neural recovery is not possible following SCI.

      Recent evidence contradicts this assumption. Stimulated by the proper activation of
      peripheral afferents associated with walking, neuronal circuits may reorganize by
      strengthening of existing and previously inactive descending connections and local neural
      circuits. New approaches to locomotor recovery after SCI utilize sensory information related
      to locomotion to improve treadmill and overground walking.

      Locomotor training velocity may be a critical, task-specific, and activity-dependent
      parameter affording appropriate phasic, afferent input to the neural system and promoting
      neural plasticity. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of training velocity
      in a long-term locomotor training program on both neurophysiological and behavioral
      plasticity in individuals with incomplete SCI.

      Sixteen patients with incomplete SCI will be recruited to participate in this study. Baseline
      evaluations will include American Spinal Injury Association classification, rate-sensitive
      depression, phase-dependent H-reflex modulation at self-selected and fast overground walking
      velocities, and MRI of the spine. Patients will wear a step activity monitor for a 48-hour
      period, quantifying baseline walking activity level.

      All patients will participate in a locomotor training program. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to either training at self-selected treadmill velocity or at a normal walking
      velocity. Patients will have 45 training sessions over 9 weeks. Each training session will
      include 30 minutes of walking. Interim testing of rated depression, spatial-temporal
      parameters of walking, MRI, and walking activity will occur through the 9-week training
      period. Post-testing will occur within 2 days of the last training session and at a 1 month
      after completion of the training. During the month following long-term training, patients
      will be instructed to return to their self-selected routine activities of daily living.
    
  