
    
      Design: a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of study treatment.

      The study will enroll the schoolchilds of either gender of grades 1, 2 and 3 of a regular
      school aged 7-9 years old (grade 1 schoolchilds will be enrolled at the beginning of the
      second half of the year) complaining of difficult learning classified according to ICD-10 as
      specific developmental disorders of scholastic skills (F81) including:

      specific reading disorder (F81.0); specific spelling disorder (F81.1); specific disorder of
      arithmetical skills (F81.2); mixed disorder of scholastic skills (F81.3; disorder
      simultaneously meeting criteria of F81.2+F81.0 or F81.2+F81.1 or F81.2+F81.0+F81.1).

      The schoolchilds will be examined for developmental disorders of scholastic skills by a
      pediatrician (either a neurologist or psychiatrist) as well as by administering
      speech-language/psychological/educational tests. The children may have any background
      (underlying) diseases not considered as exclusion criteria and not requiring pharmacotherapy
      during the following 12 weeks using the products specified in section "Forbidden concomitant
      therapy". Correction pedagogic events should not be performed within 12 weeks post enrollment
      either.

      After signing information sheet (informed consent form) by the parent/adopter the patoients
      will be examined by a neurologist or psychiatrist and tested for reading skills (method by
      L.A. Fotekova, Т.V. Akhutina, 2002; Appendix 1), writing skills (method by L.A. Fotekova,
      Т.V. Akhutina, 2002; Appendix 2) and counting skills (subtest No. 3 "Arithmetic" WISC
      subtest; Appendix 3), and concomitant therapy will be recorded.

      If inclusion criteria are met and non-inclusion criteria are absent at Visit 1, the patient
      will be enrolled in the trial and randomized into one of the two groups: 1 tablet of Tenoten
      for children three times daily for 3 months (group 1) or the same dosing regimen of Placebo
      (group 2).

      At Visit 1 the parents/adopters will receive the study product for 12-week treatment period
      and a diary to report any potential adverse events and cases of concomitant therapy.

      Six weeks later (Week 6±3 days) a "Phone visit" (Visit 2) will be made to inquire on the
      subject's health, presence/absence of concomitant diseases, adverse events against the
      treatment.

      At Visit 3 (Week 12±3 days) retesting of reading, writing and counting skills will be made,
      complaints, data on concomitant diseases, concomitant therapy and adverse events will be
      collected. The investigator will evaluate the subject's compliance and fill clinical global
      impression scale (CGI-EI).

      Therapy of co-morbidities is allowed during the study except for the products specified in
      section "Forbidden concomitant therapy".
    
  