
    
      Appetite regulation plays an important role in determining the food intake, which is a
      complex process influenced by biological, behavioral and environmental stimuli. Satiation
      (intrameal satiety) is defined as the process of feeling full and subsequently stopping food
      consumption during eating, it therefore reduces hunger and limits the energy consumptions
      during meals. On the other hand, satiety or more precisely intermeal satiety, delays the
      onset and possibly reduces the consumption of the next meal. High viscosity and bulking food
      components such as dietary fibre are expected to elicit stronger satiation/satiety than
      macronutrients or clear liquid.

      Due to its unique physicochemical properties, dietary fibre has been recognized as a
      potential ingredient that helps to enhance the sensation of satiety in the upper gut by
      increasing gastric distension and delaying gastric emptying, which subsequently reduces the
      food intake, and eventually leading on to weight loss.

      The investigational product is formulated from IQP-AK-102, a proprietary, patent pending
      combination of three soluble fibres. In-vitro studies showed synergistic properties for the
      fibres in IQP-AK-102. When consumed orally, IQP-AK-102 capsules dissolve in the stomach to
      release the fibres. Once hydrated, the fibres swell to form a thick, viscous and indigestible
      gel structure in the stomach. This physical structure results in increased gastric distension
      and delays the gastric emptying that induces satiety and fullness.

      However the unique composition of IQP-AK-102 had not been evaluated in human clinical
      studies. The objective of this placebo controlled, double blind study was to confirm the
      benefit of IQP-AK-102 in weight loss through promoting satiety and managing appetite. In this
      study, 120 overweight and obese subjects (60 per study arm) were tested to investigate if
      IQP-AK-102 is effective in reducing body weight over a period of 12 weeks.
    
  