
    
      Fencing is an agility sport, with higher incidence of injuries in the lower limbs, with the
      ankle sprain the most prevalent. Injury prevention is very important to improve performance
      and reduce time off of athletes. Proprioceptive training programs can be added to the
      training of athletes, since in addition to the easy application and low cost, proprioception
      serves to stabilize the joint, preventing injuries. Therefore the aim of this study is to
      investigate the influence of a 12-week proprioceptive training program on the neurofunctional
      control and the incidence of ankle sprains in fencing athletes. The study will be a
      randomized clinical trial, with fencing athletes from 14 to 25, a multi-sport club of Porto
      Alegre/RS, and developed in six stages: familiarization, pre intervention, intervention, post
      intervention follow-up of three and six months. The first step will be to familiarize
      themselves with the force of testing and registration of injuries in the previous year. In
      the pre intervention stage will evaluate muscle strength inverters, everter, dorsal plantar
      flexors and ankle flexors through the isokinetic dynamometer; the reaction time of these
      muscles during Lunge Test; neuromuscular control during the Star Excursion Balance Test and
      performance in Drop Vertical Jump Test. In the intervention athletes will perform
      proprioceptive training for 12 weeks, three times a week, lasting 30 minutes. In the post
      intervention, the follow up of three to six months will be held the same pre intervention of
      the tests and recording the incidence of injuries occurred during the study. For statistical
      analysis, the data will be presented as mean and standard deviation and submitted to the
      Shapiro-Wilk test, ANOVA will be held for repeated measures and post hoc Bonferroni to
      determine differences. The effect size is calculated using Cohen's d test.o significance
      level is 0.05. The expected result at the end of the study is to improve all variables,
      increasing the performance of athletes and decreasing the incidence of ankle sprains.
    
  