
    
      At Screening, potential subjects will perform serology for HIV, ELISA and Western Blot (WB),
      to assess Fiebig stage:

        -  Stage I: ELISA negative, WB negative, HIV-1 RNA positive.

        -  Stage II: ELISA positive for p24, WB negative.

        -  Stage III: ELISA positive, WB negative.

        -  Stage IV: ELISA positive, WB undetermined.

        -  Stage V: ELISA positive, WB partially positive with p31 negative.

        -  Stage VI: ELISA positive, WB positive, previous HIV negative test within 6 months

      On Day 0 (Baseline-BL), within 0-5 days from screening, subjects will:

        -  perform biochemical and haematological tests, virological test (HIV-1 RNA, tropism test,
           genotype resistance test), immunological test (CD4+, CD4%, CD8+, CD8%, CD4/CD8).

        -  Perform anal and nasal brushing

        -  Perform microbiome

        -  Have behavioral survey questionnaire administered

        -  collect an additional sample of blood (80 mL) to perform the following evaluations:

             -  HIV-DNA

             -  T cells, B cells and DC subsets

             -  HLA-A, B and C

             -  Inflammatory markers

             -  Pharmacokinetic: Ctrough

        -  start one of the study treatment according to randomization

             -  Arm A: TDF/FTC 10 mg/200 mg single tablet QD +DRV /cobicistat 800 mg /150 mg single
                tablet QD

             -  Arm B: TDF/FTC 25 mg/200 mg single tablet QD +DTG 50 mg QD

             -  Arm C: TDF/FTC 10 mg/200 mg single tablet QD +DRV/cobicistat single tablet QD +DTG
                50 mg QD

      In addition, on Day 0 (Baseline-BL), subjects who will sign an additional specific informed
      consent:

        -  cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) will be collected to evaluate HIV-1 RNA

        -  GALT biopsies will be performed in order to allow the evaluation of viral reservoirs.

        -  Lymph nodes biopsies to evaluate immunological subset Following Day 0, subjects will
           return for visits at Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36 and 48 or at discontinuation.

      HIV-1 RNA levels will be measured and physical examination will be performed at all the
      scheduled study visits CD4+, CD4%, CD8+, CD8%, CD4/CD8 will be repeated at Weeks 4, 8, 12,
      24, 36, 48 or at discontinuation.

      Laboratory safety parameters (complete blood count, renal function, hepatic function, lipids
      and glucidic profile) will be tested at Weeks 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48 or at discontinuation.

      At week 12 and 48 or at discontinuation, an additional blood sample of 80 mL will be
      collected to perform the following evaluations:

        -  HIV-DNA and viral tropism

        -  T, B and DC cells subsets

        -  Inflammatory markers At week 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48 or at discontinuation a blood
           sample of 21 mL will be collected for pharmacokinetic of drugs.

      At week 12, 48 or discontinuation a stool sample will be collected to evaluate microbioma.

      At week 12 and 48 anal brushing and nasal brushing will be performed to evaluate HIVDNA and
      pharmacokinetic analysis.

      At week 12 and 48 behavioral survey questionnaire will be administered to the patient.

      At week 12, or at discontinuation, in subjects who will have signed the specific additional
      informed consent:

        -  liquor will be collected to evaluate HIV-1 RNA and drugs concentration in central
           nervous system.

        -  CSF will be collected to evaluate HIV-1 RNA and drugs concentration in central nervous
           system.

        -  GALT biopsies and lymph nodes biopsy will be performed in order to allow the evaluation
           of viral reservoirs.

      Subjects will complete the study when they will reach week 48 on their assigned regimen. At
      the end of the study, they will continue assigned treatment in arm A and B; if the study will
      show a superiority of ARM C, the patients in this arm will continue the regimen. In case of
      non superiority they will be switch to triple therapy. The last patient visit is the last
      on-study visit or date of death or lost-to follow-up or discontinuation for any reason,
      whichever occurs last during the conduction of the study.

      Considering that the patients' enrollment will last 96 weeks, the overall length of the trial
      will be 144 weeks.
    
  