
    
      The MY PALS project will focus on developing an organized approach to increasing physical
      activity for clients who have already decided they are willing to increase activity or who
      might be having difficulty maintaining activity.

      The MY PALS study will enroll consenting patients at clinics in Southeast Seattle-initially
      at two Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Center community clinics. These clinics have existing
      programs to provide better care for diabetic patients by encouraging and tracking physical
      activity, but the existing programs do not include community-based motivational supports.

      Goals and objectives: The primary aim of My PALS is to determine the effectiveness of a
      support program to improve levels of physical activity in older diabetic patients in a
      diverse group of patients of clinics in SE Seattle. Secondary aims include: 1) identifying
      barriers to increased physical activity despite the offer or use of enhanced supports, and
      examining what those barriers imply for future study; and 2) estimating non-costs of the
      intervention.

      The program consists of phone support, in-person counseling if the volunteer chooses, and
      access to a mentor if the volunteer chooses.

      At initial contact, participants will complete a baseline questionnaire, including a the
      Seattle Rapid Assessment of Physical Activity (Seattle-RAPA). Participants desiring to meet
      in person with a peer counselor will discuss further plans for action and followup. In
      addition, participants who desire extra support will be offered the option of an ongoing peer
      mentor.

      Participants will receive follow-up calls at the agreed upon intervals-usually no more than
      weekly, nor less than monthly for the first 3 months. At 3, 6 and 12 months, volunteers will
      again be asked to complete followup questionnaires. Copies of the plans and follow up
      activity scores will be sent to the volunteers' health care providers.

      The primary outcome measure will be change in Seattle-RAPA score at 12 months in the
      intervention participants compared to the wait-listed control patients. The latter will be
      offered the intervention in Year 2.
    
  