
    
      Rationale for Proposed Study With the availability of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)
      at the Odette Cancer Centre (OCC), there is an opportunity to explore the use of a much more
      intensive hypofractionation schedule for prostate cancer. Using an alpha/beta ratio of 1.3, a
      dose of 35 Gy in 5 fractions would be equivalent to 88 Gy delivered in 2 Gy fractions. For
      normal tissues (alpha/beta value of 2), this would be equivalent to 78 Gy in 2 Gy fractions.
      As such, the linear quadratic equation predicts that 35 Gy in 5 fractions should not result
      in any increased late toxicity for normal tissues compared to standard dose escalated
      radiotherapy. However, the biological dose to the prostate cancer would be significantly
      increased. As a safety precaution for this study proposal, the investigators propose to
      deliver 35 Gy in 5 fractions over 5 weeks (one radiotherapy fraction of 7 Gy per week) to
      allow for normal tissue repair.

      With IMRT, it is expected that there will be superior conformality of the high dose region
      around the target volume. As well, the use of daily on-line imaging will allow us to
      eliminate interfraction prostate motion errors and use tighter planning target volume margins
      for any residual intrafraction motion. At OCC, such an approach has already been shown to be
      feasible and is currently employed in the phase 1/2 concomitant boost study for high risk
      prostate cancer.

      If proven to be safe and effective, such a hypofractionated radiotherapy schedule may have
      significant practical advantages as well. With only 1 fraction of radiotherapy delivered each
      week (for a total of 5 weeks), there are huge savings in resource utilization and increased
      convenience for patients.

      The investigators propose to start a small phase 1 study to explore the use of this dose
      fractionation for men with low risk prostate cancer. The primary endpoint for this small
      pilot study would be acute and late normal tissue toxicities. If proven to be feasible and
      safe, external peer-reviewed funding will be sought to further explore this novel treatment
      schedule in a larger phase 2 setting.
    
  