
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The causes of essential hypertension remain unknown, but it is generally agreed that both
      genetic and environmental factors are important. Of the latter, the two leading contenders
      are nutrition including sodium intake and weight gain, and psychosocial stress. It is
      probable that no single factor is responsible, and that hypertension is most likely to
      develop when a number of factors act in unison, so that different mechanisms operate in
      different individuals. It also seems probable that there may be two different components to
      the development of hypertension, with differing time courses. First, there are a number of
      mechanisms which produce rapid changes of blood pressure, which are not necessarily sustained
      for very long. Prime among these are the sympathetic nervous system and the renin-angiotensin
      system. Although derangements of both have been described in patients with essential
      hypertension, neither can on its own explain the overall mechanism. Secondly, there is also a
      slowly occurring hypertrophy of the arterial wall, which occurs partly in response to the
      transient increases of pressure, but also acts as a positive feedback loop, serving to
      amplify them. It seems probable that a number of different mechanisms may be involved in the
      first process, possibly including the effects of psychosocial stress and nutrition, but that
      the slow mechanism may be the final common path which maintains and amplifies the development
      of hypertension independently of the initiating causes. While the relevance of behavioral
      factors, or stress in hypertension is commonly accepted by the lay public, it has found much
      less acceptance among their physicians. This is perhaps not surprising, because stress is so
      hard to quantify on a scientific basis, particularly when it is borne in mind that there is
      still no agreement about the role of sodium intake, which is comparatively easy to quantify,
      in the development of hypertension. The treatment of patients with mild hypertension is a
      major public health issue. There are two possible strategies to counter the costs and side
      effects of universal pharmacological treatment, namely, defining high risk patients and
      finding safer methods of treatment. Patients with white coat hypertension show elevations of
      blood pressure only in the clinic situation. If it can be demonstrated that individuals with
      white coat hypertension are not at increased risk and do not exhibit the physiological and
      biochemical characteristics normally associated with early hypertension, such individuals
      will not necessarily require drug treatment but may be treated by desensitization. Also, the
      studies on job strain may enable identification of some environmental risk factors which may
      have an adverse effect on certain individuals' blood pressure. If job strain does influence
      blood pressure, it presents the possibility of an entirely new non-pharmacological method of
      preventing or treating hypertension, through manipulation of the work environment.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      When the study was initiated in 1984, five interdisciplinary studies were conducted. Study 1
      followed 1,500 hypertensive patients who had ambulatory blood pressures recorded over the
      last ten years, to determine whether ambulatory blood pressure improved the prediction of
      morbid events relative to clinic blood pressures. Study 2 evaluated factors contributing to
      white coat hypertension, and whether it could be treated behaviorally. Study 3 compared the
      reactivity to beta-adrenergic stimulation and to behavioral tasks in normals and patients
      with hypertension or depression. Study 4 tested the Job Strain Model in the laboratory by
      investigating the interactive effects on blood pressure of varying levels of workload or task
      difficulty and decision latitude or degree of personal control during a challenging
      behavioral task. Generalization of this measure of reactivity was assessed by comparison with
      ambulatory blood pressure recordings. Study 5, in a cohort study of 400 subjects, determined
      whether individuals in high-strain jobs showed greater elevations of blood pressure over five
      years than those in low-strain jobs.

      The study was renewed for one year in 1993 as a continuation and extension of the study of
      the association between occupational stress ('job strain', evaluated by the Karasek Job
      Content Survey) and hypertensive cardiovascular disease, evaluated principally by ambulatory
      blood pressure (ABP) and left ventricular mass index (LVMI). It was originally a case control
      study in which cases (hypertensive subjects) were found to be more likely to be exposed to
      job strain than normotensive controls, with an odds ratio of 2.75, and to have a greater
      LVMI. This effect was independent of other known risk factors for hypertension. It was
      extended as a prospective study of 314 men and women studied at 9 worksites during Waves of
      observation over five years. Preliminary results from Waves 1 and 2 showed a longitudinal
      association between persistent job strain and progressive elevation of ABP.

      In the renewal, the investigators increased the sample size by 100 subjects and added a 4th
      Wave of observation. In Wave 3, they added a new outcome measure-ultrasound examination of
      the carotid artery, which detected early structural changes and atherosclerosis. They also
      monitored physical activity continuously during ABP monitoring using an Actigraph monitor. A
      new focus wass on social support, which had been shown to relate to cardiovascular morbidity,
      possibly via an interaction effect with job strain. The investigators evaluated how its
      availability and perceived satisfaction interacted with job strain and their outcome
      measures. The effects of job strain on urinary catecholamines and cortisol were also examined
      in 210 subjects, to test the hypothesis that job strain was associated with an overactivity
      of both the sympathetic nervous system and adrenocortical system, by analogy with
      Frankenhaueser's Effort-Distress model. In Wave 4 they also performed reactivity testing, in
      order to examine correlations between reactivity, atherosclerosis, and other cardiovascular
      variables. The research helped to determine whether sequential linkages existed between major
      psychosocial factors (job strain and lack of social support), mechanisms mediating
      cardiovascular damage (elevated ABP and sympathoadrenal activation), and resultant
      preclinical cardiovascular disease (left ventricular hypertrophy and carotid
      atherosclerosis).

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  