
    
      In the initial interview, prospective participants will be provided with detailed information
      about the study and the treatments. All patients included in the study will be randomly
      assigned to the waiting-list group and to the one of the three treatment conditions described
      below, all conducted on an inpatient basis. The duration for all treatments will be 6 weeks
      and will bw administered by two chartered clinical psychologists and one chartered
      psychotherapist under the supervision of a senior chartered psychotherapist. The three
      therapists will bw balanced among the three conditions. In accordance with informed consent,
      assessments will be obtained before treatment, at posttreatment, 3 and 6 months follow up
      after the end of treatment.

      1. Nutritional groups In this condition (NT) the subjects enter only 5 weekly nutritional
      groups held by dieticians based on the LEARN manual (Brownell, 1985), whose goal will be to
      provide practical guidelines for the self-monitoring of eating and lessons on nutrition (e.g
      stressing gradual weight loss with the caloric restriction achieved largely by reductions in
      fat intake), plus a low-calorie diet (1,200 kcal/day) and physical training (30 min of
      walking two times a week as a minimum).

      2 Cognitive-Behavioral therapy CBT will be based on the same treatment proposed in the first
      condition plus 15 additional sessions over 6 weeks. Therapists will follow a detailed manual
      that outlined the content of each session. This manual was based on the cognitive-behavioral
      treatment approach described by Cooper and colleagues (Cooper & Fairburn, 2002; Cooper et
      al., 2003). It was developed during a year of intensive pilot work and adapted to the
      in-patient setting. Patients will be taught to self-monitor their food intake and eating
      patterns and thoughts, as well as the circumstances and environment surrounding eating (e.g.
      whether eating alone or with others, speed of eating, and place of eating). Patients will
      also be taught to identify problems in eating, mood, and thinking patterns and to gradually
      develop alternative patterns. In particular, after the first week the patients will enter 5
      weekly group sessions aimed at addressing weight and primary goals, and 10 biweekly
      individual sessions aimed at establishing and maintaining weight loss, addressing barriers to
      weight loss, increasing activity, addressing body image concerns and supporting weight
      maintenance.

      3. Experiential Cognitive therapy In particular, after the first week the patients entered 5
      weekly group sessions aimed at improving motivation to change and assertiveness, and 10
      biweekly virtual reality sessions. For the VR sessions, the NeuroVR 1.5 software will be
      used. NeuroVR is an enhanced version of the original Virtual Reality for Body Image
      Modification (VEBIM) immersive virtual environment, previously used in different preliminary
      studies on non-clinical subjects (Riva, 1997a, 1998b). Is composed of 14 virtual
      environments, used by the therapist within a 60-minute session with the patient. The
      environments present critical situations related to the maintaining/relapse mechanisms (Home,
      Supermarket, Pub, Restaurant, Swimming Pool, Beach, Gymnasium) and two body image comparison
      areas.

      Using the NeuroVR Editor, the psychological stimuli/stressors appropriate for any given
      scenario can be chosen from a rich database of 2D and 3D objects, and easily placed into the
      pre-designed virtual scenario by using an icon-based interface (no programming skills are
      required). In addition to static objects, the NeuroVR Editor allows both to add audio object
      and to overlay on the 3D scene video composited with a transparent alpha channel.The editing
      of the scene is performed in real time, and effects of changes can be checked from different
      views (frontal, lateral and top).

      The edited scene is then visualized and experienced using the NeuroVR Player. Through the VR
      experience, the patients practice both eating/emotional/relational management and general
      decision-making and problem-solving skills. By directly practicing these skills within the VR
      environment, the patient is helped in developing specific strategies for avoiding and/or
      coping with these.

      9 sessions are used to assess and modify:

        -  the expectations and emotions related to food and weight: This is done both by
           integrating different cognitive-behavioral methods: Countering, Alternative
           Interpretation, Label Shifting, Deactivating the Illness Belief

        -  the strategies used to cope with difficult interpersonal and potential maintenance
           situations: This is done both by using the Temptation Exposure with Response Prevention
           (Riva, 1998c; D. G. Schlundt & Johnson, 1990) - and by working on these three empowering
           dimensions (Menon, 1999): perceived control, perceived competence and goal
           internalization.

        -  the body experience of the subject. To do this the virtual environment integrates the
           therapeutic methods used by Butter & Cash (1987) and Wooley & Wooley (1985). In
           particular in VREDIM we used the virtual environment in the same way as guided imagery
           (Leuner, 1969) is used in the cognitive and visual/motorial approach.

      Structure of the sessions

      Each session of Virtual Reality is divided into four phases:

      The psychologist's office is the first virtual experience. It represents the start and the
      end of each session, and it has the important function to outline boundaries of the session
      in virtual reality. It is a neutral and reassuring place which allows continuity in the
      phases of the individual session: face to face, virtual reality and face to face.

      In the psychologist's office there are the following objects: a writing-desk with two
      comfortable chairs, a bookshelf and complements of furnishings that make the environment more
      comfortable and hospitable (pictures, carpets, lamps, green plants, etc.). The safe place is
      the virtual experience for the relaxation that is used at the end of each session and, if
      needed, during the session of virtual reality. It is an empty park in which the patient can
      relax and recover from any emotional experience.

      Between the psychologist's office and the safe place the patient experiences one or more
      specific virtual experience.

      In accordance with informed consent, assessments will be obtained before treatment, at
      posttreatment, 3 and 6 months after the treatment conclusion.
    
  