
    
      Mental health conditions are a considerable burden for patients and health services and have
      been shown to have social patterning in severity and incidence. Children and adults living in
      the lowest 20% income bracket are two to three times more likely to develop a mental health
      condition than those people living in the top 20% bracket. Unemployment, working in jobs with
      low pay and insecure work have been found to be detrimental to mental health. Mental health
      services are struggling to cope with demands on services, and unequal access to support is
      further exacerbating health inequalities.

      Digital interventions have been proposed as a solution to address the high demand for mental
      health support in the context of the crisis in healthcare services. These interventions
      provide the potential to reduce health disparities, by providing personalised low-cost
      infinitely reusable resource that can increase access to health interventions. However, these
      interventions may increase inequity, where access and usability for disadvantaged groups
      remain barriers. To ensure health inequalities are not further exacerbated, there is a need
      to develop digital interventions that are appealing and accessible those from lower
      socioeconomic groups. These are social groups that currently look to entertainment to
      regulate difficult emotions and for education.

      An initial pilot of the 9-minute show was trialled in the United Kingdom with a lower
      socio-economic group and was well received. The app was advertised through the companies that
      partner with Lost In TV Audience Services, who has a database of 450,000 people. In the
      initial pilot 43,000 people opened the email about the app. The live morning breakfast show
      that ran for two weeks was used by 450 participants. The findings were that 50% watched all
      10 shows, 65% said that would download the app "today", 70% said it was easier to get out of
      bed, 53% saw an increase in life satisfaction, and 67% reported an increase in self-efficacy.

      The primary objectives of the feasibility study are:

        -  To assess how many people download the app in the target population

        -  To assess participant's engagement with the app over the 12-week trial period

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To explore efficacy data on Office for National Statistics well-being outcomes, sleep
           and self-efficacy outcomes and to see if there are any changes throughout the trial

        -  To explore, quantitatively and qualitatively, participants' experiences of using Wakey!
    
  