
    
      ERAS pathways have been widely used in multiple surgical disciplines leading to improvements
      in perioperative care. The goal of the pathways is to decrease postoperative opioid
      consumption, improve pain scores, decrease length of hospital stay, lower morbidity, and
      increase patient satisfaction. Living kidney donors are in high demand and represent a large
      portion of grafts supplied for kidney transplant. The primary objective of our study is to
      initiate an enhanced recovery after surgery pathway designed to facilitate early recovery and
      to study the impact of an ERAS protocol on the living donor nephrectomy population.

      The study is a prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial evaluating the effect of
      ERAS to decrease postoperative opioid consumption, improve pain scores, decrease length of
      hospital stay, lower morbidity, and increase patient satisfaction. Patients will complete
      standard preoperative workup as per protocol for donor nephrectomy, and they will also be
      evaluated at the preadmission testing clinic. Consent will be obtained by a member of the
      research team at a preoperative office visit. At this time, patients will be randomized to
      enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) pathway or standard of care, and they will be informed
      on what to expect during their hospital course.

      ERAS pathway:

      Preoperatively, according to the ERAS pathway devised, patients will be counseled on
      optimization of physical status. They will be encouraged to sustain from smoking and alcohol,
      exercise daily, and encourage healthy diet. If the physician determines the need for
      nutritional counsel, they will have a workup by a nutritionist. They will also be labeled as
      ERAS pathway in the case request submitted by the surgeon. For the day of surgery, patients
      will receive carbohydrate drinks and dietary instructions. All patients will be instructed to
      have a clear liquid diet 24 hours prior to surgery with no food after midnight. Patients will
      receive 2 carbohydrate pre-surgery drinks (20 oz total) - 10oz for the night before surgery,
      and 10oz to drink within 1 hour of scheduled arrival time. On arrival the day of surgery,
      patients will receive the following medications, unless contraindicated or allergy:
      acetaminophen 1g PO, pregabalin 150 mg PO, and celecoxib 400 mg PO.

      Patients will be evaluated in the preoperative holding area by a member of the anesthesiology
      staff. Peripheral IV will be placed. Patients will be screened for risk of post-operative
      nausea and vomiting (PONV) (female, nonsmoker, prior PONV, planned postoperative opioid each
      1 point), if deemed high risk a scopolamine patch will be applied in holding. Patients will
      at that point be counseled on use of regional anesthesia for postoperative pain and
      additional consent for transabdominal plane and rectus sheath blocks will be obtained.
      Premedication with midazolam will be administered. Subcutaneous heparin 5000 units will be
      given prior to surgery, as per standard of care.

      Intraoperatively, standard ASA monitors will be utilized, and patients will receive general
      anesthesia with propofol, fentanyl, rocuronium (dosed by weight), and sevoflurane maintenance
      for all patients. Additional IV access will be established. Antibiotics will be administered
      within 1 hour of incision per protocol. Goal directed fluid management with Plasmalyte or
      Lactated ringers with goal of 3-4 ml/kg/hr ideal body weight, with bolus option for clinical
      indications of MAP < 65mmHg. If requiring more than 2 boluses of 200-250 ml, phenylephrine
      infusion will be used for hypotension. Additional antiemetic prophylaxis will be given:
      ondansetron 4mg for all patients with the addition of dexamethasone 10 mg if high risk of
      PONV. At the end of the case, ketorolac 15 mg will be given.

      The transabdominal plane and rectus sheath block will be performed in the operating room by
      the regional anesthesia team, after the skin is closed and dressings are applied but while
      the patient is still under general anesthesia. An ultrasound guided approach will be used to
      identify the plane between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscles. Twenty ml
      (10 ml each side) of 0.375% ropivacaine will be injected to anesthetize the nerves supplying
      the anterior abdominal wall (T6 to L1). For the rectus sheath block the ultrasound transducer
      will be positioned immediately lateral to umbilicus and 20 ml (10 ml each side) of 0.375%
      ropivacaine local anesthetic will be injected between rectus muscle and posterior rectus
      sheath.

      Following extubation, patients will return to post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) and be
      discharged to their inpatient room per standard guidelines. Phenergan 6.25 mg IV BID or
      ondansetron 4mg IV q8 will be administered as needed for PONV. Additional pain management
      will includes ketorolac 15mg q6 for 48 hours post operatively, acetaminophen 1g q6,
      pregabalin 75mg BID. If refractory pain, tramadol 50mg q6 hours for breakthrough will be
      offered once taking PO, hydromorphone 0.2mg IV q2 as needed will be available if refractory
      pain and unable to take PO post operative day 0 (POD0). Regular diet will be allowed and
      encouraged on POD0. IV fluids will be given until POD1, and urine will be monitored q1 hour
      for the first 12 hours after which point the foley catheter will be removed. Subcutaneous
      heparin will be started POD1. Patients will also be given a bowel regimen consisting of
      docusate, senna glycoside and polyethylene glycol. If no bowel movement by POD1 and opioid
      use by patient, methylnaltrexone bromide will be administered. Patients will be encouraged to
      be out of bed (OOB) and ambulating as soon as possible POD0. Discharge criteria will be
      discussed and enforced with patient POD0.

      Standard of care:

      Preoperatively, patients will be randomly assigned to the standard of care. They will be
      instructed for clear liquid diet 24 hours prior to surgery with no food/liquid after
      midnight. On the day of surgery, they will receive subcutaneous heparin 5000 units as
      standard of care. They will have peripheral IV placed and be interview by the anesthesiology
      team in the preoperative holding area.

      Intraoperatively, standard ASA monitors will be utilized and patients will receive general
      anesthesia with propofol, fentanyl, rocuronium (dosed by weight), and sevoflurane maintenance
      for all patients. Additional IV access will be established. Antibiotics will be administered
      within 1 hour of incision per protocol. Fluid management and hemodynamics will be treated as
      clinically indicated. All patients will receive ondansetron 4mg IV at the conclusion of the
      case for prevention of PONV.

      Postoperatively, patients will return to PACU. Hydromorphone 0.2mg IV q30 minutes will be
      available for postoperative pain, and promethazine 6.25 mg IV BID or ondansetron 4mg IV q8
      will be administered as needed for PONV. On return to the floor, IV fluids will be continued
      until patient is tolerating PO. Diet will be advanced per patient tolerance. IV hydromorphone
      0.5mg q4 hours as needed will be available until patient is tolerating PO at which point
      oxycodone 5-10mg q4 as needed will be available for pain. Bowel regimen will be administered
      as needed, ambulation will be encouraged, and vital signs and urine output will be monitored
      per standard of care.

      All patients will be discharged according to following criteria: independent ambulation,
      tolerating PO, baseline hemodynamics with urine output > 0.5 ml/kg/hr and adequate pain
      control with oral medications.

      To assess the efficacy of the ERAS pathway, data collected will include postoperative pain
      scores and opioid use, time to first PO diet, time to return of bowel function, postoperative
      complications, incidence of PONV, and length of hospital stay. Patient satisfaction will be
      evaluated by the research team on the last day of hospitalization with a patient experience
      questionnaire (attached). Additionally, pain scores at follow-up appointments, additional
      hospitalizations and complications will be documented.
    
  