
    
      Oxaliplatin is designed to interfere with the growth of cancer cells (which slows their
      growth and spreading), eventually destroying them.

      5-fluorouracil is designed to interfere with the growth of cells that reproduce rapidly.

      Leucovorin is designed to strengthen the effect of 5-fluorouracil by reducing tumor cell
      resistance to the 5-fluorouracil.

      Bevacizumab is designed to interfere with blood flow to your tumors, which may cause tumors
      to be "starved" of the oxygen and nutrients they need to grow.

      Before you can start on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests will help
      the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have your complete
      medical history recorded and a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs
      (blood pressure, temperature, breathing rate, and heart rate). You will have a neurological
      evaluation (a test to evaluate your strength and nerve functioning). You will have blood
      drawn (about 1 teaspoon or less) and urine collected for routine tests. Women who are able to
      have children must have a negative urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be hospitalized to
      receive the study drug combination. On the day of your admission to the hospital, you will
      have a catheter in your hepatic artery placed in your right groin. After your catheter has
      been placed, you will receive the study drugs. The catheter will be placed and removed during
      each cycle. A catheter is a sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while
      you are under local anesthesia. Your physician will explain this procedure to you in more
      detail, and you will be required to sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      You must lay in bed for the entire time that the catheter is in place. In some cases, the
      catheter will be removed immediately after your chemotherapy is complete. In some cases, the
      catheter may remain in overnight. Therefore, you must remain in bed until the catheter is
      removed.

      During each cycle (on Days 1 and 2), you will receive 5-fluorouracil by vein continuously
      over 24 hours, leucovorin by vein over 1 hour, oxaliplatin by your hepatic artery over 2
      hours, and bevacizumab by vein (only on Day 1) over about 1 1/2 hours. This study drug
      combination will be repeated about every 3 weeks, which is considered 1 cycle (about every 21
      days).

      To learn the highest tolerable dose of oxaliplatin when given in combination with the other
      study drugs, there will be a dose escalation process that will go as follows. The dose of
      oxaliplatin that you receive will depend on when you are enrolled in this study. The dose of
      the other 3 study drugs that you receive will be the same for each participant on this study.
      At first, 6 participants will be enrolled at the first dose level of oxaliplatin. If their
      disease does not get worse and no intolerable side effects occur, there will be another 6
      patients enrolled at the next higher dose level. This dose escalation process will continue
      in this way until 8 dose levels have been reached without intolerable side effects occurring.

      You will have blood drawn (about 2 teaspoons each) for blood counts and liver function tests
      before each dose of the study drug combination. This is so your doctor can check the safety
      of the drug combination. You will also have blood drawn (about 2 teaspoons each) before each
      cycle. The doctor will evaluate your disease and health before you receive the study drugs.
      Your tumors will be evaluated by the imaging scans (such as computed tomography [CT] and
      magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) needed for your type of cancer. Imaging scans will be
      performed every 2 cycles.

      You may continue to receive the study drug combination indefinitely as mentioned above unless
      your disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects. If your disease gets
      worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will be removed from this study.

      If your participation ends for any reason on this study (such as those mentioned above), you
      will have imaging scans (CT and MRI) to see if your tumors are growing or shrinking. You will
      have blood drawn (about 3 teaspoons) for routine tests. These end-of-study tests can be
      performed at your regular doctor's office, and the results will be sent to the study's
      research staff.

      This is an investigational study. Oxaliplatin is authorized by the FDA for systemic use only.
      (Systemic therapies affect the body as a whole.) Giving oxaliplatin directly into the liver
      is investigational. 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and bevacizumab are FDA-approved for
      treatment of colorectal cancer. The use of these drugs in combination is authorized by the
      FDA for use in research only. Bevacizumab is not FDA-approved for all cancer types included
      in this study. Up to 163 patients will take part in this study. All patients will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  