
    
      The present research is a monocentric prospective parallel randomized controlled clinical
      trial.

      Patients presenting multiple gingival recessions in the maxillary will be enrolled in the
      study after having signed an informed consent. Recessions will be treated by means of two
      mucogingival surgery techniques: modified coronally advanced flap (MCAF) and modified
      coronally advanced tunnel technique (MCAT), in association with the use of a collagen matrix
      (CM).

      Two experienced practitioners (M.d.S. and S.A.) will perform the surgical session according
      to the technique as presented by Zucchelli & de Sanctis 2000 and Aroca et al. 2013.

      - Modified coronally advanced flap (MCAF): After local anesthesia, a horizontal incision is
      made to include one tooth on each side of the teeth to be treated. The horizontal incision of
      the envelope flap consists of oblique sub-marginal incisions in the interdental areas,
      incisions which continue with the intra-sulcular incision at the recession defects.

      Each surgical papilla (SP) is dislocated with respect to the anatomic papilla by the oblique
      sub-marginal interdental incisions; in particular, the surgical papilla mesial to the flap
      midline are dislocated more apically and distally, while the papilla distal to the mid-line
      are shifted in a more apical and mesial position.

      The envelope flap is raised with a split-full-split approach in the coronal-apical direction:
      the surgical papilla is dissected in a split-thickness manner, while gingival tissue apical
      to the root exposures is raised in a full-thickness manner (to provide that portion of the
      flap critical for root coverage with more thickness). Finally, the most apical portion of the
      flap is elevated in a split-thickness manner to facilitate the coronal displacement of the
      flap.

      The portion of the root exposure with loss of clinical attachment (gingival recession plus
      probeable gingival sulcus/pocket) are mechanically treated with the use of curettes and EDTA
      is applied for 2 minutes.

      The remaining tissue of the anatomic interdental papilla is de-epithelialized to create
      connective tissue beds to which the surgical papilla are sutured.

      A sharp dissection into the vestibular lining mucosa is then carried out to eliminate muscle
      tension. Flap mobilization is considered "adequate" when the marginal portion of the flap is
      able to passively reach a level coronal to the cemento-enamel junction (CEJ) at each single
      tooth in the surgical site. The flap, in fact, should be stable in its final position even
      without the sutures.

      The porcine-derived bio-resorbable collagen matrix (CM) (Fibro-Gide) is now prepared for
      placement on the interested areas: the width of the matrix must be reduced to 3-4 mm and the
      matrix has to adapt to the receiving tissues, when placed, a suture (6/00) must be used to
      hold it in position.

      Sling sutures (6/00) are performed to accomplish a precise adaptation of the buccal flap on
      the exposed root surfaces and to stabilize every single surgical papilla over the interdental
      connective tissue bed.

      - Modified coronally advanced tunnel technique (MCAT): Immediately before surgery, composite
      stops are placed at the contact points to prevent collapse of the future suspended sutures
      into the inter-proximal spaces.

      After local anaesthesia, root planing of the exposed root surface is performed by means of
      hand instruments. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic (EDTA) is applied on the sites.

      Subsequently, intra-sulcular incisions were placed and muco-periosteal flap separation are
      raised using sharp tunnel elevators. The muco-periosteal dissection is extended beyond the
      muco-gingival junction (MGJ) and under each papilla, to allow passive, tension-free
      mobilization in coronal direction. Muscle fibres and any remaining collagen bundles on the
      inner aspect of the flap alveolar mucosa are cut using Gracey curettes with extreme care in
      order to obtain a passive coronal positioning of the flap and the papilla and to avoid
      perforation of the flap.

      The porcine-derived bio-resorbable collagen matrix (Fibro-Gide) is now prepared for placement
      on the interested areas: the width of the matrix must be reduced to 3-4 mm, then it can be
      inserted under the MCAT by starting at the deepest recession. Then, the matrix is retracted
      laterally towards each end of the tunnel by means of mattress sutures. After positioning the
      matrix laterally, the site is rinsed with saline solution to remove any clot. The matrix has
      to be held in position using a suture (6/00).

      Finally, the flap is positioned coronally to CEJ by means of suspended sutures (6/00) around
      the contact points.

      At surgery, the duration of the full procedure will be evaluated (from anesthesia to suture).

      All patients will be recall after 1, 2 and 4 weeks. They will be further recalled 3, 6 and 12
      months after surgery for professional oral hygiene procedures and measurements.
    
  