
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare disease-free survival (DFS) of patients with resected biliary tract cancer
           treated with adjuvant gemcitabine hydrochloride and oxaliplatin versus clinical
           observation.

        -  Compare quality of life of these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival of these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity of the chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Explore prognostic factors for DFS including resection result (R0 vs R1), location of
           primary tumor (intrahepatic vs extrahepatic vs gallbladder), evolution of CA19-9, and
           lymph node involvement (N0 vs N+ and Nx). (Exploratory)

        -  Study pathological factors in surgical specimens to identify main characteristics and
           phenotypic clinicoanatomical biliary tract cancers before therapy. (Exploratory)

        -  Identify nontumor-associated liver injury and factors that may facilitate the emergence
           of biliary tract cancers. (Exploratory)

        -  Identify signaling pathways that may predict response to therapy. (Exploratory)

        -  Determine the molecular characteristics to differentiate tumors according to their
           position in the biliary tract (extrahepatic bile duct, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma
           site [hilar], and peripheral cholangiocarcinoma vesicle site). (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 100 minutes on day 1 and
           oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 2. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo clinical observation only every 4 weeks for 5 months. Quality
           of life is assessed at baseline, at 3 and 6 months, and then at all follow-up visits.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 6 months, every 3 months for 2
      years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  