
    
      The increased prevalence of obesity among the children of military personnel has paralleled
      that observed in the civilian population. Disordered eating, especially binge or loss of
      control (LOC) eating, is common among adolescents and is a salient risk factor for obesity
      and the development of exacerbated disordered eating and depressive symptoms. The goal of
      this study is to test the effectiveness of interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) to slow the
      trajectory of weight gain in adolescent girls at high-risk for adult obesity by virtue of
      elevated body mass index (BMI) percentile and LOC eating. IPT targets the difficult social
      functioning and stressful events that are associated with LOC and highly relevant to the
      adolescent youth from military families. Adolescent military dependents will be randomized to
      receive either the IPT weight gain prevention program or a health education (HE) control
      condition, for 12 weekly group sessions. Adolescents' weight status, eating behaviors, and
      mood will be assessed at baseline, immediately following the prevention program (12-weeks),
      and at 1-year follow-up. At 2-year and 3-year follow-up time points, participants' BMI and
      physiologic data will be collected via the Military Health System's electronic medical record
      system. It is hypothesized that adolescents who receive the IPT group program will show
      significantly less weight gain (or more weight loss) relative to those randomized to HE at
      3-year follow-up. Additionally, it is hypothesized that adolescents receiving IPT (as
      compared to HE) will demonstrate improvements on secondary outcomes of interest, including
      the presence and frequency of classic binge eating episodes, as well as obesity-related
      physiological measures of health (e.g., fasting insulin). The overall goal of the study is to
      prevent excess weight gain and adult obesity, and to prevent worsening disordered eating and
      metabolic functioning among overweight military dependents at risk for adult obesity and
      binge eating disorders.
    
  