
    
      With advancing age, adults experience increasing speech understanding difficulties in
      challenging situations, such as difficulty with understanding other persons in a noisy
      restaurant. Speech-in-noise difficulties are typically rehabilitated by providing hearing
      aids. For older normal-hearing adults, however, hearing devices do not provide much benefit
      since these adults do not have a decreased hearing sensitivity. For these adults
      communication difficulties persist in everyday life situations and can even lead to social
      withdrawal, isolation, and depression.

      A growing body of studies demonstrates that combined auditory-cognitive training paradigms
      can offer speech-in-noise benefits to adults with hearing loss that could prevent the
      consequences listed above (Ferguson & Henshaw, 2015; Lawrence et al., 2018). The goal of the
      "Speech Perception with High Cognitive Demand" Project is to evaluate the benefit of a new
      auditory-cognitive training paradigm for older normal-hearing adults. The investigators
      developed an American English version of the Nottingham (UK) PLUS training paradigm in which
      listeners are asked to focus and listen to one speaker while ignoring another speaker.
      Although it cannot ensured that every participant will experience direct significant benefit
      from the training, the paradigm is being designed to optimally enhance the possibility of
      benefit: an adaptive procedure is employed in order to train each individual at their own
      level and to make the task challenging, and a short-term memory component is added to the
      original training paradigm to also enhance the cognitive skills of the participants. In
      addition, the training is implemented on tablets rather than computers, making at-home
      training possible (many older adults are more comfortable with tablets than laptops). This
      way, not only the risk of COVID-19 for participants is minimized, but training is also
      provided in a realistic setting which will ensure a better transfer of the trained skills to
      daily communication situations.

      In order to provide maximal benefit for older, normal-hearing adults, a validation of the new
      training materials is however required, and the initial validation will be for younger adults
      only. The investigators will evaluate the translated and adjusted sentences (from UK to
      American English), the adaptive procedure, and the short-term memory component, in young,
      normal-hearing adults (18-30 years). Based on the results of this pilot study, the sentences
      and procedures of the training paradigm can be further optimized for older adults.
    
  