
    
      This will be a single centre quantitative study recruiting 60 participants from those
      patients attending the hepatology outpatient clinic at Kings College Hospital NHS (National
      Health Service) Trust. It will set out to determine the impact of quantitative Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) (using LiverMultiScan (LMS)) on intended patient management for
      Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH) patients in comparison with the current usual standard of care.
      Participants will be made aware of the study by a member of clinical care team.

      All participants will attend their planned outpatient hepatology appointment. The consultant
      will document the intended treatment plan for each participant in line with their usual care
      pathway. Following this, participants will be required to attend one dedicated study visit
      with no continued follow-up. This will involve an Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) scan. This
      visit will be scheduled for the same day as their outpatient appointment, or within a 7-day
      window around their appointment with the consultant.

      The results of this scan will be analysed, and a report securely sent to the consultant who
      will review participants original documented care plan alongside the LMS report. The
      consultant will be asked to describe any changes he would have made based on the new
      information that is provided by the scan. Consideration will also be taken for quantifying
      the potential cost-effectiveness of adding LMS to the standard care pathway.

      The study Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) will be conducted within a London based MRI
      imaging centre where LMS is installed and compatible with the allocated scanner
      (1.5Tesla/3Tesla).

      Sample size: The primary endpoint of the study is to determine the proportion of patients for
      whom a change in intended treatment would occur following clinical review of LMS data.

      Based on the following assumptions, the investigators will aim to recruit 60 patients from
      the autoimmune clinic at Kings College Hospital, London, and expect to observe at least a 24%
      change in intended clinical management.

        -  In clinic, returning patients have their liver function tests reviewed to assess
           response to therapy, new patients are referred for both labs and biopsy for initial
           diagnosis.

        -  In an observational study of N=60 AIH participants, 19% were experiencing a biochemical
           flare at baseline (raised Alanine aminotrasferase (ALT) with an associated rise in
           Immunoglobulin G (IgG)). After removing these patients, in the remaining 50
           stable/biochemical responders, 35 were considered low risk (normal liver function tests
           (LFTs) and requiring <10mg prednisolone to maintain remission). In total 16 (32%) went
           on to flare in the following 12 months, 8 of those were 'low risk'.

        -  The average Corrected T1 (cT1) for patients who had a flare was 35 ms higher at baseline
           than the non-flaring patients and cT1 had an Area Under the Receiver Operating
           Characteristic Curve (AUROC) of 0.72 for discriminating these patients (cT1 cut-off ≥
           810ms, 81% sensitivity, 59% specificity and positive and negative predictive values of
           48% and 87%, respectively).

        -  The proportion of patients who may have benefiting from a change in management using LMS
           was 36%: 15 originally classified "low risk" who had cT1 ≥ 810 and 3 "high risk" with a
           cT1 < 810 ms [(18/50)*100].

        -  With an estimated proportion of change using LMS of 36%, the lower-bound 95% confidence
           interval is 24% which reflects a 5% chance the investigators would see a change smaller
           than 24% in this sample, if the true population change was 36%.

      For the secondary endpoint exploring correlations between multi-parametric MRI metrics with
      other measurements of AIH, of the 60 patients the investigators expect biopsy-paired data
      from ~30 patients - 10 new patients and 20 returning patients based on the following
      assumptions:

        -  Biopsy is performed at the clinic for diagnosis of incidence patients, for clinical
           indications in returning patients (abnormal transaminase or IgG levels, suspected
           azathioprine hepatotoxicity is suspected), or every 2 years since diagnosis to confirm
           histological remission (to prevent relapse of AIH and confirm no progression to liver
           fibrosis). Stable patients' laboratory results are reviewed every 6 months.

        -  Given the reported rate of 30 returning and 2 incidence patients to the autoimmune
           clinic at Kings College hospital a month the investigators would expect ~6% to be
           treatment naive at baseline.

      Recruitment: Participants will be identified by a secondary care clinic where those patients
      with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) or those awaiting confirmation of AIH diagnosis will be
      identified by a member of their care team and sent an invitation letter and Participant
      Information Sheet (PIS) 2-3 weeks before their appointment date. All potential participants
      will receive the PIS for a minimum of 24 hours and will have an opportunity to discuss the
      study with an investigator prior to the informed consent process during the first study
      visit.

      Prior to the date of patient clinic visit, the patient will be given a telephone call by a
      member of their care team. Once a potential participant, identified by these means, and
      expresses an interest in the study, they will have the opportunity to discuss their
      eligibility and the details of the study, discuss the logistics around the MRI scan, and If
      happy to participate, the participant will be introduced to a member of the research team
      during their clinic visit.
    
  