
    
      The investigators will conduct an individual-level randomized trial involving pregnant women
      to compare the effects on infant feeding practices of providing pregnant women information
      about the maternal health benefits of breastfeeding to usual prenatal counseling focused on
      the infant health benefits of breastfeeding. Participants will be randomly allocated to one
      of two equal sized groups by research assistants using a web-based random number generator
      that conceals allocation. Participants will be recruited online via UC Davis' StudyPages
      website. Screening will occur online at the participant's convenience. When screening
      criteria have been met, the research coordinator will be notified, and initiate contact with
      the participant by text and/or phone call to schedule a time to deliver the intervention. Due
      to social distancing measures that have been put into place as a result of the COVID-19
      pandemic, informed consent will be collected digitally using the Qualtrics platform after
      potential participants complete a secondary screening survey. Consenting participants will
      use Qualtrics to complete a baseline/enrollment survey and be randomized and then scheduled
      for a time to receive their allocated counseling intervention using the Zoom platform.
      Follow-up surveys will be distributed to participants at 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months postpartum.

      Comparators:

      Participants randomized to the "intervention group" will receive information about the
      maternal health benefits of breastfeeding from a research assistant who also will provide
      information on resources designed to support prenatal and postpartum health, including
      breastfeeding support groups. Participants will be presented with a series of images to look
      at while listening to the scripted counseling, including an image developed in 2002 by the Ad
      Council designed to convey a link between bottle-feeding and insulin use, as well as images
      developed specifically for use when counseling women about the maternal benefits of
      breastfeeding.

      The "attention control" group will receive "usual care" from their prenatal care provider
      that focuses on the infant health benefits of breastfeeding. To control for the potential
      effects of receiving additional attention from a counselor, pregnant women enrolled in the
      control arm of this study will receive information from a peer counselor on the health
      benefits of "smoke- and weed-free homes".

      The investigators will thoroughly train all research staff on the critical importance of
      delivering only the allocated counseling intervention to each study participant. The
      investigators will monitor intervention delivery by audio-recording staff interactions with
      study participants, and providing prompt feedback to research staff, if needed.

      Intervention Delivery: These scripted counseling interventions were designed to be understood
      by those with no more than a fifth-grade education and to take less than 5 minutes to
      deliver. All research staff will be trained by the PI to ensure they understand the
      importance of maintaining the integrity of study group allocation and delivering only the
      assigned scripted counseling. After receiving their allocated counseling, participants will
      be emailed the images and script and encouraged to share this information with the people
      they anticipate receiving postpartum support from.
    
  