
    
      Schizophrenia-spectrum disorders are the most persistent, debilitating, and economically
      burdensome mental illnesses worldwide, and are associated with the greatest per-patient
      expense of all mental health conditions. Schizophrenia is associated with a 15-20 year
      decrease in life expectancy, 5-fold increase in likelihood of death by suicide, and a
      significant decrease in quality of life. Antipsychotic medications are the first line
      treatment for individuals with schizophrenia spectrum disorders and are prescribed to nearly
      every service-user. However, in the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention
      Effectiveness (CATIE) trial (one of the largest antipsychotic trials in 1493 individuals with
      schizophrenia), medication effects on psychosocial functioning were small (d = 0.25). Thus,
      the primary treatment available to all individuals with schizophrenia does little to improve
      community functioning. This may partially be a result of the limited efficacy of
      antipsychotic medication to improve neurocognitive abilities, widely recognized as a core
      feature of schizophrenia, and one recommendation stemming from the CATIE trial was that "more
      intensive psychosocial rehabilitative services, including cognitive rehabilitation, may be
      needed to affect more substantial gains in functioning."

      Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is a psychological intervention originally developed to
      treat depression, and subsequently adapted to treat schizophrenia spectrum disorders. CBT has
      demonstrated moderate treatment effects (d = 0.36 - 0.44) in multiple meta-analyses and is
      widely recommended for the treatment of schizophrenia in international guidelines. CBT
      involves clients learning to evaluate their cognitive content in order to develop more
      accurate representations of the world. CBT has proven effective for improving hallucinations,
      delusions, negative symptoms, and personal recovery.

      Despite the established efficacy of CBT delivered through in-person methods, most clinics
      have discontinued in-person treatments as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and have moved to
      virtual delivery methods. While it has been assumed that virtual delivery of CBT is
      equivalent to in-person delivery, our recent systematic review demonstrated that there has
      never been a trial examining the efficacy of virtually delivered CBT for psychosis.
      Characteristics of schizophrenia such as paranoia, and disorganization already present
      challenges to psychological treatment and it is possible that this challenge will be further
      exacerbated by treatment delivery through virtual methods. Additionally, it is unclear the
      extent to which individuals with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders will be interested in
      receiving virtual CBT and capable of using the technology that is required.

      Thus the goals of the current study are two-fold:

        1. Examine the efficacy of virtually delivered CBT for schizophrenia-spectrum disorders to
           reduce symptoms and improve community functioning.

        2. Examine the feasibility and acceptability of virtually-delivered CBT for individuals
           with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders.

      CBT will be delivered according to an established manual that the PI has previously used
      successfully for in-person treatment. Treatment will consist of individual sessions with a
      therapist for 1-hour per week for 6-months. Therapists will be either a registered clinical
      psychologist or a graduate student in clinical psychology under the supervision of a
      registered clinical psychologist. All treatment will be delivered virtually in the
      participant's home using the online platform Zoom which is PHIPA/PIPEDA compliant. If
      participants do not have the technology required for virtual sessions then a tablet will be
      loaned to them for the duration of treatment. This treatment will be delivered in addition to
      usual care and no changes to usual care will be required.
    
  