
    
      Background In April 2016, there was globally synchronized switch from tOPV to bivalent OPV
      (bOPV). The Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on immunization (SAGE) from WHO endorsed the
      use of IPV in routine immunization globally.(1, 2) However, the IPV introduction pose
      challenges. The biggest challenge is sustain delivery and availability of IPV not only to the
      countries with endemic and periodic epidemic for polio disease but also for the countries at
      risk. Previous research demonstrate that fractional dose of IPV (fIPV) is as efficacious as
      IPV in children received OPV in their routine immunization.(3, 4) Many countries are in the
      process of introducing two doses of fIPV in their routine immunization. Pakistan is still one
      of the two remaining polio endemic countries. There has been gradual decline of wild polio
      virus 1 cases in 2016 (2014, 306 cases; 2015, 54 cases and 2016, 15 cases as of October 15).
      This decline is mainly because of strengthening routine immunization, introduction of bOPV
      and IPV in national polio campaigns. The data on PV2 seroconversion after the introduction of
      one or two doses of fIPV post bOPV introduction is lacking. There is no data on how long the
      PV2 serum immunity last. The current study focuses to assess seroconversion for PV2 induced
      by one and two dose schedule with IPV and compare to fIPV. The investigators also aim to
      assess the decline in titer within 12 months following second IPV dose and compare the
      decline between IPV and fIPV schedules.

      Study Objectives

        -  To compare the immunogenicity and seroconversion of PV2 induced by of two doses IPV
           versus two doses of fractional IPV administered at 14 weeks and 9 months of age.

        -  To compare the immunogenicity of single dose IPV versus single dose fractional IPV
           administered at 14 weeks of age.

        -  To assess the decline in titer within 12 months following IPV compare the decline
           between IPV and fIPV schedule Methodology Description of the study setting and
           population Karachi is a large city with five districts and eighteen towns. This study
           will be conducted in four low-income areas in and around Karachi (4 peri-urban,
           contiguous coastal villages outside Karachi) located about half hour driving distance
           from AKU where the Aga Khan University's Department of Paediatrics and Child Health has
           well-established demographic surveillance, which captures all pregnancies and new births
           in the area.

      Study design This will be a community based randomized control trial. Sample size Assuming
      90% of immune response at 21 months of age after administration of two full doses of IPV, 80%
      power to detect the difference of 15% between arms, 5% level of significance and 10% of drop
      outs, the required minimum sample size will be 500 (125 in each arm).

      Recruitment of the participants, study procedures and administration of informed consent

      The investigators will use the Demographic Surveillance System (DSS) in the four study areas
      to identify the households with eligible children. The lists of these households with
      complete address will be retrieved from the DSS. Team of community health workers (CHWs) will
      visit eligible households and will explain the study to the mother/father or any legal
      guardian of the child. The children of the parents who agree to participate in the study will
      be screened for eligibility by the trained research associates. The parents of the children
      found eligible to be enrolled will be asked for the written informed consent. Eligible
      children will be enrolled if their parents or legal guardian provide the written informed
      consent. Special request permission will be obtained regarding following procedures:

        1. To perform four blood draws of 2 ml each if the children is randomized to arm A or B and
           three blood draws if the child is randomized to arm C and D.

           (Maximum of two attempts for a blood draw will be performed)

        2. To receive one additional IPV dose at 9 months if the child is randomized to arm A and
           either a single or two factional doses of IPV (1/5th of the normal dose) if the child is
           randomized to arm B or D.

      Randomization Clinical Trial Unit (CTU) of the Aga khan University will be asked to generate
      two different lists of randomization using individual randomization technique. List 1 will be
      used for the randomization of children aged 14 weeks and they will be either randomized to
      arm A or B. List 2 will be used for the randomization of children aged 9 months and they will
      be either randomized to arm C or D.

      Sample collection and analysis The investigators will collect 2 ml of venous blood at
      enrollment before the randomization and then at different follow up visits. Blood sample will
      be immediately centrifuged at the centers and sent to the central infectious disease research
      laboratory (IDRL) at Aga Khan University campus in Karachi for storage. The blood samples
      will be shipped to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, USA (CDC), and
      tested for presence of poliovirus neutralizing antibodies using neutralization assays. Any
      remaining sera will be destroyed after the assays are carried out.

      Seropositivity is defined as reciprocal titers of poliovirus neutralizing antibodies >8;
      seroconversion is defined as the change from seronegative to seropositive (from reciprocal
      titer of <8 to >8); and boosting is defined as >4-fold increase in titers. In this study,
      "immune response" combines both boosting and seroconversion. The analysis of immune response
      will be restricted to infants with a baseline serological titer of < 362 to ensure that a
      4-fold boosting response could be achieved since the highest titer tested will be 1:1,448. In
      addition, data on structured case report forms will be obtained in first visit
      (socio-demographic and anthropometric data), and at each subsequent visits.

      CRF (Case Report Form): This brief questionnaire will include information on gender, age,
      weight, length, randomization, maternal education, and information on routine immunization of
      the child.

      Data collection procedure Data will be collected by trained research assistants and
      vaccinators complying with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standards. At enrollment each study
      subject will be assigned a unique identification number and all the subsequent questionnaires
      will be anonymized. This number will be used for future identification. Data will be
      collected using pre-designed and pilot tested questionnaires.

      Monitoring and safety This study will be conducted in compliance with this protocol, GCP
      guidelines and all applicable international and local regulatory requirements. The study will
      require approval by the Ethical Review Committee of the Aga Khan University (AKU), the
      National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan, and ethical approval at WHO/Headquarters in Geneva.
      All study procedures will be conducted in AKU's field research sites from where subjects will
      be recruited. The Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) of AKU will be engaged in providing support for
      specific study procedures conducted at CTU such as randomization, management of vaccines
      (storage, dispensing and incineration), and other responsibilities agreed in writing.

      Adverse events following vaccine administration will be monitored and all serius adverse
      events will be reported within 24 hours to WHO, DSMB, AKU online adverse drugs reporting
      (ADR), and AKU online medical incident reporting. Vaccines will be stored according to cold
      chain requirements, and detailed inventory logs will be maintained at the field sites and at
      the Clinical Trial Unit. There are no placebos used in this study. All the vaccines used are
      licensed in Pakistan and in routine use.

      Specification of the safety parameters:

      All participants will be informed to contact the study primary investigators or study
      physicians at the primary care area clinics if the child requires medical care. Should a
      serious illness arise requiring a physician visit or hospitalization, parents will receive
      instructions on who to contact. In the unforeseen instance of serious adverse events after
      routine immunization, free transport and hospital referral to an Aga Khan University Hospital
      will be arranged as well as provision of cost of care during hospital stay.

      Study duration This will be an twenty one month study, starting in Aug, 2017.
    
  