
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a serious chronic condition affecting over 14 million Americans. Data indicate that
      rates of asthma are higher in certain populations. In fact, African Americans and Hispanics
      from the Northeast are twice as likely to die from asthma as whites. African Americans are
      four times as likely to be hospitalized for asthma and are five times more likely than whites
      to seek care for asthma at an emergency department. Reasons for these higher rates are not
      certain, and most likely result from an interaction of risk factors such as environmental
      exposures, genetic predisposition, access to appropriate medical care, socioeconomic status,
      and cultural health practices. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) supports
      a variety of activities to address the pressing public health problems posed by asthma.
      However, progress in reducing disparities has been disappointingly slow. Separate,
      independent research projects have generated important clues for understanding the nature and
      scope of the problem, but a more coordinated, interdisciplinary, and comprehensive approach
      to research is needed. By fostering partnerships among minority medical centers, research
      intensive institutions, and the communities in which asthma patients live, cooperative
      research centers can help increase the capacity to improve health outcomes among minority and
      economically disadvantaged populations.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will comprise three groups: pregnant women with asthma, children requiring
      intensive care unit (ICU) admission for asthma, and asthmatics requiring emergency care. In
      one part of the study, researchers will randomly assign pregnant women with asthma of African
      American or Hispanic race/ethnicity to one of two culturally sensitive asthma education and
      smoking cessation programs. At the same time, investigators will examine asthma-related
      morbidity in a large cohort of pregnant asthmatic women utilizing administrative data and
      vital records. Perceptions of asthma severity and ways to describe it appear to differ in
      African Americans compared to whites. Therfore, asthmatic patients attending the emergency
      room, along with their families, will be invited to participate in a focus group to validate
      a culturally sensitive instrument to allow improved descriptors of asthma severity for
      African Americans. Estimates by the patients of asthma severity will be matched to objective
      measure, and compared with those of whites. This methodology will then be used to extend the
      hypothesis to children admitted with severe asthma to the region's only pediatric ICU. In the
      pediatric ICU, the admission rates and outcomes will be associated with the potentially
      important genetic variations in the beta 2 adrenergic receptor (BADR2). Using parents and
      non-affected siblings as case controls, a novel computational method will test for gene-gene
      interactions that explain a genetic basis for asthma disparities in severe asthma.
    
  