
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia causing ischemic stroke. The
      CHA2DS2-VASc score was developed to estimate the stroke rate in patients with non-valvular
      AF, and high scores predict a raised annual stroke risk. The yearly stroke risks without
      treatment in patients with CHA2DS2-VASc score 2 and 9 are 2.2% and 15.2% respectively. For
      patients with increased stroke risk (CHA2DS2-VASc score ≧2), warfarin or other novel oral
      anticoagulants (NOAC) recommended for stroke prevention. Despite the effectiveness of current
      pharmacological therapies for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation, around 20% of
      patients discontinue therapy - whether new oral anticoagulants (NOAC) or warfarin because of
      side effects and/or bleeding. In addition, warfarin needs to be dosed individually to target
      an international normalized ratio (INR) of 2-3 for striking an optimal balance between
      bleeding and ischemic stroke events. This, combined with drug-drug interaction that occurs
      with both NOACs and warfarin, results in inadequate stroke protection in a substantial
      portion of AF patients. The LAA is the source of 90% of cardiac emboli attributed to stroke
      events. This is a windsock-like structure on the lateral border of the left atrium with
      internal trabeculations, and being a confined space, is prone to blood stasis and thrombus
      formation. Currently, there are surgical, epicardial and percutaneous techniques for
      occluding this structure in order to reduce stroke in AF patients cannot take long term oral
      anticoagulants, and the percutaneous route is intuitively the most attractive given its
      relative non-invasiveness. The two devices in most widespread use for percutaneous LAA
      closure worldwide are the Watchman (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA) and the Amplatzer
      Cardiac Plug (ACP) (Abbott, IL, CA USA). However, both devices have limitations including the
      need for relatively large delivery sheaths (9-14 French) and limited recapture and
      repositioning capabilities.

      LAmbreTM LAA Closure System (Lifetech Scientific, Shenzhen, China) is a novel self-expanding
      LAA occluder constructed from a nitinol mesh and polyester membranes and consists of an
      umbrella and a cover connected by a short central waist. The device is delivered by an 8-10
      French sheath and has full recapture and repositioning capabilities. LAmbreTM LAA Closure
      System received the CE mark in June 2016.

      This PMCF study will be carried out following the CE mark of LAmbreTM LAA Closure System and
      is intended to confirm effectiveness and safety of LAmbreTM LAA Closure System.
    
  