
    
      This study is designed as a phase III, open-label, randomized study assessing the safety and
      efficacy of NAC (400 mg, orally, three times daily) versus no-NAC control for prevention of
      poor hematopoietic reconstitution in patients with acute leukemia undergoing haploidentical
      HSCT in a 2:1 ratio. The study will consist of three phases: a pre-randomization phase, a
      treatment phase, and an observational follow-up phase.

      The screening period: Patients will be screened during a 1 week screening period prior to
      entering the trial to allow for the collection of BM samples to evaluate the quantity and
      function of BM ECs at 21-14 days before HSCT. The enrolled patients were risk-stratified into
      BM ECs≥0.1% group (low-risk group) and BM ECs<0.1% group (high-risk group). Approximately 126
      patients with BM EC <0.1% at day-14 pre-HSCT (84 patients in NAC treatment arm and 42
      patients in control arm) will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to 1 of 2 arms: (a) NAC 400 mg
      three times per day, (b) No-NAC concurrent control.

      The treatment phase: Study medication will be administered orally, 400 mg three times daily
      from -14 days pre-HSCT to +2 months post-HSCT. All patients should continue their pre study
      dose of NAC throughout trial participation. Following randomization, patients will have 3
      hospitalized or at-clinic trial visits at day 0 before-HSCT and 1, 2 months post-HSCT to
      evaluate efficacy, safety, tolerability and compliance with study medication. Patients will
      be contacted by trial site staff on a monthly basis between visits beginning with day 0.

      The observational follow-up phase: Upon completion of the trial participation phase all
      eligible patients will enter an open label follow-up phase. Clinic visits will occur every 3
      months (± 1 week).

      Patients will have a pretreatment bone marrow aspiration conducted and have a follow up bone
      marrow aspiration conducted at day0 before-HSCT and 1, and 2 months post-HSCT. All patients
      who complete or discontinue from the trial, for any reason, will have a follow up visit, 4
      weeks after their last dose of study medication. The primary outcome is the incidence of PGF
      and PT at 2 months after HSCT, as well as the safety. Secondary endpoints included cumulative
      incidences of relapse (CIR), acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD), non-relapse mortality
      (NRM), overall survival (OS), disease free survival (DFS), the related laboratory evaluation
      of ECs and HSC in BM microenvironment, etc.
    
  