
    
      The introduction of drug-eluting stents (DES) into clinical practice is universally regarded
      as a revolutionary breakthrough in reducing the incidence of restenosis following
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The coating of stents with antiproliferative
      properties addresses a fundamental limitation of the earlier generation bare metal (uncoated)
      stents (BMS) - the in-growth of tissue through the struts of the stent that may eventually
      narrow the coronary artery resulting in recurrent ischemia. DES have greatly reduced the need
      for repeat revascularization, and thus, use of DES has rapidly become the de facto standard
      of care in the US.

      The first two FDA-approved DES in the United States were the Cypher: Sirolimus-Eluting
      Coronary Stent and the TaxusExpress2™: Paclitaxel-Eluting Coronary Stent. Since then, the
      so-called 2nd generation DES which have come to market include the Xience: Everolimus-Eluting
      Coronary Stent and the Medtronic: Zotarolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent. Data from recent
      studies released in September of 2009 showed that Xience/Promus outperformed Boston's Taxus.
      Just prior to the release of this data, US market share was Xience 30%, Promus 24%, Taxus
      22%, Endeavor 13%, and Cypher 11%. However, data was also released regarding Endeavor
      outperforming the Taxus stent as well, suggesting an upsurge is likely in US and world market
      share for Medtronic's Endeavor stent.

      In the data recently presented from the SPIRIT IV trial, a randomized study between Xience
      and Taxus, significant benefits of Xience were found in comparison to the Taxus stent. There
      was a 38% reduction in target lesion failure and a 46% reduction in target lesion
      revascularization compared to Taxus. Notably, in this study of nearly 3700 patients, Xience
      had a low rate of stent thrombosis at 1-year of only 0.17%, compared to 0.85% for Taxus. The
      COMPARE study in higher-risk patients, also confirmed these results showing significant
      benefits of Xience V over Taxus Liberte at 1-year with regard to major adverse cardiac events
      and stent thrombosis.

      These results suggest that there may be significant differences in outcomes favoring the use
      of 2nd generation DES, specifically as it relates to their superiority to 1st generation DES
      in reducing the need for repeat revascularization. There is, however, limited data examining
      the long-term safety of these devices when used in routine clinical practice. Furthermore,
      these DES have still not been fully studied in specific patient populations commonly
      encountered in routine clinical practice, including those with diabetes, chronic kidney
      disease, long-lesions, small vessels, and left main disease, among others. The outcomes
      revolve not only around efficacy of these stents in different clinical and angiographic
      scenarios, but also around the safety profiles. In particular, there has been great attention
      placed not only on the risk of stent thrombosis but also the timing of these events with the
      various DES, and how to reduce the incidence of them. The data available to date suggest
      favorable safety results for the Xience stent. However, in the ever changing world of dual
      antiplatelet therapy, and the duration of it, further understanding of these interactions are
      required. Currently, the majority of our efforts in reducing stent thrombosis have been
      channeled through more aggressive and longer duration of dual antiplatelet therapy. The
      effect of such strategies on other endpoints, such as bleeding complications after PCI, is
      unknown. These treatment strategies are based on our understanding of the need for dual
      antiplatelet therapy with 1st generation DES. Whether these same paradigms apply to 2nd
      generation DES, such as the Xience stent, is unclear. Furthermore, given that there continue
      to be significant questions regarding the precise rates of relatively rare clinical events,
      such as stent thrombosis and bleeding, strategies that allow us to estimate these rates when
      these devices are used in routine clinical practice, are warranted.

      Specifically, the clinical impact of transient or permanent discontinuation of
      dual-antiplatelet therapy on these endpoints at various intervals after Xience implantation
      in routine clinical practice, has not been well characterized. As such, there continues to be
      considerable variability regarding the duration of dual antiplatelet therapy in routine
      clinical practice, regardless of the type of DES utilized. Therefore, a registry with
      rigorous long-term follow-up of patients treated with the Xience stent, that collects
      information on rare events, compliance with dual antiplatelet therapy, and relationships
      between use/non-use of dual antiplatelet therapy and adverse events would address these
      goals.

      Accordingly, to better understand the long-term safety profile of the Xience stent in the
      overall population, as well as in those in whom dual antiplatelet therapy is discontinued, we
      propose to evaluate integrated patient data from the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
      (UPMC) network system using two well-established institutions: the UPMC clinical sites and
      the University of Pittsburgh's Epidemiology Data Center (EDC). In brief, we propose to create
      the UPMC PCI-XIENCE registry, which will integrate the large-volume UPMC clinical sites with
      the well-established EDC as the data coordinating center. This will allow us to further
      investigate the long-term safety of the Xience stent as it is used in routine clinical
      practice.

      Thus, the Specific Aims are to:

        1. Evaluate the risk of stent thrombosis, hemorrhagic stroke, and severe bleeding in
           relation to the timing and discontinuation of dual anti-platelet therapy in patients
           treated with Xience drug-eluting stents.

        2. Study the safety and efficacy of the Xience stent within specific understudied patient
           (diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, women, minorities, etc) and angiographic
           (left main, bifurcation, saphenous vein graft, and small vessel disease) subgroups,
           among others.
    
  