
    
      NVP has several properties that make it an attractive candidate for antiretroviral therapy to
      interrupt HIV-1 transmission in the intrapartum and early post-partum period. The
      pharmacokinetic profile suggests that NVP would be rapidly absorbed and transferred to the
      infant in utero when given during labor and delivery. The HIV-1 antiviral activity is rapid
      with significant reduction in plasma virus occurring within a few days of drug
      administration. In addition, NVP has been shown to penetrate cell-free virions and inactivate
      virion-associated RT in situ. This property would be potentially useful in inactivating
      cell-free virions in the genital tract as well as in breast milk. These characteristics of
      NVP suggest that treatment of an HIV-infected pregnant woman in labor with an oral dose of
      NVP may provide a prophylactic level of NVP in the infant during the time of exposure to
      virus in the birth canal and/or maternal blood. In addition, NVP may inactivate the
      virion-associated RT present in cell-free virions in the genital tract or breast milk.

      Mothers are randomized to receive either a single oral dose of NVP during labor or the
      corresponding NVP placebo. Randomization occurs at any time after the 28th week of gestation.
      To assure balance between the treatment groups, the randomization is stratified using 2
      factors: 1) use of antiretroviral therapy during the current pregnancy (no antiretroviral
      therapy at all; monotherapy [with no multi-agent therapy] for any duration; multi-agent
      therapy for any duration), and 2) CD4 cell count at the time of randomization (less than 200
      cells; 200 to 399 cells; 400 cells or greater). Mothers are followed on-study for 4 to 6
      weeks postpartum.

      Due to the results of ACTG 076 and 185, all women for entry into ACTG 316 are encouraged to
      incorporate a regimen of zidovudine (ZDV) into their current treatment regimen and should
      continue ZDV during delivery and to their neonates (for at least 6 weeks post-birth).

      Infants receive a single oral dose of NVP (or the corresponding placebo) administered between
      48 and 72 hours of life. The infant's study drug is the same as the mother's randomized
      treatment assignment. Infants are dosed with study drug according to their randomization
      group regardless of whether the mother received study drug or not. Infants are followed for 6
      months of life, and are tested for HIV at birth, 4 to 6 weeks of life, 3 months of life, and
      6 months of life.
    
  