
    
      Study purpose and rationale:

      BCG-related LUTS is a condition which can have a significant negative impact on the
      psychological well-being, social functioning, and overall quality of life of bladder cancer
      patients. Clinical studies have demonstrated effects of PPS on damaged urothelium in the
      bladder, which is a key feature for diminishing BCG local side effects. The "dual action"
      protective effect on bladder epithelium and replacing the mucus in the glycosaminoglycan
      layer of damaged urothelium provides a scientific rationale to evaluate whether PPS treatment
      may be a preventive option for NMIBC patients treated with BCG.

      It is therefore important to find a treatment strategy to control the BCG-related LUTS so
      that candidate patients do not lose the benefit of BCG treatment while maintaining its
      efficacy and ensuring optimal outcomes. This study will identify the patients that are more
      vulnerable to develop these side effects and determine the efficacy of PPS to diminish BCG-
      related lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and associated impact on quality of life.

      Sample Size:

      For the first aim, power analysis was estimated using a One-way (ANOVA) hypothesis test with
      a type 1 error of 5%, 80% power, and 20% dropout rate. It was calculated based on the
      ICIQ-LUTSqol expected values. The baseline mean ICIQ-LUTSqol score used was 33.1 and SD of
      7.3, the outcome ICIQ-LUTSqol score mean used 28.48, with a SD of 4.95, which is the
      minimally important difference of 3.7124. The investigator calculate a number of 30 patients
      per group, for a total sample size of 60. (Calculated by pass program v 15.0.03)

      For the second aim, a total number of 40 candidates will be recruited for this prospective
      study. The investigator expect a minimum of 30% of patients to experience BCG related LUTS,
      therefore 18 patients with LUTS The SD of ICIQ-LUTSqol is 7.3 and its maximum score is 76.
      Therefore, the investigator estimate a required sample size of 14 (1.96 2 SD 2 / 3.82), for a
      p value < 0.05, and an absolute error of 0.05.

      The comparison between groups of the cohort will be conducted using chi-square analysis. A
      2-sample t test will be used to compare baseline scores between study groups. The Wilcoxon
      rank-sum test will be used to calculate whether the mean difference of all the outcome
      measures between groups. A p value <0.05 considered statistically significant.

      Approximately 100 subjects are expected to be enrolled for this prospective trial. It is
      expected that 20% of subjects will not qualify for randomization after screening. The study
      is expected to randomize approximately 80 subjects into the double-blind treatment where
      subjects will be allocated to ELMIRON 100 mg, or matched placebo TID in a 1:1 ratio. A post
      randomisation dropout rate of 20% has been estimated, resulting in 60 evaluable subjects.
      This provides an 80% power for the primary endpoint.

      Study design and description This is a Phase 2, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group study in patients 18 to 85 years old with NMIBC. The study will include a two
      weeks Screening Period; and a 6-week double-blind Treatment Period. Participants will return
      to the clinic for a safety Follow-up Visit 6 and 18 weeks after treatment is completed for a
      total study duration of 24 weeks.

      All participants will enter the Screening Period during which eligibility will be assessed,
      where subjects must have at least 3 days of daily diary symptom collection. Participants who
      continue to meet eligibility criteria, including collection of diary data, Negative Urine
      analysis and culture, and bladder scan showing PVR less than 150ml at the end of the
      Screening Period will enter the Treatment Period.

      Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to receive study drug (ELMIRON 100 mg, or
      placebo) TID for a duration of 6weeks.

      Efficacy will be assessed by number of urgency episodes per 24 hours based on a 3-day bladder
      diary, the Overactive Bladder-Validated 8- Question (OAB-V8), the visual analogue scale for
      suprapubic and perineal pain (VAS), the ICIQ-Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (ICIQ-LUTSqol), and quantitative measures of urinary inflammatory markers
      levels (TRAIL, IFN, IL-2, IL-10).

      Safety assessments will be conducted throughout the trial and will include physical
      examinations, vital signs, clinical laboratory evaluations, cystoscopy, urine cytology, and
      adverse events (AEs).

      Study conduct:

      AIM 1: Determine the effectiveness of co-administration of Pentosan Polysulphate in
      preventing BCG-related LUTS.

      Rationale: The investigator aim to compare the effect of PPS (ELMIRON) to placebo on the
      incidence and severity of local adverse effects of BCG intravesical therapy and its impact on
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with superficial bladder cancer. As the
      currently used symptomatic treatment drugs failed to prove optimal efficacy, new treatment
      options are warranted. PPS could be a promising drug especially when considering its
      effectiveness in controlling LUTS related to similar pathologies.

      The first aim will be a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled pilot
      study, A total of 60 subjects will be assessed and included in the study after obtaining
      their consent and fulfilling the inclusion criteria. Within 14 days after TURBT, patients
      will undergo baseline evaluation and will be randomized into two groups as the following:

        -  Group A will receive PPS 100 mg (ELMIRON) thrice daily PO. (30 subjects)

        -  Group B will receive placebo thrice daily PO. (30 subjects) Treatment period for all
           groups will be 6 weeks as co-administration with BCG instillation.

      AIM 2: Identify predisposing factors to developing BCG-related LUTS based on clinical,
      demographic and voiding parameters The second aim will involve an in-depth pre-treatment
      analysis of clinical parameters of patients planned for BCG instillation and correlation with
      the development of BCG local side effects. Prior to receiving BCG induction, patients will be
      evaluated for baseline demographics, voiding diary, non-invasive uroflowmetry with post-void
      residual, LUTS and quality of life questionnaires (OAB-V8, ICIQ-LUTSqol, and VAS). Objective
      outcomes assessment using quantitative measures of TRAIL, IFN, IL-2, and IL-10 levels in the
      urine before and following BCG induction treatment will be quantitated using a sandwich ELISA
      and correlated with the severity of LUTS. This prospective cohort will be followed 3 months
      after completing the induction phase by repeating the clinical assessment described and
      identify their oncological response to the treatment by urine cytology/cystoscopy.

      Confidentiality:

      All study outcomes and documents will be considered as confidential. The Investigator and
      members of his/her research team must not disclose such information without prior written
      authorization. The anonymity of participating patients must be maintained. Subjects will be
      identified on CRFs and other documents by their subject number/code, not by name. Documents
      that identify the subject (eg, the signed informed consent) must be retained in confidence by
      the Investigator. All data will remain confidential and will be available for access by the
      investigators only. A unique identifier to keep their identity confidential will identify the
      participant. The information will be kept for duration of 10 years.

      Statement on ethical consideration:

      The proposed study protocol ensures that the Sponsor and Investigator adhere to the
      principles of the GCP guidelines of the ICH, and of the recent version of the Declaration of
      Helsinki. The study also will be following with local ethics requirements.
    
  