
    
      Bilio-Pancreatic diversion with Duodenal Switch (BPD-DS) is the most effective bariatric
      procedure in terms of long-term weight loss and remission rate of Type 2 Diabetes. However,
      its technical difficulty and increased risk of long-term nutritional deficiencies have been a
      major hindrance to its diffusion. Our team, with more than 4000 BPD-DS performed since the
      early 1990's, is recognized internationally for its expertise with this specific procedure.

      Recently, a " simplified " technique of Duodenal-Switch has been proposed by Sanchez-Pernaute
      et al. This technique involves the creation of a Sleeve Gastrectomy, transection of the first
      duodenum, and connection of the duodenum to an omega-loop of small bowel instead of a
      terminal intestinal loop used in standard BPD-DS.

      This new procedure, called Single Anastomosis Duodenal Switch has the potential benefit of
      decreasing the complexity of the standard BPD-DS by avoiding one of the two intestinal
      anastomoses usually needed. This could potentially decrease the rate of peri-operative
      complications and increase access to this type of surgery.

      However, the length of the common channel (250cm) is more than doubled compared to standard
      BPD-DS, which could also change significantly the outcomes of the procedure itself. Indeed,
      the length of the common channel conditions the absorption of fat and fat-soluble vitamins.

      Currently, the scientific literature regarding this procedure is scarce, with only one author
      who published his 2-years outcomes, in a cohort study of 100 patients. In addition, this
      report presents major limitations. In example, the length of the omega loop was increased
      from 200 to 250cm during the course of the study, in order to decrease the rate of protein
      deficiency and reoperation for malnutrition. This and other limitations make it hard to
      assess the actual results of the technique.

      The overall objective of this study is to assess in a stronger study design (i.e. a
      prospective randomized single blinded trial), the outcomes of this new procedure, using a
      comprehensive clinical evaluation and follow-up method. This could potentially change the
      clinical practice and surgical approach in our Institution.
    
  