
    
      The term "flipped classroom" refers to courses where basic educational content has been
      removed from the in-class schedule and has instead been provided in advance for learners to
      review prior to face-to-face interaction with the instructor. Consequently, during class
      time, learners use time ordinarily spent in lecture to instead practice applying their
      knowledge.

      Although this methodology has been mainly described in classroom-based instruction, the
      underlying theory can conceptually apply to simulation training in the context of medical
      education. Too often, and especially with junior learners, time during simulation instruction
      is spent giving feedback directed at performance gaps caused by a lack of medical knowledge
      (e.g. medication dose, treatment plan, etc.). Unfortunately, teaching medical knowledge
      during debriefings takes away from the time spent practicing and discussing non-technical
      skills (NTS) such as communication, leadership, etc. If the objectives of a simulation
      session are directed towards increasing competencies in NTS (e.g., Crisis Resource Management
      [CRM]), efforts should be made to maximize the time spent on the application of these skills.
      Ensuring that learners possess the medical knowledge required to accomplish the task work of
      a case (e.g. diagnosis, treatment, etc.) beforehand could help focus their attention on
      teamwork competencies and result in educational gains.

      The benefit of applying a flipped classroom model to simulation-based CRM instruction is
      anchored in two hypotheses:

        1. The Cognitive Load Theory Hypothesis: Applying a flipped classroom model to CRM training
           could decrease the load imposed on learners' cognitive processes. According to this
           theory, working memory has a finite capacity and can only take on a certain load. When
           it is overloaded, new information cannot be processed and learning is impeded.
           Temporally separating the instructional content could help learners concentrate on the
           intended learning objectives of a simulation exercise designed to practice CRM skills.
           This could lead to enhanced proficiency and retention of these skills.

        2. The Control Value Theory of Achievement Emotions Hypothesis: Achievement emotions are
           defined as emotions induced by learning activities or their outcomes. They are generated
           when performances of students are appraised according to a standard of excellence.
           Central to this theory is that "[…] individuals experience specific achievement emotions
           when they feel in control of, or out of control of, achievement activities and outcomes
           that are subjectively important to them […]". Negative emotions, such as anxiety, have
           been shown to reduce the cognitive resources available for learning. Providing
           preparatory instruction could regulate learners' stress response and reduce its impact
           on learning. In fact, increasing learners' knowledge of what will happen during
           simulation training can enhance their perceived control over the learning experience and
           limit the emergence of anticipatory anxiety. The act of sharing information prior to
           simulation training may also been seen as a gesture of transparency on the instructor's
           behalf. This has the potential to realign the perceived role of the instructor to a
           coaching instead of a judging role. A shared understanding of the upcoming learning
           experience may lessen socioevaluative anxiety by emphasizing the formative nature of the
           activity.

      This study specifically tries to provide an answer to this research question: "Does providing
      preparatory instruction regarding the medical content of a simulation case to junior medical
      residents allow learners to focus more on Crisis Resource Management (CRM) principles thus
      resulting in an increase retention of Crisis Resource Management (CRM) skills three months
      after a technology-enhanced simulation session aimed at the acquisition of CRM competencies?"

      The research question and underlying hypotheses will be tested in a between-subjects
      experimental design using a mixed-method approach. Subjects will be randomly allocated to an
      intervention (i.e. "flipped simulation") or a control group.
    
  