
    
      Pain is a common symptom associated with cancer; 75-90% of cancer patients experience pain
      during their illness and up to 50% of that pain is undertreated. Unrelieved pain leads to
      increased levels of the stress hormone cortisol. Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy
      syndrome (CIPN) causes significant pain in hands and feet and is a common, adverse effect of
      several chemotherapeutic agents. It can lead to abrupt discontinuation of treatment, and
      severely affects the quality of life.

      CIPN is a particularly important adverse effect because it may compromise the ability to
      tolerate chemotherapy and become a serious, long-lasting, and even permanent debility. CIPN
      symptoms may persist many years after treatment; together with worse function, greater
      disability, and more falls which is complicated by the aging process. Clinically, CIPN
      presents as deficits in sensory, motor, and function which develop in a glove and stocking
      distribution.

      While chemotherapy improves the likelihood of disease-free survival, the result of CIPN may
      cause decreased walking speed and balance observed after the first chemotherapy cycle and
      progresses with cumulative exposure. These functional deficits are mirrored with increased
      symptom severity. CIPN is associated with potential fall risk with aging cancer survivors and
      increased functional disability.

      Few interventions have been tested for impact from CIPN. Yoga is a popular movement therapy,
      often used by cancer survivors for symptom management. Several studies demonstrate the
      promising effects of yoga on sleep, fatigue and quality of life (QOL) in cancer survivors.
      However, no study has rigorously investigated its effects on CIPN and quality of life.

      This study will explore the preliminary therapeutic effects of an 8-week somatic based yoga
      and meditation (SYM) program and 15-25 cancer survivors with CIPN will be enrolled into a
      small pilot study. This will include 16 sessions of yoga designed specifically to minimize
      injury, promote flexibility/ balance and to allow you to maximize their specific functional
      goals. All types of cancer diagnoses resulting in CIPN will be enrolled in a single arm
      feasibility trial. SYM will be provided twice a week for 8 weeks for 1.5 hours. You will
      complete surveys at the beginning and end of 8 weeks and receive a home-based SYM and write
      journal entries to determine your perspectives of the intervention.
    
  