
    
      The OsteoMAP course is a new clinical intervention integrating Mindfulness and
      Acceptance-based approaches of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy with manual therapy for patients
      with persistent pain. In Stage 1 (in progress, June 2013 to April 2014) an intervention for
      individual patients of six, structured, one hour sessions was piloted by osteopaths at the
      British School of Osteopathy (BSO) in London with patients already attending the osteopathic
      clinic. In Stage 2 (awaiting ethical approval, September 2014 to May 2016) recruitment will
      be expanded to include NHS patients referred from, and treated in, participating GP practices
      in South East London. The study aims to assess whether participants report improved quality
      of life, well-being and engagement in personally-valued activities six months after their
      course ends.

      Osteopathy is a low risk form of manual therapy that promotes physical functioning in the
      musculoskeletal system. Acceptance-based approaches promote a way of thinking that encourages
      acceptance of unwanted experiences (i.e. symptoms which cannot be fully resolved) by
      recognising that emotions, thoughts and physical sensations do not necessarily control
      behaviour. Chronic pain is an increasing healthcare burden with significant psychological,
      social and economic consequences but there is evidence that Mindfulness can be effective with
      a range of mental and physical health problems, including chronic pain.

      This observational evaluation study includes a 'before-and-after' patient-reported outcome
      study with an embedded qualitative interview study and a fidelity evaluation. There is no
      control group or comparison with standard care. The programme was funded as a new service
      development, not primary research, but will generate new data from pre and post course
      measures using standardised self-report questionnaires at baseline and after six months. The
      fidelity assessment of adherence and competence will evaluate whether the course being
      delivered as intended, independently observed by a team from the National Council for
      Osteopathic Research (NCOR).

      Recruitment: Posters will be placed in participating surgeries with information sheets for
      doctors who wish to discuss the OsteoMAP course with patients. Patients will be invited to
      'opt in' by completing application forms and invited to Pre-Course Interviews to screen for
      eligibility and discuss the nature and potential benefits and risks of joining an
      experiential course. Patients will complete standardised questionnaires before their
      interview, either electronically on a laptop computer which submits data directly to the
      evaluation team via Survey Monkey, or as paper copies with stamped addressed envelopes.

      Pre-Course interviews aim to explore patients' willingness to try a new approach to pain
      management and assess motivation and scope for change. Patients will be told about potential
      psychological risks, as they will be invited to think about the full impact of pain and to
      increase their awareness of both pleasant and painful experiences. Joint decisions will be
      made about whether it is appropriate for a patient to join. If it is not clear, the patient
      will be asked for permission to contact their doctor before a decision is made.

      The Intervention: Patients will be invited to attend individual sessions, one hour a week for
      six weeks, delivered by a clinical care team led by a qualified osteopath and up to three
      senior student osteopaths. Sessions include osteopathic treatment, as appropriate for each
      patient, and mindfulness and acceptance-based pain management exercises. Participants will be
      asked to attend the full course, which is based on the structure outlined in a key Acceptance
      and Commitment Therapy text by Russ Harris ('ACT Made Simple', 2009, New Harbinger
      Publications).

      Session 1: Living with pain - to help patients become more aware of how their current
      reactions to discomfort limit them.

      Session 2: Living more flexibly with pain - to promote acceptance and create opportunities
      for choosing more flexible, active responses.

      Session 3: Living in the present - to strengthen mindfulness skills, body awareness and
      develop skills to integrate painful and pleasant experiences into present moment awareness
      and action.

      Session 4: Living a fulfilling life - to help patients become more aware of their values and
      goals, build self-compassion, and engage with personally valued activities.

      Session 5: Overcoming obstacles - to help patients develop the skills to overcome unworkable
      habitual reactions to pain, and maintain engagement with values-based activities.

      Session 6: Moving on - to help patients create personal self-care plans to promote well-being
      and resilience and sustain their choices to do the things that matter.

      At the end of each session, patients will be invited to choose home practices to develop
      self-care skills and explore activities they may avoid because of pain. Activities are
      optional and patients can choose to withdraw at any time, without giving a reason and with no
      effect on their existing or future healthcare.

      Follow-up: Patients will be offered optional follow-up interviews (not including treatment)
      three months after their course ends.

      The following ethical concerns have been addressed:

      Confidentiality: This study does not involve access to NHS patients' medical records. Paper
      copies of personal and medical information (e.g. application forms, osteopathic case records)
      will be stored securely by the OsteoMAP care team in administrative offices, in line with
      current guidelines and standard BSO operating policies. Paper copies of consent forms and
      anonymised audit data will be stored securely in locked cabinets and on password protected
      computers in BSO staff offices. Only the care team will have access to clinical intervention
      data, and only the evaluation team will have access to questionnaire data. Patient outcomes
      will be collected as online questionnaires via Survey Monkey. A laptop computer will be
      provided by the clinical team at the patient's first appointment to facilitate questionnaire
      completion. Participants will submit their own data directly, immediately downloaded to the
      evaluation team, so no personal details or data will be retained on the computer.
      Participants who wish to complete paper questionnaires will be asked to post them directly to
      the evaluation team in the stamped, addressed envelopes provided. After six months, follow-up
      questionnaires will be distributed directly to participants by the evaluation team, by email
      or post (as requested by the patient). Study data will be anonymised and patients will be
      allocated unique identifying numbers. The database will be stored by the evaluation team on a
      secure bespoke research server at Queen Mary University, London.

      Courses will be run in private treatment rooms at the BSO and in GP surgeries in which rooms
      have been made available for OsteoMAP clinicians. Personal or identifying details will be
      deleted from interview transcripts, verbatim quotes used to illustrate findings will be
      anonymised, and any potentially identifying details will be altered or deleted from all
      written reports.

      Coercion to join the course: This has been minimised by adopting an 'opt-in' policy.
      Practitioners can discuss potential benefits and risks but cannot directly refer patients
      onto the course. Participants will be fully informed about the nature of the course and it
      will be emphasised that it is a voluntary self-management option being provided by the BSO,
      an organisation outside the NHS, and that choosing to participate, or not, will not affect
      their usual healthcare. They will be asked to 'opt-in' on a Patient Application Form.

      Coercion to participate in course activities: This has been minimised by ensuring that
      participants are aware that activities are optional and each session is guided by their
      personal goals and needs. Participants will be made aware that they can choose to withdraw
      from a session, or the whole course, at any time, without giving a reason, with no detriment
      to their usual care.

      Risk of physical harm: Mindfulness interventions and osteopathic care are both considered as
      low risk interventions. Risks have been minimised through the use of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and screening interviews to check that participants are considered suitable. The
      risks associated with manual therapy are low at <1: 50,000 - 100,000 of a serious adverse
      event after manipulation. The risks are even lower with other conservative (i.e. massage)
      techniques used by osteopaths. Around half of patients may feel some short-lived (<24 hours)
      of minor muscle soreness after their first treatment. The practitioners responsible for
      delivering the courses are clinically and educationally experienced and have received
      additional OsteoMAP training. The student osteopaths involved are in their final year of
      training, have been assessed as clinically competent, and will be carefully supervised in
      each session.

      Risk of psychological harm: Chronic pain is often associated with co-morbid mental health
      issues such as anxiety and depression, and the risk of causing harm to vulnerable patients
      has been minimised though the use of standardised questionnaire measures, inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, and screening interviews to check that participants are able and willing
      to participate in Mindfulness-informed interventions, which are also considered low risk.
      This experiential course involves participants thinking about experiences of pain and the
      effects on their life, an approach which has an inherent potential to cause some emotional
      distress, which is clearly explained in the Information Sheets and Pre-Course interviews. In
      treatment sessions, participants will be invited to try experiential activities and informed
      in advance that these may cause some distress, a normal part of the process of exploring and
      confronting beliefs and behaviour related to chronic pain. A qualified osteopath will be
      available for any participants who need extra support during a session and the Project Leader
      and Programme Developer will be contacted in the event of an adverse event. Supervision for
      clinicians will be provided by the Programme Developer, an experienced Chartered Clinical and
      Health Psychologist and Mindfulness teacher.

      Quality assurance: The OsteoMAP Project Board report to the BSO Academic Council and are
      subject to standard operating and quality assurance procedures. The clinical course is
      supported by Patient Workbooks and Practitioner Training Manuals and is being externally
      observed and internally audited. Practitioners delivering the course have participated in
      additional training, and the quality of training and adherence and competence to the study
      protocol is being monitored by the evaluation team.

      Project oversight: The Chief Investigator/Project Leader, Programme Developer and
      Administrator prepare activity and budget reports for the Board, which meets at least three
      times per year, and annual reports for the Department of Health. Local audits will be
      prepared annually as information for doctors about patient activity in their surgeries.
    
  