
    
      Tissue Sample Collection:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have your already scheduled endobronchial
      ultrasound-guided biopsy performed after you have been given a drug to make you sleep. You
      will be asked to sign a separate informed consent for the biopsy procedure.

      During a standard of care biopsy procedure, there are normally 3-5 tissue sample collections
      performed. For the purposes of this study, you will have a total of 4 tissue collections
      performed during the biopsy procedure. Two tissue collections (2) using the FNC method, and 2
      tissue collections using the FNA method.

      If the first 4 tissue sample collections do not provide good enough tissue samples to perform
      the diagnosis, additional sample collections may be performed. If more samples are collected,
      these samples will not be used for the purposes of this study and will only be collected for
      diagnostic purposes.The sampling will be done by the pulmonologist who is performing your
      procedure.

      The first 4 tissue samples that are collected for the purposes of this study will be examined
      to determine the quality of the sample as well as for diagnostic purposes.

      Medical Record Information:

      Information from your medical record will be collected 1 time for this study. The information
      collected will include information about your diagnosis, the number of radiation treatments
      you may have had, and additional information about your medical history. The information will
      be de-identified and stored in a research database on a password protected computer that only
      the study doctor and study staff will have access to.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for the duration of biopsy procedure. After the biopsy has been
      performed, and your medical record information has been collected you will no longer be on
      study.

      This is an investigational study. The endobronchial ultrasound-guided biopsy of the lymph
      nodes is FDA approved. Both methods of tissue collection (FNA and FNC) are FDA approved for
      the purposes of this study.

      Up to 200 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  