
    
      The study is carried out based on Sanz risk stratification of newly-diagnosed APL patients
      into low-, intermediate- and high-risk groups, and all of them will receive ATRA and ATO as
      induction therapy (ATRA 25 mg/m2 per day orally + ATO 0.16mg/kg intravenously daily).
      Anthracycline is added to both high-risk groups or intermediate-risk group with
      hyperleukocytosis developed during induction therapy but not in low-risk groups.

      After achieving CR, patients enter into consolidation therapy. Low-risk patients receive
      either 2 courses of ATRA plus ATO (Experimental group) or 2 courses of ATRA plus
      anthracycline chemotherapy (Control group). Intermediate-risk patients receive either 3
      courses of ATRA plus ATO (Experimental group) or 2 courses of ATRA plus anthracycline
      chemotherapy (Control group). Patients of high-risk disease receive 2 courses of ATRA plus
      ATO and anthracycline and 1 course of ATRA plus ATO treatment (Experimental group) or 2
      courses of ATRA plus anthracycline and cytarabine and 1 course of ATRA plus mid-dose
      cytarabine (Control group).

      After consolidation therapy, patients with molecular complete remission (mCR) enter into
      maintenance therapy. Low- and intermediate-risk patients receive 3 cycles of ATRA and ATO
      sequential treatment, while those of high-risk receive 5 cycles of ATRA, ATO and methotrexate
      (MTX) treatment.

      For low- and intermediate-risk patients who fail to achieve mCR after consolidation therapy,
      3 courses of consolidation therapy of high-risk group will be given with cross-over (i.e.
      patients in Experimental group received the therapy of Control group, and patients in Control
      group received the therapy of Experimental group). If patients still fail to achieve mCR,
      together with high-risk group who fail to achieve mCR after consolidation therapy will be
      withdrawn from the study and proceed to salvage treatment.
    
  