
    
      Health individuals from the general public will be recruited into this cross-sectional study
      designed to compare plasma/serum and urine vitamin D metabolite profiles of those identified
      as vitamin D sufficient and insufficient individuals.

      There are two objectives:

      Objective 1: To investigate plasma/serum and urine vitamin D metabolite profiles in vitamin D
      sufficient and insufficient individuals; N=20 and will consist of 10 individuals identified
      as vitamin D insufficient and 10 individuals identified as vitamin D deficient individuals.

      Objective 2: To determine the effects of vitamin D3 fortification on serum
      25-dihydroxy-vitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations, markers of vitamin D and calcium metabolism,
      and vitamin D metabolite profile in plasma/serum and urine of vitamin D insufficient
      individuals. N=45.

      To achieve the objectives, the study will be conducted in two phases:

      Phase 1 - Healthy males or females, ≥19 and ≤50 years of age, will be recruited from the
      general public. Consented study participants will provide a fasting blood and urine sample
      for the purpose of determination of vitamin D status (insufficient vs. deficient) based on
      serum 25(OH)D concentrations. Forty-five (45) individuals identified as vitamin D
      insufficient (having a serum 25(OH)D concentration ≥30 and ≤75 nmol/L) will proceed to phase
      II. A N=20 (10 vitamin D insufficient and 10 vitamin D deficient) will also be identified to
      satisfy objective 1.

      Phase II - is a double-blind, randomized, control study designed to examine vitamin D status
      in vitamin D insufficient individuals consuming a water-soluble form of vitamin D3. Eligible
      participants will randomized to consume one of three beverages: i) rooibos iced-tea
      (control); ii) rooibos iced-tea fortified with 1000 IU of water-soluble vitamin D3; or iii)
      rooibos iced-tea fortified with 1000 IU of water-soluble vitamin D3 and 360 mg calcium at 240
      mL of iced-tea consumed daily for 6 weeks. Both researchers and participants will be blinded
      to the beverage group assigned to each participant. Participants will then attend 6 weekly
      visits following the baseline visit to provide fasting blood samples for assessment of serum
      25(OH)D concentrations.

      Analysis of intact-PTH, alkaline-phosphatase, calcium, phosphorus, CRP, TAP and vitamin D
      metabolite profile and a urine sample will also be obtained for assessment of N-telopeptide
      and vitamin D metabolite profile will also occur at Baseline and Week 6. Fasting blood
      samples collected at week 3 will be used for additional assessment of serum alkaline
      phosphatase, calcium and phosphorus. A 3-day Food Record will be provided at week 3.

      Vitamin D insufficient participants will be stratified according to their serum 25(OH)D
      concentrations (≥30 and ≤50, or >50 and ≤75 nmol/L) after screening and prior to the beverage
      study to ensure that a range of lower and higher serum 25(OH)D concentrations are represented
      in each beverage group.
    
  