
    
      Clinical techniques for the calculation of gestation include fetal ultrasound and clinical
      assessment tools, such as the Ballard Score, following birth. These techniques are rarely
      available (ultrasound which is expensive and requires trained users) or require significant
      training (Ballard) which makes them unsuitable for large scale assessment in many low-middle
      income (LMI) countries. In the UK, the gestational age of babies of mothers with no antenatal
      care requires a detailed clinical examination which can lack accuracy. Clinical assessment of
      postnatal gestational age utilises anatomical characteristics of the face, ear and foot
      during newborn development. There is an element of subjectiveness which reduces the precision
      of such an assessment which is only reduced with significant training and experience. Simpler
      techniques of postnatal gestational age assessment such as anthropometric measures are time
      consuming and lack the accuracy required. Emerging evidence suggests that gestational age can
      be calculated postnatally by measuring the newborn foot length and comparing to population
      appropriate charts. However, when used on their own, the specificity and sensitivity are
      still below acceptable limits to allow universal adoption.

      New software-based analytical techniques now make it possible to perform fully automatic
      recognition of facial actions and dimensions. The investigators have developed techniques
      that allow live video facial feature identification and measurement using advanced analytical
      techniques of muscle actions. These techniques have been used for facial expression analysis
      as well as automated facial feature localization. The investigators propose that the same
      analysis could be used to create a unique gestational age assessment tool using a simple
      brief video clip of the newborns' face and foot.

      Accurate assessment of gestational age, especially in LMI countries, could ensure high risk
      newborns receive appropriate low cost interventions to reduce morbidity and mortality. In the
      UK this could allow better estimation of babies born to mothers with no antenatal care where
      the gestational age is unclear. We propose a smartphone based, ethnic appropriate, combined
      face and foot video analysis tool to accurately determine gestational age of the newborn.
      Such a system could adapted to incorporate pain assessment tools to help inform treatment
      options and study new therapies.
    
  