
    
      The study objective is to compare the efficacy and safety of albuterol in a dry powder
      inhaler (DPI) and albuterol in an HFA metered dose inhaler (MDI) after a cumulative dose of
      1440mcg administered as 1+1+2+4+8 inhalations (90mcg per inhalation). Another study objective
      is to compare the pharmacokinetics (metabolism) of albuterol with the two inhalers. The
      pharmacokinetics of albuterol will be examined in half (24) of the study subjects. To
      participate in the study, patients must provide written informed consent, washout any
      prohibited medications and pass all the screen criteria. Once this is done, there will be two
      treatment visits. At each visit the subject will inhale with both types of inhalers. At each
      visit, one inhaler will have active drug (albuterol) and one inhaler will have placebo
      (dummy). The inhaler with the active drug will be switched at the two visits in a random
      manner. At each visit the subject will inhale with each inhaler a total of 16 times by a
      specific schedule. The subject will inhale from each inhaler once (1), wait 30 minutes,
      inhale from each inhaler once (1), wait 30 minutes, inhale from each inhaler twice (2), wait
      30 minutes, inhale from each inhaler four times (4), wait 30 minutes, and then inhale from
      each inhaler eight times (8). The total time to complete the inhalations should be about 2
      hours. Following that, there will be a series of assessments taken at regular times with
      vital signs measured up to 6 hours, ECG (electrocardiogram) assessed up to 4 hours, blood
      taken to measure potassium and glucose up to 4 hours, lung function evaluated with spirometry
      up to 6 hours, and for those subjects participating in the pharmacokinetic evaluation blood
      will be drawn up to 12 hours. The two study treatment visits will be 3 to 14 days apart.
      Following these visits, there will be a study concluding visit 1 to 5 days later.
    
  