
    
      The Change Starts at Home intervention is a multi-component social behavior change
      communication (SBCC) strategy designed to shift attitudes, norms and behaviors that underpin
      the power imbalances between men and women and the perpetration of intimate partner violence
      (IPV) among couples in Nepal. Recognizing the social ecology of change, the intervention
      engages actors across multiple rings of influence, such as family members and community
      leaders, in addition to the primary target audience of married reproductive age women and
      their husbands. As an SBCC strategy, the intervention approaches intimate partner violence
      prevention through three key approaches: advocacy, social mobilization and behavior change
      communication.

      Married couple participants will be asked to interact with a radio program and participate in
      weekly, sex-separate listening and discussion groups (LDG) that each last for between 75 and
      120 minutes over the course of 9 months. The same participants will be invited to participate
      in workshops and community activities such as theater and town hall meetings. Female LDG
      members will be asked to take a survey three times over the course of 24 months. Family
      members of LDG members in the treatment condition will be asked to interact with a radio
      program, and attend up to two focus group discussions (FGD) to understand the environmental
      facilitators and constraints to the couple exhibiting more gender equitable attitudes and
      behaviors and changes in family-based norms. Family members will be invited to attend one LDG
      meeting every 3 months, street theaters and community meetings. Community leaders will be
      asked to interact with a radio program, to participate in a workshop, to develop a plan of
      action to promote gender equity and the reduction of violence, to jointly run a community
      event with an LDG in their area and to attend up to two FGDs. At three separate time points,
      a randomly selected sample of female community members meeting inclusion criteria will be
      invited to take a survey.
    
  