
    
      The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, NR1I3) is a nuclear receptor that plays a central
      role in hepatic detoxification of potentially toxic compounds, or xenobiotics. Chronic CAR
      activation by specific agonists induces tumors in wild type mice, and strongly promotes
      hepatocarcinogenesis in combination with initiating mutagens. Both effects are absent in CAR
      null mice. These tumorigenic effects are associated with an acute induction of hepatocyte
      proliferation in mice. Preliminary results using partially humanized mice demonstrate a very
      similar proliferative effect of CAR activation in human hepatocytes.

      The transcriptional activity of CAR can be reversed by specific inverse agonists. These
      ligands are analogous to steroid receptor antagonists, converting the transcriptional
      activation of the agonist bound receptor into transcriptional repression. These compounds are
      termed inverse agonists because they do not depend on the presence of agonist ligands to
      exert their repressive effects. Mouse and human CAR proteins are more divergent than other
      nuclear receptors, and respond to quite different profiles of agonists and inverse agonists.
      Preliminary results demonstrate that the specific mouse CAR inverse agonist androstanol
      blocks proliferation and induces apoptosis in mouse liver tumors. This raises the possibility
      that targeting CAR may represent a new modality of treatment for hepatocellular cancer (HCC)
      analogous to estrogen and androgen receptor antagonists in breast and prostate cancers.
      Meclizine, a widely used antihistamine medication for vertigo and motion sickness, is an
      inverse agonist ligand of human CAR. Investigators hypothesize that reversing CAR function
      with meclizine will have a beneficial therapeutic effect in patients with HCC by blocking
      proliferation and inducing apoptosis.

      Investigators therefore propose a novel window of opportunity trial in which biopsy proven
      HCC patients will receive oral meclizine daily for 28 (up to 35) days while awaiting surgical
      resection, radiofrequency ablation, transarterial chemoembolization, Y90 or systemic therapy.
      The primary test of treatment outcome will be the predicted decrease in expression of
      downstream CAR target genes (CYP2B6, MYC and FOXM1) in pre and post treatment tumor
      specimens. Investigators will also measure the change in tumor proliferation and apoptosis by
      measuring Ki-67 proliferation index and TUNEL assays (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase
      dUTP Nick-End Labeling assay), serum levels of AFP and GDF 15, and overall tumor response by
      imaging. HCC is the most rapidly increasing cause of cancer mortality in the United States
      and medical treatment options are limited. Successful completion of this study may identify a
      new approach to treatment of HCC.
    
  