
    
      This is a prospective registry study on the immunizations in patients with B-Cell Hematologic
      Malignancies at Aurora Health Care. This observational study will consist of prospective
      medical record review of Aurora Health Care patients newly diagnosed B-Cell Hematologic
      Malignancies and will be used to characterize vaccination history, infection rate, and
      hospitalization rate. This is the second study in the series of studies designed to provide
      important information about the best way and time to vaccinate patients with MM and similar
      cancers to flu and pneumonia and to gather additional information about immune function in
      this patient population.

      The registry will include all adult patients who are newly diagnosed with the following
      B-Cell Hematologic Malignancies: Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS),
      Smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM), Multiple myeloma (MM), Waldenstroms Macroglobulinemia
      (WM), Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL), Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), or B-Cell
      Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The prevalence of newly diagnosed B-Cell Hematologic Malignancies
      at Aurora Health Care is approximately 1000 patients annually. This registry will be ongoing
      to collect real time data, with no definite sample size planned; however, data will be
      collected for at least 10 years. This time frame is based on Surveillance, Epidemiology, and
      End Results Program (SEER) data. There is a 50% survival rate at 5 years after diagnosis for
      MM, so the 10 year time frame will be able to capture long term outcome in patients.

      Medical record information will be obtained through electronic data capture by Aurora Health
      Care staff with access to the electronic medical records. Data will be manually reviewed by
      the coordinator, Investigator and co-investigators for accuracy and completeness, to the
      extent available in the clinical medical record. Additionally, a biostatistician will assist
      in data analysis.

      Descriptive statistics such as counts, proportions or percentages for category variables and
      mean and standard deviation for continuous variables will be computed for the all the
      variables. Depending upon the distribution of the category variables appropriate statistical
      tests such as chi-square and/or Fisher exact test will be used to find out the statistical
      significance. For continuous variables an appropriate statistical test such as t-tests and/or
      F test will be used.

      This registry will be used for this research study, and may be queried for internal quality
      improvement projects as well. The principal investigator will be responsible for the overall
      monitoring of the data and safety of study participants/data integrity, with the assistance
      of other study team members.
    
  