
    
      Part 1 Retrospective database search on subjects that received a Shelhigh graft (n= 116) and
      subjects that received a mechanical graft (n=50) in a similar time frame, age, gender,
      co-morbidities, clinical history.

      Analyzing CT or MRI report at following time intervals: 3 - 6 months postoperatively, 1, 2
      and 3 years postoperatively (regular check-up appointments in clinics).

      Additionally, extraction of following data-set (based on availability): temperature, lab
      values (C-reactive protein, white blood count, Eosinophil count), pathology report and CT- /
      MRI- imaging in cases of re-operation.

      Firstly, identify if there is a graft inflammation (positive / negative group within the
      bovine group).

      Secondly, compare to mechanical group.

      Part 2 Choose 10 + 10 patients of the bovine group (with / without immune response) and 10 of
      the mechanical group in order to conduct further immunological testing and comparison. The
      immunological testing will include measurement of immunoglobulin E and immunoglobulin G
      antibodies against bovine protein, as well as in vitro T cell reactivity in Interleukin 4 and
      interferon-gamma Elispot. These parameters will characterize whether the patient mounted an
      adaptive immune response against the bovine protein. In addition, the investigators will
      measure total immunoglobulin G4 and Interleukin-6 levels in the serum of all patients, as
      additional inflammation markers.

      Contact patients to come into clinics for a visit, explain study. Blood sampling (1 serum and
      1 EDTA) after patients consent.

      Material will be sampled and sent in anonymized form via express courier to the Translational
      Immunology Lab at the University Hospital Basel. Samples will be processed within 24h to
      isolate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and serum. PBMC and Serum will be
      cryopreserved at -180°C and -80°C respectively. Samples will be analyzed in batches each
      including 3-5 subjects per group.
    
  