
    
      Background:

        -  Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant disorder with an incidence of 1:3500
           in the US. One of the cardinal features of NF1 is the development of histologically
           benign peripheral nervesheath tumors called plexiform neurofibromas (PN) in 25-40% of
           individuals with NF1. Unlike discrete neurofibromas, PN grow along the length of nerves
           and involve multiple branches of a nerve. They are a major source of morbidity, causing
           disfigurement, impairment of nerve function, pain, and in some cases development of
           malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors.

        -  Selumetinib (AZD6244) is a novel orally bioavailable mitogen activated protein kinase
           inhibitor, is a specific inhibitor of MEK 1/2, which may mediate anti-tumor effects in
           PN by inhibition of downstream signaling of Ras. Selumetinib is currently undergoing
           evaluation in adult cancers and children with brain tumors and NF1-related plexiform
           neurofibromas.

        -  In an NCI phase I trial of selumetinib for children and young adults with NF1 and
           inoperable PN we have observed preliminary activity with PN volume decrease in >50% of
           patients enrolled. This degree of activity has not been observed in prior trials
           directed at PN. While preliminary activity has been seen in most patients enrolled to
           date, in several patients who required (Bullet) 1 dose reduction for toxicity, after an
           initial volume decrease, the PN volumes appear to be increasing slowly, and in one
           patient a nodular appearing lesion is not responding to selumetinib. These findings
           suggest that not all PN types may be responsive to selumetinib and that a certain
           selumetinib tissue concentration may be required for target inhibition and anti-tumor
           activity.

      Objective:

      -Determine the objective response rate (PN volume decrease greater than or equal to 20%
      compared to baseline) to selumetinib in adult patients with inoperable PN.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must be at least 18 years of age with a diagnosis of NF1, with an inoperable,
           measureable PN that causes morbidity or is growing, which is amenable to percutaneous
           biopsy, and must be willing to undergo two biopsies.

        -  Up to 10 patients who meet all criteria, but have PN, which cannot be biopsied safely,
           will be eligible for the treatment portion of the study.

        -  Patients must have adequate organ function, be able to undergo serial MRI scans and have
           recovered from acute toxicity of all prior treatment.

      Design:

        -  This is a single site open label phase II study in which all subjects will receive
           selumetinib orally approximately every 12 hours until patient develops progression of
           disease, unacceptable toxicity or, in patients with non-progressive, symptomatic PN at
           enrollment, a maximum of 2 years (unless they experience a partial response, or an
           improvement in symptoms or function in which case they may continue until progression of
           disease).

        -  Selumetinib will be administered at a dose of 50 mg BID on a continuous dosing schedule
           (1 cycle=28 days), which is the recommended adult dose. A maximum accrual of 35
           evaluable patients to meet the primary objective; while a maximum of 60 patients in
           total may be enrolled to allow for a small number of screen failures, inevaluable
           patients and up to 10 patients who cannot safely undergo two biopsies of PNs. Enrollment
           will proceed over approximately 24 months.
    
  