
    
      Up to three planned panels of either 8 healthy participants (Panels A and B) or 8
      participants with mild to moderate hypertension (Panel C) will be enrolled. In Panels A and
      B, 8 participants will alternately receive single rising doses of MK-8892 or placebo. All
      doses will be administered in the fasted state, except Panel A, Period 5 in which a standard
      high-fat breakfast provided approximately 30 minutes prior to dosing.

      Panel A will begin first. At least 3 days will elapse before participants in the alternate
      panel (Panel B) will receive the next higher dose. In Panel C, 8 mild to moderate
      hypertensive male participants will receive single rising doses of MK-8892 or placebo. Panel
      C may begin after the first 4 periods of Panels A and B have completed dosing. For all
      panels, there will be at least 7 days washout between treatment periods for any given
      participant. Participants may only be enrolled in one panel of the study. Subsequent doses in
      any panel will be administered only after careful evaluation of safety, tolerability, and
      pharmacodynamic effects of a given dose. All participants in periods of all panels (with
      exception of 2.0 mg fasted/fed periods) will be randomly assigned to either study drug or
      placebo, i.e a participant could be assigned to receive study drug in one period and placebo
      in another. As per the protocol allocation plan, the same participants will receive 2.0 mg
      MK-8892 in a fasted and fed state.The 2.0 mg MK-8892 fed/fasted data will be utilized for
      pharmacokinetic comparison and only the 2.0 mg MK-8892 fasted data will utilized for the
      analysis of the pharmacodynamics endpoints.

      In addition, during any of the treatment periods if a participant demonstrates change in any
      one of the protocol-defined parameters lasting ≥1 hour, dose escalation in that participant
      will be halted and the participant may be withdrawn from the study or rechallenged at same
      dose or at a lower dose. Paricipants that meet criteria listed will be followed up until
      parameters no longer meet stopping rule criteria.
    
  