
    
      Patients who undergoing upper abdominal laparotomy surgery usually experience severe
      postoperative pain. Previous studies were reported that preoperative pain, young age,
      high-dose remifentanil, and depression were associated with severe postoperative pain.

      However, anesthesia-related studies were either retrospective studies or injected with
      anesthetic agents in excess of clinical doses to differentiate between groups. There is no
      objective indicator for prediction severe postoperative pain.The purpose of this study was to
      investigate the relationship between intraoperative pain response and postoperative pain on
      standardized surveillance devices.

      To maintain the depth of anesthesia, an EEG monitoring device bispectral index (BIS) is used.
      Also, surgical pleth index (SPI, GE healthcare, Freiburg, Germany) is a noninvasive
      pain-analgesia balance monitoring device that is commercially available to evaluate the state
      of pain during general anesthesia. SPI = 100- (0.3 * heart beat interval + 0.7 *
      photoplethysmographic pulse wave amplitude) is automatically and continuously calculated from
      the waveform of peripheral oxygen saturation.

      In similar anesthetic depth(End tidal sevoflurane 3%) , changes of SPI values for stimulus of
      skin incision are thought to reflect the individual nociception characteristics. The
      investigators hypothesized the higher analgesics consumption can predict with high SPI
      response following incisional stimuli.

      Thus, investigators try to evaluate the comparison of two groups ( high fentanyl consumption
      group vs. low fentanyl consumption group) with intraoperative SPI value (incision and before
      aurosal) and hemodynamic parameters under End tidal sevoflurane 3%(anesthesia depth,
      hemodynamically stable and appropriate anesthetic depth based on previous studies were
      confirmed at the time of skin incision). And the characteristics and emotional status of
      patients in two groups are compared.
    
  