
    
      Objective: CRP-guided antibiotic therapy will be compared with standard antibiotic therapy in
      AECOPD. Our aim is that CRP guided therapy will lead to 20% reduction in antibiotic
      consumption.

      Study design: randomized controlled intervention trial Study population: Hospitalised COPD
      patients with acute exacerbation. Intervention (if applicable): Patients with type 1 and 2
      exacerbation will be assigned to either CRP guided therapy or antibiotic therapy according to
      GOLD guidelines.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main endpoint of the study is the reduction in
      antibiotic consumption. Furthermore, the real incidence of infiltrates in AECOPD with fever
      will be studied. As secondary outcome the objectives length of hospitalization, time to
      treatment failure within 30-days and time to next exacerbation will be assessed. The relation
      between the level of biomarkers the presence of infiltrates on the HRCT will be investigated.

      Subjective improvement in symptoms will be measured by symptoms (VAS-LRTI) and quality of
      life will be assessed by St George's Respiratory Questionnaire. Finally, adverse effects of
      the antibiotic treatment will be recorded.

      In order to observe a significant difference of antibiotic consumption, 60% in standard
      antibiotic group and 40% in CRP guided antibiotic group, with a power of 0.8, a total of 110
      patients have to be assigned by randomisation to each group.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Patients in both treatment arms will receive a non-experimental treatment. Both
      treatment options are recognized as part of standard care. The burden associated with
      participation is limited to a total of 3 visits to the hospital and phone call for data
      assessment at regular follow-up. There are no specific risks involved in participating. Less
      adverse effects may be beneficially for the patient.
    
  