
    
      The Early Start Denver Model is a comprehensive treatment model for young children with
      Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), which builds upon behavioral, relationship, play-based and
      developmental theories and practices. Utilizing the plasticity of the young brain, while
      managing social attention, employing multi-modal teaching, and tapping into the child's
      motivation, the ESDM aims to alter the child's developmental trajectories by creating rich
      and meaningful learning experiences in daily and naturalistic routines. This model focuses on
      all areas of development, with significant stress on communication, language, social skills,
      play and imitation. In the ESDM, parents are seen as a main motivational factor for the
      child, and a focal part in planning and implementing key components of the intervention.

      Currently, community preschool settings are the main providers of intervention programs for
      children with ASD in Israel. The prevalent mode of intervention in these settings is a
      multi-disciplinary eclectic model, in which professionals from various disciplines deliver
      intervention comprising several theories and practices. While quite ubiquitous, this type of
      intervention was shown in previous research as less effective than specialized, comprehensive
      treatment models.

      The ESDM was previously shown efficacious in intensive home-based delivery, and effective as
      a center-based group model. However, there are currently no studies that assess the
      effectiveness of the ESDM when integrated in existing community preschool settings.
      Additionally, previous research in center-based group delivery of the ESDM did not focus on
      the effects of routine parental involvement in child treatment (when delivered in a preschool
      setting) on child and parental outcomes. The current study aims to explore the effects of
      ESDM implementation in community preschool settings, together with incorporation of parents
      in the treatment process.
    
  