
    
      The current coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has created a unique situation for
      initial healthcare providers who strive to provide optimal medical care while minimizing
      personal exposure in acute scenarios. Although the morbidity and mortality for this disease
      is low for young healthy individuals, it presents a potentially serious threat to older
      healthcare providers or those providers with chronic medical conditions. Once a patient
      arrives emergently to the emergency department (ED) setting, ED providers must act promptly
      to evaluate these individuals for COVID-19 infection risk factors such as exposure, symptoms,
      and chronic medical conditions. However, some medical and surgical patients presenting
      emergently for evaluation are unable to provide a reliable medical history due to age, drugs,
      the absence of a next of kin, or altered mental status. Acutely traumatized patients often
      undergo computed tomography of the chest during their comprehensive evaluation. Adding a
      rapid bedside ultrasound of the chest as a research procedure could allow validation of
      ultrasound to help stratify medical and surgical patients into high and low risk of COVID-19
      categories, with no radiation exposure, and far faster than current COVID-19 diagnostic PCR
      testing.

      Aims: The project proposes to collect data that will inform a novel strategy to mitigate risk
      to providers by providing early, objective, and rapidly collected end organ data which will
      permit the stratification of pediatric trauma patients into low or high risk COVID-19
      categories. The project will collect and evaluate lung ultrasound (US) findings in an
      expanded Focused Assessment with Sonography in Trauma (FAST) evaluation of the chest of
      pediatric trauma patients. The term "FAST+" is used to denote the use of FAST expanded to
      image the select lung fields in traumatized patients. The researchers hypothesize that FAST+
      will result in identification of pulmonary findings indicative of COVID-19 infections and
      will significantly correlate with the gold standard derived from computed tomography (CT)
      performed in parallel in these traumatically injured patients.
    
  