
    
      Metabolic disease including obesity and diabetes has reached epidemic proportions in the past
      years. Besides classical risk factors such as unhealthy diet and physical inactivity, smoking
      and air pollution have also emerged as unexpected risk factors for type 2 Diabetes.

      Inflammation has been reported as key characteristic of metabolic disease and is predictive
      of future cardiovascular events. However, the starting point of chronic low-grade
      inflammation is not known.

      As the gastrointestinal tract first comes into contact with dietary components, but
      potentially also air pollution/ smoke particles ingested upon mucociliary clearance from the
      lung, the gut could be the starting point of inflammation in metabolic disease.

      The aim of this study is to characterize intestinal macrophages in obese versus lean subjects
      and smokers versus non-smokers to translate the principal investigator's preclinical findings
      to human disease and assess whether an inflammatory shift prevails in human intestinal
      macrophages in metabolic disease. Additionally, to assess whether intestinal macrophage
      subpopulations can be altered deliberately by nutritional intervention, the investigators
      will assess intestinal macrophages from subjects scheduled for bariatric surgery that will be
      on a calorie-restricted diet during the last 2 to 4 weeks prior to surgery.

      The macrophages originate from human gut samples. As patients will undergo diagnostic
      endoscopy of the gastrointestinal tract or bariatric surgery for clinical reasons and the
      standard of care will not be changed by the study, there will be no additional interventions
      to patients by their participation in the study. Additionally, three EDTA and one serum blood
      tube for the analysis of inflammatory cells and markers in the blood will be taken as well as
      a single stool sample. The investigators' goal is to recruit in total 150 patients as it will
      be a pilot study in a first step.
    
  