
    
      Background:

      Patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC have a very poor prognosis even with
      surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation treatments.

      Patients who respond to 1st line chemotherapy invariably develop disease progression, and
      their median survival is between 6-8 months.

      Talactoferrin alfa (TLF) is a recombinant human lactoferrin.

      TLF displays anti-infective (against bacteria, viruses, protozoa and fungi) and
      anti-inflammatory properties, anti-tumor activity and anti-asthma properties.

      Preclinical studies have demonstrated an increase in cytokines that stimulate both innate and
      adaptive immunity, as well as increasing the numbers of NK-T cells and CD8+ T-lymphocytes
      found in Peyer s Patches.

      Previous studies in NSCLC have demonstrated safety and evidence of clinical activity.

      Objectives:

      Primary: To evaluate the effects of administration of talactoferrin to patients with advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer on the quantitative and functional changes in CD4, CD8, NK, and
      Treg populations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and on the levels of cytokines
      and chemokines in serum.

      Secondary: To evaluate clinical response to talactoferrin. To evaluate the safety of
      talactoferrin.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with cytologically or histologically confirmed progressive, recurrent, or refractory
      stage IIIb or IV NSCLC.

      Patients must be HLA-A2 positive.

      Design:

      Single-arm pilot study

      Ten patients will be enrolled to receive daily oral talactoferrin (1.5 g/ bid) for up to 12
      weeks.

      Patients who benefit from treatment will be able to continue on a 12 weeks on 2 weeks off
      schedule until progression.

      Evaluation will be performed every 3 weeks with CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis at baseline,
      week 6, and week 12.

      Immunologic studies (including apheresis) will be performed at baseline, week 6, and week 12.
    
  