
    
      Background Childhood pneumonia is the second leading cause of under-five death accounting for
      about 0.921 million children globally.1 About 120 million new episodes of childhood pneumonia
      occur each year worldwide.2 The estimated incidence is 0.015 episodes per child-year in
      developed and 0.22 episodes per child-year in developing countries in this age group.3 In
      Bangladesh, the annual incidence of pneumonia is 36 per 100 child-years.4 Expanding pneumonia
      treatment beyond higher level facility and into first level facility settings with lay
      community health workers (CHWs) is an emerging strategy that can address gaps in care access.
      World Health Organization (WHO) recommended healthcare providers to use practical,
      standardised case management guidelines for childhood pneumonia care.5,6 However, these
      guidelines do not include lung auscultation in their pneumonia definition for frontline
      healthcare workers6 because of its high inter-observer variability and subjectivity,
      regardless of healthcare providers training level.7-11 Digital auscultation by electronic
      stethoscopes may overcome these limitations.

      An innovative, low-cost digital auscultation device was developed especially for children
      called Smartscope. The Smartscope improves lung signal strength by uniformly distributing
      highly sensitive electret microphone arrays across the stethoscope diaphragm so that the
      entire audible spectrum can be captured, a critical feature for identifying higher frequency
      pathologic lung sounds. It's rechargeable battery can power >20 hours of use, important in
      rural communities with inconsistent electricity. The device mitigates movement artifact and
      tubular resonance by using an ergonomic design to better secure the device on the child's
      chest. It also eliminates the rubber stethoscope tubing, a source of ambient noise and
      friction contamination. It includes an integrated external microphone that removes unwanted
      ambient noises. The Smartscope also permits onboard data storage with a microSD card and is
      equipped with automated analysis software.12 Smartscope has been successfully validated in
      the laboratory against the Littmann 3200 electronic stethoscope and has demonstrated
      comparable results. This Smartscope has the potential to be a highly specific respiratory
      diagnostic tool that is feasible for use by community-based healthcare workers in LMICs. This
      project proposes to evaluate the potential impact of digital auscultation at first level
      facilities in rural Bangladesh.

      Objectives

        1. To assess whether lung sounds recorded using Smartscope in children by Community Health
           Care Provider (CHCP) at CC meet pre-defined quality thresholds established by experts.

        2. Determine the reliability and performance of the Smartscope Respiratory Detector
           automated analysis algorithm on lung sounds recorded by CHCP using the Smartscope,
           compared to reference interpretations by a paediatric listening panel.

        3. Collect hypothesis-generating pilot data on the impact of digital auscultation on
           treatment decision-making by CHCPs, assuming lung recordings as the reference, as well
           as document equipment usability and durability during the project in order to understand
           whether additional device refinements are necessary.

        4. Determine the acceptability of the Smartscope among CHCP and carers of children
           evaluated with the Smartscope.

      Methods A mixed-methods study will be conducted in rural Sylhet district of Bangladesh.
      Bangladesh has established about 13,000 CCs, one each for ~6,000 people. CCs are staffed by a
      CHCP with at least 12th-grade education and 3 months of pre-service training including
      Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) guidelines. Twelve CCs will be selected
      purposively in Zakiganj and Kanaighat sub-districts of Sylhet district. Additionally, a total
      of 12 CHWs will be recruited and trained for this study. Each CHW will cover approximately
      ~13,000 population with ~1,400 under-five children. CHWs will visit each child aged 0-59
      months in her catchment area every other month. The CHW will evaluate the child for
      signs/symptoms of pneumonia and question the mother or carer about any history of these
      symptoms. All suspected pneumonia cases (history/observed cough or difficult breathing) will
      be referred or accompanied to CCs with a referral slip for further evaluation and treatment.
      A study physician will be recruited for providing training and supervision of CHCPs and CHWs
      in clinical assessment, measurement of oxygen saturation and recording lung sound by the
      Smartscope.

      Screening: CHCPs in the CC will screen all under-five children as per protocol using a
      screening form. Approximately 7,200 children will be screened. If the child becomes eligible,
      the carer will be invited for consent to participate in the study.

      Enrolment: If the carer gives consent, the child will be enrolled in the study. A total of
      1003 children with history/observation of cough or difficult breathing (possible pneumonia)
      will be enrolled.

      Lung auscultation: Lung sounds will be recorded using Smartscope. It is being used for its
      intended purpose only.

        1. Sound collection: Enrolled children will have their lung sounds recorded at four
           sequential locations (two anterior and two posterior chest positions) for ~10
           seconds/position. The recording procedure lasts approximately 60 seconds and captures
           3-4 full breath cycles/position. Daily or alternate day Smartscope lung sounds will be
           uploaded to a server and securely stored. Later on, this lung sounds will be processed
           and used by the personnel involved in this study.

        2. Sound processing: A novel sound-filtering algorithm will be applied to lung recordings
           to reduce ambient noise and optimize lung sound quality.

        3. Listening panel: Three practicing pediatricians will form the panel. One will serve as
           the arbitrator and two as primary listeners. All panelists will be trained and
           standardized to the methodology developed and validated during PERCH. Panelists will
           generate one summary patient classification of normal, crackle, wheeze, crackle and
           wheeze, or uninterpretable. Two primary listeners will independently classify the
           recorded lung sounds, any discrepancies will be resolved through discussion, and if not
           resolved then the third listener will arbitrate.

        4. Respiratory detector: The Respiratory Detector automated algorithm will be applied to
           the lung recordings to generate an interpretation.

      Pulse oximetry: Pulse oximetry will also be performed using a Masimo® Rad5 oximeter to all
      eligible consented children. If any child's oxygen saturation found <90% will be referred to
      the sub-district health center or Sylhet Osmani Medical College Hospital.

      Collecting socioeconomic and confounders data: CHW will collect socio-economic and other
      related confounders' data including immunization information, weight, mid-upper arm
      circumference and length/height from all enrolled cases at the household level within seven
      days of enrolment.

      Focus group discussions: Four focus group discussions (FGDs) will be organized, two with
      carers (one with female and one with male) and one with CHCPs and one with CC management
      committee members and community leaders to share their opinions about the Smartscope. Each
      FGD will consist of 8-12 participants. A trained moderator will lead the discussion about
      perceptions of the Smartscope and the acceptability of Smartscope as a diagnostic for
      pneumonia.
    
  