
    
      Background: Sex Chromosome Trisomies (SCT) including Klinefelter (XXY), Trisomy X (XXX), and
      XYY syndromes occur in 1 out of every 500 births and are associated with a broad phenotypic
      spectrum including increased risk for developmental delays (DD), language/learning disorders,
      and autism spectrum disorder (ASD). XXY is also associated with testicular failure, XXX
      increases risk for ovarian failure, and disorders of insulin resistance and other medical
      problems resulting in increased morbidity and mortality occur in all 3 SCTs. Historically,
      less than 10% of SCT diagnoses occur in childhood, however the rate of newborns with SCT has
      markedly increased with new noninvasive prenatal cell-free DNA (cfDNA) screening. SCT natural
      history research is limited to studies from the 1970's, and the investigators have little
      knowledge of early predictors of the wide heterogeneity in later outcomes. The high risk for
      DD in SCT suggests that newborn screening may improve identification for DD and timely
      initiation of interventions. However, it is not clear whether all SCT infants indeed require
      intensive developmental assessments and therapies, or if primary care screenings are
      sufficient to identify those in need. The surge in prenatal SCT diagnoses from cfDNA methods
      provides an opportunity for longitudinal study of a cohort of infants to explore natural
      history, and to improve care.

      Aims: This study aims to: (1) describe and compare the natural history of neurodevelopment,
      health and early gonadal function in infants with the 3 SCT conditions through a national
      prospective eXtraordinarY Babies Study in partnership with the Newborn Screening
      Translational Research Network (NBSTRN), (2) identify early predictors of poor
      neurodevelopmental and cardiometabolic outcomes, and (3) evaluate the sensitivities of common
      primary care developmental screening measures to detect DD and ASD in this high-risk
      population to inform recommendations for an early neurodevelopmental care protocol.

      Approach: Infants with a prenatal diagnosis of XXY, XYY, or XXX will be followed
      prospectively every 6-12 months for 2-4 years at 2 eXtraordinarY Kids Clinic sites.
      Demographics, health history, development, interventions, and social/family history will be
      collected. Assessments will include: (1) measures of cognitive, language, social, motor, and
      adaptive function, (2) physical exam, gonadal function labs, cardiometabolic measures, and
      body composition, and (3) quality of life outcomes. Impact: Prospective study of the natural
      history of prenatally diagnosed infants with SCT will allow investigation of important
      questions to inform newborn screening considerations, such as the interplay between early
      hormonal profiles and developmental outcomes. Results will be immediately relevant for
      counseling and establishing evidence-based care guidelines for the rapidly increasing rate of
      SCT diagnoses from cfDNA screening. Results will serve as the basis for ongoing longitudinal
      studies of health and psychological outcomes of SCTs through the lifespan.
    
  