
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) affects an estimated one in fourteen (7%) Canadians, making it
      one of the most frequent inflammatory diseases. The human and economic cost of CRS are
      substantial. Patients affected with chronic sinus disease suffer from headache, facial pain
      and sinus infections, and experience a reduced quality of life (QOL).The disease has a
      prolonged course and is frequently resistant to medical therapy.

      Current therapeutic strategies involve a combination of nasal irrigations, corticosteroids
      and antibiotics. Unfortunately, these are rarely curative and raise concerns regarding
      safety. Oral corticosteroid therapy can lead to severe short and long term adverse effects
      including diabetes, fractures, psychosis, depression, glaucoma and cataracts. Antibiotic over
      use is a major driver of development of antibiotic resistance, and antibiotic use in humans
      in Canada is believed to contribute significantly to this.

      In the absence of a response to medical therapy, endoscopic sinus surgery is indicated.
      Operations for CRS are among the most commonly performed, with over 400 000 surgeries for CRS
      performed annually in the USA and another 40 000 annually in Canada. However, success is not
      uniform and a high percentage of patients will continue to manifest signs and symptoms of the
      disease. Even when managed with a topical intranasal corticosteroid, endoscopic signs of
      recurrence are observed rapidly after endocopic sinus surgery (ESS) (Stjärne, 2009). In a
      trial comparing topical mometasone via conventional nasal spray dispenser to placebo, median
      time to relapse was 173 and 61 days for the mometasone and placebo groups, respectively. This
      may be improved by use of a more effective form of distribution, such as using budesonide
      irrigations which improve deposition of steroid in the sinus cavities. In a retrospective
      analysis of our group limited to a more severely diseased group at higher risk of recurrence,
      33% of subjects still showed signs of endoscopic recurrence at 4 month point after surgery
      (Maniakis, 2014).

      Endoscopic sinus surgery may be challenging for patient and surgeon, with risk of
      complications from trauma to adjacent structures increased by extent of disease and bleeding
      at time of surgery reducing bleeding. In addition, despite the risks of ESS, recurrence after
      ESS represents a very important issue as it is rapid and almost ubiquitous.

      Patients resistant to surgery generate an individual cost estimated at $10 077/year (Rudmik,
      2014). Additional therapeutic options for these patients are currently limited and these
      patients are currently doomed to continue to suffer despite repeated bouts of antibiotics and
      surgeries, with patient and society bearing the risks and costs of therapies. Given the
      frequency, the human and economic burden of refractory CRS, and the deficiencies in
      effectiveness and adverse effects of current therapies, novel avenues of therapy for CRS are
      urgently required. Identifying new strategies will require a better understanding of the
      underlying disease process and identification of new therapeutic targets.

      Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) recurrence following surgery is difficult
      to predict, and the underlying mechanism(s) are not yet well established. However, immune
      dysfunction with excess Type 2 inflammation, alterations in barrier function and dysbiotic
      microbiome changes are all believed to play possible roles, which may be targeted by
      dupilumab. The role of Type 2 inflammation in CRSwNP is well accepted, with the eosinophil
      described as a characteristic feature of CRSwNP. However, the role of the eosinophil in
      development of disease has been questioned as a recent trial of a small molecule solution
      targeting the eosinophil showed effective clearance of eosinophils in polyps, but no effect
      on symptoms or nasal polyp size. In contrast, Dupilumab, which targets
      interleukin-4/interleukin-13 (IL4/IL13) cytokines in upstream of IL5, has recently shown in a
      Phase 3 clinical trial that it reduced symptoms and objective indexes of polyp size and
      inflammation in CRS. While molecular mechanisms of this remain to be determined, this
      parallels the effectiveness of other disorders where Type 2 inflammation is central, such as
      atopic dermatitis and asthma.

      How a Type 2 phenotype predisposes to development of sinus disease is unknown but probably
      represents a multifactorial process. For the past two decades, researchers have postulated
      that toxic products from degranulation of eosinophilia damaged local structures leading to
      epithelial breaks and areas of denuded epithelium. The investigators now understand that
      pro-inflammatory Th2 cytokines are also implicated in epithelial barrier dysfunction. These
      are not necessarily secreted from the eosinophils, implicating the eosinophil as a downstream
      marker of the inflammatory process, rather than the primary effector cell. IL4/1L13 has been
      implicated in epithelial barrier dysfunction. In a series of in-vitro experiments, Wise et al
      demonstrated that administration of IL4 to an epithelial cell raised in an air-liquid
      interface, epithelial barrier permeability increased dramatically. Interestingly, this was
      reversed by anti-IL4. Notable is that this occurred in the absence of eosinophils in the
      medium, confirming that these effects can occur independently of eosinophil presence.

      The epithelial barrier is also believed to play a key role in CRS. Response to tissue injury
      a key factor in the development of CRS. In CRS, epithelial repair is delayed and
      dysfunctional. This delayed or inappropriate regeneration of the sinus epithelium and mucosa
      favours persistence or acquisition of a naltered microbial flora, or microbiome, which then
      further contributes to the disease process. Firmicutes such as Staphylococcus Aureus and
      Staphylococcus epidermidis, present in a somewhat mutually exclusive fashion. This new flora
      may also exacerbate a polarisation of the Type 2 phenotype characteristic of CRSwNP in
      Caucasians.

      It may be possible to interfere with inflammation, epithelial regeneration and repair, and
      microbiome composition during healing after surgery by modulating Type 2 inflammation. Early
      rabbit maxillary sinus studies documented formation of polypoid structures in the sinuses
      following mucosal trauma induced with a cytology brush or following introduction of a
      respiratory pathogens, with most severe example following simultaneous administration of
      both. Corticosteroids administered post operatively eliminated polyp formation after injury
      in this model. However, Type 2-type, eosinophilic polyps only form if the animal has
      previously been sensitised to develop allergy, suggesting that the Type 2 shift is implicated
      in the development of nasal polyps. How the Type 2 environment contribute to disease
      development remains unknown but may either be may directly, via the toxic effect of toxic of
      eosinophilic granules, or indirectly, by inducing a immunopermissive environment which
      facilitates bacterial colonisation and persistence. T An understanding of how failures of ESS
      for CRSwNP develop may be extrapolated form the above experimental findings. Removal of
      diseased tissue during ESS debrides and removes indwelling inflammatory cells and bacteria
      and affords an environment which can now be shaped by positive or negative influences. This
      'rebirth' concept recently popularized by Bachert et al as the 'reboot' procedure where
      diseased sinus epithelium is removed surgically to be replaced by 'healthy' cells. However,
      these new cells regenerate from pluripotential progenitor cells (basal cells, the 'stem cell"
      of the respiratory mucosa) which may have epigenetic imprinting, or else persistent bacteria
      may condition to Type 2 environment. By preventing or interfering with these influences
      during the critical steps of the repair process, the investigators believe they may be able
      to regenerate a robust epithelium with intact barrier and signaling functions, which attracts
      normal residential commensals and a "normal" immune status. As all inflammatory and
      infectious stimulus have been removed, and are not simply lying dormant, it is further
      theorized that this may produce changes which re-establish normalcy and prevent recurrence of
      disease. Taken together, the above findings suggest that a Type 2-skewing of the disease
      process at time of surgery makes surgery more difficult, negatively impacts healing and
      contributes to the development and persistence of CRS in multiple fashions, marking it as an
      excellent target for therapeutic intervention.

      Managing Type 2 inflammation during the resolution phase is thus an interesting concept which
      has until now been plagued by practical difficulties. Corticosteroids have historically been
      the mainstay of therapy for this disease given the frequent presence of Type 2 inflammation
      and association with asthma. The gold standard of CRSwNP management, a short burst of oral
      prednisone, has a rapid effect on decrease of polyp size and relief of symptoms but this is
      of brief duration (≤ 30 days). Additionally, the unfavourable side effect profile precludes
      long term use.

      Novel alternate therapies are urgently required to manage this chronic and debilitating
      disease. Immunomodulation targeting the Type 2 component of the disease using monoclonal
      antibodies targeting different aspects of the Type 2 pathway have a potential use in this
      area, with both anti-IL5 and anti-IL4/IL13 receptors blockers proposed as therapy. The
      investigators believe that Dupilumab administered during the post-ESS convalescent phase may
      represent an additional treatment option for CRS.

      Population: Thirty-six (36) patients with CRSwNP undergoing a revision surgery for recurrence
      of CRSwNP, both with and without asthma, will be recruited. Patients will be recruited from
      the list of patients scheduled for or awaiting surgery, according to usual clinical criteria
      of obstruction, anosmia, recurrent infections or difficulty with control of asthma. Exclusion
      criteria include local complications such as mucoceles and tumours, underlying systemic
      disorders, including sarcoidosis, EGPA (eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis),
      Churg-Strauss syndrome, immune deficiency, cystic fibrosis, or a history of neoplasia
      (excluding basocell carcinoma) within the past two years.

      Patients will be homogenous in terms of their symptomatology motivating the operation. In
      this real-world experience of Dupilumab use, patients will be selected in terms of criteria
      usually used by clinicians and patients. Polyp size will be required to be at least moderate.

      The investigators will ensure homogeneity in patients by:

      i) Using standardised, published criteria for definition of patients at high risk of
      experiencing a recurrence after ESS (Nader ME, 2009).

      ii) Using patients at higher risk of failure by restricting study to patients having
      undergone had at least one prior ESS.

      iii) Stipulating a minimal polyp size of at least 2 per side (out of a four point scale) on a
      Lilleholdt scale.

      iv) Rigorous exclusion criteria will exclude polyps secondary to immune deficiency or common
      pre-existing genetic disorders.
    
  