
    
      This study is a single-center, prospective, non-randomized trial. The population studied will
      consist of 10 patients of both sexes, aged 18 to 85 years, with a newly diagnosed metastatic
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma who will undergo palliative treatment with standard first line
      chemotherapy (Gemcitabine +/- Nab-paclitaxel). Diagnosis must be confirmed by biopsy and
      metastasis must be accessible for percutaneous biopsy using imaging guidance.

      In addition to chemotherapy, patients will receive 20 mg bazedoxifene (Conbriza®) orally per
      day, subject to good clinical tolerance and in the absence of a biological contraindication.

      Patients will receive bazedoxifene once a day at any time, with or without meals. Initiation
      of treatment will be simultaneous to the initiation of chemotherapy. Bazedoxifene (Conbriza®)
      will be prescribed and administered for the duration of the study. To minimize the risk of
      thrombo-embolic events, prophylactic acetyl-salicylic acid (Aspirin®) 100 mg orally once per
      day will be added for the duration of the bazedoxifene (Conbriza®) intake. Pantoprazole 20 mg
      once per day will be added in selected patients to minimize gastric complications according
      to the physician's appreciation. Participants will receive bazedoxifene (Conbriza®) and
      acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin®) for the entire study duration from a subinvestigator at
      treatment initiation visit.

      Physical examination with vital parameters, laboratory testing (blood count, liver enzymes,
      creatinine) and tumor marker (CA 19-9) will be conducted in order to determine the baseline
      prior to the initiation of the treatment. The quality of life using the EORTC core quality of
      life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) will also be assessed at that point. Furthermore, the IL-6
      pathway activity (GP130/STAT3) will be assessed immunohistochemically on metastasis biopsy
      before administration of bazedoxifene (Conbriza®). The tissue will be obtained by
      percutaneous biopsy using imaging guidance. A biopsy performed before study inclusion can be
      used as baseline to avoid a second biopsy.

      Study enrollment and follow-up will be performed by the consultant physician at the HFR
      Fribourg in the department of oncology. The follow-up will be carried out every 3 to 4 weeks
      and will consist of a physical examination, vital parameters, laboratory testing (blood
      count, liver enzymes, creatinine, electrolytes) and tumor marker (CA 19-9). Plasma samples
      will be collected before and after treatment for storage and samples will be analyzed through
      next generation sequencing NGS. Quality-of-life will be assessed during the follow-ups and
      drug adherence will be monitored through patient survey.

      After 3 months of treatment, the primary endpoint will be assessed. Thoraco-abdominal CT scan
      or PET-CT will be performed, and a biopsy of metastasis tissue will be repeated (percutaneous
      under radiological guidance) for immunohistochemical IL-6 pathway activity (GP130/STAT3)
      analysis. The pathologist as primary endpoint assessor will be blinded. The activity of
      bazedoxifene (Conbriza®) on inflammatory pathways and tumor progression will be evaluated by
      comparing the modification in expression of the IL-6 pathway (GP130/STAT3) from baseline.

      Patients will be instructed by the investigator to report the occurrence of any adverse
      event. Security outcomes will also be compared between the intervention and the control
      group.

      The expected duration of participants participation will be 3 months.
    
  