
    
      The main symptoms of Attentional Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) are inattention, motor
      agitation and impulsivity. However, other dysfunctions affecting the quality of life remain
      poorly studied: lack of understanding and management of emotions, focus on the local aspects
      of a visual scene limiting the ability to assign a general meaning to the scene and
      alteration of long-term memory encoding. This study aims to analyse these difficulties using
      different tasks requiring processing of rich and varied everyday images, having high
      ecological validity. It involves the participation of 56 boys and girls with ADHD, aged 7 to
      12 years. A first phase examines the immediate understanding of images using two tasks:
      semantic categorization (Experiment 1) and emotional evaluation (Experiment 2) of images with
      positive, negative or neutral emotional valence, and depicting real environments (natural vs.
      manufactured contexts) or foreground objects pasted into a noise background (inanimate
      objects vs. animals vs. people. In each trial, one context image and one object image are
      presented briefly and simultaneously, one in each visual field. In order to be appropriately
      understood in both their semantic and emotional contents, context images will require more
      global processing, while object images will require more local, detailed processing. Their
      semantic (Exp. 1) and emotional (Exp. 2) consistency is manipulated. A week later, the
      participants have to perform a memory task requiring old/new recognition in a two-alternative
      forced choice (2AFC) paradigm that presents in each trial a pair of images (one old, one new)
      having the same emotional valence (Exp. 3). The study will characterize the specificities of
      processing and representing visual emotional information in ADHD children. The results will
      be compared with those from a previous study we conducted with the same methodology on
      neuro-typical children (controls).
    
  