
    
      Objectives and results expected

      Cognition seems to have an effect on the physiological mechanisms of urinary continence.
      Urinary continence is, among others, the effect of a good coordination between detrusor's
      contraction and pelvic floor muscles' contraction. A cognitive disturbance involves
      coordination's disturbance. It has already been demonstrated that a double task
      rehabilitation (between cognition and perineal muscles) could annihilate the effects induced
      by a cognitive disturbance on the physiological neuromuscular mechanisms of the urinary
      incontinence. The objective of this study is to evaluate the benefit of a double task
      cognitive rehabilitation for the patients with urinary incontinence (UI).

      Current knowledge situation

      Pelvic floor muscles have a major incidence for the physiological urinary continence. Even if
      the external anal sphincter (EAS)'s muscles are not directly involved in urinary
      incontinence, many studies have shown they had a synergistic contraction with levator ani
      muscles during the voluntary and involuntary perineal contraction . Because they are easily
      reachable for an electromyographic (EMG) recording, many authors have registered these
      muscles in order to investigate the physiologic urinary continence. Amarenco et al. had shown
      that pelvic floor muscles' intensity of contraction in response to a cough fit was
      proportional to the cough intensity in an healthy volunteers population. This correlation was
      beyond bladder's filling. For the patients with UI, Deffieux et al. shown a loss of
      correlation between cough intensity and perineal contraction. Deffieux et al. also analyzed
      the temporal sequence of muscle activation for the EAS during a cough fit. A perineal pre
      contraction in an healthy volunteers population was observed. EAS's muscles EMG activation
      began 210 ms (median) before external intercostal (EIC) muscles. This EAS's muscles
      anticipation of contraction was not found in the group of patients with UI. The observation
      that fewer patients were activating their AES's muscles, more the modulation of EAS's muscles
      contraction was distorted when coughing was made. Thubert et al. observed that the perineal
      contraction's latency was multiplied by 4 in case of cognitive load test (CLT) in an healthy
      volunteers population. CLT leads to an EAS's muscles pre activation in case of coughing
      effort, was also observed. A lowing of 29% of AES's muscles pre activation has been
      demonstrated. These results suggest that cognition is involved in urinary continence's
      physiological mechanisms. So it seamed to be interesting to study the impact of a double task
      rehabilitation (cognitive and muscular) on the urinary continence's neuromuscular mechanisms
      in case of diversion of attention. It was a randomized trial including two groups of healthy
      volunteers: one group had double task rehabilitation during 15 days, the other had no
      rehabilitation. After 15 days rehabilitation, in the rehabilitation's group, the attention
      deficit's correction restored the resistive abilities of UI in case of attention hijacking.

      According to the last AFU's (Association Française d'Urologie - Urology French Association)
      and CNGOF's (Collège national des gynécologues et obstétriciens français - French
      Gynecologists and Obstetricians National College) recommendations, the first intention
      treatment of urinary incontinence is pelvi-perineal rehabilitation. Pelvi-perineal
      rehabilitation conducted by a therapist is multimodal with different facets: a cognitive part
      (education, pelvic floor realization), a behavioral part of bladder training (modification of
      micturition habits), a muscle building part (voluntary contractions against resistance with
      and without biofeedback and electrosimulation), and also a postural work part (balance and
      pelvis position). Perineal rehabilitation technics' heterogeneity and the lack of description
      of these technics let the professionals adapt their rehabilitation's protocols. The objective
      of this study is to compare the results of two rehabilitation's technics in urinary
      incontinent patients.

      Methodology, study population, previous studies and feasibility

      Study population: The population is made of voluntary incontinent women. Inclusion criteria
      are the followings: Major women with stress urinary incontinence or mixed urinary
      incontinence or urge urinary incontinence, in need to benefit from perineal rehabilitation or
      cognitive-behavioral rehabilitation, women able to read, understand, accept and sign the
      consent. Exclusion criteria are the following: pregnant women, refusal to participate,
      dementia and cognitive troubles (Mini Mental State score: MMS <30). Participants will be
      subjects to a medical statement (antecedents, age, weight, size, UDI6 (Urogenital Distress
      Inventory) questioner, Contilife and Wexner scores). The absence of a mental deficit will be
      verifies by Mini Mental Status questioner (MMS).

      Ethical considerations: A "CPP" (comité de protection des personnes - persons' protection
      comity) have been requested and obtained for this study (N° cpp17-065a/2016-A01651-50). An
      information letter will be delivered to the volunteers, who will be included only after the
      acceptation and signature of the written consent.

      Volunteers' randomization: Participants will be randomized in two groups (1/1) with data
      processing software at the first visit at the therapist practicing the perineal
      rehabilitation. The first group will receive "Classical" perineal rehabilitation for duration
      of height weeks. The second group will receive perineal rehabilitation associated with a
      double task cognitive therapy for a duration of height weeks. Participants will be evaluated
      during the consultation.

      Initial evaluation of volunteers: initial evaluation will consist of an interrogation able to
      check the participants' antecedents and characteristics, urinary incontinence symptoms
      (quality life score (Contilife) and severity score (International Consultation on
      Incontinence Questionnaire Short Form: ICIQ-SF), Urinary Handicap Measurement (MHU - Mesure
      du Handicap Urinaire) and also clinical examination (Pelvic Organ Prolaps Quantification:
      POP-Q, Ulmsten Test, levator Testing among Oxford, ureteral mobility). In a second time, the
      EMG analysis will be realized. It consists in the analysis of the CLT impact on the voluntary
      and unvoluntary perineal contraction. The CLT used is Paced Auditory Serial addition Test
      (PASAT). Test arrangements are the followings: The volunteer will listen to an audiotape on
      witch is recorded a 61 random numbers set inconstant from 1 to 9 (for example "1, 9, 4, 5…").
      The volunteer patient will have to add each pair of number in order to add the number with
      the previous and speak verbally the response. To test the willingly perineal contraction, the
      volunteer will be in a sitting position with her arms on the armrests. The practitioner will
      position the two electrodes with self-adhesive surface from either side of the volunteer's
      anus regarding to the EAS muscle. These electrodes are usually used in a setting of classical
      evaluation with biofeedback or electro simulation. An order will be given to the volunteer in
      order to contract perineal muscles when she feels a stimulus on the left wrist (an electric
      reflex hammer regarding to the median nerve on the inside of the left wrist). The volunteer
      women will have to repeat the experience in two conditions: with and without the CLT.
      Different settings measurement will be realized: time limit for the perineal contraction
      reaction (RT), that is latency between stimulus and begins of AES's EMG activity increase.
      The other settings will be the RT max (latency between stimulus and maximum AES's EMG
      activity), maximum AES's EMG activity and air under the curve for the AES's EMG activity.
      Volunteer's perineal contraction (following coughing instruction) will also be evaluated with
      and without CLT. The coughing instruction will be ordered by an impulse (Reflex hammer) on
      the inside of the left wrist. Two more self-adhesive detection electrodes will be glued
      regarding the external intercostal muscles (7th right space). Principal data analyzed will
      be: latency between stimulus and perineal muscles (RT1) and latency between intercostal
      muscles and perineal muscles (RT3). The data set will be collected using a Biopac ®,
      Acknowledge ®.

      Classical perineal rehabilitation protocol

      Participants will benefit from two-phases perineal rehabilitation: first phase pelvic floor
      muscles (PFM)'s analytic rehabilitation, then a functional rehabilitation.

      First phase will include the PFM's awareness and voluntary contraction learning with manual,
      biofeedback technics and functional electro stimulation (FES). Then, therapist will propose
      PFM's reinforcement under the PERFECT method (Pressure, Endurance, rapid Contraction, time
      measurement between each contraction sequence). These exercises will call out the manual
      rehabilitation technics (voluntary contraction learning, pelvic anatomy), biofeedback and
      electro stimulation. Electro stimulation and biofeedback will necessit the use of an
      electrode that serves to the electromyographic measurement with and without cognitive load
      test. Each classical rehabilitation session will take 30 minutes with 20 minutes of active
      working, twice per week. About the self-training, there will be no consensus for optimal
      homemade exercises, neither on the number, nor on the duration. The different authors
      describe very different types of protocols. The self-training program will be set up as soon
      as the participant will be able to realize, under therapist's manual control, a voluntary
      analytic contraction without synergy or command reversion. Exercises' number and
      characteristic will be given according to the PERFECT Scheme.

      For the second phase, the participant will hold a micturition calendar. With the noticed
      elements, a behavior analyze will be summarized in order to update the favoring situations
      and inappropriate situations. The objective will be the learning of perineal locking and
      reinstatement of anticipative postural activity for stress urinary incontinence. The strategy
      put in place will be organized in unlearning of deleterious perineal habits and learning new
      behavior program. The functional training program will be made of activation of PFM's
      voluntary contractions during different stains of every day life; the main goal being the
      perineal locking set up (PFM's voluntary contraction associated with a good abdominal and
      perineal synergy), this locking must be systematic before and during efforts like carrying
      loads, trimming, coughing. During the second phase, the physiotherapist will twice weekly
      perform evaluations. These evaluations are similar to those in the first phase.

      Cognitive associated rehabilitation protocol: Added to the classic perineal muscular
      rehabilitation, the cognitive associated rehabilitation group randomized participants will
      have to execute twice a day the rehabilitation protocol. Each cognitive rehabilitation
      session will take three minutes. Participants will have to synergistically execute
      attentional tests (N-Back Test) and execute a perineal contraction during the contraction
      instructions. (10 randomized auditory stimuli in three minutes). The attentional tests'
      difficulty will be gradually increased each 15 days. N-Back Test modalities are the
      followings: the participant will visualize a series of random numbers. First difficulty step
      will be to click the dedicated button when the volunteer will see the indicated letter. The
      second difficulty step will be to click the dedicated button when she will see two
      consecutives times the same letter. The third difficulty step will be to click the dedicated
      button when she will see two times the same letter separated by one different letter, and so
      on… The data will be saved on the digital application.

      Methodology: Participants will consult twice per week their therapist. An intermediary
      clinical and EMG recording will be done in the fourth week to evaluate the evolution of
      symptoms and EMG's criteria, with the same arrangements as those of the first evaluation.

      Participants' final evaluation: During the last visit in the eighth week, participants will
      be evaluated with same arrangements as those of the first evaluation.

      Judgment criteria: About the involuntary perineal contraction study, the principal judgment
      criteria will be the latency between intercostal muscles contraction and perineal muscles
      contraction (RT3). Secondary judgment criteria will be: latency between stimulus and perineal
      muscles contraction (RT1) for the voluntary perineal contraction study, MHU score obtained
      (Mesure du Handicap Urinaire - urinary handicap score), ICIQ (International Consultation on
      Incontinence Questionnaire), Contilife.

      Statistic analysis:

      Descriptive data will be expressed in the form of median and interquartile gap. The Wilcoxon
      Test will be used to compare quantitative values before and after rehabilitation, and Student
      Test to compare quantitative values between "classical perineal rehabilitation" group and
      "perineal rehabilitation + cognitive therapy" group. According to the literature, middle RT3
      is -60ms, expected difference after rehabilitation is 16,66ms and known standard deviation is
      18,7ms. For an alpha risk 5% and power 80%, it is necessary to include 20 participants by
      group, whether total of 40 participants.
    
  