
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is considered a global public health problem, which affects
      approximately 10% of the world population. Due to partial or total loss of kidney function,
      the patient needs renal replacement therapy, with hemodialysis (HD) being the therapy most
      used, having a prevalence of up to 93.1% in Brazil. The restrictions imposed by CKD and the
      treatment of prolonged HD negatively affect health, increasing stress and decreasing the
      quality of life (QoL). The restrictions imposed by CKD and the treatment of prolonged HD
      negatively affect health, increasing stress and decreasing the QoL. Hemodialysis supports
      life and relieves a series of symptoms; however, it imposes many limitations. Social,
      financial and family stressors are numerous when dealing with the symptoms of the disease,
      restrictions and treatment prescriptions. Research shows positive results from
      Mindfulness-Based Interventions (MBIs) in reducing symptoms of different chronic diseases and
      mental and physical disorders such as: depression, anxiety, hypertension, cancer, chronic
      pain, cardiovascular diseases, insomnia, addictive behaviors, and kidney disease, and in
      improving medication adherence. This is an incipient field of research at the international
      level and almost nonexistent in Brazil. Evidence indicates the need for MBIs to be performed
      during HD sessions, adapted to the context, to facilitate patient compliance, contribute to
      the management of the discomfort generated during HD and promote health. This project has as
      main objectives to develop and evaluate the effects of a mindfulness-based intervention in
      the reduction of stressors, pain and quality of life of people undergoing hemodialysis. For
      this purpose, a randomized controlled pragmatic study with random allocation and blinding of
      the outcome evaluator will be performed, using quantitative and qualitative measures
      evaluated within 6 months after the intervention. The results of this research could form a
      consistent basis for a new and promising field of research that could contribute to improving
      the health of people undergoing hemodialysis and other populations that need long-term
      hospital care.
    
  