
    
      The importance of identifying the patient with with ALI or ALF who is likely to die without a
      liver transplant cannot be overstated and has remained a primary focus of clinical
      investigation for 25 years. A recent analysis also conducted by the Acute Liver Failure Study
      Group (ALFSG) found that poor outcomes in the ALI patients are less frequent than is observed
      in the ALF population. However, in cases where ALI was not related to an acetaminophen (APAP)
      overdose, progression to poor outcomes was similar. Traditional scoring systems and
      prognostic models, such as King's College Criteria (KCC), Sequential Organ Failure Assessment
      (SOFA) and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II), currently used to
      monitor patients with ALF lack individual sensitivity and specificity and do not provide
      direct information about the liver's metabolic function, which is a key variable in assessing
      liver status and potential disease progression versus recovery in ALF patients. Despite
      recent advances used by the ALFSG Prognostic Index (ALFSG-PI), ALI Prognostic Index (ALI-PI)
      and Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD), better predictive modalities are still needed.

      The 13C-Methacetin breath test is a rapid, reproducible, point-of-care test of liver
      metabolic function. After oral or naso-enteric/orogastric tube administration, the 13C
      labeled Methacetin is O-demethylated by cytochrome P450 1A2 (liver enzyme name) in the liver
      and further biotransformed into carbon dioxide labeled with carbon 13 (13CO2), which is
      expired in breath. The BreathID® Molecular Correlation Spectroscopy (MCS) device captures and
      quantifies expired 13CO2 and standardizes recovery against expired normal carbon dioxide
      (12CO2) through a nasal cannula (in conscious patients) or an adaptor connected to the
      ventilator line (for intubated patients). The results obtained from the device are expressed
      as delta over baseline (DOB), which expresses the change in 13CO2/12CO2 ratio in comparison
      to the baseline measurement. It can be transformed into the percentage of 13C dose recovered
      over time (PDR) after the ingestion of Methacetin, and the cumulative PDR (CPDR), the rate at
      which 13C substrate is metabolized, derived from the breath 13C/12C ratio.

      This is a multicenter, open label, non-randomized study of the MBT to assess functional
      trends of liver metabolism in patients diagnosed with severe acute liver injury not related
      to acetaminophen overdose (non-APAP ALI) or acute liver failure (ALF). Up to 200 evaluable
      patients with non-APAP ALI or ALF present at the time of enrollment into the ALFSG Registry
      will be consecutively enrolled. An evaluable patient is one who has completed one or more
      Breath Tests measured for a minimum of 30 (and ideally 60) minutes after administration of
      the 13C-Methacetin solution. Study sites will include up to 11 of the clinical sites located
      in the United States that are involved in the ALFSG.

      The Breath Test will be performed up to five times during the study period on all enrolled
      subjects. The first Breath Test will be performed as close to the time of study enrollment as
      possible upon admission into the study (Day 1). The Breath Test will be repeated on Days 2,
      3, 5 and 7 as close as possible to the same time of day as the first Breath Test. If a
      subject who is enrolled into the ALFSG-MBT Trial with non-APAP ALI converts to ALF, breath
      test collection will continue until a maximum of five Breath Tests have been performed. If an
      enrolled non-APAP ALI or ALF subject receives a liver transplant, is discharged/transferred
      from the hospital or dies prior to Day 7, no additional Breath Tests will be performed.
      Enrolled patients will be contacted for the Day 21 follow up (21 days after the subject's
      enrollment into the trial) to determine spontaneous survival, transplantation and occurrence
      of serious adverse events since the subject's last study treatment.
    
  