
    
      This is an interventional, prospective, multicenter, nonrandomized clinical and
      epidemiological study. We are planning to enroll 5,000 patients.

      Three outpatient departments, 3 affiliates of a city clinical hospital and 6 rural health
      posts in Moscow region are equipped with 25 CardioQVARK electrocardiography (ECG) devises.

      The study implies 9 stages:

        1. Patient signs informed consent and consent to the processing of personal data than fills
           out a questionnaire in a mobile application
           (https://itunes.apple.com/ru/app/cardioqvark/id1320898122) and registers a 3-minute ECG
           with a single-lead CardioQVARK ECG device. If an episode of atrial fibrillation (AF) is
           not detected during a reception, but a patient describes symptoms of AF, we hand out the
           devices to such patients to take home with them.

        2. All records that are registered at outpatient departments, affiliates, rural health
           posts and at home are sent to a server of "CardioQVARK" (Limited Liability Company). For
           data processing, an AF detecting algorithm is applied. If AF is detected, an ECG report
           is generated in PDF format.

        3. Three independent cardiology experts receive ECG records and verify the performance of
           the algorithm. They decode and annotate ECG reports (PDF).

        4. If the expert confirms that the algorithm detected an AF episode, the ECG report (PDF)
           is sent to an arrhythmologist for diagnosis. After that, the ECG record with confirmed
           diagnosis is passed to a physician at a health-care facility.

        5. When the physician receives the report, he calls the patient to verify the diagnosis in
           a face-to-face consultation. That can be done by routine ECG, 24-, 48- or 72-hour ECG
           monitoring.

        6. Anticoagulation therapy is revised or induced for all patients with diagnosed AF.

        7. Six months after the enrollment, the patient is called for another face-to-face
           consultation with further peripheral venous blood sampling to assess anticoagulation
           therapy in terms of pharmacokinetics (assess compliance) and pharmacogenetics (assess
           the influence of genetic factors on anticoagulant effect of warfarin and new oral
           anticoagulants).

        8. Estimating cost-effectiveness of using the single-lead CardioQVARK ECG device in
           screening for AF in primary health care.

        9. Statistical processing of data and endpoints determination.
    
  