
    
      Detailed Description:

        1. Objective:

             -  To investigate the prevalence of Frailty in community older residents.

             -  To explore the causes and risk factors of frailty.

        2. Method:

             -  The survey is a Community-based, multicenter prospective cohort study.

                1). 6,000 participants are expected to be included.

             -  Through a questionnaire and physical examination form, carries on the investigation
                to the more than 65 years old people during the 3-year follow-up period.

             -  The questionnaires include survey date, participant characteristics and related
                risk factors, such as comprise demographic characteristics, Chinese ethnic
                nationality, marital status, education level, family incomes, occupation, pregnancy
                and parity history, menstrual history, frequency and amount of daily smoking and
                alcohol drinking, frequency of urination and defecation, dietary habits, hours per
                day of sleep and sun exposure. Medical history including medication use and disease
                status for comorbidities, will be obtained from participants' medical records.
                Syndrome differentiation of deficiency of the five zang-organs in TCM will be
                analyzed.

             -  Height and body weight will be measured for body mass index (BMI) calculation. The
                waist circumference and hip circumference will be recorded, and the ratios
                calculated. The muscle strengths of both hands will be measured with a hand
                dynamometer. Each of these measures will be assessed twice and the average score
                used in analyses.

             -  Subjects will be asked to walk a distance of 4 meters and record the time at the
                same time to measure the walking speed.

             -  Clock Drawing Test (CDT), physical frailty examination, Mini-Mental State
                Examination (MMSE), Skeletal muscle mass index (SMI) will also be conducted or
                calculated .

             -  Each participant will provide a total of 7 mL of venous blood after an overnight
                fast (10-hour).

      After being collected, markers of frailty will be measured, such as Interleukin-6 (IL-6),
      insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and estrogen (E). And blood routine, urine routine,
      liver and kidney function, fasting plasma glucose, serum lipid will be detected.

        -  Physicians in each community as the backbone, Shanghai Geriatric Institute of Chinese
           Medicine is responsible for personnel training.

        -  Shanghai community health service centers are responsible for organization and
           coordination.
    
  