
    
      All included patients will routinely undergo follow-up with 3 monthly ceCT of the liver and
      PET-CT in the first year after RFA/MWA of CRLM according to standard of care in our hospital.
      Patients are asked to undergo an additional PET-MRI of the liver on the same day in the first
      year (in total 4 scans). The PET-MRI is obtained before the PET-CT. The
      18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) used for PET-CT and PET-MRI are alike
      and one injection is sufficient. The PET-CT has to be made within 150 minutes after FDG
      injection. Anonymous PET-MRI results are independently reviewed by 2 experienced radiologists
      and 2 nuclear medicine physicians twice, with a time-interval of at least two weeks between
      the first and second review. Based on these results, treatment decisions will be compared for
      any change in decision making.

      The evaluate inter-observer variability we will ask the two nuclear medicine physicians and
      two radiologist to assess all results and score local and intrahepatic tumor progression.
      Results of the first and second evaluation will be compared to determine inter observer
      agreement using Cohen's Kappa. Local recurrence and new lesions will be scored on a separate
      form with standard criteria.

      The reports on LSR will be scored as follows:

        -  Normal: when the reviewer is sure that no tumor recurrence is present in the ablation
           zone.

        -  Probably benign: FDG is enhanced, but compatible with post-ablation inflammation or
           rim-like characteristics on MRI images (not focal!)

        -  Equivocal: there is doubt whether the enhanced FDG, CT- or MRI features are due to tumor
           recurrence or inflammation

        -  Probably malign: when the reviewer is sure about local recurrence in the ablation zone.
           Size and location will also be reported.

      The reports on new intrahepatic lesions will be scored as follows:

        -  Normal: no new intrahepatic disease outside 1cm of the ablation zone

        -  Equivocal: doubt about the malignant origin of a lesion

        -  Probably malign: new intrahepatic tumor not within 1cm of the ablation zone, including
           size and location.

      The results of all scans by the reviewers, in the way as described above, will be compared to
      each other to determine the inter-observer variability using Cohen's Kappa.

      A questionnaire with 7 questions is completed at the end of one year follow-up to determine
      patients experience with PET-MRI and PET-CT.

      The questions will be in Dutch, but are translated below for this purpose. Patients can
      answer on a scale 1-5 and n/a.

        -  The PET-MRI was less burdensome than PET-CT

        -  The PET-MRI was more bothersome than I expected

        -  PET-MRI is more comfortable than PET-CT

        -  If I could choose, I would rather undergo PET-MRI than PET-CT

        -  The noise of the PET-MRI was annoying

        -  The fact that PET-MRI takes longer than PET-CT isn't an issue for me

        -  I would rather undergo a PET-MRI than a PET-CT if results are proven to be equal
    
  