
    
      Infections are the leading cause of morbidity and the second leading cause of mortality among
      patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on renal replacement therapy. Staphylococcus
      aureus (S. aureus) is a major agent and previous nasal colonization represents an independent
      risk factor for infection. Up to 50% of these patients can be known to be colonized. With the
      global increase in bacterial resistance by S.aureus strategies for infection prevention and
      transmission by this agent are needed. The strategy of decolonization and elimination of
      nasal carrier status by S.aureus in dialytic chronic renal patients reduces infection rates,
      especially bacteremia. The gold standard for nasal decolonization is topical mupirocin
      treatment, but there are reports of increasing resistance especially after prolonged use,
      which limits the establishment of clinical protocols for the prevention of infection in the
      dialysis population. Photodynamic chemotherapy - Photodynamic antimicrobial chemotherapy
      (PACT) proves to be a promising approach for its potential bactericidal effect, including
      multidrug-resistant bacteria and its low tendency to induce drug resistance.

      This is a 3-months follow-up, randomized, controlled, single-center, prospective controlled
      trial and will happen in 02 phases: Phase 1 - Epidemiological Evaluation - A researcher will
      invite the research participants who are undergoing treatment at the Hemodialysis Service of
      Clinical Hospital and explain its contents. After reading and signing the informed consent,
      this same researcher (calibrated for the experiment) will perform nasal secretion
      microbiological collections to identify patients colonized by S.aureus in the anterior
      nostril (nasal carrier) - baseline T0 and the application of the questionnaire that
      identifies possible factors that may be considered as risk for colonization and possible
      development of diseases related to S. aureus. In the laboratory of Microbiology, the strains
      will be identified and the colonized patients will be invited to continue the study (Phase
      2). Non-carrier patients will only be counseled with infection prevention care. Phase 2 -
      Parallel clinical trial with two intervention groups (PACT or Mupirocin) - Patients with
      nasal aureus (thirty-four colonized patients aged over 18 years) will be treated with PACT
      (experimental group) or mupirocin (control group). A trained researcher will collect new
      aliquots of nasal discharge after completion of nostril treatment (T1) to check for
      decolonization by culture. A new collection will be performed at 1 (T2) and 3 (T3) months
      after treatment to assess recolonization.
    
  