
    
      PREVENTABLE will randomly assign atorvastatin 40 mg daily or matching placebo daily to 20,000
      community-dwelling adults 75 years of age or older without clinically evident cardiovascular
      disease, significant disability, or dementia, and follow them for up to 5 years (estimated
      median of 3.8 years). The study will enroll participants from approximately 100 US sites.
      Community engagement efforts will leverage community groups and practices as collaborators
      for recruitment. We plan to partner with participants, caregivers, and clinicians in all
      aspects of the study. The enrolling sites are non-VA and VA sites. Each site will apply a
      study-specific cohort identification algorithm to their electronic health record to create a
      list of eligible participants based on study inclusion and exclusion criteria. The cohort
      identification will exclude individuals with clinically evident cardiovascular disease,
      significant disability, or dementia and other exclusions obtainable from data queries to
      define a potential cohort. Sites will screen potential participants to confirm eligibility
      and consent and randomize those interested in joining the study. Specifically related to
      dementia, the qualifying exclusion is a clinical diagnosis in the chart or clinician's
      assessment that dementia may be present. Sites will enter contact information, mailing
      address for study drug, demographic information, height, weight, statin history (if any),
      Social Security Number, and aspects of the medical history not obtainable from EHR. In
      addition, a Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) and Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
      screen will be site-performed at baseline. SPPB will provide an objective assessment of
      function for understanding frailty and physical function of the enrolled population. Baseline
      lipid panel (core lab) and biospecimen samples will be obtained using the same blood draw for
      20cc of blood. Blinded lipid testing will be performed at baseline on all participants
      (n=20,000) and repeated at 3 months in a random subset (n=2,000). Lipid panels will be sent
      to the PREVENTABLE Core Lab to maintain study blind. Future testing of lipid panels during
      routine clinical care will be actively discouraged, but other laboratory testing as indicated
      by clinical care is permitted.Sites will have the option for telehealth enrollment. Baseline
      SPPB and Biorepository Labs are not required, but encouraged.

      As part of the study operations, with the rationale of providing patient centricity, ease of
      participation, and access for vulnerable and at risk participants, follow up will be
      performed by a combination of central and distributed research teams. This includes a call
      center as well as a nationwide system of decentralized research staff trained on the protocol
      able to meet the patient in their home or other desired location. The baseline and annual
      assessments performed centrally will include a phone screen for cognitive function (TICS-M)
      and physical function (Patient-reported Outcome Measurement Information System-Physical
      Function [PROMIS-PF]). After year 1, If baseline calls indicated by crossing pre-specified
      cutpoints, in-person assessments will be completed by trained and certified research staff at
      a mutually agreed upon time and a standardized interview of a knowledgeable informant.
      Cardiovascular event ascertainment will be via a systematic approach to data curation from
      the EHR, Medicare, and National Death Index. For convenience and compliance, the study
      pharmacy will mail a supply of study drug, sufficient for 90 days, directly to participants.
      This will start immediately after randomization and continue as long as the participant is on
      study drug.
    
  