
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a complex disease that often starts early in life. Exacerbations can be triggered
      by a number of agents such as allergens, respiratory infections, environmental tobacco smoke
      and pollutants, drugs, chemicals, exercise, cold air, infections and strong emotion making
      asthma therapy difficult and sometimes complicated. Multiple medications are often required
      to treat symptoms (bronchodilator agents such as beta-2 adrenergic agonists, theophylline,
      and anticholinergics), as well the underlying disease process (anti-inflammatory agents such
      as inhaled and systemic corticosteroids, cromolyn sodium and nedocromil; and leukotriene
      modifiers).

      The prevalence of asthma is increasing in all age groups, but most particularly in children
      under the age of 18 years. In 1992, the prevalence of self-reported asthma among persons
      under 18 years of age was 7.2 percent, compared to 5.1 percent among all persons. The most
      rapid increase in asthma has occurred in children under 5 years old, with rates increasing
      over 160 percent over the past 15 years. Among all ages, over 450,000 hospitalizations, 5,000
      deaths, and more than 100 million days of restricted activity are due to asthma every year.
      Yet the burden of asthma disproportionately affects children. For example, asthma
      hospitalization rates are highest among persons age 0-4 years, and have increased over 28
      percent in the last 15 years; mortality rates increased faster among those aged 5 to-12 years
      than among those age 15-34 years and neither changes in disease coding nor improved
      recognition of asthma fully explain these increases. Nearly one third of children restrict
      their activities due to asthma, including participation in physical education and sports.

      Despite major advances in understanding the etiology and pathophysiology of asthma and the
      development of new therapeutic modalities to control symptoms and prevent exacerbations,
      effective therapies are not widely used in the pediatric health care community. Further, the
      long term effects and side effects of asthma medications in children, especially children
      under the age of 12 years, are not well understood. Much remains to be learned about the
      impact of asthma therapy at different ages and at different points in the natural history of
      the asthma in altering the progression, chronicity, or severity of the disease.

      There is an urgent need to rapidly evaluate new and existing therapeutic approaches for
      children with asthma, and to disseminate the findings to health care professionals, patients
      and the public. There are several reasons why a pediatric asthma clinical research network
      will accelerate clinical research and meet this need. The highly variable and sometimes
      complicated clinical manifestations of asthma often make it difficult to accumulate a large
      number of comparable patients in one center. Further, uniformity in treatment protocols may
      reduce the number of patients needed at each clinical center. Also, the network mechanism
      will help pool the necessary clinical expertise and administrative resources to facilitate
      the conduct of multiple and novel therapeutic trials in a timely, efficient manner. This, in
      turn, would promote rapid dissemination of research findings to health care professionals.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Pediatric Asthma Controller Trial (PACT) is a study to determine the comparative
      effectiveness of inhaled corticosteroid, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, or a combination
      medication of inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta2-agonist in children with mild
      asthma. The study addresses a critical question facing primary care physicians about the
      optimal choice for initiating daily long-term treatment in children. The primary study
      outcome is the percentage of days without asthma during the 12-month treatment period.
      Recruitment began in August, 2002. A total of 300 children were assigned to one of three
      active treatment arms for 12 months: active ICS; a combination of active ICS and salmeterol;
      or active montelukast (LTRA). Major outcomes on the follow-up of 277 children were presented
      in May, 2005 at the American Thoracic Society meeting.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  