
    
      The Acusof Restor IOL has recently been FDA approved. This research will be an indicator by
      comparison to a conventional implant lens used for catract surgery. The standard of care for
      cataract surgery is to implant an IOL to allow the patient distant vision only. As a result,
      the patient is forced to wear reading glasses or magnifying glasses for near work. With the
      Restore IOL implant, the patient will have the ability to be corrected for not only distance
      vision but for near and intermediate visual needs. With FDA approval, the statistical
      indications demonstate 80% of patients tested in clinical trials did not have the need for
      use of glasses after cataract surgery. This research will further confirm and quantify the
      data already submitted by comparing the control group with the Restore Group in this Phase IV
      project.

      The control group of subjects will be patients who have already had cataract surgery in both
      eyes approximately 6 months prior to entering the study. These individuals will be tested
      only for the 6 month evaluation in both eyes, including the following tests (manifest
      refraction, which determines the best vision correction possible, the near, intermediate and
      distant visual acuity will be assessed at the respective ranges of distance. contrast
      sensitivity will be determined by choosing the circles that have lines in them opposed to the
      ones that don't (further assessing visual acuity), stereopsis which indicates whether both
      eyes are functioning together, pupilometry which measures the pupil diameter, the life style
      questionaire and the life style vision evaluation form as well.

      The Restore IOl group of subjects' post operative visual acuity data will be compared to the
      control subjects' post operative visual data results at the distance, near, and intermediate
      ranges, as well as all the other testing required at the sixxth month time frame listed
      above. The testing will require approximately 2 hours for the 6 month visit for both control
      and Restore groups.

      The Restore group of subjects will have 4 other visits. The pre operative visit will take
      avout 2 hours and include the following tests: Manifest refraction, near, inermediate, and
      distance visual acuity testing, life style questionnaire, and obtaining informed consent. The
      1 week and 1 month post-operative visit will include manifest refraction, near, intermediate,
      and distance visual acuity assessment.
    
  