
    
      In the last decade, the prevalence of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense (Tbg) human African
      trypanosomiasis (HAT) has fallen and HAT has been targeted for elimination. At low disease
      prevalence, HAT control is increasingly integrated into routine activities of peripheral
      health centres. However, the weak capacity of fixed health structures to implement control
      activities, lack of coverage, the unspecific clinical picture of HAT, and the existence of
      asymptomatic cases and animal reservoirs may result in under detection of HAT. To ensure
      sustainability of zero transmission and to avoid re-emergence caused by remaining Tbg
      reservoirs, continued post-elimination monitoring is therefore required.

      Health workers performing house to house visits in foci with very low HAT prevalence can
      easily collect blood on filter paper and send it to regional HAT reference centres for
      analysis. The objective of the DiTECT-HAT-WP3 study is to determine the feasibility and cost
      of diagnostic algorithms of serological and molecular high-throughput tests on blood on
      filter paper for post-elimination monitoring, with or without a previous screening with rapid
      diagnostic tests.

      In villages in low to zero prevalence foci in Democratic Republic (DR) Congo, Côte d'Ivoire
      and Burkina Faso, a health worker will go from house to house to 1) register all consenting
      inhabitants in a Personal Digital Assistant; 2) take a blood sample on filter paper 3)
      perform 3 rapid diagnostic tests. All dried blood spots (DBS) are sent to the reference
      laboratory for high-throughput testing (ELISA, trypanolysis, loop-mediated isothermal
      amplification method (LAMP) and real time (RT) -PCR). Subjects positive in at least 1 test -
      the RDTs or high-throughput tests - are revisited twice for parasitological confirmation.

      In each country, blood specimens of 6000 persons will be tested. The relative effectiveness
      and overall cost of the different diagnostic algorithms will be investigated. We will
      quantify the break-even point for an imperfect test algorithm by formulating a decision
      criterion to assess how many false negatives, but particularly how many false positives can
      be tolerated while still achieving an intervention with a reasonable cost burden. The results
      will enable us to propose a test algorithm and a threshold to send out specialised mobile
      teams for stopping HAT re-emergence, without unnecessarily raising the alarm.
    
  