
    
      OUTLINE:

      Multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, ascending dose, randomized Phase IB/2A study
      to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of
      s.c. FE 203799 in patients diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
      (NHL) undergoing Melphalan-based myeloablative chemotherapy (BEAM) followed by autologous
      human stem cell transplantation (AHSCT). In addition, the impact of FE 203799 on
      post-transplantation outcomes will be assessed. These outcomes include assessment of
      intestinal mucosal injury and inflammation, incidence of infection and bacteremia,
      development of neutropenic fever, assessment of nutritional parameters, modification of the
      composition of the gut microbiome, recovery of the hematopoietic system and quality of life.
      More specifically:

      - PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Safety and tolerability of s.c. FE 203799

      - SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. Determine the PK profile and dose-effect of s.c. FE 203799.

        2. Determine the PD profile of s.c. FE 203799, based on the plasma concentration of
           citrulline (indicative of intestinal mass) and of C-Reactive Protein (CRP) (indicative
           of inflammation).

        3. Determine the dose/response (PK/PD) relationship of s.c. FE 203799.

        4. Determine the impact of treatment with s.c. FE 203799 on the incidence and severity of
           chemotherapy induced intestinal toxicity, as assessed by both symptomatic and visual
           manifestations of mucosal injury and associated complications.

        5. Assess the effect of s.c. FE 203799 on the prevention of development of neutropenic
           fever and bacteremia.

      METHODOLOGY - STUDY DESIGN The patient population will consist of adult female and male
      Hodgkin's or non-Hodgkin's lymphomas patients who are eligible to receive BEAM as
      conditioning regimen followed by autologous type AHSCT using peripheral blood or bone marrow
      stem cells. At the time of enrollment, patients must be in complete or partial remission
      following their most recent anti-neoplastic therapy. Patients are required to have available
      a cryopreserved autologous stem cell graft with a minimum CD34+ cell dose of 2 x 106
      cells/kg.

      Three ascending dose levels of FE 203799 will be investigated (5 mg, 10 mg and 25 mg), with
      16 patients required per dose cohort. Patients in each dose cohort will be randomized to FE
      203799 vs. Placebo in a 3:1 ratio (12 patients per dose level receiving FE 203799, and 4
      patients receiving Placebo), in a double-blind manner. Randomization will occur during the
      screening period upon confirmation that the patient has met all inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. A total of 48 subjects, completing the study, is targeted for enrollment. The study
      will be conducted in approximately 10 clinical centers.

      Eligibility will be determined at the Screening Visit following signature of the informed
      consent form (ICF). The inclusion and exclusion criteria will be used to qualify the patient
      for study entry. Within each cohort, patients will receive 4 doses of the Study Drug (FE
      203799 or Placebo). As such, patients will be required to be dosed with the Study Drug the
      day prior the initiation of the BEAM regimen and subsequently on a weekly basis for 3
      consecutive weeks after initiation of chemotherapy. Assessments performed prior to the first
      dose, will be considered as Baseline. Serial blood samples for determination of the plasma
      concentration of FE 20799/Placebo, as well as the plasma levels of citrulline and C-Reactive
      protein (CRP) will be obtained at pre-specified time points. During the Study, patients will
      be hospitalized during the duration of the conditioning chemotherapy to approximately 3 or 4
      weeks post-transplantation depending on their recovery and physical condition.

      All patients who received at least one treatment, will be required to return to the hospital
      for the End of Study Visit (Day 30 ±5 post-transplantation) and for two additional follow-up
      safety visits on Days 45 (±5) and 100 (±5) post-transplantation.

      A Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will convene at pre-determined timepoints, or as needed.
      The grading of adverse events (AEs) will be based on the Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events version 4.03 (CTCAE v4.03) (Grade 1 to 5).
    
  