
    
      BACKGROUND: Platelets play a central role in the pathogenesis of ischemic complications
      (coronary artery bypass graft occlusion, myocardial infarction, stroke) following CABG
      surgery. Aspirin and clopidogrel used alone or in combination are effective for preventing
      ischemic complications in a broad range of high risk patients. However aspirin is usually
      discontinued before CABG surgery because of concerns about bleeding while the combination of
      aspirin and clopidogrel has not been evaluated for preventing ischemic complications after
      CABG surgery.

      OBJECTIVES: The overall objectives of our research are to compare the effectiveness and
      safety of aspirin vs placebo before bypass surgery, and clopidogrel plus aspirin vs aspirin
      alone after surgery, on:

        1. blockage of coronary artery bypass grafts, MI, stroke, or death at 30 days

        2. bleeding and need for transfusion after surgery The specific objective of the present
           pilot study is to demonstrate the feasibility of recruiting patients undergoing CABG
           surgery into this study and of performing CT angiography at 30 days to determine graft
           patency. We will also measure the effect of different antiplatelet treatments on
           platelet function and blood markers of systemic inflammation during the first 48 hours
           after surgery.

      DESIGN: This is a 2x2 factorial study of 150 elective CABG patients who will be randomized to
      receive low dose aspirin (81mg/d) or placebo for 5 days prior to surgery and aspirin 325mg
      loading dose followed by 81 mg/d plus clopidogrel 75 mg/d versus aspirin 81 mg/d and placebo
      post operatively.

      OUTCOME: graft patency measured by CT angiography, MI, stroke, death, bleeding, transfusion
      requirement, need for re-exploration surgery, and laboratory measures of platelet function
      and aspirin resistance (including 11-dehydro thromboxane B2).

      SAMPLE SIZE: This is a pilot study designed primarily to demonstrate feasibility. We propose
      to recruit a total of 150 patients over a 12 month period (2-4 per week).
    
  