
    
      Eliminating blinding trachoma by 2020 is a key goal of the World Health Organization (WHO).
      Nearly 8 million individuals worldwide are in need of trichiasis surgery to prevent
      blindness.1 Currently, many trichiasis surgery programs experience poor outcomes in 10-50% of
      patients.2-11 High-quality surgery with minimal post-operative trichiasis is critical for
      success of the WHO goals. Typically, non-physician "surgeons" perform the procedure.
      Historically, they have been provided with one-week of classroom training and then begin live
      surgery training.

      The research group developed a surgical simulation device, the Human Eyelid Analogue Device
      for Surgical Training And skill Reinforcement in Trachoma (HEAD START), to bridge the gap
      between classroom and live-surgery training specifically for trichiasis surgery. Based on
      this work, the WHO now recommends that all trainees receive training with a surgical
      simulation device before performing live surgery and that any refresher training should
      include simulation training as well.

      In most settings, HEAD START is utilized once during training, meaning that once individuals
      are trained on HEAD START, they move on to live surgery and typically do not return to the
      simulator. In surgical sub-specialties with ready access to simulation devices, regular
      surgical simulation practice is utilized for skills maintenance and enhancement. The research
      team is interested in determining whether HEAD START provides benefit for long-term
      trichiasis surgery training, since many surgeons operate seasonally, with long periods of
      downtime between surgical camps and with little field supervision.

      This project will compare skills of surgical trainees who continued with HEAD START practice
      and feedback throughout a 6-month break in surgery with those who did not. Study subjects
      will be selected based on their participation in an ORBIS-sponsored trichiasis surgery
      training program (either new training or refresher/conversion training). At the end of the
      standard training, the trainees who successfully complete training are ranked according to
      their scores on a classroom-based test and the WHO certification/assessment form. All
      individuals who successfully complete the training session and are scheduled to begin
      independent trichiasis surgery practice through the National Eye Care Program will be invited
      to participate in the study until we have reached 30 participants. Fifteen trainees will be
      invited to participate in long-term HEAD START practice in addition to performing regular
      live surgery. An additional 15 individuals will be selected for the trainer to assess their
      skill levels on live surgery at the end of training and again at the start of the surgical
      season this fall.
    
  