
    
      The study physician, responsible for randomization and drug supply handling, is unblinded to
      study medications and therefore will not be involved in the main efficacy evaluations of each
      patient randomized in the study.

      Conversely, the study physician/s responsible for the main efficacy evaluation (Pulse Wave
      Velocity) will be blind to study treatments.

      Key efficacy variables will be performed by an independent centralized laboratory.

      Trial was conducted in a detailed and orderly manner in accordance with established research
      principles, International Conference on Harmonization (ICH), Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      Guidelines and with Clinical Research Organization (CRO) Standard Operating Procedures
      (SOPs). As part of a concerted effort to fulfill these obligations, the authorised CRO study
      monitor visited investigative sites prior to and during the trial in addition to maintaining
      telephone and written communication. Data from each subject were reviewed and source verified
      as the study progressed.

      In accordance with audit plans, this trial may have been selected for audits. The
      investigators committed to permit independent audits by auditors assigned by the Sponsor at a
      reasonable notice. Audits included, but were not limited to, drug supply, presence of
      required documents, the informed consent process, protection of rights and well-being of
      subjects and verification of Electronic case report form (eCRF) entries against source
      documents.

      Regulatory authorities worldwide had the right to inspect the investigative sites during or
      after the trial. In such cases, the investigators were required to contact the Sponsor
      immediately and to fully cooperate with the inspectors.

      Copies of written correspondence between the investigators, CRO, Sponsor, Competent
      Authorities, Institutional Review Board (IRB) and Independent Ethic Committee (IEC) are on
      file with the Sponsor and investigators.

      Adverse events were according to the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA,
      version 18.0) thesaurus.

      Statistical analysis were conducted according the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) describing
      the analytical principles and statistical techniques employed in order to address the
      objectives specified in the Protocol.

      A Data Management Plan was present for missing data, to address situations where variables
      are reported as missing, unavailable, non-reported, uninterpretable, or considered missing
      because of data inconsistency or out-of-range results.
    
  