
    
      Participation in this study may last up to 2 years (from first visit to final visit) and
      includes 10 study visits and 8 phone calls.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups:

      Group A will receive Acthar 80 unit injection 2 times per week or

      Group B will receive Acthar 80 unit injection 3 times per week

      All participants will be prescribed Lisinopril (10mg per day or higher depending on your
      blood pressure) as part of regular care for their condition. If they are already on another
      ACEI, Lisinopril will be prescribed. If subjects are unable to tolerate Lisinopril or other
      ACEI medications, an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) will be prescribed. ARBs are another
      type of medication that also helps relax blood vessels if subjects cannot tolerate ACEI
      medications.

      Regardless of which treatment group subjects are assigned,everyone will self-inject the study
      drug using a subcutaneous (SC) injection under the skin using a needle and syringe. Subjects
      will be trained on the proper technique to be used for each injection before taking study
      drug home. Enough of the study drug will be given to take home (based on which group the
      subject is in) to administer until they are seen in 3 months for their next study visit.

      Blood samples will be taken for lab tests at each visit and biomarkers (Screening Visit and
      Visit 9). Women of childbearing potential will also have a pregnancy test done. Approximately
      4 teaspoons of blood will be drawn for the Screening Visit and Visit 9.

      Subjects must fast at least 8 hours prior to the blood draw.

      The following study procedures will be performed:

      SCREENING VISIT:

        -  Informed consent will be obtained;

        -  Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be assessed, demographics and medical history will be
           collected (including PCR and urinalysis results as these tests are routinely done as
           part of regular care);

        -  Pregnancy test if subject is a female of child bearing potential;

        -  Physical exam;

        -  Height/Weight collected;

        -  Vital signs will be obtained. Blood pressure will be recorded.

        -  Blood samples collected for study specific tests (aldosterone and cortisol)
           (approximately 2 teaspoons) and biomarkers (approximately 2 teaspoons). No more than
           approximately 4 teaspoons will be collected at this study visit;

      Subjects who do not meet eligibility criteria during the initial screening attempt will be
      permitted to rescreen 2 times, for a total of 3 screening attempts. Rescreen subjects must
      first be registered as screen failed in the CTMS system and subsequently registered as a
      rescreen subject. Once the subject is registered as rescreened, all screening procedures will
      need to be repeated.;The exact time interval of each re-screen would be at the discretion of
      the investigator. Completion of rescreen would be no greater than 6 months from the initial
      screening date.

      VISIT 1 (BASELINE, DAY 0)

        -  Pregnancy test if subject is a female of child bearing potential

        -  The first study drug dose in the clinic under the supervision of the study staff.
           Subject will remain at the clinic for at least 1 hour for monitoring of any allergic
           reaction.

        -  Subjects will receive enough study drug (8 for those dosing twice a week and 11 for
           those dosing three times a week) to take home until their next visit in 3 months.
           Subjects will also receive a dosing diary to keep track of each dose taken and any side
           effects they may feel. Subjects will bring dosing diary with them to each study visit on
           Visits 2-5.

      A member of the study staff will also call subjects once a week for the first 4 weeks after
      starting study drug (Visit 1) to make sure they are taking the study drug as required,
      completing the dosing diary, if they are taking any other medications and if they are
      experiencing any side effects. There will be 4 phone calls between Visit 1 and Visit 2.

      VISITS 2-5 ONLY (MONTHS 3, 6, 9, 12)

        -  Dosing diary is collected

        -  Study medication accountability is recorded.

        -  Pregnancy test if subject is a female of child bearing potential

        -  Acthar medication is dispensed (Visits 2-4 only)

        -  Kidney biopsy performed - Visit 5 only

      Kidney biopsy procedure:

      Subjects will have to go to nearby hospital within 1 week of completing Visit 5 to have this
      outpatient procedure done. Subjects will be asked to lie on their stomach face down with a
      pillow under their rib cage for at least 20 to 30 minutes. Ultrasound may be used to find the
      proper biopsy site. A local numbing medicine (anesthetic) will be injected under their skin
      near the biopsy area.

      The hospital staff will make a tiny cut in the skin and insert a biopsy needle into the area
      and to the surface of the kidney. Subjects will be asked to take a deep breath and hold
      breath as a thin needle is passed through the skin into the kidney. Inside the needle is a
      sharp edge that will remove small pieces of the kidney. The biopsy needle will then be
      withdrawn, and pressure will be applied to the biopsy site to stop the minor bleeding that
      usually occurs after the biopsy. After the procedure, a bandage will be applied to the biopsy
      site.

      The hospital staff will give subject numbing or pain medicines as needed.

      VISITS 2-9 (MONTHS 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24)

        -  Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be assessed, demographics and medical history will be
           collected;

        -  Physical exam;

        -  Height/Weight collected;

        -  Vital signs will be obtained. Blood pressure will be recorded.

        -  Blood samples collected for study specific tests (aldosterone and cortisol)
           (approximately 2 teaspoons). Biomarkers (approximately 2 teaspoons) will also be
           collected at Visit 9. No more than approximately 4 teaspoons will be collected at Visit
           9;

      After Visit 2, a member of the study staff will continue to call you about every 1 ½ months
      to make sure subjects are taking the study drug as required, if subjects are taking any other
      medications and if they are experiencing any side effects. There will be 4 more phone calls
      that will occur between Visit 2-3, Visit 3-4, Visit 4-5 and Visit 5-6. Subjects will receive
      a total of 8 phone calls during this study.

      The total amount of blood collected over the course of this study is no more than
      approximately 38 teaspoons.

      Treatment with the study drugs will continue for the first 12 months of participation in this
      study. If subjects do not respond after 3 months of treatment or only partially respond to
      the treatment, dosage may be increased (up to 120 unit injections twice a week for 3 months).
      If subjects still do not respond at the increased dose, the study drug will be discontinued
      after another 3 months of treatment.

      If subjects respond to the treatment during the 12 months of treatment but then their
      response goes away during the follow up period, they will be placed back on study drug for an
      additional 6 months.

      If, for any reason, the study drug is stopped before the last treatment visit, subjects will
      be asked to come into the clinic to complete study procedures. Subjects will be asked to have
      all end-of-study testing done for safety.

      Acthar cannot be abruptly stopped and must be gradually lessened. Except if subjects are
      experiencing an allergic reaction, the drug will be administered at half the dose for 1 week,
      then ¼ dose for another week, then stopped.

      If subjects are on insulin or other oral antidiabetic medications, Acthar may decrease
      glucose (sugar) tolerance. This may result in an increase blood sugar. Subjects will be asked
      to let the study doctor know if they are on these medications to discuss glucose monitoring
      and a plan on how to keep taking these medications while on Acthar and what to do if they
      experience an increase in blood sugar.
    
  