
    
      De Quervain's disease is the stenosing tenosynovitis and tendinitis of the abductor pollicis
      longus (APL) and extensor pollicis brevis (EPB) tendons in the first dorsal compartment of
      the wrist. While the prevalence of de Quervain's is not yet well-established, previous
      studies have shown that women can be affected by the disease up to six times more frequently
      than men. Conservative treatments include splinting and corticosteroid injections, but
      surgery is an option when such therapy fails. There has been a previous study that compared
      the improvement rates of patients treated with splinting alone, injection and splinting, and
      injection alone, and found the rate of improvement to be 19%, 57%, 67%, respectively. This
      confirmed the good results reported in previous studies and recommends corticosteroid
      injection to clinicians as a reliable treatment for de Quervain's disease.

      A seminal study performed correlated the accuracy of corticosteroid injection with pain
      relief by including X-ray dye in the injection. The results of the study suggested a strong
      correlation between accurate injection of the first dorsal compartment and pain relief. Since
      then, the use of ultrasonography (US) to guide steroid injection has been suggested as a
      possible clinical practice, but little research has been done on the technique. A 2009 study
      reported a 93.75% rate of significant pain relief after the use of US-guided injections, but
      there was no control group with which to compare results. The current standard practice for
      steroid injection in de Quervain's patients is a blind injection without imaging guidance. To
      the investigators knowledge, no study has compared the accuracy and clinical outcomes of
      blind injections to US-guided injections. The investigators hypothesize that the US-guided
      injections will be and will result in greater pain relief for patients than blind injections.

      This is intended to be a prospective study. Patients will contact Dr.'s Grindel and Daley for
      a standard clinical evaluation, which includes palpation of the first extensor compartment
      and application of the Finkelstein test. Those diagnosed with de Quervain's disease and who
      fit all inclusion criteria will receive a detailed verbal description of the study from one
      of the doctors, who will then attain written, informed consent from willing participants.
      Dr.'s Grindel or Daley will then administer either a blind or US-guided injection. The
      patient will return for follow-up appointments at 6-8 weeks and 12-16 weeks and will undergo
      another physical exam to determine pain relief. A phone call follow-up will also be placed
      one year after the injection in order to determine long-term effectiveness. Once 20 study
      subjects in each group (40 total) have been enrolled and completed treatment, the data will
      undergo statistical analysis.

      This study poses minimal or no physical risk to study subjects, as the US-guided injection
      should show better pain relief for patients than the current standard treatment (blind
      injection).

      In summary, the investigators aim to perform a prospective study to evaluate the
      effectiveness of blind corticosteroid injections to US-guided injections for the treatment of
      de Quervain's disease. The results of the study will be used to validate current injection
      protocols or support the incorporation of ultrasonography to treat the disease.
    
  