
    
      Recently, a novel swine-origin influenza A/H1N1 virus was identified as a significant cause
      of febrile respiratory illnesses in Mexico and the United States. It rapidly spread to many
      countries around the world, prompting the World Health Organization to declare a pandemic on
      June 11, 2009. Data from several cohorts in different age groups that received licensed
      trivalent seasonal influenza vaccines suggest that these vaccines are unlikely to provide
      protection against the new virus. Adults are more likely to have measurable levels of serum
      hemagglutination inhibition assay (HAI) or neutralizing antibody than are children. These
      data indicate the need to develop vaccines against the new H1N1 strain and suggest that
      different vaccine strategies (e.g., number of doses, need for adjuvant) may be appropriate
      for persons in different age groups. If the novel influenza H1N1 2009 virus continues to
      circulate, it is possible that it will co-circulate with the non-pandemic seasonal influenza
      strains. In this situation, it might be beneficial to co-administer an H1N1 vaccine
      concurrent with the seasonal inactivated influenza vaccine. This protocol explores if
      vaccination with the 2009-2010 licensed seasonal trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) has an
      effect on antibody response to the novel influenza H1N1 2009 virus and examines if receiving
      the H1N1 vaccine either concurrent with, prior to, or following the seasonal influenza
      vaccine affects the antibody response to the seasonal influenza vaccine. This is a
      randomized, double-blinded, Phase II study in up to 850 healthy males and non-pregnant
      females, aged 18 and older. The study investigates the safety, reactogenicity, and
      immunogenicity of an inactivated influenza H1N1 virus vaccine when given concurrent with or
      sequentially with (before or after) TIV. The primary safety objective is to assess the safety
      of the unadjuvanted, inactivated H1N1 influenza vaccine when administered either concurrent
      with, prior to, or following licensed seasonal influenza vaccination. The primary
      immunogenicity objective is to assess the effect of TIV on antibody response to unadjuvanted,
      inactivated influenza H1N1 vaccine as assessed by hemagglutination inhibition assay (HAI),
      stratified by age of recipient. The secondary objective is immunogenicity, to assess the
      effect of H1N1 vaccine administration on antibody response to TIV as assessed by HAI,
      stratified by age of recipient. Subjects will be randomized into 4 groups, stratified by age
      (200 subjects per group with 100 subjects per age stratum, 18-64 or greater than or equal to
      65 years of age). Group 1 will receive two 15 microgram (mcg) doses of H1N1 vaccine at Days 0
      and 21 followed by TIV on Day 42. Group 2 will receive two 15 mcg doses of H1N1 vaccine of
      which the first dose is administered concurrently with TIV. Group 3 will receive two 15 mcg
      doses of H1N1 vaccine of which the second dose is administered concurrently with TIV. Group 4
      will receive TIV administered on Day 0 followed by two 15 mcg doses of H1N1 vaccine on Days
      21 and 42. In order to maintain the blind, subjects will also receive a placebo (normal
      saline) so that two products will be administered at both Days 0 and 21, and one product will
      be administered at Day 42 for all groups. Following immunization, safety will be measured by
      assessment of adverse events for 21 days following the last vaccination (Day 42 for those who
      do not receive the second dose), serious adverse events and new-onset chronic medical
      conditions for 8 months post the first vaccination (Day 222), and reactogenicity to the
      vaccines for 8 days following each vaccination (Day 0-7). Immunogenicity testing will include
      HAI
    
  