
    
      The current standard of care for patients with T3 or T4 and/or node-positive rectal
      adenocarcinoma is to offer preoperative concomitant chemoradiotherapy(CRT) followed by total
      mesorectal excision (TME). 1 In 10-24% of patients, no residual tumor is found at histology
      after surgery.2 These complete responders are known to have a very good prognosis, in terms
      of overall and disease-free survival.2 A complete response also raises the hotly debated
      question of whether surgery is still necessary for these patients, especially because total
      mesorectal excision (TME) may have associated morbidity and even mortality and has the
      potential risk of a permanent colostomy.

      Recently, a more conservative treatment is advocated in patients who show a good or complete
      response to neoadjuvant treatment. In 2006, Habr-Gama et al. Presented the long-term results
      of a prospective trial that investigated a "wait-and-see" policy in a carefully selected
      group of patients with clinical and radiological evidence of a complete response after
      neoadjuvant CRT. Results at 5-year follow-up were favorable for the nonsurgical group, with
      an overall and disease-free survival of 93% and 85%, respectively 3.

      Recently, A watch and wait policy avoids the morbidity associated with radical surgery and
      preserves oncologic outcomes. It could be considered a therapeutic option in patients with
      locally advanced rectal cancer following chemoradiotherapy with a complete clinical
      response.4 To safely omit surgery, it is essential to select accurately the right candidates,
      i.e., the true complete responders. This selection is mainly performed using digital
      examination, endoscopy, and biopsy, but these methods are not infallible.

      High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to assess tumor response
      before surgical resection. By applying the principals of histopathologic TRG and by
      exploiting the characteristic MRI low-signal-intensity appearances of fibrosis, it has been
      possible to develop a similar MRI-based TRG system. The MRI-assessed TRG (mrTRG) was found to
      be an independent prognostic factor for overall survival (OS) and DFS.5 Complete pathologic
      response (pCR) after CRT has led to the proposal of a nonoperative approach as an alternate
      treatment for highly selected patients with a complete clinical response (CR). Habr-Gama et
      al reported findings from 99 patients with a clinical CR who were treated with observation
      alone. The 5-year OS and DFS rates were 93% and 85%, respectively.6 In a recent study,
      MRI-assessed complete tumor response was strongly correlated with pathologic complete
      response and, therefore, can be used as a surrogate marker to predict absence of viable tumor
      cells.7 Recently, Diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI) could be useful for response evaluation after
      chemoradiation treatment (8-10) In 2009, Kim et al. showed in a study of 40 patients that DWI
      in addition to standard MRI significantly improved the performance of radiologists to select
      complete responders compared with standard MRI only
    
  