
    
      Study Overview: This study examines how individuals' mindsets about the adequacy of their
      level of physical activity and its corresponding health consequences (activity adequacy
      mindsets) affect health outcomes. Participants attend an "onboarding" lab session in which
      they complete physiological, cognitive, and psychological measures and receive an Apple Watch
      to wear for the following 5 weeks. The Watch is equipped with a step count tracking app. No
      step count feedback is provided in week 1 as a baseline; starting in week 2, participants are
      randomized to 4 conditions in which either 1) accurate, 2) inflated, or 3) deflated step
      count is displayed on the watch in order to manipulate participants' perceived physical
      activity, independently of their actual physical activity. In condition 4, participants
      receive a meta-mindset intervention in addition to accurate step count feedback. Throughout
      the 5 weeks, participants complete short daily surveys and longer weekly surveys administered
      online. Finally, participants come in for an "offboarding" lab session in which the same
      measures are collected as in the onboarding session.

      Participants: Participants will be 160 healthy adults recruited from the community, 40 per
      condition.

      Main Hypotheses: This is a largely exploratory study, examining various mechanisms through
      which activity adequacy mindsets may affect health and wellbeing. Tests include (but are not
      limited to) the following key hypotheses:

      H1) Inflated step count feedback (compared to accurate feedback) leads to a more positive
      activity adequacy mindset, and deflated feedback (compared to accurate feedback) leads to a
      more negative activity adequacy mindset (see Primary Outcome Measures).

      H2) Activity adequacy mindset influences health and wellbeing (see Primary Outcome Measures)
      over and above actual physical activity.

      H3) Activity adequacy mindset influences health and wellbeing through various mechanisms (see
      Secondary Outcome Measures):

      H3a) Affective mechanism: A more positive (vs. negative) activity adequacy mindset leads to
      more positive everyday affect (incl. higher satisfaction, lower anxiety, lower stress).
      Positive affect in turn improves health and wellbeing.

      H3b) Motivational/ behavioral mechanism: A more positive (vs. negative) activity adequacy
      mindset leads to higher motivation to exercise and improve one's health, as well as higher
      exercise self-efficacy. Higher motivation and self-efficacy in turn lead to higher levels of
      actual physical activity, which in turn improve health and wellbeing.

      H3c) Placebo mechanism: A more positive (vs. negative) activity adequacy mindset directly
      improves health and wellbeing through placebo/ nocebo effects.

      H4) A meta-mindset intervention teaching people about activity adequacy mindsets leads them
      to adopt more positive mindsets, which in turn predicts improved health and wellbeing through
      the mechanisms described under H3. That is, compared to accurate step count feedback only,
      accurate feedback plus meta-mindset intervention leads to improved health and wellbeing.
    
  