
    
      Unfortunately, despite the best clinical efforts and breakthroughs in biotechnology, most
      patients diagnosed with advanced stage lung cancer continue to die from their disease.
      Reasons for this include that: 1) patients are often diagnosed at a time when their lung
      cancer has already spread to other sites such as the chest cavity, bone, lung, liver, and
      brain limiting the options for local radiation therapy and surgery, and 2) the cancer cells
      are resistant or become resistant to chemotherapy drugs used to treat the patient. Resistance
      to one type of chemotherapy agent often rapidly leads to resistance against many other
      chemotherapy drugs.

      These reasons are the major causes of cancer progression that are usually discussed when
      considering treatment options for patients with disease that continues to grow and spread.
      However, another important part of the body should be considered-- the immune system.
      Scientists have clearly shown that lung cancer cells produce a number of abnormal proteins or
      abnormal amounts of certain proteins found in normal lung cells. Normally one would expect a
      patient to develop an immune response against these abnormal proteins found in their cancer
      and attack them much the way we would fight off an infection from a foreign bacteria or
      virus. However, for reasons that scientists do not fully understand, the immune system fails
      to respond to these abnormal proteins and does not attack the lung cancer cells. This human
      clinical trial proposes a new way to make the immune system recognize the cancer and
      encourage it to attack the cancer cells.

      Many people are familiar with the idea of transplants between people of organs like the
      kidneys or heart. When an organ transplant between two people is completed one of the
      problems that can occur is rejection of the donated organ by the recipient. This can occur
      because the immune system of the patient who receives the organ attacks the donated organ. If
      you were to attempt to transplant a pig heart to a human the rejection would be dramatically
      stronger than when organs are transplanted between two people. This is partly because lower
      animals express sugar-protein patterns on the surface of their cells that humans do not. In
      fact, our immune systems can quickly recognize tissues from lower mammals such as the pig or
      the mouse and destroys them.

      In this project, we have put a mouse gene into human lung cancer cells that produces these
      abnormal sugar patterns and stimulates the immune system to attack the lung cancer. This
      strategy works well to kill human other cancer cells in the laboratory, but it needs to be
      tried in lung cancer patients to see if it will be effective and to determine if such a
      treatment causes any side effects. We propose to test this new treatment in subjects with
      non-small cell lung cancer to see if it can stop, slow or destroy tumors in these subjects.
      Subjects will be injected with an anti-tumor vaccine consisting of a mixture of three types
      of dead human lung cancer cells that have been genetically altered to express the mouse gene
      responsible for making this abnormal sugar-protein on the cells.
    
  