
    
      Many health-relevant decisions involve intertemporal (now vs. later) tradeoffs, where
      unhealthy choices involve immediate benefits and delayed costs, compared to healthy choices
      with immediate costs and delayed benefits. Reinforcement for unhealthy behaviors are
      immediate, while the reinforcement for healthier alternatives are delayed. Thus individuals
      who continue to engage in these types of unhealthy behaviors despite awareness of the health
      consequences are exhibiting an inability to delay gratification.

      Delay discounting (DD) is quantified in human studies by determining the rate at which an
      individual discounts a delayed reward, typically assessed by having subjects choose between a
      rewards available immediately and a larger reward available following a delay. For the
      purpose of this study, the investigators define executive function (EF) as the set of
      cognitive processes that are responsible for helping individuals manage life tasks and
      achieve goals (e.g., planning, working memory).

      The approach of targeting preference for immediate rewards (exhibited by elevated DD) is
      highly innovative. Multiple studies provide compelling evidence that strengthening EF may
      decrease DD. Extensive literature indicates that many negative health and financial
      consequences suffered in mid-life are linked to adversity and disadvantage during early
      developmental periods of life. By targeting a mechanism of various negative aging-related
      outcomes (elevated DD), the proposed research may have the novel impact on broadly
      remediating the health and wellness of mid-life individuals at increased risk for poor
      consequences due to early-life disadvantage.

      This research will attempt to reduce Delay Discounting via Executive Functioning training in
      a population of mid-life individuals with risk factors established during early-life
      disadvantage. DD, EF, and associated health behaviors/outcomes will be assessed at baseline,
      following training, and at 3- and 6-month follow-up. Participants will receive Active EF
      training, or Control training. Given the established effect of Active training in reducing DD
      in stimulant-dependent individuals, the study team expect reductions in DD, improvements in
      EF, and improvements in associated health behaviors/outcomes following Active training and at
      follow-up, with no improvements in the Control group.
    
  