
    
      Acute symptomatic electroencephalographic (EEG) seizures are common in children who
      experience a cardiac arrest, and are associated with worse short term survival. In larger
      studies of critically ill children with heterogeneous acute encephalopathy etiologies, EEG
      seizures occur in 10-40% of monitored patients, and there is increasing evidence that high
      seizure burdens are associated with worse outcomes. Furthermore, status epilepticus treatment
      delays are associated with reduced medication efficacy for status epilepticus termination.
      The majority of EEG seizures in critically ill children have no clinical correlate and
      therefore detection requires EEG monitoring. Many institutions do not have access to
      continuous EEG monitoring services. Additionally, even when EEG "monitoring" is performed,
      data review is generally intermittent, leading to delays between seizure onset and
      detection.The purpose of the study is to determine the efficacy of real-time DSA pattern
      interpretation for the detection of seizures by bedside ICU practitioners.The primary
      objective of this study is to determine the whether the real-time DSA patterns interpreted by
      bedside ICU practitioners can decrease the time to accurate NCS detection following pediatric
      cardiac arrest. All subjects who receive chest compressions and have return of spontaneous
      circulation and are cared for the CHOP Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) will be screened.
      If patients meet inclusion criteria they will be approached for consent. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from parents/guardians. Assent will not be obtained as these
      children are intubated and comatose after arrest.Patients will be randomly assigned to
      receive standard of care, continuous EEG monitoring, versus continuous EEG monitoring plus
      real-time ICU provider DSA interpretation. This will go on for the duration of clinically
      indicated EEG monitoring.

      For patients enrolled in the standard continuous EEG arm of the study, EEG will be recorded
      and interpreted as per standard of care. If a seizure is noted by the neurology service, the
      standard seizure treatment protocol will be used by the clinical team.Patients monitored with
      standard EEG and DSA will undergo at least hourly interpretation of DSA by the ICU bedside
      care provider. If the bedside care provider is concerned that there is a seizure on DSA they
      will contact the EEG tech on call for confirmation. If a seizure is confirmed by neurology,
      the standard seizure treatment protocol will be used by the clinical team.Following
      completion of EEG intervention arms, the patients will be followed and discharge survival and
      discharge Pediatric Cerebral Performance Category (PCPC) will be documented.
    
  