
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of investigational drugs to learn whether the drug(s) works in treating a
      specific disease.

      The Master study is intended to enroll participants who will be placed into different
      treatment arms (sub-studies) which will each have an additional consent and enrollment
      processes.

      -- The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, randomization to an
      experimental treatment sub-study, if qualified, and observation for up to 10 years.

        -  Participants who have tumors grow during a treatment sub-study will be permitted to
           enroll in a different experimental treatment sub-study if they are eligible.

        -  Participants who are not eligible for enrollment in a different treatment sub-study will
           be permitted to remain under observation on the Master Study to understand the growth
           pattern of these tumors (natural history)

             -  Participants will be eligible to remain on this Master study for up to 10 years.

             -  It is expected that about 80 people will take part in the Master Study

             -  The study will randomize a maximum of 40 patients to each of the experimental arms.
                The overall size of the trial is not fixed by design because it include
                arm-dropping rules for futility and allow for the possibility of arm addition by
                amendment.

      Drug Sub-study A will test the activity of brigatinib for treatment of NF2-related tumors.

        -  Brigatinib is approved for the treatment of people with anaplastic lymphoma kinase
           (ALK)- positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have progressed or are
           intolerant to crizotinib. In preclinical models, brigatinib has shown evidence of
           activity against models of NF2-deficient tumors.

           - It is expected that 40 people will take part in the Brigatinib Sub-study.

        -  The sub-study with brigatinib will include two stages.

        -  In Stage 1, 20 subjects with any allowable tumor type will be accrued to each arm. A
           minimum of 2 subjects per tumor type (vestibular schwannoma, non-vestibular schwannoma,
           meningioma, and ependymoma) must be accrued in Stage 1. Interim analysis will be
           performed after Stage 1 to determine the radiographic response rate (RR) for each tumor
           types. Subsequently, in stage 2, another 20 subjects will be accrued into the 2 baskets
           with the most promising early results. If the results are equally promising for more
           than 2 baskets, subjects will be allocated to the appropriate number of baskets.
    
  