isozymes of lactic dehydrogenase.. sequential alterations duringdevelopment .applications of isozymes in various biological contexts have beenreviewed . diagnosis of several disease states has been facilitated byexamination of the serum isozyme pattern which has been shown tocorrelate in some conditions with the isozyme pattern of pathologicallyinvolved tissues . physico-chemical studies of human ldh isozymes haverevealed differences among isozymes in affinity for a given substrate .comparative studies of ldh isozymes within the erythrocyte from variousvertebrate species demonstrated a marked species variation in the numberof ldh isozymes, in the distribution of total ldh activity among them,and in their electrophoretic mobilities . during development of chick,rabbit, and human tissues characteristic sequential alterations in theldh isozyme pattern occurred and consisted for liver and muscle in lossof the most rapidly migrating anodal bands and increased activity in thecathodal bands and slower migrating anodal bands . in heart the reversechanges were observed . if high enough ldh activities of early fetaltissue extracts were applied to the gel the full complement of ldhisozymes was observed,. however, in lower concentrations the cathodalbands, which in the starch gel disappear more rapidly on dilution thando the anodal bands, were not observed . a species-specific isozymepattern is obtained in long term culture of rabbit, chick, and humancells . independently of the tissue of origin, there occurs in cells inculture a sequential series of isozyme alterations characterized bydecreased intensity of rapidly migrating anodal bands . the shift towardprominence of cathodal isozymes during both fetal development and tissueculture can be explained by postulating the increased activity of thegene producing one of the subunits of ldh with a concomitant decrease inthe activity of the gene producing the second subunit . practicalapplications of the study of isozymes in tissue culture were discussed .