2579. measurement of aortic regurgitation by upstream sampling with continuousinfusion of indicatora direct and theoretically valid methodfor the measurement of aortic regurgitationinvolves the recording of indicator concentrationsfrom the left ventricle and a down-stream site during aortic root injection.  however,this method has yielded erraticresults when applied to man in the authors'laboratory when using the sudden in-jection technique.  therefore, the upstreamsampling method, using continuous in-fusion of indicator, was evaluated in 18 patientswith aortic regurgitation duringretrograde aortic and transseptal left ventricularcatheterization.  the continuousinfusion technique was compared with the techniqueof sudden injection in 10 patientsand with aortic valvulography in 14 patients.measurements of forward flow obtainedwith continuous infusions into the aortic rootwere not significantly different frommeasurements obtained with sudden injectionsinto the pulmonary artery.  recordingsof indicator concentrations from the left ventricle,during continuous infusions intothe aortic root, demonstrated readily evidentequilibrium plateaus.  the resultantmeasurements of regurgitant flow were highlyreproducible and not impaired bynonsimultaneity of upstream and downstreamsampling.  the percentage error ofestimate at 95% confidence limits was 22% ofthe measurement for regurgitant flow,13% for total flow, and 9% for the regurgitantfraction of total flow.  the correspond-ing errors of estimate for the sudden injectiontechnique were 4 times larger.  re-gurgitant flow by the continuous infusion methodranged from 0.8-30.0 l/min, totalflow from 3.0-36.0 l/min, and the regurgitantfraction of total flow from 12-86%.ranking of patients by the magnitudes of regurgitantand total flow did not correspondto ranking by angiographic criteria of severity.however, an excellent correlationprevailed between angiographic grade and the regurgitantfraction of total flow,demonstrating that this variable is the most meaningfulexpression of severity.  thecorrelation (0.997) between the angiographic grade andthe regurgitant fractionmeasured by the continuous infusion technique wasclearly superior to that obtainedwith the sudden injection technique (0.894).  mildregurgitation was equivalent toa regurgitant fraction of <25%, moderateregurgitation to a fraction of 25-50%,moderately severe regurgitation to a fractionof 50-75% and severe regurgitation toa fraction of >75%.  it is concluded that theupstream sampling method during con-tinuous infusion of indicator, because of itssensitivity, reliability, applicability tomultiple measurements, and validity in thepresence of mitral regurgitation is themost useful method for quantifying aorticregurgitation in man.