2476. studies on cardiac dimensions in intact,unanesthetized man. i. description of techniques and theirvalidation. ii. effects of respiration. iii. effects ofmuscular exercisea method is described which permitsmeasurement of relative changes in the exter-nal dimensions of individual cardiacchambers throughout the cardiac cycle in intact,unanaesthetized man.  it consists ofsuturing multiple radiopaque silver-tantalumclips to the surface of the heart at thetime of cardiac operations.  in the postopera-tive period, cineradiograms areobtained and the distances between clips are mea-sured on each individual frame.this technique has been found to be safe and hasbeen employed in 68 patients withoutany complications.  as a result of studies in 8patients utilizing biplane serial exposures,the effects of rotation of the heart in thesagittal plane during the cardiac andrespiratory cycles were determined precisely.if clips were properly placed on the heart,the possible errors resulting from suchrotation were found to be quite small.during inspiration right ventricular dimen-sions increased, while the opposite occurredduring expiration and during the val-salva manoeuvre.  left ventricular dimensionsexhibited little change during normalrespiration.  during deep, slow inspiration,the changes in dimensions of the leftventricle lagged behind those of the rightventricle by 1 to 5 (generally 2 or 3) car-diac cycles; the magnitude of the changes inthe dimensions of the left ventricle wassmaller than that which occurred in the rightventricle.  the effects on ventriculardimensions of light muscular exercise performedin the supine position were studiedin 9 patients.  the end-diastolic dimensionsdecreased by an average of 6.0% of con-trol in the right ventricle, and by an average of5.1% in the left ventricle.  end-sys-tolic dimensions decreased by an average of 5.6%of control in the right ventricleand by an average of 6.5% in the left ventricle.these decreases are considered toapproximate one-half of the resting stroke volume.in the 4 patients in whom therate of right ventricular pressure rise was determinedcontinuously, exercise re-sulted in an elevation of dp/dt while ventricularend-diastolic dimensions decreased.these data are interpreted to indicate that anincrease in myocardial contractilityoccurs during muscular exercise in man.