a pilot project for the control of filariasisin thailandin a village in kanjanadit district of surat-thani province, south thailand,where a field station for filariasis studies had been established by thebangkok school of tropical medicine, blood films were examined from 977 persons(95.5 per cent. of the total population of 1,023).  two thick films (each of20 c.mm.) were prepared from each person and stained with giemsa.  it was foundthat 21.1 per cent. of the people harboured microfilariae (all brugia malayi).elephantiasis was found in 5.3 per cent. of the population.microfilarial periodicity was studied in 25 persons; in every case it wasfound to be markedly nocturnal.the blood of 98 cats, 52 dogs and two monkeys was also examined.  no b. malayilarvae were recovered.mosquitoes were caught and identified.  in an initial survey, 4,557 mosquitoeswere examined, of which 568 were mansonia spp.  in 4,136 dissections, b. malayilarvae in stage ii were found in one m. uniformis and in stage iii in another;the infection rate for m. uniformis was 0.6 per cent.spraying with ddt was carried out in all the houses during the last phase ofthe investigation.  it resulted in a slight decline in the numbers andpercentage of mansonia mosquitoes caught.diethylcarbamazine was administered to as many of the villagers as possible,in a dose of 5 mgm. of the citrate salt per kgm. body weight once weekly forsix weeks.  eight hundred and eighty-eight persons received the drug (86.8per cent. of the population).  considerable side-effects were observed innearly all microfilaria-carriers.  blood examinations were repeated one monthand again one year after cessation of the drug.  it was found that theproportion of microfilaria-carriers had decreased from 21.1 per cent. to 2.2and 2.2 per cent. respectively, the filariasis infection rate from 26.1 percent. to 8.6 and 8.5 per cent., and the mean microfilarial density of all filmsfrom 4.8 per 20 c.mm. blood to 0.48 and 0.12.  larvae of b. malayi were notfound in mosquitoes dissected one month and one year after the mass therapy.