
    
      METHODS The present study is a single-blind randomized trial, conducted according to the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, and the (CONSORT)
      Statement guidelines. The study protocol was approved by our Institutional Review Board and
      Ethics Committee (project number: 24/2013).

      One hundred and fifty consecutive outpatients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and
      gait and/or balance disturbance, attending the Laboratory of Robotic Neurorehabilitation of
      the IRCCS Neurolesi Bonino-Pulejo (Messina, Italy) from January 2015 to January 2016, were
      invited to participate in the study, and were screened for study eligibility.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria were: age 30-65 years; severe walking
      disability with Expanded Disability Status Score between 3.5 and 6.0 (Piramidal subitem ≥3);
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment score ≥24; absence of concomitant neurological or orthopedic
      conditions that may interfere with ambulation; stable pharmacological therapy for at least 6
      months. Exclusion criteria were: multiple sclerosis relapse during the three months prior to
      recruitment; presence of paroxysmal vertigo; lower limb botulinum toxin injections within the
      previous 12 weeks; cardiorespiratory instability; high-risk of spontaneous fracture;
      lower-limb skin lesions and phlebitis/thrombosis; more than 130 kg body weight.

      Randomization Forty out of 150 outpatients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis form,
      according to Polman criteria14 selected between January 2015-2016, were enrolled and
      randomized and allocated into either Group1 (G1 i.e. Lokomat-Nanos) or Group2 (G2 i.e.
      Lokomat-Pro), as shown in fig 1. The subjects were randomly assigned to one of two treatment
      groups, using a simple randomization scheme generated by a software (www.randomization.com).
      Individual, sequentially numbered index cards with the random assignments were prepared. The
      index cards were folded and placed in sealed opaque envelopes. A physician member of the
      research team, who was blinded to the baseline examination findings, opened the envelopes to
      attribute the interventions according to the group assignments.
    
  