
    
      There is a need for more intense metabolic control of the diabetic patient with periodontal
      disease, since the destruction of the periodontal tissues may be more aggressive, and a rapid
      control of the oral infection in these patients is essential to avoid the exacerbation of the
      metabolic imbalance. The initiation and progression of diabetes probably involve the
      interaction of a multiplicity of factors, these being hereditary and immunological factors
      that are governed by environmental factors. It can be observed that there is a lack of
      awareness of oral complications between diabetics and health care providers, and it is
      extremely important to understand how diabetes affects oral health and there is a need for
      regular follow-up of patients with diabetes mellitus by dentists and medical professional.
      The objective of the present study was to evaluate diabetic individuals with chronic
      periodontitis submitted to non-surgical periodontal treatment using clinical parameters and
      blood tests of fasting glycemia and glycated hemoglobin. The study was approved by the
      Research Committee of the Metropolitan University of Santos, nº 1.806.841 and all the
      patients involved in the research had access to the informed consent form. The diagnosis of
      diabetes was obtained through blood tests that test blood glucose levels, thus, before
      clinical evaluations, and 90 days after the periodontal treatment were performed fasting
      blood glucose tests. Healthy patients also underwent blood tests. After the anamnesis,
      periodontal clinical examination was performed by a previously trained and calibrated
      periodontist. Periodontal clinical parameters were realized. After periodontal therapy, all
      patients underwent further periodontal and laboratory blood tests. The data obtained were
      tabulated and received statistical treatment through the Anova and Chi square tests. There
      seems to be a relationship between type 2 diabetes and periodontal disease and studies that
      provide the implementation of therapy are essential for clarifying the relationship.
    
  