
    
      Bending and straightening at the knee causes the patella to glide along a groove in the femur
      bone. However, biomechanical imbalances can cause the patella to jump off track, which can
      lead to pain. Interventions that alter the load distribution across the patellofemoral joint,
      such as patella taping, may be helpful in alleviating symptoms. Patellar taping has in fact
      been shown to be effective in the short-term for treating patellofemoral osteoarthritis. But
      it has not been widely adopted in the clinical setting because it is complicated to
      administer, difficult to educate the patient about ongoing application, and lacks evidence of
      long-term efficacy. Also, patients often experience skin irritation from the taping and
      discomfort when removing the taping. An alternative treatment option is the use of a knee
      brace that realigns the tracking of the patella. This study will determine whether wearing a
      patellofemoral realigning knee brace is effective in relieving pain and improving function in
      adults with knee osteoarthritis.

      Participation in this study will last about 3 to 9 months. All eligible participants will
      wear the same knee brace for a 2-week run-in period during which they will record when they
      wear the brace and any pain medication used. Next, participants will be randomly assigned to
      wear one of two knee braces for 6 weeks and a minimum of 4 hours each day. This will be
      followed by 6 weeks of wearing no knee brace, and then by 6 weeks of wearing whichever knee
      brace they did not wear during the first 6-week period. There will be a total of nine study
      visits. The first study visit will screen for eligible participants and will include an
      interview, knee evaluations, x-rays, and a urine pregnancy test. The second and sixth study
      visits will include knee evaluations, brace fittings, and instructions on how to correctly
      wear and adjust the brace. Most of the other study visits will consist primarily of
      interviews and functional tests. During the first and third 6-week periods, participants will
      maintain a log to record how long they wear their braces and any pain medication used.
      Participants will also wear an accelerometer, which will keep track of how many steps they
      take.

      Participants will have the option of continuing in a 6-month follow-up period during which
      they can wear the brace of their choice. There will be three evaluations that will include
      questions on how participants are doing with their braces.
    
  