
    
      In line with the overall goals of HBCC for reducing the transmission of COVID-19 via rapid
      response interventions to raise awareness and enacting long-term behaviour change regarding
      people's personal and environmental hygiene habits, BRAC has taken an adaptive approach under
      the Hygiene and Behaviour Change Collation (HBCC) platform. The aim of this project is to
      systematically change the behaviour of people across communities in Bangladesh via
      interventions such as setting up handwashing stations and broadcasting behaviourally-informed
      messages to nudge people to adopt healthier prevention and response practices.

      To achieve the overall goals of the project and positively impact the lives of over 10
      million people in communities across Bangladesh, BRAC primarily chose 20 sub-districts from 3
      divisions (out of a total of 8 divisions) for implementing the interventions, namely Dhaka,
      Mymensingh and Khulna. The prime activity is to install 1,000 handwashing stations across
      these sub-districts to increase the access of communities to handwashing facilities. The BRAC
      handwashing stations have been designed to enhance both availability and inclusiveness,
      fitted with foot-operated pedals for dispensing water and liquid soap, to reduce contact with
      sink surfaces and thereby reduce probability of transmission from the device surface. They
      have been fitted with posters, promoting handwashing with proper technique, and have also
      been designed to allow hand-washers to maintain social distance while using the devices.

      In addition to these handwashing stations, there are other supports available in the
      intervention areas i.e. in-person demonstration, hygiene meetings, and soap distribution.
      After the economy opened up in Bangladesh after a long lockdown, the community engagement
      activities in the form of in-person communication and forum discussions, to motivate people
      to uptake safe hygiene behaviours including but not limited to regular handwashing. In these
      demonstrations and meetings, the participants are motivated to adopt recommended hygiene
      behaviours such as handwashing with soap, mask usage and disposal, sneezing etiquette, social
      distancing, etc. Along with the BRAC staff, the WASH entrepreneurs who are members of the
      local community whom BRAC traditionally supports with free training in entrepreneurship and
      market development to improve the communities' access and knowledge of hygiene products. The
      HBCC project empowers them with responsibilities to disseminate the messages of the
      recommended behaviours and distribute the soap in the communities across the intervention
      areas, especially the poorest of the poor community and the participants who attend the
      meetings regularly.

      Primary Outcomes (end points)

      The main outcome variables of interest in this study are:

      i) daily handwashing frequency ii) likelihood of using soap when handwashing iii) prevalence
      of transmissible diseases in the past 15 days Primary Outcomes (explanation) i) constructed
      using the self-reported daily frequency of handwashing and typical handwashing times ii)
      constructed using self-report (times out of 10), rapid observation of the presence of soap
      near handwashing facilities, and self-reported expenditure on soap iii) constructed using
      self-report of symptoms and specific diseases Secondary Outcomes i) knowledge of handwashing
      practices ii) attitudes towards handwashing iii) use of public handwashing stations and
      alternatives to public handwashing stations iii) frequency of mask-wearing
    
  