
    
      Uterine fibroids are the most common benign uterine tumor affecting approximately 70% of all
      women in the United States. Sixty percent of the 600,000 hysterectomies performed in the
      United States annually are done because of uterine fibroids. Hysterectomy has been the
      definitive treatment for fibroids and has been demonstrated to be effective in controlling
      symptoms. However, there have been few studies comparing the outcome of hysterectomy to other
      surgical and non-surgical therapies or to the outcomes experienced by a "normal" population,
      i.e. those not diagnosed with fibroids. Similarly, the relative effectiveness of myomectomy
      and uterine fibroid embolization has not been evaluated in the context of other fibroid
      therapies and minimally invasive variations. Fibroid symptoms experienced by patients are
      subjective and have not been shown to correlate with fibroid number, size, location, or any
      other clinical measure of fibroids. As symptoms and their impact are the primary outcomes
      experienced by patients, a validated questionnaire to measure this impact is needed.

      The Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Quality of Life Questionnaire (UFS-QoL) was developed from
      focus groups of women with leiomyomata. The original items captured key symptoms and areas of
      life impact voiced by the focus group participants. Content validity was established through
      cognitive debriefings of women with leiomyomata and review by expert clinicians. The UFS-QoL
      was then validated in a patient population of women with leiomyomata as well as "normal"
      controls.

      Using the UFS-Qol as the primary measure, this study will provide the basis of comparison for
      women with uterine fibroids both before and after therapy. "Normal" scores will be
      established from patients without fibroids. These data will provide the basis for comparing
      these outcomes to those resulting from a variety of investigational therapies. It will also
      provide insight into the progression of fibroid-related symptoms in patients established as
      normal at baseline.

      The objectives of this study are:

      A. To determine the change in symptoms and health-related quality of life in patients
      undergoing hysterectomy, myomectomy, and uterine fibroid embolization.

      B. To compare the outcomes of each intervention with a normal control group as well as with
      the other therapies.

      C. To validate the UFS-QoL questionnaire in a normal population to determine a normal score
      range.

      D. To validate the UFS-QoL questionnaire in hysterectomy patients to determine a "normal"
      score for patients without a uterus.
    
  