
    
      Evidence from various sources indicate that physical activities and mobility practice are
      beneficial to maintain or increase functional levels in persons with Multiple sclerosis. Even
      so persons with moderate and severe disability from Multiple sclerosis are less active in
      daily life than their healthy counterparts. Also during hospital stay persons with MS tend to
      remain relatively sedentary outside of their rehabilitation sessions. Feedback about physical
      activity enabled by wearable sensors combined with behavioral strategies to improve
      self-efficacy and motivation are potential method increase physical activity in hospital
      inpatients. The primary purpose of this feasibility and interventional study was to determine
      whether a minimalist physical activity tracker-based feedback and self efficacy training
      would lead to an increase in physical activity, mobility and quality of life measures during
      recovery in a group of persons with MS compared to a control group that does not receive
      feedback. Secondary purpose was to verify if this intervention during recovery would lead to
      increased perceived physical activity in daily home life after discharge and over longer
      periods (Follow up at 6 weeks). The study participants will be 60 persons that have moderate
      to severe disability due to MS, that are admitted to MS Centre of the Santa Maria Nascente
      Institute, Don Gnocchi Foundation (Milan, Italy). Participants will all receive standard
      rehabilitation offered in the center. All participants will wear the accelerometer device
      (FitBit Charge tracker, FitBit Inc, CA, USA) 24 hours per day in order to measure physical
      activity levels during their hospital stay (3-4 weeks. The participants will be randomized to
      a group that has no feedback of physical activity level and a group that will have an active
      feedback intervention (AF). The active feedback intervention will consist of daily feedback,
      received through a Fitbit application downloaded on their telephones, on whether or not their
      target activity level was met and how far they were from the target. Additionally, the
      participants will participate in weekly meeting group focused on enhancing behavioral
      strategies to increase self-efficacy and motivation. Covariates such as age, sex, stage of
      change for physical activity behavior, clinical mobility, fatigue, health perception and goal
      commitment will be measured in all 60 participants both pre and post the
      intervention/hospital recovery period. The long-term effects on daily perceived functional
      mobility and self-efficacy will be investigated six weeks after discharge through
      questionnaires during a telephone call.
    
  