
    
      A novel blue light (BL) laser, TruBlue surgical laser, has recently been approved by Health
      Canada for use in the larynx. It has a wavelength of 445nm, which is within the same visible
      light spectrum as the KTP laser (532nm). It is a photoangiolytic laser like the KTP and can
      be delivered through a flexible fiber and therefore allowing the procedure to be performed in
      clinic under local anesthesia. Other advantages include better tissue cutting and increased
      portability. No clinical studies in the literature have directly compared the BL laser and
      KTP laser in the treatment of benign vocal fold lesions. The main objective of this proposal
      is to compare between-group differences in patient perception of voice handicap between BL
      laser and KTP laser for treatment of benign vocal fold lesions at 3 months compared to
      baseline. Given the PIs' previous work comparing vocal fold scarring induced by these two
      lasers in a rat model, we hypothesize that the blue light laser will be equally effective at
      treating benign vocal fold lesions as the KTP laser, resulting in improved VHI-10 score at 3
      months post laser treatment compared to baseline.

      The KTP laser has been a workhorse laser used in Otolaryngology/Laryngology for awake
      treatments of vocal fold lesions. However, it is phasing out of the market as the laser
      itself as well as the laser fibers compatible with this laser are no longer being
      manufactured. Therefore, Laryngologists are eagerly looking for an alternative to the KTP
      laser in order to fill this gap in care. The BL laser is cheaper in costs and more portable
      compared to the KTP. It also has better tissue cutting abilities which can be useful in
      treating certain vocal fold lesions such as vocal fold cancer and subglottic stenosis. This
      study is the first to directly compare treatment outcomes between the BL laser and KTP laser
      for vocal fold lesions. If the BL laser is shown to be comparable to the KTP in this clinical
      study, it lends support that this novel laser is indeed an excellent alternative to the KTP
      laser and can therefore be incorporated into routine patient care.
    
  