
    
      In 2019 the novel coronavirus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)
      was identified as the pathogen causing the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Many
      retrospective studies have been conducted regarding clinical signs and symptoms and clinical
      course of the disease. In most cases the infection causes only light symptoms of the upper
      respiratory tract. The infection can also be asymptomatic. However, in some the disease can
      cause a severe infection of the lower respiratory tract leading to acute respiratory syndrome
      (ARDS) which can be fatal. Especially elderly people suffer from severe disease whereas
      children are less compromised.

      In this prospective, monocentric study the investigators include patients of all ages with
      COVID-19 and also a control group of all ages with respiratory tract infections other than
      COVID-19. Initial presentation, clinical course, outcome and the therapy used will be
      recorded. Standard diagnostic procedures (vital signs, results of blood samples, blood gas
      analysis, x ray, ct scan) will also be recorded. To further characterise the study population
      naso- and oropharyngeal swabs will be checked for viral and bacterial coinfections. The
      SARS-CoV-2 viral load will be estimated. To characterise the immunological response IgM- and
      IgG-antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 will be measured. Moreover lymphocyte typing, cytokine and
      chemokine analysis will be conducted. The investigators will also include an analysis of the
      proteome in serum and urine. To characterise the virus-host-interaction HLA analysis of the
      patients will be conducted. In the case of a medically indicated bronchoscopy bronchoalveolar
      lavage will be analysed in regards of viral load, coinfections, lymphocyte typing and
      cytokines / chemokines. In case of a medically indicated lung biopsy or in a post mortem lung
      biopsy a histological analysis will be made.

      In general, samples will be analysed at the initial presentation and after two weeks. Further
      analysis will be conducted depending on special events like clinical deterioration. Long-term
      follow up will be ensured by telephone visits.
    
  