
    
      Pilot Study The pilot study will determine usability of the ECA tablet system. Healthy
      volunteers will be recruited at Northeastern University, where the system is being developed.
      Subjects will spend approximately 60 minutes with the tablet system and provide usability
      feedback. Twelve healthy patient volunteers will be recruited to review the system as well as
      provide feedback on the relative interview burden (was the interview too long, too invasive,
      etc). No identifiable data will be collected from pilot study subjects.

      Main Study The study will consist of adults with advanced illness (health care provider
      endorses the existence of a potentially life-limiting condition and endorses that "it would
      not be a surprise if the patient died within 12 months") who will be randomized to
      intervention or usual care control groups. Each person with an advanced illness will be
      enrolled along with a caregiver (i.e., family, friend) who will serve as a surrogate subject.
      The caregiver will be consented at baseline and interviewed at that point and at the final,
      6-month study visit. In addition, if, at any point during their enrollment in the study, the
      patient-subject becomes unable, or decisionally impaired, to answer interview questions, the
      caregiver will be asked to answer on behalf of the subject.

      The patient can be found to be decisionally impaired in any of 3 ways:

        1. the patient declares themselves to be unable to answer questions appropriately

        2. the patient is unable to pass a brief cognitive assessment that will be administered at
           the beginning of each telephone follow-up (per the Brief Screen for Cognitive
           Impairment)

        3. the patient is physically unable to answer questions on the phone (due to, for example,
           serious health decline or death)

      Baseline data will be collected after enrollment and before randomization. Baseline data
      includes:

        1. sociodemographic data

        2. Quality of life as measured by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of
           Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Palliative Care

        3. Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Mental Health

        4. Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Social Health

        5. Patient Activation Measure (PAM)

        6. Patient Medication Adherence Questionnaire (PMAQ)

        7. Spiritual Needs Assessment for Patients (SNAP)

        8. Community Healthy Activity Model Program for Seniors (CHAMPS)

        9. a survey of Advance Care Planning (ACP) communication and preferences

       10. BSCI (This cognitive assessment is non-exclusionary, but, if the patient scores "0" on
           the word recall, the designated caregiver/surrogate will be asked to act as the research
           proxy and answer questions for the patient-subject.)

      The investigators will also interview the surrogate subject at baseline regarding their level
      of caregiver stress with:

        1. the CarerQol-7D

        2. the caregiver's level of happiness (CarerQol-VAS)

        3. self-rated burden (SRB) of care giving After the initial visit, study staff will
           administer 5 monthly phone surveys (months 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5), where the EORTC
           QLQ-C15-PAL will be collected. At the beginning of each data collection point study
           staff will administer the Brief Survey of Cognitive Impairment (BSCI) to determine if
           the patient is cognitively able to answer questions, and also inquire about unplanned
           health care utilization (i.e., urgent care, emergency room, hospital observation visits,
           and hospital admissions).

      At the final, 6-month visit, the patient-subject will be interviewed in person, with the
      surrogate, and the full list of instruments will be administered. In addition, study staff
      will prepare a summary data report for the patient's clinical team. The report will include
      obtaining information from the Palliative Care service. The research staff will ask the
      subject which clinicians of theirs they would like to have receive this information.

      Subjects randomized to the intervention will be given a mini-tablet computer configured for
      the purposes of this study. A research assistant will set up the tablet, enroll subjects into
      the study database, and train these subjects in the use of the system. Subjects who do not
      have existing WiFi at home will be provided with a cellular-based router. In such cases,
      study staff will arrange the WiFi service plan, install the router in the home, and confirm
      connectivity.

      The investigators estimate that in many instances, when a clinician endorses that they would
      not be surprised if their patient died within 12 months, that this would be the first time
      they solidified a prognostic outlook in their minds for that patient. Stimulating clinicians
      to consider their patient's life-expectancy is itself a form of intervention, as this may
      instigate communication about prognosis with the patient, a re-evaluation of the treatment
      course, assessment of goals of care, and an improved level of attention to symptoms. The
      investigators will conduct informational sessions about the study and provide material about
      palliative care services in each outpatient clinical environment from which subjects will be
      enrolled. Information will be provided on how clinicians can contact the Palliative Care
      service to obtain consultation. Clinicians will be encouraged to call for assistance on
      palliative care needs for intervention subjects, usual care subjects, and non-subjects.

      The same measures collected at baseline will also be collected at the final 6-month
      interview. At the end of study participation the investigators will also prepare a summary
      data report for the patient's clinical team. The report will include information on obtaining
      consultation from the Palliative Care service. The research nurse will ask the subject which
      clinicians of theirs they would like to have receive this information.
    
  