
    
      Primary goal: to evaluate the effectiveness of IBSR intervention on psychological well-being
      of BRCA carriers.

      Secondary goals:

        -  To understand the IBSR action mechanism and to develop a theoretical model.

        -  To examine the correlation between psychological well-being and optimism and health
           behaviors among carriers.

        -  To evaluate and define core beliefs related to psychological well-being, optimism and
           expectations among carriers.

        -  To evaluate and define the health related behaviors among carriers.

      Rationale for studies: The rationale of the research emerges from two aspects. One aspect is
      the effort to establish a new intervention program for women in order to help them deal with
      the daily implications of being a BRCA carrier. Up to date, only few interventions were
      carried out in Israel and worldwide, and had several methodological limitations.

      The other aspect is the combination of quantitative and qualitative tools in order to analyze
      the psychological implications of a complicated medical state and to establish an
      intervention program in order to reduce their adverse impact. This combination can
      significantly contribute to the understanding of the investigated issue and the participants'
      experience. The current research is comprehensive and rigorous, and it is based on a
      randomized controlled study, which was carried out with 118 Israeli women.

      Research plan and milestones:

      Research Design: A randomized controlled study offering IBSR intervention for BRCA carriers.

      Research sample: 118 asymptomatic BRCA1/2 carriers, being followed-up in the high-risk clinic
      at Sheba hospital and meet the inclusion criteria:

      asymptomatic carriers of BRCA1/2 mutation, level of Hebrew, age group and psychiatric
      illness. Age: 25-55

      Intervention group: 59 carriers who will participate in a 8-12 sessions (up to 48 hours)
      group workshop of IBSR.

      Control group: 59 carriers who will not participate in the workshop. They will complete
      questionnaires on the same time points as the intervention group. Participants who completed
      all the questionnaires will receive an IBSR kit for home practice.

      Research outcomes: psychological well-being, optimism, satisfaction with life, mental
      well-being, quality of sleep health behaviors and perceptions. In addition, the main themes
      from the qualitative interviews.
    
  