
    
      Introduction:

      In-stent restenosis remains one of the most challenging problems in patients after coronary
      artery angioplasty. Angiographically, it is discovered in 10% of the patients after
      drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation. There are multiple factors causing restenosis, which
      can be divided into two major groups: first vessel-dependent (based on the vessel's
      tortuosity, dimensions and lesion's calcification, all leading to suboptimal stent
      expansion), and second dependent on the inflammatory processes caused by the intervention.
      Although the proper stent expansion depends mostly on the cardiologist's manual dexterity,
      the inflammation development does totally not depend on the operator. The allergic reactions
      to metals are likely to be one of the underlying causes of inflammation. Among the most
      prevalent allergens, cobalt, chromium, nickel, and tungsten used as the stent materials are
      causing the most intensive contact allergic reaction. The allergic process induced by the
      aforementioned metals belongs to type IV contact allergy (T-cell mediated). Stent
      implantation results in life-long contact with metal, thus in allergic patients, it is likely
      to develop local reactions leading to in-stent restenosis. Up to date, there have been
      approximately one thousand in-stent restenosis cases documented in patients with confirmed
      contact allergy to stent metals.

      Study objectives:

      Analysis of the possible correlation between allergy to metals utilised during the stent
      manufacturing (nickel, cobalt, chromium, molybdenum, tungsten) and in-stent restenosis
      occurence.

      Materials and methods:

      The study will consist of two arms:

      First arm: Patch tests for the metals used in stent production will be applicated in the
      patients with angiographically proven in-stent restenosis developed after technically correct
      implantation.

      Second arm: In patients with (technically correctly) implanted stent, patch tests will be
      applicated to identify cases with contact allergy. The patients will then be monitored for a
      6-12 months follow-up period in purpose of evaluating the dependance between in-stent
      restenosis and contact allergy.

      The angiographic results of stent implantation, and in-stent restenosis will be assessed
      independently by two skilled interventional cardiologists, and in case of their discrepant
      opinions, the decision will be made on the basis of the third cardiologist.

      The tests will be applicated during the hospitalisation, then read after 48 hours and 72
      hours, and subsequently interpreted by the skilled dermatologist, during the hospital stay or
      afterwards.
    
  