
    
      Early childhood caries (ECC) is by far the most common chronic disease among Canadian
      Aboriginal children, affecting nearly 90% of First Nations preschoolers in Ontario. It is the
      number one cause of oral health disparities between native and non-native children. ECC
      negatively impacts on the quality of life of children suffering from the disease and the
      caregivers and family members who care for them. To address the problem of ECC, a range of
      health promotion campaigns, including parent education aimed at balancing the knowledge and
      values of First Nations communities with the recommendations of the scientific community,
      have been implemented but these initiatives have had limited success in reducing the impact
      of ECC and its treatment.

      While oral health promotion campaigns have raised awareness of the severity of ECC among
      these communities, the literature shows that for this age cohort, increasing host resistance
      through professionally applied topical fluoride (PATF) applications at regular intervals may
      achieve better results. Of all the PATF methods, slow-release fluoride varnish may be the
      most practical alternative to the use of gels, foams and rinses, as it decreases the risk of
      fluoride ingestion and is associated with greater patient acceptability. Fluoride varnish has
      shown promise as a caries reduction agent but more evidence for the effectiveness of this
      intervention is needed, particularly for high-caries-risk populations like those in
      Aboriginal communities.

      The aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of fluoride varnish (Duraflor, 5%
      NaF, Pharmascience) combined with caregiver counseling in preventing and reducing ECC in
      Aboriginal communities, in a 2-year randomized controlled trial. Methods: The trial enrolled
      1226 children aged 6 months to 5 years from the Sioux Lookout Zone (SLZ) First Nations
      reserves and 149 from Thunder Bay (NW Ontario). Twenty First Nations communities were
      randomized to 2 study groups; families in both groups received oral health counseling and
      restorative dental care provided by the SLZ Dental Program - one group received no fluoride
      varnish (FV0) and the other received FV 2-3×/yr. The same subjects were examined for the
      dmft/s indices by trained and calibrated dental hygienists in 2003, 2004 and 2005. A
      caregiver questionnaire assessed the impact of ECC on the quality of life of the child and
      the family. The SLZ Hospital provided data on children's dental general anesthetic (GA)
      procedures. Comparative cross-sectional oral health data for 416 (2003), 687 (2004) and 544
      (2005) 3-5 yr-olds attending Junior Kindergarten in Thunder Bay, not receiving fluoride
      treatments, were collected by the Thunder Bay District Health Unit's dental hygienists and
      recorders. Results will assist decision makers in developing programs for addressing the
      problem of ECC in high-caries-risk populations.
    
  