
    
      II.1. Study setting

      This clinical study will be held in the Clinic of Conservative Dentistry Department, Faculty
      of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt. The researcher will bear ultimate
      responsibility for all activities associated with the conduct of a research project including
      recruitment of patients , explaining and performing the procedures to them.

      II.2. Variables of the study:

      A total of 20 patients will participate in the study. Each patient will have 3 carious teeth.
      Resulting in a total of 60 carious lesions.

      II.3. Trial Description:

      II.3.a excavation protocol:

      Three dentinal carious lesions will be chosen in this study and will be in the same patient.
      The lesions will be classified using the International Caries Detection and Assessment System
      (ICDAS-II). after air-drying the teeth using a triplex syringe ICDAS-II scores of the lesions
      will be obtained. The chosen sites will be recorded as: Code 4, non-cavitated Lesion
      extending into dentine seen as an undermining shadow; code 5, small cavitated lesion with
      visible dentine: less than 50 % of surface; code 6, large cavitated lesion with visible
      dentine: more than 50 % of surface. In all cases, dentine lesions were soft and wet
      indicating an active lesion.

      Using local anaesthesia and rubber dam, the operative field will disinfected with 1%
      hypochlorite,and the dentine lesions should be exposed with a high-speed diamond bur by
      removing covering enamel.

      Before the excavation dentine samples are collected for baseline bacteriological assessment .
      Excavation will be carried out using new slow speed round burs and hand excavators. Special
      consideration will be given to avoid pulpal exposures and over excavation. In order to avoid
      this, hand excavators will be used for the final excavation stage.

      II.3.b Clinical assessment:

      The excavation end point of one cavity will be determined using visual tactile method. The
      two other cavities will be inspected with fluorescent camera or caries detector dye (CDD)
      methods to determine excavation endpoint respectively. After excavation, dentine samples from
      the three cavities will be collected using a sterile excavator for the bacteriological
      assessment.

      II.3.c Assessment of Outcome:

      Samples of carious and sound dentine will be collected with sterile excavators after caries
      removal in the three groups. The dentine samples will be transferred to sterile box
      containing a thioglycollate medium used as a carrier, then this sterile box will be kept in
      an ice box and taken to the microbiology laboratory for processing, within an hour, by
      another examiner who do not know the type of technique used for the inspection after the
      caries excavation. Dentin sample weight will be calculated by measuring the difference
      between the weight of the whole set (sterilized bottle, transporting medium, collected
      dentine) and the previously determined weight of the set without dentin. The number of
      bacteria obtained for a given amount of dentin will be used to estimate the number of
      bacteria present in 1 mg dentin (CFU/mg).

      II.4. Participant timeline:

      All procedures will be carried out at the same visit.

      II.5. Sample size calculation:

      The aim of this study will be conducted to assess the reliability of the fluorescence camera
      and caries detection dye versus visual tactile method in caries excavation using
      bacteriological assessment method. Based on the previous paper by Stroll et al.,2015 ,area
      under the curve for fluorescent camera using bacterial count as reference was 0.75. Using
      power 80% and 5% significance level, 20 cavities is needed in each group the sample size was
      calculated by PASS 2008.

      II.6. Recruitment:

      Patients will be recruited from outpatient clinic of Conservative Dentistry Department in
      Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University; from which eligible patients will be
      recruited to fulfil the eligibility criteria according to participant timeline.

      II.6.a. Recruitment Strategy:

      The patients will be subjected to full examination and diagnosis using dental charts. Once
      the patients that are potentially eligible for this study are identified, they will be
      contacted by the researcher who will explain the study and ascertains the patient's interest.
      If interested, more detailed evaluations and preparations are made.

      II.7. Randomization and assignment of interventions:

      II.7.a. Allocation sequence generation:

      The allocation sequence will be generated using (www.randomization.com).

      II.7.b. Allocation concealment mechanism:

      Each recruited patient will be given a number according to order of recruitment following the
      sequence of the randomly generated numbers, then the operator will start the first tooth to
      be excavated, then will choose between three opaque sealed envelopes (two envelope for the
      intervention and the other is for the control). envelopes will be allocated by a participant
      who will not be involved in any of the phases of the clinical trial. The tooth to which
      interventions or control is assigned to will be recorded and all records of all patients will
      be kept with the main supervisor

      II.7.c. Implementation:

      A participant will generate the random allocation sequence. The researcher will enroll the
      patients but an unbiased participant will assign the intervention/Control to respective
      teeth.

      II.8. Data collection methods:

      *Baseline data collection:

      For every patient medical history, dental history and examination charts will be filled by
      the operator.

      *Outcome data collection:

      The results were converted table to facilitate the description of the results. The
      microbiological analysis was performed blindly in relation to the caries removal method.

      II.9.Data management:

      the data will be entered and stored on a personal computer. Double data entry will be saved
      on an external hard disc to prevent loss of data.

      II.10. Statistical methods

      Data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences). Numerical data will be described as mean and standard deviation or median and
      range. Data will be explored for normality using kolmogorov-smirnov test and Shapiro-Wilk
      test. Comparisons between 3 groups for normally distributed numeric variables will be done
      using the ANOVA while for non normally distributed numeric variables will be done by Kruskal
      Wallis test. A p-value less than or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. All tests will be two tailed.

      II.11. Monitoring:

      II.11.a. Data monitoring:

      The main supervisor will monitor this study. His role is to monitor any risk of bias could be
      done from participants, operator or assessors. Also to monitor blinding of the assessors and
      patient safety, outstanding benefits or harms.

      II.11.b. Harms:

      The main supervisor should inform participants about the possible harms, if present.
      Participants are allowed to contact the operator at moment through telephone. In case of
      accidental pulp exposure during excavation , emergency access cavity and pulp extirpation
      will be done by the operator and then the patient will be referred to Endodontic Department
      clinic to complete the root canal treatment.

      II.11.c. Auditing:

      In the present trial, auditing will be done by the main and co-supervisors to assure quality
      of the research frequency procedures.

      II.14. Ethics and dissemination

      II.14.a. Research ethics approval:

      Application forms for carrying out the clinical trial, checklist and informed consent of
      Research Ethics Committee (REC) Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University will be
      retrieved and filled, then will be delivered for (REC) committee for approval.This is done to
      prevent any ethical problems during the study or any harm for any of the participants.

      II.12.b. Protocol amendments:

      If a new protocol will be used a protocol amendment will be submitted; containing a new copy
      of the new protocol and brief explanation about the differences between it and the previous
      protocols. If there is a change in the existing protocol that affect safety of subjects,
      investigation scope or scientific quality of the trial, an amendment containing a brief
      explanation about the change will be submitted. If a new author will be added to accomplish
      the study, an amendment including the investigator's data and qualifications to conduct the
      investigation will be submitted to prevent ghost authorship.

      II.12.c. Consent:

      The operator is responsible for admitting and signing the written consents during the
      enrolment day.

      II.13. Confidentiality:

      Name, personal data and pictures of the participants will not appear on the protocol form and
      will be maintained secured for 10 years after the trial. This is done for protection of
      participants' privacy and civil rights.

      II.16. Declaration of interests:

      There is no conflict of interest, no funding or material supplying from any parties.

      II.14. Access to data:

      Access to final data will be allowed to the operator ,the main and co-supervisors of the
      study who are not involved in assessment of the outcome.

      II.15. Ancillary and post-trial care:

      Patients will be followed up after the application after 3, 6 months.

      II.16. Dissemination policy:

      Full protocol will be published online in www.clinicaltrials.gov to avoid repetition and to
      keep the integrity of the research work. Thesis will be discussed in front of judgment
      committee. The study will be published to report the results of this clinical trial.
    
  