
    
      Data Collection Method: The research will be a multicentric, prospective and randomized
      clinical study to be conducted between 01.11.2018 and 28.02.2019 by the general surgery
      clinics of Mogadishu-Somalia Recep Tayyip Erdogan Training and Research Hospital and Health
      Sciences University Konya Training and Research Hospital.

      Male patients with inguinal hernia repair will be included in the study. Patients will be
      randomized into two groups. While the normal size of 15 x 7 cm (105 cm2) mesh was used in the
      first group, In the second group, a small size 11 x 5 cm (55 cm2) mesh will be used.

      Dismissal criteria are; Female patients, relapse hernias, bilateral inguinal hernia,
      laparoscopic hernia repair, diabetic patients using insulin, patients with COPD, peripheral
      vascular disease, emergency inguinal hernia repair, patients with high ASA score, patients
      with serious cardiological problems, heavy smokers, transfusions during the perioperative
      period.

      Patients will be given clear and understandable information about the study. Patients who
      agree to participate in the study will receive a consent form explaining that they have
      participated in the study voluntarily.

      Randomization is done by the secretary with a computer program. A note stating which group
      the patient is in is placed in a closed envelope and an envelope is opened at the
      preoperative surgery table.

      The method of operation will be open inguinal hernia repair (Lichtenstein hernia repair). The
      patient will be repaired with mesh suitable for the randomization group. Operations will be
      performed under the supervision of an experienced surgeon or experienced surgeon.

      Surgical Method: Patients will receive open inguinal hernia repair, known as Lichtenstein
      hernia repair. According to the Gilbert classification, the hernia type is recorded in the
      patient file.

      Evaluation of patient characteristics and pain: the researcher will not know in which group
      the patients are. Demographic features, duration of surgery, hernia type, early postoperative
      complications, return to work will be recorded in the study forms. If there is a suspicion of
      recurrence in the physical examination, a recurrence assessment will be performed by
      ultrasonography and magnetic resonance examination if necessary. Recurrences will be detected
      at 1, 6, 12, and 24 and recorded on the study form.

      Values will be recorded in the form by using the Sheffield Scale in the assessment of chronic
      pain.
    
  