
    
      This protocol will test a novel dual agent combination therapy for its ability to prevent
      human renal allograft rejection. Thymoglobulin (Sangstat), a FDA-approved polyclonal
      rabbit-IgG antithymocyte preparation, will be given for ten days at the time of
      transplantation to achieve profound lymphocyte depletion. This will be paired with chronic
      therapy with Sirolimus (rapamycin, Wyeth-Ayerst), an oral immunosuppressant agent recently
      approved by the FDA. Rapamycin allows for antigen specific T cell activation but prevents T
      cell clonal expansion by interrupting IL-2 receptor beta-chain signal transduction. The
      rationale for this combination is to eliminate existing alloreactive T cell clones that could
      initiate a rejection at the time of transplantation, and to promote graft specific activation
      induced cell death (AICD) in repopulating T cells such that an allospecific T cell deficit is
      induced. The desired effect of this therapy is to prevent allograft rejection without the
      chronic use of calcineurin inhibitors or glucocorticosteroids, and in doing so, develop a
      regimen for transplantation that avoids most of the chronic drug toxicities inherent in the
      use of these two classes of immunosuppressants.

      Twenty people will be evaluated in this pilot protocol. Ten will receive living donor kidney
      allografts and ten will receive cadaveric kidney allografts. Patients will be treated with
      Thymoglobulin beginning prior to graft implantation and continuing for ten days.
      Glucocorticosteroids will be given during the Thymoglobulin treatment to limit monocyte
      activation and prevent the cytokine release syndrome associated with this antibody
      preparation. Patients will be given Sirolimus orally beginning the day after transplantation
      and continuously thereafter. Patients will then be monitored for evidence of allograft
      rejection using standard functional parameters and protocol allograft biopsies. In addition,
      patients will be followed for a specific desired effect, allospecific AICD, that should
      promote the development of allospecific graft tolerance. This will be accomplished by
      assaying peripheral blood and allograft biopsies for apoptosis and peripheral blood for
      evidence of alloreactive T cell clone depletion.
    
  