
    
      Public Health Rationale:

      Despite comprehensive malaria control programmes, control measures specifically aimed at
      malaria in pregnancy are not adequately available. The epidemiological data are scanty in
      order to develop effective policies to address this problem. The major barrier to successful
      eradication or elimination of malaria transmission is the inability to detect and treat
      asymptomatic carriers of the malarial parasites. Asymptomatic carriers do not seek treatment
      for infection and thus the life cycle of the infection continues. The systematic
      identification and treatment of individuals with asymptomatic P.falciparum and P. vivax, as
      part of a surveillance intervention strategy, are important for reducing the parasite
      reservoir and would help to decrease transmission of the disease. Data on asymptomatic
      carriage is not available from India.

      Routine screening for malaria and anaemia followed by prompt management should be encouraged
      to curb the effect of malaria and anaemia on the pregnant women as well as her fetus. The
      present study is planned to be conducted at a district level women and children's hospital at
      Nagpur with the following objectives:

      Objectives:

      i) To assess the prevalence of asymptomatic malaria infection with all four species of
      malarial parasites namely P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale and P. vivax during the
      first/second trimester of pregnancy among women attending the antenatal clinic at a secondary
      level urban health facility using PCR (polymerase chain reaction) for malaria parasites.

      ii) To determine the effect of malaria on duration of pregnancy, adverse outcomes and birth
      outcomes at delivery

      Study Design And Study Population:

      This is a prospective cohort study of pregnant women in their first/second trimester of
      pregnancy attending the antenatal clinic at a secondary level healthcare facility at Nagpur,
      India.

      Investigators propose collecting a two-three dried blood spot (DBS) sample for all enrolled
      women and symptomatic (fever with or without chills) neonates and infants at enrollment when
      the haemoglobin measurement is performed. Asymptomatic parasitaemia will be detected using a
      dual-antigen rapid diagnostic kit (RDK), microscopy, and species-specific PCR. PCR for the
      detection of malaria parasite would be performed at the National Institute for Research in
      Tribal Health (NIRTH) at Jabalpur, India
    
  