
    
      68 patients will be followed for a minimum of 12 months and a maximum of 24 months.

      As inclusion criterion, the investigators considered those with shaft compound fracture of
      the tibia (occurring two inches below the knee and two inches above the ankle), that per the
      classification Gustillo and Anderson were grades I, II, and IIIA, in patients with a mature
      skeleton.

      The presence of extensive skin lesions and soft tissue or arterial injury requiring surgical
      repair (Grades IIIB and C) in the initial care, other fractures with the exception of the
      fibula, or the presence of wounds with signs of infection in the period between the accident
      and definitive surgery, were used as exclusion criteria.

      The patients will be treated in two ways, biplanar external fixator (Group I) and locked
      intramedullary reamed nail in the tibia (Group II), being divided into these groups by simple
      randomization.

      During initial care in the emergency room, antibiotic prophylaxis, cleaning, debridement, and
      external splinting of the fracture were performed by staff on duty. There was no interference
      with respect to the type of assembly to be used in the initial care, leaving the doctor on
      duty free to use the type of external fixators which he is most used to.

      Patients remained hospitalized and received first-generation cephalosporin and dressing of
      the wound daily. In the 4th to the 7th postoperative day after the initial procedure, the
      patient underwent another surgery to reassemble the biplanar external fixation or to convert
      to the locked intramedullary reamed nail.

      External fixation consists of the biplanar assembly with six Schanz pins of six millimeters.
      The placement of these follows the sequence: two proximal to the fracture in different planes
      and two distal similar to the first. The investigators performed reduction and placement of
      two bars, one medial and one lateral. Assessed by radiography, two more pins were then
      introduced into the medial rod, ending with the fixation of a tube-to-tube rod at the level
      of the fracture. For fixation by locked intramedullary reamed nail, the access path of
      introduction used was through the patellar tendon, with the knee flexed at 100 degrees on a
      radiotransparent table.
    
  