
    
      Gait rehabilitation is a specific component of physical rehabilitation of persons with
      sub-acute or chronic spinal cord injury (SCI). One novel method of gait rehabilitation
      involves the use of an overhead support point and a harness. The BWS strategy has been
      combined with treadmill-based gait training in recent studies with dramatic results. It is
      believed that this form of training may enhance output of a 'central pattern generator' of
      stepping movement from circuitry intrinsic to the patient's spinal cord. However, only
      limited attention has been paid to the role that training-induced physical conditioning might
      play in mediating functional improvements.

      This study will evaluate whether BWS gait training is more effective than conventional
      rehabilitation therapy in improving functional gait in patients with neurologically
      incomplete spinal cord injury. The study will also compare treadmill-based training to
      overground-based training. Treadmill-based training has the inherent advantage of providing
      highly rhythmic input to the subject's legs; overground-based training has the inherent
      advantage of allowing use of assistive devices and thereby replicating a more 'natural'
      training condition.

      Patients with chronic SCI (greater than 1 year post-injury) and patients with sub-acute SCI
      (2 to 8 months post-injury) will be evaluated. Patients with chronic SCI will be randomly
      assigned to one of 3 groups: body weight support and treadmill-based training, body weight
      support and overground training, and conventional rehabilitation therapy. Patients with
      sub-acute injury will be randomized to receive either BWS treadmill training or conventional
      rehabilitation. Training sessions are typically 1 hour long, with 3 sessions per week for 13
      weeks.

      All patients will be evaluated with a battery of functional, metabolic, and neurophysiologic
      measures prior to the onset of training and during the week after training has been
      completed. The primary outcome measure will be average maximum overground walking velocity
      without body weight support but with the use of passive assistive devices. Secondary measures
      will concentrate on function (balance, mobility), fitness (work capacity, strength, gait
      efficiency), and spinal cord neurophysiology (motor conduction, reflex excitability).
    
  