
    
      Patients referred to the pediatric endocrinology clinic or adolescent gynecology clinic at
      Yale New Haven Children Hospital with a primary complaint of hirsutism, acne, or amenorrhea
      and/or oligomenorrhea persisting 2 years after their menarche will be evaluated for
      polycystic ovarian syndrome through history, physical exam, pelvic ultrasound, and laboratory
      evaluation, to include androgen testing, thyroid testing, female hormone testing, and
      diabetic risk testing (this is standard of care). A vitamin D level will also be drawn. While
      vitamin D level is not currently part of the diagnostic algorithm for PCOS, it is not
      unreasonable to check in patients in which there is concern for an endocrine disorder. If the
      patient meets Rotterdam criteria and their serum vitamin D level is between 6 and 29 ng/mL,
      the patient and their guardian(s) will be approached for inclusion in our study by the
      physician or dedicated research nursing staff.

      If patient and guardian agree to participate and sign a consent / assent form, the patient
      will then be randomized to receive vitamin D supplement versus placebo and will be followed
      for 6 months on their randomized replacement with repeat laboratory testing of AMH, vitamin
      D, lipid profile, glucose and insulin testing, androgen testing, and female hormone testing
      at the randomization, 3 months and at the end of the course of the trial(6 months). Patients
      with vitamin D levels 5ng/mL or less will not be randomized, they will be given recommended
      treatment. Depressive symptoms will be assessed at time of randomization, 3 months post
      randomization, and 6 months post randomization using the Beck Depression Inventory-II, the
      gold standard self-report depression inventory. A depression screen is currently administered
      to all adolescents seen at Yale New Haven Children Hospital outpatient clinics with a
      protocol for patients who report clinically significant levels of depression. This protocol
      will remain in place and will not be altered during this research study.

      After post-trial testing, patients will be unblinded and patients who still have vitamin D
      below threshold will be offered vitamin D treatment.

      Aim 1: To investigate the effect of vitamin D replacement upon biochemical parameters of
      polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) in adolescent female patients. Hypothesis: Replacement of
      vitamin D to normal levels in adolescents with PCOS and/or at risk for PCOS and low levels of
      vitamin D will lower serum androgen and anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) levels.

      Aim 2: To investigate the effect of vitamin D replacement on clinical features of PCOS in
      adolescent female patients. Hypothesis: Replacement of vitamin D in adolescents with PCOS
      and/or at risk for PCOS and low levels of vitamin D will improve symptoms of menstrual
      irregularities, acne, and hirsutism.

      Aim3: To investigate the effect of vitamin D replacement on depressive symptoms in adolescent
      female patients with PCOS. Hypothesis: Replacement of vitamin D in adolescents with PCOS or
      at risk for PCOS and low levels of serum vitamin D will improve symptoms of depression.
    
  