
    
      Background: Postnatal depression is a common public health problem which has long-term
      sequelae on the family and the infant's psychosocial development. Interpersonal psychotherapy
      has demonstrated its value as one of the most effective interventions for postnatal
      depression. Enhancement of family sense of coherence may be helpful for women who are at risk
      for postnatal depression. However, few studies in the context of Chinese parenthood have
      evaluated the effect of interpersonal psychotherapy on postnatal depression and the
      underlying mechanisms.

      Aim: To examine the effect of a couple-based interpersonal psychotherapy for first-time
      Chinese mothers and fathers on depressive symptoms (primary outcome), family sense of
      coherence (secondary outcome), and marital relationships (secondary outcome) immediately
      after intervention and at 6 weeks and 6 months postpartum.

      Method: A randomized controlled trial will be used to evaluate the effect of a couple-based
      interpersonal psychotherapy on depressive symptoms (primary outcome), family sense of
      coherence (secondary outcome), and marital relationships (secondary outcome) immediately
      after intervention and at 6 weeks and 6 months postpartum. A convenience sample of 125
      couples will be recruited at the antenatal clinics and randomly assigned to either
      experimental or control group. The experimental group will receive the intervention in
      addition to the standard perinatal care, while the control group will only receive the
      standard perinatal care.

      Intervention: The intervention consists of three weekly 2-hour antenatal sessions using an
      interpersonal psychotherapy approach that focused on enhancement of family sense of coherence
      and two telephone follow-ups within the first four weeks after delivery.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome measure of postnatal depression will be assessed by the
      Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale. Secondary outcome measures of family sense of coherence
      and the marital relationship, will be assessed by the Family Sense of Coherence Scale and
      Dyadic Adjustment, respectively, at baseline, immediately post-intervention, 6 weeks and 6
      months postpartum.

      Data analysis: Linear mixed models will be used to test for significant differences between
      the groups on outcome variables.
    
  