
    
      Humanity is experiencing since November 2019 a new pandemic by the novel SARS Coronavirus-19
      (SARS-CoV-2). As of March 16 2020 170,191 documented case were reported worldwide of which
      6,526 died1. The analysis of the clinical characteristics of these patients showed that among
      those who were critically ill with acute respiratory failure the risk of death was as high as
      60%2. Main clinical feature is the presence of comorbidities and age more than 60 years
      whereas main laboratory findings are leukopenia and lymphopenia with hepatic dysfunction and
      increase of D-dimers3,4. It is also reported that these patients suffer from intense
      pro-inflammation where hyper-cytokinemia predominates5,6.

      The above characteristics lead to consider two main mechanisms of pathogenesis of this
      critical condition: macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) and immune dysregulation. Early and
      correct understanding of the mechanism and management are of prime importance. This can be
      achieved only through a therapeutic protocol where the early recognition of the immune state
      can be done with the use of biomarkers and with the delivery of the precise treatment aiming
      to the correction of the immune dysregulation.

      Data of the Hellenic Sepsis Study Group indicate that MAS can be diagnosed with reliability
      using serum ferritin7. Concentrations greater than 4,420ng/ml possess diagnostic specificity
      97.3% and negative predictive value 98%. According to these data, the risk of developing MAS
      is greater among patients with comorbidities like type 2 diabetes mellitus and heart failure
      who are prone to hyper-production of interleukin (IL)-1β by tissue macrophages8. A recent
      retrospective analysis of patients with severe sepsis and MAS showed that the administration
      of anakinra decreased 28-day mortality by 30%9. Anakinra is the recombinant antagonist of
      human IL-1β receptor. IL-1β over-production is the hallmark of the pathogenesis of MAS.
      Results of a phase III study in 906 patients showed that anakinra was a very safe drug: there
      was neither excess mortality nor increased susceptibility to secondary infections9. Since
      November 2017 the randomized clinical trial entitled "A trial of validation and restoration
      of immune dysfunction in severe infections and sepsis, PROVIDE" (EudraCT number:
      2017-002171-26, approval 78/17 by the National Ethics Committee, approval IS 75/17 by the
      National Organization for Medicines, ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03332225). In this study patients
      with sepsis and laboratory diagnosis of MAS are randomized to treatment with placebo or
      anakinra for seven days. Enrolment was completed in December 2019 and no drug related adverse
      events have been reported.

      Recent unpublished data of the Hellenic Sepsis Study Group demonstrate that patients with
      immune dysregulation have profound lymphopenia associated with elevated IL-6. This is in
      accordance with evidence of the H1N1 pandemic where patients with pneumonia had substantial
      lymphopenia and increased Τ regulatory lymphocytes (Treg). This increase of Τreg was
      prominent among patients with comorbidities like diabetes mellitus, chronic heart failure and
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease10,11. The IL-6 blocker tocilizumab is a promising
      candidate for the reversal of this immune dysregulation.

      ESCAPE is an address to the personalized management of life-threatening organ dysfunction by
      SARS-CoV-2. More precisely, patients infected by SARS-CoV-2 associated with MAS and immune
      dysregulation will be administered treatment with anakinra and tocilizumab respectively.
    
  