
    
      Traditionally vasodilators are contraindicated in patients with aortic stenosis. Although no
      controlled data exists it is believed to be hazardous to reduce afterload, including
      treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, in these patients with aortic
      stenosis due to the risk of increased transaortic gradient and thus severe hypotension and
      myocardial hypoperfusion. There is now growing evidence both experimental and clinical that
      ACE inhibition could have beneficial effects on left ventricular hypertrophy, diastolic
      function, acute, and possibly chronic haemodynamic parameters in patients with aortic
      stenosis.

      There is, however, a lack of clinical randomized trials that could confirm these findings.

      Aims

      Prospective double blinded randomised study investigating the safety and effects of treatment
      with ACE-inhibitor in patients with severe aortic stenosis. Effects will be measured on :

        -  Invasive measured haemodynamic parameters (Swann-Ganz)

        -  Working capacity

        -  Diastolic and systolic function (measured with tissue Doppler echocardiography)

        -  Blood pressure

        -  B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)

      Patients

      32 patients with symptomatic aorta stenosis recruited from Rigshospitalet department of
      cardiology. Patients referred for evaluation prior to surgical intervention with insertion of
      a valvular prosthesis will be screened.

      Additional 32 patients with asymptomatic aorta stenosis will be recruited from Rigshospitalet
      and other cardiology departments.

      Methods

      Recruitment

      Patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis scheduled for aortic valve replacement at
      The Heart Centre at Rigshospitalets department of cardiology will be recruited.

      Patients with severe asymptomatic aortic stenosis on Rigshospitalet will be recruited. If it
      is necessary, patients from other hospitals will be recruited.

      Randomisation

      After baseline screening, patients will be randomized to active treatment or placebo. Half of
      the patients will have ACE-inhibitors (Captopril-test dose after this Trandolapril) the other
      half placebo.

      Administration of medicine

      ACE-inhibitor/placebo administration will be double blinded and performed by a hospital
      pharmacist not involved in any other part of the project.

      All patients will be hospitalised in the intensive care unit for the first 3 days to evaluate
      the acute haemodynamic changes when they start the treatment. If the patients have no
      symptoms after the 3 days they will discharge for further treatment for up to 8 weeks. Visits
      are planned after 2 and 8 weeks.
    
  