
    
      Indication: Focal Epilepsy Objectives: To evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of
      levetiracetam (LEV) in newly diagnosed elderly patients (aged 60 yrs or above) with focal
      epilepsy compared to lamotrigine (LTG) or carbamazepine slow release (CBZ).

      Primary Outcome: The primary outcome will be the 58-week retention rate measured by the
      number of drop outs due to adverse events or seizures from day 1 of treatment.

      Secondary Outcome: Proportion of patients remaining seizure-free at week 30 (Visit 4);
      proportion of patients remaining seizure free at week 58 (Visit 6); the time (in days) to
      first break-through seizure (from day 1 of treatment); the absolute seizure frequency during
      the maintenance (over 52 weeks) phase; proportion of seizure-free days during the maintenance
      phase for subjects who enter the maintenance phase; the frequency of adverse events (from day
      1 of treatment); QOLIE-31 results at V6; Portland Neurotoxicity scale at V6; results of
      cognitive testing (EpiTrack© by UCB).

      Trial Design: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter Phase IV study using a parallel
      group design with three treatment groups. The study will consist of a 6-week titration-phase
      and a 52-week maintenance phase. Patients who successfully complete the trial (final visit,
      V6) will be unblinded and offered either to continue on their current drug or be changed to
      an alternative antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment of choice.

      Population: Patients aged 60 years or above with new onset focal epilepsy i.e. either at
      least one epileptic seizure in the last 6 months and focal epileptiform discharges on EEG or
      a relevant lesion on CT/MRI or a total of 2 epileptic seizures, one of which occurring in the
      last 6 months prior inclusion. Patients with acute (< 2 weeks) symptomatic epileptic seizures
      due to acute brain abnormalities (i.e. haemorrhage or cerebral infarct), or contraindications
      against any of the drugs in trial will be excluded.

      Sample Size: 360 patients to be included, 120 patients per treatment arm. Investigational
      Medicinal Product(s): Levetiracetam, lamotrigine, carbamazepine-slow release Trial Duration
      and Dates: Duration of treatment: 6 weeks titration phase, 52 weeks maintenance phase.

      Follow up: At the end of trial subjects will be unblinded and may choose to continue on the
      medication or taper the trial medication and be treated with an alternative drug at the
      investigators discretion. The patient will receive a dosing schedule and a referral letter
      for his/her physician.

      Duration of trial: approximately 2 years. Start of recruitment: January 2007 Projected number
      of centres: 75 Number of countries: 3 (Germany, Switzerland, Austria).
    
  