
    
      Study background and aims:

      Advance care planning (ACP) is a structured communication process between an individual, his
      family, and his healthcare agent (if existing), facilitated by a healthcare provider. The aim
      is to identify the personal values of the individual, reflect on the meanings and
      consequences of anticipated illness scenarios, define goals and preferences of care for these
      situations, issue appropriate documents and legal instruments that will help direct future
      healthcare decisions, and review these steps at adequate intervals. ACP emphasizes
      communication in anticipation of a future deterioration of a person's health. Even though
      dementia entails the loss of decision-making capacity, advance care planning is yet to become
      widespread. This study aims to close the gap and create a dementia-specific ACP intervention
      that:

        -  Support patient autonomy through advance care planning

        -  Improve participants' satisfaction and perceived control;

        -  Increase planning decisions and surrogate's knowledge of patients' preferences and
           values.

      Procedure and measure:

      Pre-intervention assessment (Visit 1):

      If the patient and her/his relative have both consented to the study, the PI will ask the
      patient and her/his relative to fil out psychometric scales: Hospital anxiety and depression
      scale (HADS), Decisional conflict scale, Personal autonomy scale and Zarit Burden Inventory.
      Then, the PI will realize a semi-structured interview on patient's val-ues and treatment
      preferences and caregiver's knowledge of patient's preferences and care planning decisions
      that have already been made. Participants will also be asked to hand out a copy of any
      pre-existing advance directives or other advance care planning document.

      Intervention (Visit 2):

      In the intervention this first conversation (45-90 min) with a specifically trained ACP
      facilitator aims to explain the goal and content of ACP and prompt the patient to reflect
      upon his/her values and preferences for healthcare and discuss them with his/her caregiver.
      In addition, the written decision aids will be explained and provided to the
      patient/caregiver to be read at home. At the end of the meeting, the facilitator will ask to
      set up the second meeting.

      Intervention (Visit 3):

      The second conversation of the ACP facilitator with the patient and her/his caregiver aims to
      help the patient to specify her/his preferences and trans-late them into actionable
      documentation. The discussions also aim to empower the caregiver to make sure that these
      decisions are respected.

      Post-intervention assessment (Visit 4):

      The PI will start the meeting with a semi-structured interview (30-45 min) on the dyad's
      subjective experience with the intervention, positive and nega-tive effects, and challenges
      and suggestions to modify the intervention. Participants will also be asked to hand over
      copies of ACP documents produced during the intervention or after it in order to be analysed.
      After the interview, the PI will ask the patient and her/his relative to fill in psychometric
      scales: Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS), Decisional conflict scale, Personal
      autonomy scale and Zarit Burden Inventory.
    
  