
    
      A treatment manual for adults with ADHD was written based on the CBT model described in Young
      and Bramham's Handbook on ADHD in Adults (2007), Greenberger and Padesky's Mind Over Mood
      (2016) and Honos-Webb's The Gift of Adult ADD (2008). Emphasis will be on collaboration,
      incentive, group interaction and therapy rather than didactic instruction. The manual-based
      group treatment will be conducted in six sessions. An web page was developed in collaboration
      with the Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Iceland
      containing homework and coping skills assignments to support the participants during therapy.
      A pilot study has been conducted where adults (n= 5) previously diagnosed with ADHD was
      offered group CBT in six sessions. The usefulness and benefits of the manual and the App will
      be evaluated by using questionnaires. Participants was also asked about the group format. The
      manual and the App will be further developed in light of the pilot study's results.

      University students with ADHD (n= ........) previously diagnosed by a psychiatrist or a
      psychologist, will be offered group CBT in six sessions. The study will be introduced to the
      university students by the school counsellors at the University of Iceland and Reykjavik
      University. The school counsellors will contact the students and offer them to take part in
      the therapy. Participants will be randomized into two groups: a waiting list group and a
      therapy group. The waiting list group will subsequently be offered treatment after a wait of
      approximately six months. The therapy will be provided by a CNS. CBT sessions will take place
      once a week over a period of six weeks.

      Assessments will be conducted before the intervention (baseline), at end of treatment, and at
      six-month follow-up. In addition, half of the participants will be placed on a waiting list,
      and will be assessed at the same time as the intervention group (baseline) and again six
      weeks later, and again six month after that, and will serve as a waiting list comparison
      group. They will subsequently be offered the treatment intervention and will be included in
      the intervention group.
    
  