
    
      Background:

        -  Since HIV-infected individuals started taking anti-HIV medications, illnesses from AIDS
           have decreased, but other serious diseases have increased. Researchers think this may be
           caused by an increase in activity of the immune system that fights infection, leading to
           inflammation. Inflammation is a normal body reaction to any infection. However, if
           inflammation lasts a long time, like in HIV infection, it may lead to complications such
           as heart disease, cancer, liver disease, lung disease, and problems with thinking. Many
           HIV researchers are studying the harmful effects of this prolonged immune system
           activity and inflammation and possible ways to prevent these complications.

        -  A drug called dipyridamole is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under
           the trade name Persantine® for use with other drugs to reduce the risk of blood clots
           after heart valve replacement. Laboratory studies have shown that dipyridamole also
           lowers the level of immune system activity and inflammation measured in the blood.

      Objectives:

        -  To see how dipyridamole affects blood and lung tests to measure immune system activity
           and inflammation and to look at the safety and tolerability of dipyridamole in people
           infected with HIV. This use of dipyridamole is investigational, or not approved by the
           FDA; however, the dose to be used in this study, 100mg four times a day, is the dose
           approved by the FDA.

      Eligibility:

        -  Individuals 18 years of age and older who have HIV infection and are taking medications
           to treat it, and have a low viral load (HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL) for a minimum of 12
           months.

      Design:

        -  Participants will be screened with a physical exam, blood test, and medical history.
           Women of reproductive age will also receive a pregnancy test.

        -  Participants will take either Dipyridamole or a placebo for 12 weeks. Then they will
           take Dipyridamole for 12 weeks.

        -  During the study, participants will have frequent blood and urine tests. Dipyridamole
           drug levels, and liver and kidney function tests will be performed. HIV viral load (the
           amount of virus in the blood) will also be studied.

        -  Participants will have a final follow-up visit after an additional 4 weeks.

        -  Four brachial artery ultrasound images will be taken.

        -  Four pre- and post-bronchodilator spirometry tests will be performed by participants
           enrolled under Version 2.0: after each pre-test spirometry, participants will be asked
           to inhale 4 puffs of albuterol, and then to repeat the spirometry for post-testing.

        -  Participants will receive rectal swabs at screening, and four flexible sigmoidoscopies
           with rectal biopsies of the sigmoid colon throughout the study. These studies of the
           lower colon and samples of the rectum will be used to explore the effects of
           Dipyridamole. Participants can, however, opt out of all rectal procedures.
    
  