
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Biliary obstruction is the most relevant factor for survival and quality of life in patients
      suffering from primary bile duct malignancies or pancreatic head carcinoma. Due to their
      insidious course, these cancers are often diagnosed at an advanced stage. Thus, therapy is
      frequently restricted to palliative management. Within this setting, the prevention/treatment
      of biliary complications such as jaundice, cholangitis, or sepsis is one of the key
      therapeutic factors to extend survival and maintain quality of life (1-3). Endoscopic
      stenting of the biliary tract is now generally accepted as the primary approach to
      reestablish sufficient biliary drainage, provided approximately 50% of the liver parenchyma
      is drained (4). As the tumor grows, unfortunately, it often occurs that jaundice reappears
      despite primary stenting. Most oftenly this relates to unbridled tumor expansion leading to
      either stent-dysfunction by tumor ingrowth (through the mesh in case of metallic stenting of
      or via clogging of plastic stents) or either to extension in more proximal bile
      ducts/branches shutting of sufficient/adequate biliary drainage.

      Given the context of incurable disease, a minimally-invasive strategy that could reduce the
      tumor burden in addition to stenting might be considered beneficial in terms of longer
      sustained bile duct drainage, and as such improve quality of life, more efficiently
      administered and better tolerated courses chemotherapy and delayed disease progression.

      An example of such a potential minimal invasive strategy is RadioFrequency Ablation (RFA). It
      involves a modified electrocautery technique that has emerged among the many choices for
      local, minimally invasive tissue ablation. It has proven effective, versatile, and relatively
      inexpensive. RFA has been used for years in the treatment of cardiac dysrhythmias from
      aberrant conduction pathways, osteoid osteoma, prostate hypertrophy, and chronic pain (5-8).
      Recent clinical applications include tumor ablation in the liver (9-11), kidney (12,13)
      adrenal gland (14,15), bone (16), lung (17), and breast (18) as well as soft tissue debulking
      and pain palliation (19).

      In the context of gastro-intestinal endoscopy, RFA has taken its place in the reduction of
      neoplastic progression of Barrett esophagus over 3 years of follow-up (20).

      With regard to biliopancreatic endoscopy and oncology in particular, this approach has only
      recently been introduced. A primary experience using an alternative endoscopically applicable
      RFA-system for bile duct lesions, has shown to be feasible and safe ex vivo in resected fresh
      pig livers and in an open-label pilot study involving 22 patients with malignant biliary
      obstruction (21,22). Similar results have been obtained in animal testing for the ELRA-system
      (StarMed, Taewoong Medical, Seoul, Korea).

      The presumed theoretical advantage of the current system (ELRA system, StarMed, Taewoong
      Medical, Seoul, Korea) is the capacity to better control the locally applied temperature at
      all times and to maintain temperature continuous, as such preventing tissue adjacent to an
      active tip from carbonization during the procedure. Additionally the 4-ring appliance of
      thermal ablation allows a better thermal spreading and therefore appliance of ablation

      STUDY OBJECTIVE & DESIGN

      This project involves a single center investigator-driven prospective non-randomized
      non-controlled trial evaluating feasibility, safety and efficacy of thermal ablation of
      biliary obstructive malignancies by means of the ELRA RF during ERCP with primary intent to
      obtain palliative biliary drainage via stenting .

      STUDY METHODOLOGY : POPULATION & INTERVENTION

      ELIGIBLE PATIENT POPULATION

      All patients with an inoperable biliopancreatic tumor with obstructive jaundice and therefore
      in need of biliary drainage via ERCP, eligible and consenting for inclusion (cfr infra), will
      be considered for entry in the study. This is a non-randomized non-controlled
      investigator-driven trial.

      ENDOSCOPIC INTERVENTION

      All procedures will be performed under general anesthesia, according to standard good
      clinical practice. After performing an endoscopic sphincterotomy with/without balloon
      dilatation of the stenosis (conventional approach) in preparation of stenting, a RFA catheter
      (ELRA, Taewoong, Seoul, Korea), suitable for endoscopic delivery into the biliary tree over a
      0.035-inch guide wire, will be advanced up to the level of the malignant stenosis.

      The "end of follow-up" is defined as the end of the follow-up period (designated at 3 months
      after index procedure) or failure of treatment or death.

      The outcome parameters will be compared to those of a historically matched control group
      (i.e. stented without RFA).
    
  