
    
      Participants' Y-MRS total score at baseline will be subtracted from that at the Day 21 visit
      to determine the amount of change over time with treatment. The responses for the 3 different
      asenapine doses compared to placebo will be evaluated. The Y-MRS is an 11 item scale: seven
      items ranked on scale from 0 to 4 and four items ranked 0 to 8 with a range of possible total
      scores from 0 to 60.

      Participants' overall score on the CGI-BP at Day 21 will be evaluated to determine the amount
      of change over time with treatment. The responses for the 3 different asenapine doses
      compared to placebo will be evaluated. CGI-BP overall score is obtained from a single-item
      clinician-rated scale used to assess the participant's overall bipolar illness. Scores range
      from not ill (1) to very severely ill (7).

      The proportion of participants whose total Y-MRS score is decreased ≥50% from baseline at Day
      4, 7, 14 and 21. Results for the 3 different asenapine doses compared to placebo will be
      evaluated.

      Participants' mania sub-score from the CGI-BP will be evaluated for each study visit (Days 4,
      7, 14 and 21) to determine the amount of change over time with treatment. The responses for
      the 3 different asenapine doses compared to placebo will be evaluated.

      Participants' depression sub-score from the CGI-BP will evaluated at each study visit (Days
      4, 7, 14 and 21) to determine the amount of change over time with treatment. The responses
      for the 3 different asenapine doses compared to placebo will be evaluated.

      Participants' CDRS-R at baseline will be subtracted from those at each study visit at which
      this rating was measured (Days 7, 14 and 21) to determine the amount of change over time with
      treatment. The responses for the 3 different asenapine doses compared to placebo will be
      evaluated. The CDRS-R is a 17-item scale that assesses the presence and severity of
      depressive symptoms: fourteen items are rated from 1 to 7 and three items are rated from 1 to
      5; total scores range from 17 to 113.

      Participants' CGAS at baseline will be subtracted from that at the Day 21 visit to determine
      the amount of change over time with treatment. The responses for the 3 different asenapine
      doses compared to placebo will be evaluated. The CGAS is a 100-point scale, with a possible
      range of 1 to 100. Normal social functioning is defined as a CGAS total score of ≥70.

      Participants' PQ-LES-Q total score at baseline will be subtracted from that at the Day 21
      visit to determine the amount of change over time with treatment. The responses for the 3
      different asenapine doses compared to placebo will be evaluated. The PQ-LES-Q is a 15-item
      scale, with total score calculated as the sum of the first 14 items, with a range of 14 to
      70. Each item is scored by the child from 1 to 5, with higher scores indicative of greater
      enjoyment and satisfaction.

      Participants' PQ-LES-Q overall score (i.e. item 15) at baseline will be subtracted from that
      at the Day 21 visit to determine the amount of change over time with treatment. The responses
      for the 3 different asenapine doses compared to placebo will be evaluated. The PQ-LES-Q
      overall score is determined by the answer to item 15 on the questionnaire (range: 1 to 5).
    
  