
    
      Noninvasive fractional flow reserve (FFR) computed from CT (FFRCT) is a novel method for
      determining the physiologic significance of coronary artery disease (CAD), and several
      clinical trials have revealed that the FFRCT has a good correlation with invasive FFR, also
      use of noninvasive FFRCT plus Computed Tomography (CT ) among stable patients with suspected
      or known CAD was associated with improved diagnostic accuracy and discrimination vs CT alone
      for the diagnosis of hemodynamically significant CAD.

      The cornerstone of FFR is the linear relationship between pressure and flow under conditions
      of constant (and minimized) intracoronary resistance, so is FFRCT. Under such conditions,
      pressure and flow are assumed to be directly proportional, and a decrease in pressure across
      a stenosis reflects a decrease in blood flow to the dependent myocardium. However, even after
      administration of potent pharmacologic agents such as adenosine, intracoronary resistance is
      not static, but instead fluctuates in a phasic pattern throughout the cardiac cycle. In
      addition, for patients who are allergic to pharmacologic agents or with sever lesions which
      response little to pharmacologic agents, the measurement of FFR is challenging and the lesion
      are always underestimated. The ADVISE trial revealed that intracoronary resistance is
      naturally constant and minimized during the wave-free period. The instantaneous wave-free
      ratio calculated over this period produces a drug-free index of stenosis severity comparable
      to FFR. But whether iFR calculated from Computed Tomography(iFRCT) is comparable to FFRCT or
      FFR, and its diagnostic performance remains unknown. Thus the investigators conduct this
      trial to assess the diagnostic performance of Instantaneous Wave-Free Ratio for diagnosis of
      hemodynamically significant coronary stenosis.

      Instantaneous Wave-Free Ratio calculated from reconstructed heart model.Wave-intensity
      analysis identified a wave-free period in which intracoronary resistance at rest is similar
      in variability and magnitude.The investigators define the resting distal-to-proximal pressure
      ratio during this period as the instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR).
    
  