
    
      The prognosis of AML in elderly patients remain very poor and without significant advances in
      last decades. AML is a heterogeneous disease in which many altered molecular pathways could
      contribute to the disease. Thus, curative approaches have been based on highly eradicating
      regimens using high-dose chemotherapy. However, the low rate of CRs and the high rate of
      deaths due to toxicity and relapses in elderly patients should stimulate the development of
      new regimens that overcome these therapeutic obstacles. In recent years, there are a series
      of new drugs under development that allow the design of sequential combination therapies in
      this vulnerable population. These drugs have an acceptable toxicity profile and are
      apparently effective in monotherapy or even in combination, being able to improve the CR rate
      in this population. The investigators hypothesize that the combination of two targeted drugs
      that have different mechanisms of action could be capable of breaking the viability of
      leukemic cells as well as their proliferative qualities, and therefore prolong survival. In
      this way, the combined action of a pro-apoptotic agent (Venetoclax) and an antiproliferative
      agent (Quizartinib) could produce a powerful antileukemic effect, preventing the adaptive
      escape mechanisms of leukemic cells. The investigators have designed a phase I-II trial based
      on the combination of three drugs regimen LDAC or Azacitidine + Venetoclax + Quizartinib that
      in this population could be well tolerated by a sequential type administration. The first
      objective is to achieve rapid control of the disease, using two different schemes, one based
      in Azacitidine and the other in LDAC, by dose escalation in phase I of the trial. The second
      goal is to prevent relapse through a maintenance schedule. Phase II will study the efficacy
      and safety of the recommended dose for Phase II.
    
  