
    
      Each subject will undergo a Lapidus Arthrodesis which entails cartilage removal from the 1st
      TMT joint, subchondral bone preparation, deformity correction, temporary fixation and
      permanent fixation with the Phantom™ Intramedullary Nail. The Phantom™ Intramedullary Nail is
      inserted by drilling a hole for the nail at a specified location using instrumentation and a
      targeting guide. The nail is inserted into the drill hole and is fixated to the medial
      cuneiform and 1st metatarsal using three threaded pegs and a locking screw.

      A subchondral drill and chisel are provided in the system with the Lapidus Nail. Subchondral
      drilling and feathering of the subchondral bone with a chisel are standard ways to prepare
      the subchondral bone and elicit bleeding bone prior to arthrodesis. Use of this
      instrumentation is encouraged for this study to ensure that proper bone preparation is
      performed for arthrodesis. A torque indicating driver is also encouraged to be used for this
      procedure to help guide the surgeon to appropriate compression to apply across the joint.
      Alternatively, a standard driver and handle can be used with two-finger tightness when
      compressing the joint to achieve a similar effect.

      Traditionally, it is common for people who undergo a Lapidus Arthrodesis to be
      non-weight-bearing for 6-8 Weeks following the surgical procedure. This time allows the bones
      to properly fuse together. During this 6-8 week period, people can be limited in the typical
      day-to-day activities they participate in, such as walking, shopping and working.

      The Phantom™ Intramedullary Nail may allow subjects to bear weight earlier than traditional
      procedures without negatively effecting fusion. By allowing people to bear weight earlier
      than traditional methods, it is possible that people will have the opportunity to resume
      typical day-to-day activities faster than usual.

      The study in question will investigate the Phantom™ Intramedullary Nail with the following
      early weight-bearing protocol (see "Post-Operative Protocol for Study Participant" below).

      The study preference is that subjects are placed in a splint from 0-2 Weeks. However, a cast
      may be substituted according to surgeon preference. No casts are permitted beyond 2 Weeks,
      unless deemed as a medical necessity in which case the subject would no longer follow the
      early weight-bearing protocol.

      The study preference is that subject will be placed in a walking boot at 2 Weeks. However, an
      immobilizing shoe may be substituted according to surgeon preference.

      Post-Operative Protocol for Study Participant

      Activity Level Definitions:

      Sedentary: Most activities are done seated or lying down. Surgically repaired foot should be
      raised when in seated or reclined position. Standing limited to less than 15 minutes per
      hour. Moving is limited to necessary activities such as going to the bathroom or food
      preparation.

      Light Activity: Standing limited to less than 30 minutes per hour. Movement is mostly limited
      to in-home movement such as folding laundry or wiping counters. Short time periods of
      movement to leave the house can be performed for necessary activities (such as the grocery
      store), but should be limited to less than 30 minutes of standing time.

      Moderate Activity: No limits on standing. Walking limited to 45 minute time periods no more
      than 3 times per day. No running, jumping or heavy lifting (more than 25 pounds).

      Heavy Activity: No limits on walking, running and jumping. No lifting limits.

      0-2 Weeks After Surgery:

        -  Footwear: You will have a splint (or cast) on your surgically repaired foot/leg. The
           splint (or cast) should not be removed. You will wear a comfortable shoe on the other
           foot.

        -  Weight-Bearing: Do not put any weight on your surgically repaired foot.

        -  Mobility Aid: You will use a walking aid such as crutches, rolling knee scooter or
           wheelchair to keep all weight off of your surgically repaired foot.

        -  Range of Motion Exercises: None.

        -  Activity level: Sedentary after surgery working up to light activity over two Weeks
           (restarting activities of daily living without putting weight on your foot).

      2-6 Weeks After Surgery:

        -  Footwear: A restrictive boot (or shoe) will be given to you by your doctor. This should
           not be removed other than for range of motion exercises and bathing (seated). Wear a
           comfortable shoe on the other foot.

        -  Weight-Bearing: Put weight on your foot as you can tolerate in the restrictive boot (or
           shoe). Do not walk without the restrictive boot (or shoe).

        -  Mobility Aid: If possible, no walking aid should be used. If needed for pain, use a
           walking aid as necessary.

        -  Range of Motion Exercises: You will do range of motion exercises without the restrictive
           boot (or shoe) with no weight on your foot, as instructed by your doctor.

        -  Activity level: Light activity with restrictive boot (or shoe). 6 Weeks-3 Months After
           Surgery:

        -  Footwear: You will wear a restrictive boot (or shoe) working up to supportive shoe
           (preferably a lace-up or Velcro shoe including sneakers, running shoes, work boots or
           soft leather shoes without a heel) by 8 Weeks after your surgery.

        -  Weight-Bearing: Put weight on your foot as you can tolerate. Barefoot walking is not
           encouraged.

        -  Mobility Aid: No help from crutches, scooter, or wheelchair.

        -  Range of Motion Exercises: You will do range of motion exercises as instructed by your
           doctor.

        -  Activity level: Light activity working up to moderate activity (low impact) as you can
           tolerate.

      3-6 Months After Surgery:

        -  Footwear: At Month 3-4, move from a supportive shoe to footwear of your choice, as you
           can tolerate.

        -  Weight-Bearing: Put weight on your foot as you can tolerate.

        -  Mobility Aid: No help from crutches, scooter, or wheelchair.

        -  Activity level: Moderate activity for 3-4 Months post-operative, slowly moving into
           heavy activity as you can tolerate after Month 4.

           6 Months - 2 Years After Surgery:

        -  Footwear: You have no restrictions on footwear.

        -  Weight-Bearing: Put weight on your foot as you can tolerate.

        -  Mobility Aid: No help from crutches, scooter, or wheelchair.

        -  Activity Level: No activity limits.
    
  