
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Valproic acid is designed for use as an anti-seizure medication. It is thought to also have
      anticancer activity by activating ("turning on") tumor-fighting genes, which may cause cancer
      cell death.

      Dasatinib is designed to change the function of genes. By changing the function of these
      genes, it may prevent cancer from growing and spreading.

      Erlotinib hydrochloride is designed to block the activity of a protein found on the surface
      of many tumor cells that may control tumor growth and survival. This may stop tumors from
      growing.

      Lapatinib is designed to block the activity of certain molecules. These molecules play a part
      in the growth of cancer cells and are particularly important for the growth of inflammatory
      breast cancer tumors.

      Lenalidomide is designed to change the body's immune system. It may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Therefore, in theory, it
      may decrease or prevent the growth of cancer cells.

      Sorafenib is designed to block the function of a cancer protein as well as tumor blood-vessel
      forming proteins.

      Sunitinib malate is designed to block pathways that control important events such as the
      growth of blood vessels that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Study Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, the study doctor will decide
      which drug you will receive with valproic acid, based upon your particular disease. You will
      then begin taking valproic acid plus either dasatinib, erlotinib hydrochloride, lapatinib,
      lenalidomide, sorafenib, or sunitinib malate. One (1) cycle is either 21 or 28 days long,
      depending on which study drug combination you receive.

      You will take valproic acid by mouth once or twice a day for 7 days in a row. You will then
      have a 7-day "rest" period from taking this drug.

      You will also take either sorafenib or sunitinib malate by mouth once or twice a day
      continuously for 21 days, or dasatinib, erlotinib hydrochloride, lapatinib, or lenalidomide
      by mouth once or twice a day continuously for 28 days.

      Depending on what stage of the study you are in, you will take the study drugs either once or
      twice a day.

      Study Visits:

      You will have the below tests/procedures at designated study visits.

      Before each cycle (within 7 days of after your last dose)

        -  You will be have a complete physical exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine
           pregnancy test. To take part in this study, you must not be pregnant.

      After the end of Cycles 2, 4 and 6, you will have a chest x-ray and either a CT scan, MRI
      scan, or PET scan to check the status of the cancer. You will then have a chest x-ray and
      either a CT scan, MRI scan, or PET scan after the end of every 3 cycles (Cycle 9, 12, 15, and
      so on) to check the status of the cancer.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue to take your study drug combination on this study, as long as the disease
      does not get worse and you do not experience any intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you have stopped taking your study drug combination, you will come back for an
      end-of-study visit to have the following tests/procedures performed:

        -  You will have a complete physical exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood may be drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for routine tests

        -  You may have a CT scan, an MRI scan, or PET to check the status of the cancer, depending
           on what the study doctor thinks is necessary.

      Follow-Up:

      The status of the disease will be followed-up for as long as possible after you complete this
      study. Once every 8 weeks, you will either be contacted by phone and asked how you are
      feeling (which should take about 5-10 minutes), or you will be asked to come to the clinic
      for a routine visit. You will have a CT or MRI scan once every 12 weeks (or until another
      anticancer therapy has been started) to check the status of the cancer.

      This is an investigational study. Each of the study drugs is FDA approved and commercially
      available. The combination of valproic acid plus one of the other study drugs is
      investigational in this study.

      Valproic acid is FDA approved for the treatment of simple and complex absence seizure,
      complex partial epileptic seizure, acute mania, and migraine prophylaxis.

      Dasatinib is FDA approved for the treatment of acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) and chronic
      myeloid leukemia (CML).

      Erlotinib hydrochloride is FDA approved for the treatment of carcinoma of the pancreas and
      non-small-cell lung cancer.

      Lapatinib is FDA approved for the treatment of breast cancer (inflammatory, relapsed, or
      refractory) and metastatic breast cancer (HER2 overexpression).

      Lenalidomide is FDA approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma and myelodysplastic
      syndrome.

      Sorafenib is FDA approved for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. Sunitinib malate is FDA
      approved for the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumors and renal cell carcinoma.

      Up to 327 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  