
    
      Fractures of the lower extremity are common injuries that can lead to temporary or permanent
      disability.13 Fracture healing, regardless of treatment, is a multifactorial process that is
      influenced by time, biomechanics, and host biology (among other variables). The degree,
      timing, progression, and type of weight bearing after fractures involving the pelvis and
      lower extremities is an area of debate in the clinical management of a broad spectrum of
      orthopedic injuries.1,2,4-9,11,15 Periarticular fractures of weight bearing joints are an
      area of particular interest with regard to post-operative weight bearing due to the prolonged
      periods that patients must be non-weight bearing after surgery.

      Some degree of impairment is inevitable with any traumatic injury. The majority of authors
      writing about post-fracture weight bearing have determined that timing and extent of weight
      bearing has an effect on fracture healing, while a small number of authors have published
      results demonstrating the opposite.14,16,19,21 In addition to potential impacts on healing
      rates, limited or non-weight bearing carries the added insult of loss of bone density and
      muscle mass.3,10,12,17,20,22

      Traditionally, patients with periarticular fractures have been required to be non-weight
      bearing on their effected extremity for up to 12 weeks. At this institution, most patients
      have been required to remain non-weight bearing for 10 weeks, followed by progressively
      increased levels of weight bearing according to patient tolerance. One of the orthopaedic
      traumatologists at this institution uses immersion therapy to allow patients with
      periarticular fractures to begin weight bearing prior to the ten-week mark.

      Immersion therapy requires that patients perform their physical therapy, with a trained
      therapist, in a swimming pool. The use of the pool in post-fracture care may be able to
      provide a structured and standardized partial weight-bearing environment that could allow for
      early mobilization. It also has the potential to improve clinical outcomes by mitigating at
      least some of the loss in bone and muscle mass during the post-operative period; thereby,
      potentially speeding functional recovery. Immersion therapy is currently utilized on-site at
      the University of Utah Orthopedic Center for a variety of diagnoses, including in
      post-fracture care.

      There is essentially no orthopedic literature regarding immersion therapy in the management
      of post-fracture rehabilitation with regard to early weight bearing. Specifically, the
      investigators are aware of no clinical outcome studies that investigate standardized early
      weight bearing protocols following periarticular fractures of the lower extremity.
    
  