
    
      There are limitations in our routine standard of practice in Emergency medical clinic in
      rapid triage about the adequacy particularly in the patient group where specific and rapid
      decision-making, such as trauma. The process of evaluating the patients who are directed to
      the green area unnecessarily in trauma care by the physician is prolonged, the evaluation
      process of patients who are directed to the red area unnecessarily shortens but hospital
      resources are being used extensively. Therefore, in this study, it was planned to perform
      objective triage with a computer based scoring system. Triage scoring determined by the
      Ministry of Health (SB ), routinely performed by an emergency medical technician (EMT), will
      be applied when the patients are admitted to emergency services. According to this scoring,
      patients who need urgent care and who should not wait less than 15 minutes will be considered
      red coded, patients who can wait up to 60 minutes will be considered yellow coded, patients
      who can wait for 120 minutes or more will be considered green coded. To the other group,
      triage maintenance / evaluation will be done with computer software developed by us. All
      patients with trauma should be included in the study, demographic data, trauma mechanism and
      trauma type vital signs at the time of application of the patients will be routinely observed
      in both groups of patients. These observations are routine for this disease group and we will
      not undertake any interventional procedures or screening except special routine application
      for research purposes. The observation and file information will be organized by the triage
      staff in both groups at the time of the application of the patients. In this software-based
      program before working on the software informative training will be given to triage staff and
      for this patient triage handheld computers will be given to triage staff. In order for the
      referring patients to be able to see the entries made with the triage software a simultaneous
      large-screen monitor will be used. At the time of application, color codes indicating the
      urgency of the patients will be given according to the demographic data of the patients, the
      type of trauma and the vital signs were directed by the software program. As a result of the
      software program's direction, patients will be coded as green-yellow-orange-red area and
      patient care will be made in accordance with these codes.
    
  