
    
      Smoking can cause a variety of cancers, cardiovascular disorders, and other health problems.
      Quitting smoking greatly decreases one's risk for these problems. Studies have shown,
      however, that quitting smoking is more difficult for women than men. Despite that knowledge,
      little research has been done to try to understand the mechanistic differences between men
      and women that may cause this distinction. This study will assess whether the reduced
      effectiveness of nicotine replacement therapy in women is caused by physical and
      psychological gender differences in the withdrawal suppression induced by nicotine
      replacement therapy.

      Participants in this double-blind study will attend 4 treatment sessions, each approximately
      6.5 hours long and each corresponding to one of four transdermal nicotine replacement patch
      doses (0, 7, 21, or 42 mg). Sessions will be separated by at least 48 hours to avoid
      carryover effects. Immediately following arrival at each session, participants' expired air
      carbon monoxide (CO) levels will be measured to verify that the participant has not smoked
      for at least 8 hours prior to the visit. If the CO level meets the necessary criteria to
      proceed, a baseline blood sample will be obtained, followed by additional blood samples every
      30 minutes. Baseline nicotine withdrawal levels will be assessed using questionnaires.
      Computerized recordings of physiological responses will also commence and will continue
      throughout the session. These response measures will include heart rate, percent oxygen
      saturation, skin temperature, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and mean arterial
      pressure. Upon completion of baseline measures, participants will receive a randomly assigned
      dose of nicotine replacement therapy, in the form of three patches placed on the
      participants' back. The patches will be removed after 6 hours and the participant will be
      assessed for any residual effects from the medication.
    
  