
    
      In recent years, tuberculosis (TB) control efforts have been complicated by the rise and
      spread of MDR-TB, or TB that is resistant to the first-line drugs isoniazid (INH) and
      rifampicin (RIF), and XDR-TB, or MDR-TB that has developed additional resistance to a
      fluoroquinolone (FQ) and any of the second-line injectable compounds (SLI) [amikacin (AMK),
      kanamycin (KAN) and/or capreomycin (CAP)] The rapid diagnosis and appropriate treatment of
      M/XDR-TB is essential to prevent significant morbidity, mortality and further transmission of
      disease. For treatment of uncomplicated MDR-TB, the World Health Organization (WHO) recently
      endorsed a 6-9 month treatment regimen, replacing conventional 18-24 month regimens. The FQs
      and SLIs are key components of the 6-9 month regimen, and so it is necessary to rule-out
      resistance to these compounds prior to treating patients with the shorter regimen. For longer
      MDR-TB treatment regimens, WHO no longer endorses the use of CAP or KAN, but the regimens
      still rely heavily on FQs, with AMK and PZA listed as recommended Group C drugs, thus
      ensuring that the rapid diagnosis of all of these drugs is still relevant and critical to the
      timely treatment of DR-TB4.

      The current standard for comprehensive DR-TB diagnosis is culture-based DST (liquid culture,
      e.g. MGIT or solid culture, e.g. LJ), which can only be implemented in custom-built Biosafety
      Level 3 (BSL3) laboratories. The global response to the need for comprehensive DST in the
      last two decades has therefore been focused on the scale-up of BSL3 facilities and MGIT
      liquid culture systems to expand global capacity. While this enabled some standardization of
      DST workflows and resulted in a foundation for a global network of reference TB laboratories,
      it has come at considerable cost and effort in terms of infrastructure needs, significant
      hands-on time and expertise for routine use. Moreover, the slow growth of Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis (Mtb) in culture means it takes 6-8 weeks to get results from conventional
      culture-based DST and data has shown that often culture comes too late to have an impact on
      the patient outcomes. More recently, the global response to the public health need for
      universal DST has been a wide rollout and broad adoption of rapid molecular TB tests with
      limited DST capabilities to support early treatment decisions and complement traditional
      phenotypic DST, e.g. (Cepheid Xpert MTB/RIF or Ultra, Hain GenoType MTBDRplus). However, the
      inherent design of probe- or array-based molecular diagnostics limits their coverage to a
      limited number of specific mutations included in the initial design-locked assay, and
      prevents them from integrating new mutations and new drug resistance prediction without going
      back to complete product development and validation. Next generation sequencing (NGS)
      technology has the potential to revolutionize global comprehensive DST. Targeted NGS (tNGS)
      can be used to interrogate more than numerous genome-wide targets in the Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis (MTB) that contain mutations associated with resistance, and differentiate them
      from mutations that do not confer resistance, providing better performance than probe or
      array-based molecular diagnostics.

      For DR-TB diagnosis, tNGS offers huge potential gains over culture-based methods and other
      molecular diagnostics in terms of speed, ease of use and comprehensive coverage. However, the
      uptake of sequencing for DR-TB patient care in LMICs has been limited due to (i) the absence
      of a standardized and complete solution directly from clinical samples to data analysis and
      interpretation (i.e. an end-to-end solution); (ii) lack of verification and validation of
      such commercial end-to-end sequencing solutions to drive policy and guidelines for use of
      sequencing as an in vitro diagnostic; and (iii) perceived technical and cost barriers. The
      WHO and FIND developed a technical guide on requirements and utilization of sequencing for
      clinical diagnosis of DR-TB and a consensus-based Target Product Profile (TPP) for
      sequencing. The standard components of an End-to-end solution include: DNA extraction from
      sputum sample, library preparation, sequencing and data analysis/interpretation for clinical
      result reporting. Based on the published TPP guidelines, a number of manufacturers have
      developed end-to-end solutions for DR-TB diagnosis. These sequencing solutions require
      rigorous analytical testing, laboratory validation, and clinical evaluation in order to
      ensure that they meet technical as well as operational target product profile criteria.

      The current study is part of a two-phase project to assess performance of culture-free, tNGS
      end-to-end solutions for drug resistant TB diagnosis, and to recommend their use in diverse
      clinical settings.

        -  Phase 1 is an analytical study performed at the manufacturer site. It is a blinded
           laboratory analytical validation of tNGS end-to-end solutions using a well-characterized
           panel of MTB strains.

        -  Phase 2 (the current study) is a multi-centre, clinical trial to evaluate the diagnostic
           accuracy and performance of up to 3 tNGS end-to-end sequencing solutions in settings of
           intended use.

      The two study phases will provide complementary bodies of evidence to address the study
      objectives and determine whether tNGS solutions meet the diagnostic performance criteria
      outlined in the NGS Target Product Profile (TPP) for clinical diagnosis of drug resistant TB.
      The purpose of this clinical trial is to confirm accuracy estimates observed in the
      laboratory validation study and ensure that tNGS diagnostic performance characteristics are
      consistent at sites of intended use.

      The focus of this protocol is the multi-centre clinical evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy
      and technical performance of End-to-end tNGS solutions for DR-TB diagnosis.
    
  