
    
      Specific aim 1: Evaluate the level of root coverage using Platelet Rich Fibrin (PRF) plus
      Autologous Fibrin Glue (AFG) with a coronally advanced flap (CAF) or PRF only with a CAF
      compared to subepithelial connective tissue graft (CTG) with a CAF for Class 1 and 2 gingival
      recession defects.

      Specific aim 2: Evaluate the level of keratinized tissue thickness and width using PRF plus
      AFG with a CAF, PRF only with a CAF or a SCTG with CAF for Class 1 and 2 gingival recession
      defects.

      Research design and methods:

      Subjects and treating clinician will not be aware of the treatment arm until immediately
      before the surgery. Each treatment arm will use the same surgical protocol for treating
      gingival recession and will differ by the material used to cover the tooth root. Intervention
      A will use PRF with the addition of AFG. Intervention B will use PRF. The control arm will
      use CTG.

      Methods: A total of 48 patients with recession defects will be randomly assigned to three
      different treatment groups. Treatment group A (n=16) will consist of patients treated with
      PRF plus AFG with a CAF, Group B (n=16) will consist of patients treated with PRF with a CAF
      and Group C (n=16) will consist of patients treated with CTG with a CAF. Group C will be the
      control group. Clinical measurements, including recession defect length and gingival width
      and thickness, will be evaluated at baseline, one month and six months after treatment. For
      standardization, measurements will be taken using pre- fabricated stents with an endo file
      stopper. A visual analogue scale will be used to compare post-operative pain between the two
      procedures.

      Study Subjects Overview: This study will use the patient pool of the periodontal clinic at
      the UCSF Dental Center to identify potentially eligible patients. The periodontal clinic
      regularly receives a high volume of referred patients for treatment of gingival recession.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      1. Men and women aged 18 years or over 2. Miller's Class 1 and Class 2 recession Miller's
      Class 1 - Marginal tissue recession which does not extend to the mucogingival junction. There
      is no periodontal loss (bone or softi tssue ) in the interdental area, and 100% root coverage
      can be anticipated.

      Miller's Class 2 - Marginal tissue recession which extends beyond the mucogingival
      junction.There is no periodontal loss (bone or softi tssue ) in the interdental area, and
      100% root coverage can be anticipated.

      5 Localized gingival recession of 1-6mm present on 1 or 2 continuous single rooted teeth.
      Gingival recession is measured from the cemental-enamel junction (CEJ; a stable anatomical
      landmark on every tooth) to the gingival margin.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Current tobacco use (greater than 1 cigarette/week) or history of quitting < 5 years
           previously (self reported)

        2. Poor oral hygiene (plaque index of 2 or greater) or active periodontal disease
           (diagnosis of moderate chronic periodontal disease or greater)

        3. Currently taking aspirin, prescription blood thinners, or present with any
           coagulopathies 4. Type II diabetes with HbA1c greater than 7

      5. Immunosuppressed or any other systemic condition that would disqualify subject as an
      acceptable surgical candidate Retention strategy: In the course of review if funding becomes
      available modest financial incentives will be made to patients returning for the 1 month and
      6 month recall appointments. Otherwise, telephone and email reminders will be made by study
      staff for recall appointments.

      PRF Preparation The PRF will be prepared according to the protocol outlined by Choukroun 1.
      Prior to the surgical procedure, venous blood will be collected via venipuncture from the
      antecubital vein using two 10 ml sterile glass tube and one 10ml sterile plastic tube. The
      tubes will be immediately centrifuged at 1300 rpm for 8 minutes to obtain PRF. The fibrin
      clot formed in the middle part of the tube will be collected. The clot will be transferred to
      the PRF box and compressed to form a membrane. For the AFG, the liquid will be separated from
      the red blood cells from the plastic tube using a sterile syringe.

      Sup-epithelial connective tissue harvest:

      The palatal donor site should be at least 3mm in thickness. A horizontal incision will be
      made on the palate 3mm from the maxillary canine to the first molar using a 15 blade. A
      sub-epithelial connective tissue graft will be harvested with adequate dimensions based on
      the recipient site. The graft will be sutured over the recipient site with 5-0 chromic gut
      sutures using a continuous mattress suturing technique.

      Surgical procedure:

      An acrylic stent will be made using patient's models/dental cast. On the day of the
      procedure, the recession defect length and width will be measured using the pre-fabricated
      stent and periodontal probe. The gingival thickness will be evaluated using an endo reamer
      and stopper. For all groups, the recipient bed will be prepared using a horizontal sulcular
      incision. A split thickness flap will be reflected to expose the periosteum. The flap will be
      extended mesio-distally from the recession defect for adequate blood supply and for passive
      primary closure. For Group C - CTG w/ CAF, the CTG harvested from the palate will be placed
      over the recession defect. For Group B PRF w/CAF, the PRF membrane will be placed on the
      recession defect. For Group A -PRF plus AFG w/ CAF, the AFG liquid will be applied over the
      exposed roots of the recession defect and the PRF membrane will be placed on the recession
      defect. For all groups, the recipient flap will cover the graft and be coronally positioned
      over the cemento-enamel junction. The recipient site will be sutured using a sling suturing
      technique with 5-0 vicryl sutures. Care will be taken to achieve tension free primary closure
      for all the groups. Hemostasis will be achieved by applying gentle finger pressure for up to
      5 minutes.

      Data collection and Analysis:

      Clinical measurements will be assessed at baseline and at 1 month and 6 months after surgery.
      The clinical measurements will be recorded using a pre- fabricated stent and periodontal
      probe. The clinical measurements that will be recorded, include probing depth, clinical
      attachment level, and gingival recession parameters. The gingival recession parameters
      include recession width, depth and thickness. Presence of plaque and gingival inflammation
      will also be recorded using Loe & Silness Plaque and Gingival Index.

      Standard clinical care:

      - Each subject receives regular care for the root coverage procedure.

      In brief, the regular care involves the following:

      - Root coverage procedure involves coverage of the exposed root to improve esthetics,
      decrease caries risk and increase keratinized tissue. There are several techniques supported
      in the literature including the techniques used for treatment arm (Group B and Group C) of
      the study described below.

      Study Procedures - After successful enrollment and randomization into a given treatment arm,
      subject are treated according to normal clinical care for the treating the soft tissue
      recession. Particpant's study models are taken and stent is created using the model.

      The following study interventions are performed during the regular care phase:

      Baseline measurement- The clinical measurements will be taken non-invasively using a pre-
      fabricated stent, periodontal probe and endo reamer with stopper before the surgery
      (baseline) and at 1 month, 6 months post surgery.

      - Measurements will be recorded by the study coordinator on a coded data collection sheet.
      Soft tissue recession treatment groups : Group A - PRF plus AFG with a CAF - The PRF will be
      prepared according to the protocol outlined by Choukroun 1. Prior to the surgical procedure,
      venous blood will be collected via venipuncture from the antecubital vein using two 10 ml
      sterile glass tube and one 10ml sterile plastic tube. The tubes will be immediately
      centrifuged at 1300 rpm for 8 minutes to obtain PRF. The fibrin clot formed in the middle
      part of the tube will be collected. The clot will be transferred to the PRF box and
      compressed to form a membrane. For the AFG, the liquid will be separated from the red blood
      cells from the plastic tube using a sterile syringe.

      Group B - PRF only with a CAF - The PRF will be prepared according to the protocol outlined
      by Choukroun1. Prior to the surgical procedure, venous blood will be collected via
      venipuncture from the antecubital vein using two 10 ml sterile glass tube. The tubes will be
      immediately centrifuged at 1300 rpm for 8 minutes to obtain PRF. The fibrin clot formed in
      the middle part of the tube will be collected. The clot will be transferred to the PRF box
      and compressed to form a membrane.

      Group C - CTG with a CAF (Control) - Sup-epithelial connective tissue harvest: The palatal
      donor site should be at least 3mm in thickness. A horizontal incision will be made on the
      palate 3mm from the maxillary canine to the first molar using a 15 blade. A sub-epithelial
      connective tissue graft will be harvested with adequate dimensions based on the recipient
      site. The graft will be sutured over the recipient site with 5-0 chromic gut sutures using a
      continuous mattress suturing technique.

      Surgical procedure:

      An acrylic stent will be made using patient's models/dental cast. On the day of the
      procedure, the recession defect length and width will be measured using the pre-fabricated
      stent and periodontal probe. The gingival thickness will be evaluated using an endo reamer
      and stopper. For all groups, the recipient bed will be prepared using a horizontal sulcular
      incision. A split thickness flap will be reflected to expose the periosteum. The flap will be
      extended mesio-distally from the recession defect for adequate blood supply and for passive
      primary closure. For Group C - CTG w/ CAF, the CTG harvested from the palate will be placed
      over the recession defect as described above. For Group B PRF w/CAF, the PRF membrane will be
      placed on the recession defect. For Group A -PRF plus AFG w/ CAF, the AFG liquid will be
      applied over the exposed roots of the recession defect and the PRF membrane will be placed on
      the recession defect. For all groups, the recipient flap will cover the graft and be
      coronally positioned over the cemento-enamel junction. The recipient site will be sutured
      using a sling suturing technique with 5-0 vicryl sutures. Care will be taken to achieve
      tension free primary closure for all the groups. Hemostasis will be achieved by applying
      gentle finger pressure for up to 5 minutes.

      Post operative visit (Week 1): Treated site checked for healing and oral hygiene instructions
      will be reviewed with the patient.

      Post operative visit (Week 2): Treated site checked for healing and oral hygiene instructions
      will be reviewed with the patient.

      Post operative visit (1 months): Treated site checked for healing and oral hygiene
      instructions will be reviewed with the patient. Topical local anesthetic will be applied on
      the treated area and the clinical measurements will be taken non-invasively using the
      pre-fabricated stent, periodontal probe and endo reamer with stopper at one month post
      surgery.

      Post operative visit (6months): Treated site checked for healing and oral hygiene
      instructions will be reviewed with the patient. Clinical measurements are repeated as
      described above.
    
  