
    
      The study design is a crossover AB BA. Treatment A consist in a cycle of blindsight training
      associated to tDCS, Treatment B consist in a a cycle of blindsight training alone.

      During the blindsight training, the patient is asked to maintain central fixation and is
      exposed to visual stimuli in his blind hemifield. The patient task is detection and/or
      discrimination of stimuli.

      During each session the patient is subjected to around 700 different stimuli variously
      associated in space and/or time.

      One out of two blindsight training cycles is associated to tDCS treatment. Anodal tDCS is
      applied using a battery-driven constant current stimulator, and a pair of surface
      saline-soaked sponge electrodes (5 x 5 cm). Current intensity is of 2 mA (Fade-in/-out= 10
      sec), for a total duration of 30 min. The stimulation start at the beginning of the
      rehabilitation session, and continue for 30 min, during treatment.

      Anode is placed over the parieto-occipital cortex. The cathode is placed in the contralateral
      supraorbital position.

      To assess the actual improvement patients performed:

        1. Clinical-instrumental assessment: Threshold visual field Humphrey SITA-standard 30-2
           program is used to measure the visual perception within the central 30 degrees.

        2. Peripheral visual field test Schofield Vienna PP-R test is used to measure the visual
           perception up to 180 degrees. A double task in central vision was performed in order to
           verify test reliability.

        3. Functional visual field assessment: Test for Attention Performance (TAP - v. 2.3) visual
           field 92 stimuli subtest (26) is performed.

        4. Ecological assessment: during initial and final interview an ICF profile of the subject
           is edited. The profile includes mainly the Activity and Participation categories of ICF.

      All these investigations is performed before the treatment and after each cycle
    
  