
    
      All patients referred to the Forzani MacPhail Colon Cancer Screening Centre (CCSC) in
      Calgary, Alberta, Canada for colonoscopy will be considered for inclusion. During
      pre-assessments at the clinic, patients are asked to consider a general research consent. If
      they agree to that, then they will be approached for consideration of participating in this
      study and presented with an "Invitation to Participate in a Research Study" form (appendix);
      the study assistant will obtain final consent if they agree. Those not interested in
      participating will simply receive their physician's standard bowel preparation protocol.
      There will be no coercion of any sort. Enrollment of participants will be performed with
      block randomizations of 8 by using a computer-generated table, with allocation concealment
      maintained through the use of consecutively numbered sealed envelopes. Colonoscopists and
      investigators will be blinded to allocation groups. Patients will be allocated to one of two
      groups: (1) oral Pico-Salax (two sachets, with 1.5-2L of water following each sachet) with
      Dulcolax (Bisacodyl, 4 tablets); (2) split dose Polyethylene Glycol-Based Lavage (2L + 2L).

      A study assistant will assign patients to their group and instruct them on the proper use of
      their assigned bowel preparation method. Patients will be given a tolerability questionnaire,
      which has been modified from a previously used questionnaire, to be completed once their
      bowel preparation is finished and before coming to the CCSC for the colonoscopy (included in
      the appendix). Patient concerns or questions regarding the preparation will be directed
      toward the study assistant or clinic nurses as opposed to their endoscopist, so as to avoid
      un-blinding the Colonoscopist. The physician performing the procedure will then complete an
      Ottawa Bowel Preparation Scale and a validated Simplified Bowel Preparation scale to assess
      colon cleanliness.
    
  