
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. To identify a panel of miRNAs, detectable in the circulation, which are altered in
           breast cancer patients

        2. To identify specific combinations of miRNAs ('signatures') which associate with breast
           cancer intrinsic subtypes, and thereby could aid in prognostication and treatment
           planning on an individual patient basis.

      Secondary Objective:

        1. To determine if systemic miRNA analysis can be used as a biomarker for monitoring
           response to chemotherapy, in the neoadjuvant setting and in patients who present with
           breast cancer recurrence and are treated with upfront chemotherapy and/or hormonal
           therapy.

           This is a prospective cohort studies, involving three study cohorts:

           Cohort 1: All newly diagnosed breast cancer patients who are scheduled to undergo
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

           Cohort 2: All breast cancer patients who present with metastatic disease, disease
           recurrence or progression, who are commencing up-front chemotherapy +/- hormonal
           therapy.

           Cohort 3: All breast cancer patients who present with metastatic disease who are
           commencing hormonal therapy only.

           Blood Sample

           Blood Sampling - Cohort 1:

           - Blood sample 1: at presentation before commencing neoadjuvant treatment.

           - Blood sample 2: midway through their chemotherapy treatment (after 2nd cycle if they
           are enrolled in a 4 cycle regimen, or after 4th cycle if they are prescribed an 8 week
           regimen).

           - Blood sample 3: post-chemotherapy (before surgery as applicable).

           - Blood sample 4: 2 to 4 weeks after surgery, or 2 to 4 weeks post 3rd blood sampling if
           patients do not undergo surgery.

           - Blood sample 5: once during follow-up of 12 to 18 months after surgery or 12 to 18
           months post 3rd blood sampling if patients do not undergo surgery.

           Blood Sampling - Cohort 2:

           - Pre-treatment blood sample: at presentation before commencing treatment.

           - On study blood samples: taken at monthly (± 1 week) intervals for a period of 6 months
           from date of pre-treatment blood sample, despite whether the patient is on treatment or
           completed treatment.

           On study blood sample 1: 1 month (± 1 week) from date of pre-treatment blood sample

           On study blood sample 2: 2 months (± 1 week) from date of pre- treatment blood sample

           On study blood sample 3: 3 months (± 1 week) from date of pre-treatment blood sample

           On study blood sample 4: 4 months (± 1 week) from date of pre-treatment blood sample

           On study blood sample 5: 5 months (± 1 week) from date of pre-treatment blood sample

           On study blood sample 6: 6 months (± 1 week) from date of pre-treatment blood sample

           - End of study blood sample: once during follow-up of 12 to 18 months from date of
           pre-treatment blood sample or at the time of disease progression.

           Blood Sampling - Cohort 3:

           - Pre-treatment blood sample: at presentation before commencing treatment.

           - On study blood samples: taken at the following time points despite whether the patient
           is on treatment or completed treatment.

           On study blood sample 1: 3 months (± 2 weeks) from date of pre-treatment blood sample On
           study blood sample 2: 6 months (± 2 weeks) from date of pre-treatment blood sample On
           study blood sample 3: 12 months (± 2 weeks) from date of pre-treatment blood sample

           - End of study blood sample: 18 months (± 2 weeks) from date of pre-treatment blood
           sample or at the time of disease progression.

           Blood samples will be processed for miRNA analysis, which involves:

      1. Lysis using Trizol 2. RNA isolation 3. Assessing concentration and integrity of RNA using
      Nanodrop spectrophotometry 4. cDNA synthesis (using miRNA specific stem loop primers) 5. PCR
      amplification and relative quantification (using miRNA specific probes)
    
  