
    
      Adolescents with substance use disorders (SUD) are at high risk for significant deleterious
      outcomes. Although several evidence-based practices for adolescent SUD exist, they yield only
      small to medium effects that rapidly diminish (30-70% 6-month relapse rates). A promising
      approach for determining how to enhance treatment is experimental mediation research. In
      contrast to traditional correlational mediation approaches, experimental mediation permits
      causal inference and is comprised of key steps: (A) Identify the putative mediating variable
      for a treatment. (B) Enhance the treatment to target that mediator more intensely. (C)
      Randomize youth to conditions, with the standard and enhanced versions of the treatment
      targeting different "levels" of the same mediator. (D) Measure the mediator and outcomes
      longitudinally. (E) Perform modern mediation analyses, coupled with analyses evaluating
      causal inference, to determine if changes in the mediator are responsible for changes in
      outcomes. This experimental test of mediation, focused on causality, facilitates rapid
      improvement of treatments by specifying change mechanisms to target in order to improve
      outcomes. These steps will be followed to elucidate the mediating processes in treatment for
      adolescent SUD, with the ultimate goal of enhancing the strength and durability of SUD
      treatments. The three most common putative mediating variables in adolescent SUD treatments
      are parent management, behavioral regulation, and peer relations. For this study, parent
      management was chosen as the target because it has evidenced the most potential for yielding
      generalizable change in youth outcomes and also has been shown to indirectly improve youths'
      behavioral regulation and peer relations. Of existing treatments for adolescent SUD,
      family-based Contingency Management (CM) was chosen as the treatment to enhance because it is
      highly amenable to an augmented focus on parenting, is less complex relative to other SUD
      treatments, and has amassed considerable support in terms of efficacy and dissemination
      potential. Thus, following experimental mediation steps, youth with SUD will be randomized to
      receive either standard CM or enhanced CM (i.e., CM+) that targets parenting more intensely.
      Repeated assessments for 12 months and longitudinal analyses will allow testing of mediating
      processes. The investigators will examine whether parent management skills mediate the effect
      of treatment on youth substance use and behavior problems (Aim 1). In addition, the
      investigators will determine whether parent management skills mediate the effect of treatment
      on youth behavioral regulation and deviant peer relations (Aim 2). Finally, the investigators
      will test whether behavioral regulation and deviant peer relations mediate the effect of
      parent management on youth substance use and behavior problems (Aim 3). Findings could have
      broad impact across multiple adolescent SUD treatments.
    
  