
    
      Biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have recently become extremely important for a number
      of reasons: to improve diagnosis, to measure severity of disease, to measure progression of
      disease, to measure effects of novel disease-modifying drugs and to speed development of
      these novel experimental drugs by reducing time needed to follow patients, number of patients
      to be followed per study, and cost of research. (Thal, 2006, Nichols, 2006)

      The neuropathology of AD is characterized by neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and
      neuronal cell loss (Braak and Braak, 1997). Amyloid plaques are believed to play an integral
      role in AD (Selkoe, 1993). Plaques are neurotoxic (Yankner, 1989). Elevated levels of Aβ in
      the brain are correlated with cognitive decline (Naslund, 2000). Removal of plaques in animal
      models of AD results in behavioral improvements (Arendash, 2001).

      There are no approved in vivo markers of amyloid load in humans. Several compounds with
      affinity for binding amyloid in vivo are under investigation. All of these compounds use
      radioactive chemical tags for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Attempts at finding
      non-radioactive amyloid tracers are underway, but still poorly developed. The most promising
      compound is 11C-PIB. Pittsburgh Compound-B has statistically significant increased retention
      in AD cortical areas, relative to controls (P<0.05). (Price, 2005) To our knowledge, 11C-PIB
      imaging has not been compared against frontotemporal dementia (FTD) controls.

      We will recruit (from our clinic population), a total of 30 subjects, 10 from each of the
      following 3 diagnostic categories: frontotemporal dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and normal
      volunteers. All subjects will be given an FDG-PET scan (if they haven't had one in the past)
      and a PIB-PET scan.

      Objective and Hypothesis:

      The overall objective of this project is to study the biodistribution of 11C-PIB using PET
      imaging in normal elderly volunteers and relevant patient groups. Comparison with FDG-PET is
      essential to confirm group membership and for anatomic co-registration of 11C-PIB images.

      Specific Aim 1: Determine the biodistribution of 11C-PIB in AD, FTD, and cognitively normal
      elderly individuals and determine whether it reflects the distribution of amyloid plaques in
      the brain expected from postmortem studies.

      Hypothesis 1: The agent 11C-PIB has similar biodistribution outside the brain in AD, FTD, and
      cognitively normal elderly individuals.

      Hypothesis 2: Patients with AD scanned with 11C-PIB will have higher standardized uptake
      values (SUVs) than cognitively normal elderly in brain regions where beta amyloid are
      expected to be over-expressed.

      Hypothesis 3: Patients with FTD scanned with 11C-PIB will have similar standardized uptake
      values (SUVs) as cognitively normal elderly subjects and lower values than in AD subjects in
      brain regions where beta amyloid are expected in AD to be overexpressed.

      Specific Aim 2: Correlate glucose metabolism with 11C-PIB PET results.

      Hypothesis 4: Patients with a pattern of glucose hypometabolism suggestive of FTD with
      FDG-PET have 11C-PIB uptake and brain biodistribution similar to cognitively normal elderly,
      while those with a pattern of glucose hypometabolism suggestive of AD have abnormal PIB
      uptake and brain biodistribution of 11C-PIB
    
  