
    
      Periodontal diseases are a group of diseases that affect 15% of the population and in the
      absence of treatment causes tooth loss. Periodontal lesions are characterized mainly by
      strong inflammation and hyper-vascularization. Search in blood cells and inflammatory markers
      attempts to explain the etiological-pathogenetic mechanisms. Innate immunity can be assessed
      by qualitative and quantitative analysis of blood phagocytes, natural killer cells,
      complement, proteins of inflammation and cytokines. Current data from the literature on this
      subject give contradictory results and the comparison of studies are difficult because the
      diversity of the populations studied, evaluated cells and the methods used. The aim of the
      study was to evaluate the innate immunity of patients with periodontal disease and compare it
      with a group of patients without periodontal disease. The previous conclusions of study
      focused on the difference in the general immunological parameters in healthy patients and
      patients suffering from periodontal disease, current advances in immunology have helped to
      develop new markers on functional status of blood phagocytes all through their anti-microbial
      action. The adhesion, migration, phagocytosis and bactericidal capacity are assessed and
      quantified using recognized tests and practiced regularly in analytical laboratory. The
      identification of altered immunological parameters in patients with periodontal disease would
      better understand the natural history of these diseases and may lead to new diagnostic
      criteria, prognostic and therapeutic.

      In practice, the project brings together immunological skills (functional analysis of cells
      and membrane markers) and dental (patient selection and diagnosis of periodontal disease) for
      further testing applicable to many patients likely to develop periodontal disease.
    
  