
    
      Although a required skill in pediatric residency programs, success rate of neonatal
      endotracheal intubation (ETI) among trainees is known to be inadequate. Currently, it is
      taught using simulation; a teaching method that seems useful mainly for limited short-term
      retention of skill. In the clinical setting, ETI is often associated with stress, which could
      explain the limited educational impact of simulation training. The effect of stress on the
      success of this procedure is poorly studied.

      Therefore, the objective of the investigators study is to assess the impact of stress on the
      success of simulated neonatal ETI.

      Hypotheses to be tested: The primary hypothesis is that stressful conditions will negatively
      impact residents' success of endotracheal intubation on neonatal manikins. Secondary
      hypotheses include: 1) stressful conditions will be associated with an increased time to
      successful intubation and decreased performance on the intubation checklist; 2) there will be
      a positive correlation between heart rate/cortisol levels and resident's response on the
      State Trait Anxiety Inventory questionnaire (STAI).

      Design: This study will be a crossover randomized controlled trial in the setting of the
      simulation laboratory. Subjects will include pediatric residents and pediatric subspecialty
      residents. Exclusion criteria will include any medical condition or medication that can have
      a significant impact on cortisol levels. The residents will be randomized using sealed
      envelopes to perform a neonatal ETI in a low or a high stress environment, and then crossover
      to the other on a separate day. Stress will be created and standardized by using audio
      alarms, third party supervisors and simulated manikin instability. Level of stress of
      participants will be assessed at baseline during a lecture, upon arrival to the simulation
      center and after the simulated procedure. This will be done using salivary cortisol, heart
      rate and the STAI questionnaire. ETI procedures will be videotaped and performance will be
      assessed by two external reviewers using a validated checklist.

      Analysis: Primary and secondary outcomes include: success rate, checklist performance, time
      to successful intubation, rate of esophageal intubation and stress levels (cortisol, heart
      rate and questionnaire). Continuous variables will be analyzed by the independent sample t
      test and categorical variables will be analyzed by Fisher's exact test. Statistical
      significance will be defined by a 2-sided alpha of 0.05 and power of 80%. To demonstrate a
      decrease of success rate of ETI from 80% (retrieved from previous simulation study in a LS
      environment) to 60%, 64 intubations are needed per group.

      Anticipated outcomes & potential problems: Demonstrating a decrease in success rate of ETI in
      the HS environment will aid to improve simulation-based training of neonatal ETI. In the
      future, the HS environment model can be used as an intermediate training process to prepare
      residents to the stress related to this procedure in the clinical world.
    
  