
    
      Clinical feasibility randomized clinical trial (RCT) pilot of integrating information
      technology advancements into Early PTSD Screening and Intervention. Design Overview: Between
      30-200 injured trauma survivors who are initially admitted to either the Harborview inpatient
      wards or emergency department acute care settings will be enrolled in the study. If patients
      agree to participate, they will be engaged by a research assistant to complete a baseline
      assessment battery. Following the battery, all patients will be engaged in an initial
      technology readiness assessment to gauge comfort and skill using a variety of devices (e.g.,
      smartphones, cellular phones, tablets, and laptop computers) that could potentially be
      utilized for delivery of interventions. Patients will then be randomized to either care as
      usual or to the stepped-care technology-based educational intervention. Patients randomized
      to the intervention condition will be met by a trauma support specialist. Intervention
      patients who endorse elevated substance use and/or mental health symptoms, including PTSD,
      depression, suicidal ideation, chronic pain, and postconcussive symptoms, will receive up to
      3 months of motivational interviewing and/or cognitive behavioral therapy delivered by the
      trauma support specialist in person or over the telephone. The trauma support specialist may
      utilize mHealth technologies including websites and applications available on smartphones and
      tablet devices, as strategies to compliment CBT approaches that target specific areas of
      concern. However, the psychotherapeutic intervention embedded within the Stepped Care
      protocol is conceived of being fundamentally separate from the mHealth tools that may also be
      mentioned during discussions between the trauma support specialist and the patient. Inherent
      throughout the intervention is a focus on obtaining acceptability information from patients
      related to all aspects of the intervention and interpersonal experiences with the trauma
      support specialist, as well as any technology-based assessments and mHealth tools that may
      compliment the stepped care protocol. Patients will receive up to 3 consecutive months of
      trauma support specialist support post-injury. Follow-up assessments will occur at 1, 3, and
      6 months following the baseline assessment, with additional acceptability assessments
      completed for specific aspects of the intervention listed above.
    
  