
    
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating motor neuron disease that typically
      causes rapidly progressive muscle weakness, disability and premature death. In spite of a
      large number of attempted ALS trials, there are no significant disease-modifying therapies
      for this condition to-date.

      There exists a small group of patients who meet diagnostic criteria for ALS or progressive
      muscular atrophy (PMA), progress for a period of time, and then significantly improve. Some
      of these "ALS reversals" even make a complete recovery back to normal neurological function.
      The investigators have independently verified 38 of these cases so far through review of
      medical records and peer-reviewed literature. These patients are different in their
      demographics and disease characteristics as compared to patients with more typically
      progressive ALS.

      One possible explanation for these cases is that these patients have had protective
      environmental exposures. Another possible explanation is that these patients have had unique
      environmental exposures that led to a reversible form of ALS. Study of these selected
      reversal patients may yield valuable clues to environmental mechanisms of ALS resistance.

      This is a pilot case-control study attempting to discover environmental exposure correlates
      to ALS reversals. The investigators will recruit and enroll ALS reversal "cases" to fill out
      an online survey form about their life. Topics include demographics, employment history,
      military service, substance use, physical activity, family medical history, disease
      progression, residential history, occupational exposures, home exposures, hobby exposures,
      hormonal and reproductive history (female identifying subjects only), caffeine, head and neck
      injuries, electrical shocks, health insurance, subjective perception of the etiology of ALS,
      and clinical features of disease. "Control" participant data will come from a pre-existing
      database.
    
  