
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with limited or extensive stage small cell lung
           cancer treated with sequential high-dose ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide
           phosphate followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell or bone marrow
           transplantation versus standard ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide.

        -  Compare the progression-free survival, time to treatment failure, and response rate in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease stage (limited disease vs extensive disease with vs without liver metastases),
      performance status (0 vs 1), gender, LDH level (normal vs abnormal), and participating
      center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive induction therapy comprising epirubicin IV over 4 hours on day 1
           and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of
           2 courses. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day
           3 and continuing for 10 days or during course 2 until peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
           collection is completed. After completion of induction chemotherapy, autologous PBSCs or
           bone marrow is collected.

      Within 28 days of the start of the second course of induction chemotherapy, patients receive
      high-dose ifosfamide IV over 17 hours, carboplatin IV over 3 hours, and etoposide phosphate
      IV over 3 hours on days 1-4. At 48 hours after completion of high-dose chemotherapy, patients
      undergo autologous PBSC or bone marrow transplantation and then receive G-CSF SC for 14 days.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive ifosfamide IV continuously over 24 hours, carboplatin IV over 1
           hour on day 1, and etoposide IV over 45 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every
           28 days for 6 courses.

      After completion of high-dose or standard chemotherapy, patients with limited disease or
      extensive disease in complete remission receive thoracic radiotherapy daily on days 1-5 for 6
      weeks. All patients in complete remission receive prophylactic cranial radiotherapy daily on
      days 1-5 for 3 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at the beginning of courses 1 and 3 (high-dose
      chemotherapy) or courses 3 and 5 (standard chemotherapy), and then at 7, 12, and 18 months.

      Patients are followed monthly.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 430 patients (215 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  