
    
      The Head Start Family and Child Experiences Survey (FACES) is a major source of information
      on Head Start programs and the children and families they serve. Since 1997, FACES has
      conducted studies in a nationally representative sample of Head Start programs, but has
      historically not included Region XI (programs operated by federally-recognized tribes), whose
      programs are designed to serve predominantly American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN)
      children and families. The American Indian and Alaska Native Head Start Family and Child
      Experiences Survey (AI/AN FACES), the first national study of Region XI AI/AN Head Start
      children and families, is designed to fill this information gap.

      The design of AI/AN FACES has been informed by members of the AI/AN FACES Workgroup which
      includes tribal Head Start directors, researchers with expertise working with tribal
      communities, Mathematica Policy Research study staff, and federal officials from the Office
      of Head Start, Region XI, and the Office of Planning, Research and Evaluation. Building on
      FACES as the foundation, members of the AI/AN FACES Workgroup have shared insights and
      information on the kinds of information needed about children and families served by Region
      XI AI/AN Head Start programs (including children's development and school readiness, parent
      and family demographics, health, and program engagement, and teacher, classroom, and program
      characteristics). Members also provided input on recruitment practices and study methods that
      are responsive to the unique cultural and self-governing contexts of tribal Head Start
      programs.

      Data collection with Region XI children, families, classrooms, and programs took place in the
      Fall of 2015 and the Spring of 2016. Twenty-one Region XI Head Start programs participated.
      Procedures for tribal review and approval in each of those 21 communities were followed.
      Information about this study has been shared broadly with tribal Head Start programs and
      tribal leaders via Office of Head Start (OHS) tribal consultations, nationally-broadcast
      webinars, National Indian Head Start Directors' Association Board of Directors (NIHSDA)
      annual conferences, the 2016 Administration for Children and Families (ACF) National Research
      Conference on Early Childhood, and the Secretary's Tribal Advisory Council (STAC) December
      2014 and 2016 meetings.
    
  