
    
      Having short education or living without a partner negatively influences lung cancer survival
      and low social position has been associated with higher risk of advanced stage of the lung
      cancer at diagnosis. Disparities exists in both curative and palliative intended treatment,
      even adjusted for performance status and comorbidity. Differences in stage, treatment and
      comorbidity at diagnosis explain most of the social inequality in lung cancer survival. Age
      disparities in favor of younger lung cancer patients has also been found in several studies
      showing that older patients do not receive the most optimal treatment although age by itself
      do not worsen efficacy or tolerance to combined induction and definitive treatment, radiation
      therapy or concurrent chemoradiation. Taken together these findings indicate that in order to
      reduce social inequality in lung cancer survival not only early detection should be improved
      but also efforts to ensure optimal treatment among lung cancer patients of low social
      position are needed. Survival observed in the most advantaged group of lung cancer patients
      should set the target for what is achievable for all lung cancer patients in Denmark.

      In the present intervention the investigators bring navigation together with activation as a
      longitudinal intervention by assigning a patient coach to vulnerable lung cancer patients
      while undergoing treatment. The patient coach function will address patient barrier factors,
      provider factors and organizational factors through providing social support, practical
      assistance and linking with health personnel, which are the three main principles guiding the
      coach intervention. The intervention will target specific phases in the treatment trajectory,
      which include challenges to compliance: into treatment, maintaining treatment and finalizing
      treatment. The investigators will use patient coaches who are volunteers with health
      education to provide a support function that is affiliated to the patient. The investigators
      believe that assistance with navigating the system, communication with health staff and
      social support across care transitions will help patients to obtain best possible care
      Primary aim: optimal treatment depending on stage, histology and performance status Secondary
      aims: quality of life and symptoms, participation in self-management plans as smoking
      cessation, physical activity, dietary changes, and short-term survival.

      The investigators expect that compared to the usual care group the intervention group will
      initiate and adhere more to optimal treatment according to stage and performance status.
      Further, compared to the usual care group the intervention group will report better quality
      of life, less symptoms related to disease and treatment, higher level of adherence to
      recommendations for smoking, diet and exercise and better survival.
    
  