
    
      Introduction:

      Spinal anesthesia is considered the first choice for cesarean sections if there are no
      absolute or relative contraindications. It is easy and has lower risks for mother and baby
      for most of cases. Anesthetists, especially junior staff, prefer spinal anesthesia for
      cesarean sections avoiding managing airway or inserting an endotracheal tube which is usually
      difficult in full term pregnant woman.

      Hypotension that follows spinal anesthesia usually occur due to blockade of sympathetic
      vasomotor activity that is accentuated by compression of the aorta and inferior vena cava by
      the gravid uterus when the patient is in the supine position.

      It starts very soon after intrathecal injection of the local anesthetic and may extend till
      the end of the block putting the anesthesia team in an explanatory situation. The
      pathophysiology of spinal hypotension is mainly due to the sympathetic blockade predominating
      pararsympathetic power to dilating blood vessels and subsequent blood pooling in the dilated
      blood vessels (mainly venous side).

      Sudden bradycardia can occur from shift in cardiac autonomic balance toward the
      parasympathetic system from activation of left ventricular mechanoreceptors or chemoreceptors
      Bezold Jarisch reflex (BJR) or from an increase in baroreflex activity.[1] Serotonin released
      during low-volume states has been suggested as a possible trigger for the BJR.[2] Granisetron
      is a 5-Hydoxy Tryptamine 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist that is very effective in preventing
      nausea and vomiting.

      Diabetes mellitus is a widespread disease that increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases
      and intraoperative mortalities. Diabetes is associated with increased risk of perioperative
      hypotension due to autonomic neuron system dysfunction associated with micro and macro
      complications of long standing hyperglycemia. The effect of preganglionic sympathetic fibers
      and cardiac sympathetic innervation blockade occurring during spinal anesthesia on cardiac
      autonomic neurons function are expected to be different in diabetic patients from that of
      normal patients.

      In a large cohort of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, Ziegler et al. [3], using
      predefined heart rate variability (HRV) tests and spectral analysis of the R-R intervals,
      found that 25.3% of patients with type 1 diabetes and 34.3% of patients with type 2 diabetes
      had abnormal findings. Clinical symptoms of autonomic dysfunction may not appear until long
      after diabetes onset.

      However, subclinical cardiac neuropathic dysfunction, manifested as changes in HRV, may be
      detected within 1 year of diagnosis in type II diabetes and within 2 years of diagnosis in
      type I diabetes .[4]

      The incidence of hypotension defined as systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg and
      bradycardia defined as heart rate less than 50 beat/minute are haemodynamic adverse effects
      of spinal anesthesia in non-obstetric patients has been reported to be 33% and 13%
      respectively.[5,6]

      Aim of the work:

      This study will investigate the effect of the antiemetic drug Granisetron (G Setron 1 mg in 1
      ml ampule) in reducing the incidence of hypotension occurred with spinal anesthesia in type I
      diabetic patients arranged for cesarean sections.

      Material and Methods:

      This study will be randomized double blind where the anesthetists', data collectors and
      patients will be blinded to the assigned groups.

      After hospital ethics committee approval and written informed consents, 68 type I diabetic
      patients scheduled for cesarean sections will participate in this study at Operation Theater
      of Suez Canal University Hospitals. All participating patients will be randomly classified
      into two equal groups, the (G) Granisetron group and the (P) Placebo group.

      The primary outcome will be the incidence of Hypotension defined as SBP < 90 mmHg occurred
      with spinal anesthesia in type I diabetic patients arranged for caesarean sections.

      A total of 68 type I diabetic full term pregnant women enrolled for caesarean section
      deliveries under spinal anesthesia will be included in this study. Approval of our
      institutional medical committee and a written consent from patients will be obtained.
      Inclusion criteria will include diabetic (Type I) ladies aged above 21 years old arranged for
      elective caesarean section under spinal anesthesia. Exclusion criteria will include any
      contraindications for spinal anesthesia (like bleeding diathesis or regional infection at
      site of neuroaxial block), known allergy to Granisetron or local anaesthetic (heavy
      bupivacaine, Marcaine Spinal 0.5% Heavy, 5mg/ml, AstraZeneca ampule), chronic hypertension,
      pregnancy induced hypertension, or congenital or rheumatic heart diseases, antepartum
      haemorrhage, Fetal destress or gestational age < 36 week.

      All patients will be randomly classified in to two equal groups (34 patients in each): G
      group will receive 1 mg Granisetron (G Setron, 1 mg/ml Egyptian Pharmaceutical Company)
      intravenously diluted in 10 ml normal saline 10 minutes before spinal anesthesia, and P group
      will receive 10 ml normal saline N.S as placebo considering the same timing and color of
      solution. Randomization will be performed using a computer based random number generator and
      sealed envelopes will not be opened till an informed consent is obtained. The study will be
      double-blind as the anesthetists, data collectors and patients will not know the assignment
      groups. The syringes of Granisetron and placebo will be prepared by an anesthetist who will
      not be informed about the study protocol.

      All patients will be infused with 500 ml lactated ringer intravenously IV. Premedication with
      30 ml of a 0.15 molar solution of sodium citrate will be given orally 15-30 minutes before
      surgery in addition to Ranitidine ampule (Zantac) 50 mg diluted in 10 ml N.S given
      intravenously slowly. Base line heart rate (HR) and mean arterial blood pressure (MABP)
      readings will be measured just before spinal anesthesia. Spinal anesthesia will be performed
      in the sitting position using 25-gauge spinal needle (B BRAUN Co.) in L3-L4 or L4-L5 lumbar
      interspaces, 12.5 mg (2.5 ml volume) 0.5% hyperbaric Bupivcaine (Marcaine Spinal 0.5% Heavy,
      5mg/ml, AstraZeneca ampule) will be injected intrathecally over 1 minute. After spinal
      anesthesia, parturient will be placed on the operating table in the supine position with 15°
      of left lateral tilt with supplemental oxygen through a face mask at 5 L per min.

      Sensory level will be evaluated by testing for cold sensation, and motor block will be
      assessed according to Bromage scale after 5 min. HR and mean arterial blood pressure will be
      recorded every 3 min until the end of surgery.

      Blood pressure will be measured every 3 min Ephedrine 10 mg boluses will be used until
      hypotension (Mean blood pressure above 65 mmHg) is controlled and then the predetermined
      protocol will be followed.

      Maintenance fluid of lactated Ringer's solution will be given at a rate of 10 ml/kg/h in both
      groups during the surgical procedure. An additional rapid bolus infusion (100 ml) of lactated
      Ringer's will be pushed at each episode of hypotension. 10 mg ephedrine will be administered
      if MBP is less than 65 mmHg. A second dose of 10 mg ephedrine will be repeated if hypotension
      persisted 5 min or recurred. Phenylephrine will be considered if persistent hypotension not
      responding to ephedrine. If bradycardia occurred defined as HR lower than 60 beat per min 0.5
      mg atropine will be considered unless it is associated with hypotension, if that ephedrine
      will be the choice.

      Demographic data of all patients (Age, Height, Weight, BMI, duration of procedure, duration
      of diabetes, Glycosylated Hemoglubin, and parity) will be recorded. Incidence of hypotension
      will be calculated and compared in both groups. Other useful information as incidence of
      bradycardia (HR< 50 beat/minute) and atropine, ephedrine, and phenylephrine administered
      doses will be recorded.

      Nausea and vomiting will be recorded using Verbal Descriptive Scale (VDS) [0 = no nausea, 1 =
      mild nausea, 2 = moderate nausea, 3 = frequent vomiting and 4 = severe vomiting] [7]

      References

        1. Butterworth J. Physiology of spinal anesthesia: What are the implications for
           management? Reg Anesth Pain Med 1998;23: 370-3.

        2. Adams VR, Valley AW. Granisetron: The second serotonin-receptor antagonist. Ann
           Pharmacother 1995;29:1240-51.

        3. Ziegler D, Dannehl K, Mühlen H, Spüler M, Gries FA. Prevalence of cardiovascular
           autonomic dysfunction assessed by spectral analysis, vector analysis, and standard tests
           of heart rate variation and blood pressure responses at various stages of diabetic
           neuropathy. Diabet Med 1992; 9: 806- 814 [PubMed]

        4. Pfeifer MA, Weinberg CR, Cook DL, Reenan A, Halter JB, Ensinck JW, Porte D., Jr
           Autonomic neural dysfunction in recently diagnosed diabetic subjects Diabetes Care 1984;
           7: 447- 453 [PubMed]

        5. Carpenter RL, Caplan RA, Brown DL, Stephenson C, Wu R (1992) Incidence and risk factors
           for side effects of spinal anesthesia.Anesthesiology 76: 906-916.

        6. Arndt JO, Bömer W, Krauth J, Marquardt B (1998) Incidence and time course of
           cardiovascular side effects during spinal anesthesia after prophylactic administration
           of intravenous fluids or vasoconstrictors.Anesth Analg 87: 347-354.

        7. Rhodes VA, Watson PM, Johnson MH. Development of reliable and valid measures of nausea
           and vomiting. Cancer Nurs.1984;7:33-41
    
  