
    
      The LASCOPE project refers to a nationwide, prospective, non-interventional cohort study
      describing the clinical course, biological characteristics, case management and outcomes in
      patients hospitalized for a suspected or already RT-PCR confirmed diagnosis of Lassa fever in
      tertiary medical facilities situated in the most affected Nigerian states. The project will
      start during the 2018 Lassa fever season and is intended to be extended to at least three
      sites throughout Nigeria on a 3 years period.

      The investigators will try to depict the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the
      conditions associated to a fatal outcome in patients with RT-PCR confirmed Lassa fever, with
      a special focus on pregnancies, acute renal injury and electrolytic imbalance.

      Population and setting - Participants will be recruited in tertiary reference hospitals for
      Lassa fever case management in the Nigerian States identified to have the highest burden,
      including Owo Federal Medical Center (OFMC), Owo, Ondo State as a pilot site (list to be
      completed according to the outbreak dynamics).

      Inclusion criteria - All the patients hospitalized for suspected or already RT-PCR confirmed
      Lassa fever will be eligible (no age restriction). Newborns from mothers participating in the
      study will also be eligible.

      Sample size - Given the descriptive purpose of the study, there is no pre-determined sample
      size.

      Follow-up - After informed consent collection, data concerning the patient's life habits,
      contacts, disease history, clinical and biological status, management and outcome will be
      collected anonymously upon admission and throughout the hospital stay. The follow-up will end
      60 days after admission (60 days after delivery for pregnant women and 60 days after birth
      for newborns) with a phone call or a home visit (or an outpatient visit at hospital if
      needed).

      Leftover biological samples, if any, will be stored for further analysis with the
      participant's agreement. The biobank will be registered once constituted and further use of
      stored samples will be subject to material transfer agreements.
    
  