
    
      The presence of Pigment Epithelial Detachments (PEDs) in neovascular Age-related Macular
      Degeneration (nAMD), Central serous chorioretinopathy (CSR) and idiopathic Poplypoidal
      Choroidal Vasculopathy (iPCV) can present a diagnostic challenge in the elderly population;
      despite detailed diagnostic testing to differentiate these three conditions, misdiagnosis and
      mistreatment still occurs. One potential way of differentiating these three conditions might
      be to compare cytokine profiles in nAMD versus CSR versus iPCV. In nAMD, growth factors and
      cytokines, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), pigment epithelium derived
      factor (PEDF), interleukin 6 (IL-6) and placenta growth factor (PLGF) are known to play an
      important role in the development of CNV angiogenesis. Aqueous samples from CSR eyes have
      been analyzed for various growth factors and cytokines, where levels of interlukin (IL)-6,
      IL-8 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 do not differ from healthy controls, and
      platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) levels appear to be lower than controls. In addition,
      there is evidence to demonstrate that CSR is associated with elevated cortisol serum levels.
      Cortisol has been analyzed in the aqueous humor of glaucoma and cataract patients; however,
      the presence of cortisol in aqueous humor in CSR patients has not yet been identified. One
      study comparing iPCV versus controls found elevated levels of IL-23. Cytokines have also been
      compared between nAMD and iPCV showing elevated levels of CRP and IL-10 in eyes with iPCV or
      nAMD. However, there have not been any studies yet comparing aqueous cytokine levels,
      including PLGF between iPCV, CSR, and nAMD patients. This information may be useful in
      creating a diagnostic aqueous cytokine and hormone profile to differentiate between nAMD, CSR
      and iPCV.

      If left untreated, PEDs associated with nAMD, CSR, and iPCV may lead to the loss of central
      vision. We propose to compare the effectiveness of aflibercept in the treatment of PEDs
      associated with nAMD, CSR and iPCV.

      The primary goal of this study is to compare baseline aqueous cytokine and cortisol levels
      between nAMD, CSR, and iPCV participants and age-matched cataract controls. We will not be
      looking at changes in cytokine levels after treatment. The secondary objective is to assess
      intra-group changes in visual and anatomical outcomes in nAMD, CSR and iPCV participants with
      PED treated with aflibercept and correlate these changes to baseline cytokines.
    
  