
    
      Background: Stroke and traumatic brain injury (TBI) are leading causes of long-term
      disability among Veterans and result in the need for care from informal caregivers in the
      home setting. There are very few evidence-based, easy-to-deliver follow-up programs to train
      Veterans and caregivers across multiple domains post injury. The "Acquiring New Skills While
      Enhancing Remaining Strengths for Veterans (ANSWERS-VA)" intervention aims to provide the
      Veteran and caregiver dyad with a set of practical skills that each can use in coping with
      and managing symptoms of a brain injury, applying a strength-based approach.

      Objectives: The objectives of this study are to conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      to evaluate (a) the efficacy of the ANSWERS-VA dyadic intervention with Veterans who have
      sustained a stroke and/or TBI and their informal caregivers, and (b) estimate effect sizes
      for the ANSWERS-VA intervention. The ANSWERS-VA intervention will be compared with an
      educational intervention that will serve as an attention control group.

      Specific Aim 1: To tailor the implementation of the ANSWERS-VA intervention to dyads of
      Veterans post stroke and/or TBI and their informal caregivers (n=10) and modify the
      implementation processes for the RCT.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the short-term (immediately post-intervention) and long-term,
      sustained (12 and 24 weeks, and at 1 year) efficacy of the ANSWERS-VA intervention for
      improving: (a) the primary outcomes of the caregivers' quality of life and unhealthy days,
      and (b) the caregiver mediators of task difficulty, threat appraisal, self-efficacy for
      caregiving, and optimism.

      Specific Aim 3: To evaluate program delivery costs for the ANSWERS-VA intervention and the
      educational attention control procedures, and to assess the cost-effectiveness of the
      ANSWERS-VA intervention in terms of noncaregiving hours and unhealthy days in caregivers of
      Veterans post stroke and/or TBI.

      Exploratory Aim 1: To estimate the effect sizes for the ANSWERS-VA intervention for the
      caregiver and Veteran on the secondary outcomes of depressive symptoms, social participation,
      and quality of the dyadic relationship.

      Methods: The investigators propose to conduct a RCT to evaluate the ANSWERS-VA intervention
      among Veterans with stroke or TBI and their caregivers (dyads). Veterans with stroke (N =
      222) or TBI (N = 108) and their informal caregivers, who have received care at the Michael E.
      DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Houston or the Richard L. Roudebush VAMC in
      Indianapolis, will be randomized to the ANSWERS-VA intervention or to an attention control
      group. Both the intervention and control procedures involve 8 telephone sessions delivered
      over 8 weeks, with a booster session at 12 weeks. Data collections will occur at baseline, 8
      weeks (short-term intervention effect), 12 weeks (after booster), 24 weeks, and 1 year after
      baseline (long-term sustainability of intervention effect). Linear mixed models will be
      applied to the repeated-measures data to test efficacy of the program in stroke caregivers
      and to estimate effect sizes in TBI caregivers. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio will
      be employed to address the comparative costs and outcomes for the ANSWERS-VA intervention and
      attention control groups.

      Status: Essential modifications for this project were requested and approved via VA Central
      Office. Institutional Review Board approval has been obtained for these modifications in
      Indianapolis and in Houston. Graduate students from multiple disciplines have been hired and
      have received two days of onsite training specific to the ANSWERS-VA intervention and control
      procedures, screening, recruitment, and data collection processes. The REDCap database has
      been updated for the project modifications and has been further tested. The investigators are
      currently working with frontline providers at both sites to recruit potential participants
      for this RCT. Enrollment of first subject dyads began November, 2014. At this time, the
      investigators have completed recruitment of new dyads. We continue to complete outcomes
      assessments on some dyads. We plan to submit an abstract to the International Stroke
      Conference in January 2019.
    
  