
    
      Background

      Skin injuries, such as lacerations or abrasions, due to trauma are relatively common, and
      patients are very concerned about scars caused by trauma and primary repair. Multiple
      modalities for improving the clinical appearance of scars have been attempted with varying
      success, including corticosteroids, dermabrasion, surgical revision, chemical peeling,
      silicone gel application, pressure therapy, and radiation. Lasers such as the carbon dioxide
      (CO2), erbium: yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Er:YAG), and pulsed dye (PDL) lasers have all been
      used with differing success in the treatment of scars. The goal of all these treatments is to
      soften depressions and stimulate neocollagenesis in order to fill in the residual defects.

      Ablative lasers used for skin resurfacing, such as the CO2 and Er:YAG laser, can reduce
      various scars, but significant adverse effects limit their use, and patient downtime can be
      extensive. Owing to these potential risks, nonablative lasers have been developed as a safe
      alternative to ablative laser resurfacing, and have been reported to be effective and safe
      for scars. However outcomes have remained unsatisfactory and require several treatments to
      achieve satisfactory efficacy.

      Recently, the use of ablative and non-ablative lasers based on the fractional approach has
      become a novel strategy for the treatment of scars, and some authors have suggested that
      treatment with fractional lasers for various scars, such as postoperative, atrophic, and acne
      scars, has been demonstrated to safely improve the appearance of the scars. However, there is
      a lack of studies comparing coagulation modality of such lasers.

      Objective

      The objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of dual-mode Er:YAG laser delivering
      pulses either with and without heat/coagulation in a cohort of patients with long
      keloid/hypertrophic scars.

      Methods

      This is a single center, investigator initiated, double blind, within-subject split-lesion
      design, equivalence randomized clinical study.

      Consecutive patients, referring to Dermatology outpatient and fulfilling inclusion criteria,
      are included. Participants are then randomly assigned to get treatment with Er:YAG laser on
      half of scar section side by equally splitting the lesion area in two symmetric and uniform
      parts. One side will be treated with coagulation while the other one will be without. In case
      of multiple lesions per patient, only the largest and most uniform one is selected for the
      study purpose.
    
  