
    
      Large volume leukapheresis (LVL) is increasingly used to collect peripheral blood stem cells
      (PBSCs) and other mononuclear cells (MNC) for hematopoietic and immune reconstitution, with
      recent emphasis on increased processing volumes. Decreases in divalent cation levels caused
      by administration of citrate anticoagulant during LVL can be associated with severe donor
      reactions, and may limit the rate at which blood can be processed. Several donors at NIH
      experienced citrate-related hypocalcemic tetany during LVL, in response to which we developed
      standard operating procedures for the routine administration of prophylactic intravenous
      calcium solutions during longer apheresis procedures. Other centers have utilized heparin to
      reduce the amount of citrate returned to the donor, however, this exposes the donor to
      systemic anticoagulation and may be associated with hematomas or clumping of the apheresis
      product.

      We previously determined that citrate administration during apheresis results in significant
      excretion of calcium and magnesium in the urine during the procedure, and that performance of
      prolonged or repeated LVL causes significant depletion of blood calcium and magnesium levels.
      Decreases in calcium levels were ameliorated during procedures performed with prophylactic
      calcium administration. Our preliminary studies also demonstrated that ionized magnesium
      levels were markedly reduced during LVL as well as plateletpheresis procedures. The clinical
      impact of severe, acute decreases in ionized magnesium levels in healthy apheresis donors is
      not clear, however. Since most of the adverse effects related to citrate administration can
      be prevented by prophylactic calcium administration, it is unknown what aspect of the
      remaining discomfort may be attributable to hypomagnesemia. This protocol will focus on
      determining the contribution of acute hypomagnesemia to citrate-related symptoms during
      large-volume apheresis, and establishing the role of and indications for prophylactic
      intravenous magnesium replacement in this setting. The study plan will consist of a
      prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Healthy allogeneic donors
      will be assigned to one of two treatment groups. One group will receive intravenous magnesium
      infusions throughout scheduled LVL procedures; the other group will receive equivalent volume
      infusions of normal saline. Symptoms and blood samples will be obtained by apheresis nurses
      and laboratory assays will be performed by associate laboratory investigators, all in a
      blinded fashion.
    
  