
    
      The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has termed AIDS a "health crisis" for
      African Americans and has called for a heightened national response. The crisis is especially
      dramatic in the South and it is now apparent that young African American men who have sex
      with men (MSM) are exceedingly likely to be infected. Unfortunately, the ever-expanding HIV
      epidemic experienced by this population has not been matched by equal attention to the
      development of efficacious prevention programs. The proposed project expands upon an
      NIMH-funded study (R21 MH066682-01A1) conducted by Dr. Crosby. His study of young African
      American males found that a brief, clinic-based intervention reduced incidence of subsequent
      STDs by about 50%. This brief, one-on-one, intervention program, known as Focus on the Future
      (FOF), is a practical alternative to group-based safer sex programs that can be difficult to
      translate from science into practice. The program is now classified as a "Best Practice"
      intervention by CDC. This project will begin with an extensive formative phase designed to
      adapt FOF to MSM. The adapted program will seek to "sexualize" condoms to promote their
      consistent and correct use to better prevent STD/HIV. The program is uniquely flexible in
      that it can be applied to MSM regardless of their HIV serostatus. The adapted program will be
      tested by a two-arm efficacy trail. We will recruit 620 MSM (15-29 years of age) from a
      publicly-funded STD clinic in Jackson MS. Men in the treatment condition will be compared to
      men receiving the control condition comprised of standard of care counseling from the clinic
      plus a free ditty bag of supplies from the "condom and lube buffet" (condom/lube
      distribution). The trial will test four hypotheses: 1) Men randomized to receive the
      intervention will have a lower incidence rate of laboratory-confirmed STDs (by urine assay
      and rectal swab) at a 6-month and a 12-month follow-up assessment) compared to controls. 2)
      Men randomized to receive the intervention will report significantly fewer acts of
      unprotected penetrative sex (penile-vaginal or penile-anal) between follow-up assessments
      compared to controls. 3) Men randomized to receive the intervention will report having
      significantly fewer unprotected penetrative (penile-vaginal or penile-anal) sex partners
      between follow-up assessments compared to controls. 4) Men randomized to receive the
      intervention will report having significantly fewer negative experiences with condom use
      between follow-up assessments compared to controls. Given the dearth of evidence-based
      options for intervening with this vulnerable population in clinical settings, demonstrated
      efficacy of the adapted program has important implications for U.S. public health efforts
      directed towards the prevention of STD/HIV.
    
  