
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall activity and effects of APF530 versus palonosetron hydrochloride in
           combination with dexamethasone for prophylaxis of acute- or delayed-onset,
           chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing moderately or highly
           emetogenic chemotherapy for cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of APF530, in terms of prevention of
           acute- and delayed-onset nausea and vomiting, in these patients.

        -  Gather the pharmacokinetics of APF530 in a subset of patients during chemotherapy course
           1.

        -  Gather ECG data (using 24-hour Holter monitoring) in a subset of patients during
           chemotherapy course 1.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, multicenter
      study. Patients are stratified according to emetogenicity of scheduled chemotherapy
      (moderate-risk [level 3 or 4] vs high-risk [level 5]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms (I, II, and III). Patients who are randomized to receive palonosetron
      hydrochloride during chemotherapy course 1 (arm I) are then re-randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms (II and III) after chemotherapy course 1 to receive treatment during chemotherapy
      courses 2-4.

      Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride or APF530 and/or placebo 30-60 minutes before the
      start of chemotherapy. Patients receive dexamethasone 30-90 minutes before the start of
      chemotherapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride IV, placebo subcutaneously (SC), and
           dexamethasone IV on day 1 of chemotherapy course 1. Patients in the high-risk (level 5)
           stratum also receive oral dexamethasone on days 2-4 of all treatment courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive APF530 SC, placebo IV, and dexamethasone IV on day 1 of
           chemotherapy course 1. Patients then receive APF530 SC and dexamethasone IV on day 1 of
           chemotherapy courses 2-4. Patients in the high-risk (level 5) stratum also receive oral
           dexamethasone as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive APF530 SC at a higher dose, placebo IV, and dexamethasone IV
           on day 1 of chemotherapy course 1. Patients then receive APF530 SC (at the same higher
           dose) and dexamethasone IV on day 1 of chemotherapy courses 2-4. Patients in the
           high-risk (level 5) stratum also receive oral dexamethasone as in arm I.

      A subset of patients undergo blood collection periodically during study for analysis of
      plasma APF530 concentration.

      Quality of life is assessed on day 5 after completion of chemotherapy course 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at approximately 30 days.
    
  