
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the 6-month progression-free survival rate of patients with hormone
      refractory metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with docetaxel and prednisone
      with vs without cediranib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile of cediranib, docetaxel, and prednisone in patients with
      metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer.

      II. To determine the duration of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response and PSA control in
      patients with metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer treated with cediranib,
      docetaxel, and prednisone.

      III. To determine the partial and complete response rate in patients with measurable disease
      treated with cediranib, docetaxel, and prednisone.

      IV. To determine time to progression in patients with metastatic hormone-refractory prostate
      cancer treated with cediranib, docetaxel, and prednisone.

      V. To determine overall survival in patients with metastatic hormone-refractory prostate
      cancer.

      VI. To perform correlative marker studies measuring serum levels of VEGF, PDGF, sICAM, bFGF,
      interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-8.

      VII. To perform a pilot study of [F18]FMAU positron emission test (PET) imaging on patients
      receiving cediranib, docetaxel, and prednisone.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by participating institution.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oral cediranib once daily on days 1-21, docetaxel IV over 1 hour on
      day 1, and oral prednisone twice daily on days 1-21.

      ARM II: Patients receive docetaxel and prednisone as in arm I.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Archival paraffin-embedded tissue blocks or slides from time of
      diagnosis (or subsequent, but prior to therapy) are evaluated for expression of molecular
      targets relevant to this study. Blood specimens from baseline, after courses 1 and 2, and
      after completion of study treatment are analyzed for protein markers. Samples are analyzed by
      ELISA and IHC for angiogenesis-associated plasma proteins, plasma levels of VEGF, tumor
      expression of PDGFR, and interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 plasma levels. Patients also undergo
      positron emission test (PET) scans utilizing fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) at baseline and after
      course 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 52 weeks.
    
  