
    
      Study design This is a single-centre, randomised crossover study with a qualitative
      component. Forty patients will be recruited from York Hospital. Participants will be asked to
      perform walking assessments on two week days within a maximum period of two weeks.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to complete walking assessments whilst wearing
      unloading shoes on day 1, followed by walking assessments whilst wearing control shoes on day
      2, or vice versa. All participants will then be given the unloading or control shoes to wear
      for two weeks, after which they will complete a survey about how acceptable the shoes were to
      wear. A sub-sample of participants will also be interviewed about the acceptability of the
      shoes.

      Study setting Recruitment for this study will take place at York Hospital, York, United
      Kingdom. Study assessments will take place at York St John University.

      Unloading shoe The design of the "unloading" shoe to be used in this research will be a
      modern style of trainer-type shoe with a cosmetically-shaped rocker sole incorporated. The
      rocker sole will comprise of three circular curves whose arc centres are positioned at the
      anatomical ankle, hip and knee respectively; assuming a vertical lower limb. This is designed
      to influence the line of action of the ground reaction force to pass close to the anatomical
      joint centres and so reduce the moments needed to be generated for ambulation by the muscles
      acting across those joints in the lower limb. Additionally it is designed to place the ankle
      into a relatively plantarflexed position where the ankle plantarflexors use less energy than
      for instance when placed in dorsiflexion. This is in order to unload the calf muscles by
      providing a simultaneous reduction in ankle range of motion in relative plantarflexion but
      still moving with a near-normal trajectory. This also optimises the lever arm between the
      Achilles tendon and the ankle joint so making propulsion, and therefore calf muscle power
      generation, more efficient. Participants will be provided with a pair of appropriately-sized
      shoes, which will be produced for this study by an established shoe manufacturer - Chaneco
      (www.chaneco.co.uk). To allow participants to habituate to wearing the shoes before
      assessment, they will be allowed to walk around in the shoes at a self-selected pace for at
      least 5 minutes.

      Control shoe During the control condition assessments, participants will wear a pair of
      appropriately-sized shoes, which are similar in appearance to the unloading shoes, but do not
      contain the altered sole. Again, these will be provided by Chaneco, and a minimum of 5
      minutes walking will be allowed for habituation.

      Outcome measures Primary outcome measure

      • Maximum walking distance during forced-pace walking: Following a rest period of at least 20
      minutes, participants will complete a 6-minute walk test in which they will be instructed to
      walk as far as possible within 6 minutes. This test simulates community walking better than
      treadmill testing, has been recommended as a primary outcome in claudication trials, and has
      good inter-day reproducibility (coefficient of variation 10.4%). A straight 30-m course will
      be used and the distance walked recorded. A testing checklist and standardised instructions
      will be used. The outcome assessor will have no role in the sizing and fitting of the shoes,
      in an attempt to keep them blinded, and the verbal test instructions will be audio-recorded
      so that we can check the consistency of which the instructions have been delivered.

      Secondary outcome measures

        -  Pain-free walking distance during usual-pace walking: Following a rest period of at
           least 20 minutes, participants will be invited to walk at their usual walking speed
           along a straight 30-m course. Their walking speed will be recorded using electronic
           timing gates (SMARTSPEED, Fusion Sport). Participants will be instructed to indicate the
           point where they first experience claudication pain. The distance walked up until this
           point will be recorded.

        -  Gait biomechanical parameters: Reflective markers will be positioned on anatomical
           landmarks of the lower extremities using double-sided sticky tape to allow 3D motion
           analysis. Wireless surface electromyography units (Trigno EMG, Delsys, Italy) will also
           be attached to the skin overlying the medial and lateral Gastrocnemius and Tibialis
           Anterior using double-sided sticky tape to allow the assessment of lower-leg muscle
           recruitment patterns during the gait cycle. Participants will walk at their usual pace
           along a figure-of-8 circuit. A force plate (9281EA, Kistler) positioned in the central
           straight portion of the figure-of-8 will capture kinetic data. The participants will be
           naïve to the force plate, to help ensure a natural walking gait. Infra-red 3D optical
           motion analysis cameras (Oqus, Qualisys) will capture kinematic data each time a
           participant approaches and passes over the force plate. Participants will indicate when
           they experience the onset of claudication pain and continue until pain prevents them
           walking further. Outcomes include step length, stride length, cadence, velocity and
           joint angles, and joint moments and powers of the lower extremities during the three
           stages of pain development during walking; pain-free walking, after the onset of pain
           and immediately before stopping walking due to pain.

      Participant timeline Participants will be required to attend the biomechanics laboratory at
      York St John University on 3 occasions: a first "screening" visit for obtaining written
      informed consent, confirming eligibility and recording baseline characteristics of the
      participant, and two subsequent visits on which the study assessments will be conducted. The
      study assessment sessions (i.e. visits 2 and 3) will be identical in composition apart from
      that the participants will wear different shoes (unloading or control) during the walking
      tests. The first assessment visit must be completed within 4 weeks of the screening visit,
      and there will be a maximum of 2 weeks and a minimum of 1 day between assessment visits 1 and
      2. After completing the crossover study, half of the participants (n=20) will be given the
      unloading shoes and the other half (n=20) the control shoes to wear for 2 weeks. After this
      2-week period, all participants will complete and return a survey about the shoes and be
      questioned via telephone about any adverse device effects. A sub-sample (minimum n=12;
      control n=6, unloading n=6) will undertake a telephone-based semi-structured interview with a
      qualitative researcher. This interview will be conducted within 2 weeks of the end of the 2
      week shoe-wearing period. Therefore, the maximum duration that a participant will be involved
      in the study from the point of consenting is 10 weeks, and the minimum is 17 days; however,
      most participants will most likely be undertaking the study visits across a period of 4-8
      weeks.
    
  