
    
      ScreenNC is design ed for comprehensive virus screening and serology to assess exposure to
      SAR-CoV2 in persons not-indicated for COVID-19 testing as per the CDC screening algorithm and
      implemented at UNC Health Care (at the time of activation). This trial is designed to
      generate point prevalence of infected (I) persons, independent of clinical symptoms. The
      susceptible (S) class is the number of COVID-19 tested by any FDA-approved NP swab test or a
      SARS-CoV2 IgG antibody test. At present FDA does not have approved SARS-CoV serology and such
      serology is not used for diagnosis of acute infection. The recovered (R) class is the number
      of positives. This information allows for modeling of the COVID-19 epidemic in NC. The
      investigation is not testing the effectiveness or safety of either of these testing
      modalities, though serology may be offered in the future by UNC Healthcare laboratories. The
      blood samples to be obtained assess development of host response to SARS-CoV2 infection.

      ScreenNC will be implemented within the logistic and clinical limitations of the current
      outbreak. This is a single visit study. Since there is a shortage of PPE the investigators
      will rely on screening at locations different then the screening of presumed infected
      persons. Additionally, due to logistical considerations, volunteers may have a viral swab
      (nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal) and/or a blood sample obtained. Thus, at recruitment,
      volunteers may be asked to give both samples or only one.

      Viral load testing will be done at LabCorp and/or UNC labs using compatible assays (Roche,
      ThermoFischer , WHO). Confirmatory testing (other PCR, sequencing, culture) will be done at
      UNC. Blood samples will be tested at the McClendon Clinical Immunology laboratory for IgG
      antibodies against SARS-CoV2.

      Because these patients are in the UNC Health Care system, The investigators will have access
      to their medical records, which will provide very granular information as to co-morbidities
      and other demographic factors which can be assessed in the context of SAR-CoV-2 (COVID-19)
      infection status. Future analyses of this cohort will employ statistical methods which allow
      us to account for sampling bias of this convenience sample to construct a representative
      sample of the state of NC .
    
  