
    
      If a patient is identified as fulfilling one of the screening criteria, possible participants
      should be referred to the Cancer Genetics Clinic for further evaluation for possible
      enrollment into the study. A pre-clinic questionnaire will be sent to the patients prior to
      their assessment in cancer genetics clinic in order to obtain baseline information that will
      be used to inform changes during follow-up. Assessments performed exclusively to determine
      eligibility for this study will be done only after obtaining informed consent. Assessments
      performed for clinical indications (not exclusively to determine study eligibility) may be
      used for baseline values even if the studies were done before informed consent was obtained.

      All screening procedures must be performed on the day of registration unless otherwise
      stated. The screening procedures include:

        1. Medical history -Complete medical and surgical history, family history including a
           multi-generation family pedigree, and social history

        2. Demographics - Age, gender, race, ethnicity

        3. Review subject eligibility criteria

        4. Physical exam including vital signs, height and weight

        5. Blood draw for correlative studies

        6. DNA from whole blood will be isolated

      Intervention Procedure:

      Approximately 15 ml of blood will be drawn at the time of enrollment (one time blood draw)
      and sent to Myriad Genetics and Laboratories for analysis of 25 genes using next generation
      sequencing. This platform will sequence 25 genes in one experimental run and the results will
      be sent back to the cancer genetics clinic for interpretation and disclosure.

      Randomization of the patient Population:

      After results are given to the patient they will be randomized into 4 groups:

        -  Patients identified with a mutation in a gene not commonly tested for prior to the
           advent of multiplex panel testing. This excludes BRCA1, BRCA2, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2,
           EPCAM, APC, MYH unless a patient tested positive for one of these 9 genes but did not
           meet clinical criteria for the underlying syndrome (Stanford accrual goal is 62/USC 62)

        -  Patients identified with a variant of unknown significance (VUS) of any gene of any
           nonBRCA (BRCA1 and BRCA2) or non-Lynch syndrome gene (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2 and EPCAM).

      Stanford target accrual is 50 and 50 for USC.

        -  Patients who test negative for all the genes tested. Target goal is 50 for Stanford/50
           for USC for the study.

        -  All other participants who do not meet any of the above criteria or fall into one of
           these groups after the target goal is met for that group. Only participants who are in
           the 1st three groups will be asked to complete questionnaires for the duration of the
           study (up to 60 months after enrollment)

      Follow-up Procedures:

      Patients (as noted above) will be followed at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, 36
      months, 48 months, and 60 months

      • At 3 months and 6 months after disclosure of genetic testing results, follow up
      questionnaires will ask if participants had initiated or intend to undergo any of the
      following risk reducing interventions and/or treatment: (i) Cancer surveillance/screening:
      breast MRI, mammograms, self-breast examinations, thyroid ultrasound, dermatology exams,
      urinalysis, upper endoscopy, colonoscopy, endometrial biopsy, transvaginal ultrasound, or
      other imaging (i.e. whole body rapid MRI) (ii) Chemoprevention/Behavior Modification:
      Tamoxifen, Oral Contraceptives (OCP), Raloxifene, Sulindac, Abstinence from Smoking (iii)
      Prophylactic procedures: Mastectomy, TAHBSO, polypectomy, total and segmental colectomy (iv)
      Cancer Treatment: aggregated pharmacologic and radiation therapy.
    
  