
    
      Chronic hypertension is a common medical condition during pregnancy, occurring in up to 5
      percent of pregnant women. There are significant maternal, fetal, and neonatal morbidity and
      mortality associated with this disease [1,2]. Chronic hypertension in pregnancy has been
      defined as elevated blood pressure detected and confirmed before the 20th week of gestation
      or hypertension present prior to conception. Chronic hypertension is usually classified as
      mild with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 140 mmHg or diastolic blood
      pressure greater than or equal to 90 mmHg. Severe hypertension is defined as systolic blood
      pressure greater than or equal to 180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal
      to 110 mmHg [3]. Adverse outcomes associated with chronic hypertension in pregnancy include
      preterm delivery, intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), intrauterine fetal demise (IUFD),
      placental abruption, and cesarean delivery [4]. The incidence of superimposed preeclampsia
      has been reported in up to 50 percent of women with severe chronic hypertension [5]. Many of
      these women have medical management with anti-hypertensive medications during pregnancy. Data
      is lacking regarding improvement in neonatal outcome, and there is evidence that
      anti-hypertensive medications may interfere with uteroplacental blood flow and fetal growth
      [3,6]. Despite a lack of support in the literature for medication in the management of
      hypertension in pregnancy, current recommendations recognize a role for medication use for at
      least severe chronic hypertension [1].

      The umbilical arteries arise within fetal circulation from the common iliac arteries and
      represent the dominant circulatory outflow of the distal aortic circulation and contribute
      entirely to placental circulation. Normal umbilical artery resistance to blood flow
      progressively decreases throughout pregnancy, reflecting the progressive increase in
      placental mass and the increased numbers of tertiary villous small vessels of the placenta
      [7]. Doppler ultrasonography is a noninvasive technique that is used to assess the
      hemodynamic components of vascular impedance within the placenta. Umbilical artery Doppler
      flow velocimetry has been developed to evaluate fetal condition en-utero [8]. Normally
      developing and growing fetuses are characterized by high velocity diastolic umbilical artery
      flow, while those with IUGR have decreased, absent, or reversed diastolic flow [9,10].
      Abnormal umbilical artery flow has been defined as the presence of absent or reversed end
      diastolic flow or a flow index greater than two standard deviations above the reported mean
      flow index for a given gestational age [11,12]. Evaluation of umbilical artery hemodynamics
      is indicated as part of standard care when IUGR or significant fetal anemia due to
      iso-immunization is suspected [7,8].

      A group of patients with pregnancies complicated by pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) were
      treated with anti-hypertensive drugs labetalol and nifedipine. These subjects had umbilical
      artery Doppler flow velocity and resistance index measurements at 27-32 weeks gestation and
      again at 33-36 weeks gestation. An increase in resistance index measurements was noted over
      time. The authors attributed this increase in umbilical artery resistance to progression in
      placental impairment due disease progression rather than the medication management of PIH
      [13]. Another group of patients with pregnancies complicated by preeclampsia had
      significantly elevated umbilical artery systolic flow to diastolic flow (S/D) ratios compared
      to a control group. When treated with an antihypertensive agent alpha-methyldopa, there was a
      significant reduction in umbilical artery S/D ratios in the group of women with preeclampsia
      [14]. An in-vitro study was undertaken with isolated segments of human umbilical cords that
      were evaluated for measured umbilical artery resistance. The segments were exposed to varying
      concentrations of common substances that affect arterial tone and are used as
      antihypertensive agents such as labetalol, alpha-methyldopa, nifedipine, and magnesium
      sulfate. All except alpha-methyldopa demonstrated a dose-dependant reduction in umbilical
      artery resistance due to direct umbilical artery smooth muscle relaxation [15].

      The purpose of this study is to obtain information regarding umbilical and middle cerebral
      artery hemodynamics during pregnancies complicated by chronic hypertension managed with
      anti-hypertensive medication and compare the measured values obtained to pregnancies not
      complicated by chronic hypertension. We postulate that the use of anti-hypertensive agents
      during pregnancy do not significantly affect umbilical artery Doppler flow and middle
      cerebral artery peak systolic velocity measurements.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. Establish a cohort of subjects that have a history of chronic hypertension requiring
           anti-hypertensive medication during pregnancy to act as a study group

        2. Establish a cohort of subjects that do not have chronic hypertension and do not take
           anti-hypertensive medication during pregnancy to act as a control group

        3. Obtain standard measurements of utero-placental function on two occasions during the
           third trimester of pregnancy, the first between 26 to 33 weeks gestation and the second
           between 34 and 40 weeks gestation

        4. The measurements of utero-placental function to include estimated fetal weight, average
           gestational size, amniotic fluid index, umbilical artery S/D ratio, and middle cerebral
           arterial peak velocity

        5. Compare the results of measurements made in both groups at two different times in the
           third trimester of pregnancy to define differences potentially attributable to
           medication use during pregnancy

        6. Use the results of this preliminary study to estimate how many subjects would be
           required to identify a statistically significant difference in fetal hemodynamic
           measurements potentially attributable to anti-hypertension agent use

      Study Design:

      This study will employ a prospective case-control design. A group of women with a history of
      chronic hypertension managed with anti-hypertensive medication will be identified as
      potential subjects for the study cohort. Each potential subject will have an assessment of
      her hypertension history, management, and associated vascular complications. A detailed
      review of her complete medical, surgical, gynecologic, and obstetrical history will be
      obtained as dictated by standard care. Appropriate management for each potential subject's
      medical and obstetrical condition will be provided according to accepted practice. Potential
      subjects for this cohort will be obstetrical patients cared for at the Regional Perinatal
      Center, Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, SUNY
      Upstate Medical University.

      A second group of women with no history of chronic hypertension will be identified as
      potential subjects for the control cohort. Each potential subject will have a detailed review
      of her complete medical, surgical, gynecologic, and obstetrical history will be obtained as
      dictated by standard care. Appropriate management for each potential subject's medical and
      obstetrical condition will be provided according to accepted practice. Potential subjects for
      this cohort will be obstetrical patients cared for at the Regional Perinatal Center, Division
      of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, SUNY Upstate Medical
      University.

      The subjects enrolled in both cohorts are seen at the Regional Perinatal Center for
      management of high-risk pregnancies. As part of intensified obstetrical care, ultrasound
      evaluation of interval fetal growth with an assessment of estimated fetal weight, average
      gestational size, and amniotic fluid index is standard around 28 weeks gestation and again at
      about 35 weeks gestation. Umbilical artery Doppler studies are usually reserved for fetuses
      with a diagnosis of suspected intrauterine growth restriction. Fetal middle cerebral artery
      peak flow velocity studies are usually reserved for suspected severe fetal anemia and have
      been used on an investigational basis for suspected intrauterine growth restriction. We
      anticipate most subjects will not have a pregnancy complicated by IUGR, therefore performing
      Doppler studies for umbilical artery S/D ratio and middle cerebral arterial peak velocity
      will not be standard care. Data will be collected in a database in a single computer on site
      at the Regional Perinatal Center. This computer is password protected and reserved for use by
      care providers at the Perinatal Center that will be investigators for this study. The
      database will record specific patient identifiers including subject name and chart number.
      These specific identifiers will be removed at the completion of data collection prior to data
      analysis.

      Statistical Methods, Data Analysis, Interpretation:

      There are few studies published regarding the use of anti-hypertensive agents during
      pregnancy and the effect of these agents on umbilical artery hemodynamics. These few studies
      usually involved 20 to 30 subjects. At this point, there is not enough information to
      estimate how many subjects would be required to measure a statistically significant
      difference potentially attributable to the use of these agents. For this preliminary study,
      we will obtain 30 subjects for the study cohort and 30 subjects for the control cohort. It is
      anticipated that it will take approximately one year to complete this study.

      Once data collection is complete as described above, a comparison of means will be undertaken
      for umbilical artery Doppler studies between the two cohorts at the first and then again for
      the second gestational age measurements.
    
  