
    
      The brachial plexus is a group of 5 nerves from the spinal cord that provide the movement and
      sensation of an upper extremity. In some difficult deliveries, traction on the shoulder may
      lead to damage to the brachial plexus and will result in an arm that is paralyzed. This is
      called 'birth related brachial plexus injury' (BRBPI). This may occur in up to 1/1000 births
      and the nerves may be injured minimally to severely. About 2/3 of children with this injury
      will recover to quite functional levels simply by maintaining looseness of joints while their
      nerves slowly heal. Some children have nerve injuries severe enough that they require
      surgical reconstruction with nerve grafts and nerve transfers to achieve even adequate
      function. Even in children with otherwise "good" recovery, the motions of external rotation
      of the shoulder and supination of the forearm are weaker, later to recover, and often
      incomplete. More importantly, lack of full motion leads to long term changes in the
      structure, growth, and posture of the shoulder requiring further musculoskeletal surgery, or
      a child with permanent deformity or disability.

      Any gains in active and passive range of motion during the first year of life may improve
      these long-term shoulder outcomes. The investigators have instituted a program of early
      passive repositioning mostly using a custom Sup-ER (Supination and External Rotation) splint
      during early growth and development to improve arm position and range of motion where ER and
      Sup are weak. In compliant patients in a pilot study, the speed and strength of recovery of
      ER and Supination are improved compared to historical controls. It is a novel splint and
      protocol designed by the investigators. This study is a randomized controlled trial to
      evaluate the use of the Sup-ER protocol in multiple centres over a two year period by
      assessing the arm function at common time points in recovery. The subjects are randomized to
      the Sup-ER protocol or the currently accepted standard treatment.
    
  