
    
      Essential tremor (ET) is a movement disorder characterized by tremor of both hands, and often
      head and voice, affecting approximately 4.8-6.7 million individuals over the age of 40 in the
      United States alone. Hand tremor can limit basic activities of daily living like feeding,
      drinking, writing and dressing. While medications can be effective for tremor, they are often
      poorly tolerated due to their sedative or neuronal activity depressant properties. Surgical
      options such as deep brain stimulation of the ventral intermedius thalamus (Vim DBS) can be
      highly effective but its invasive nature limits its popularity. Noninvasive brain stimulation
      has demonstrated the ability to reduce tremor but precisely where to target brain stimulation
      to achieve the best results is currently unknown.

      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) enables noninvasive, selective and
      sustained modulation of specific neural networks, and can lead to clinical benefits in
      debilitating neurologic and psychiatric disorders, including medication-resistant depression,
      paresis following stroke or traumatic brain injury, Parkinson's disease, or dementia. There
      is also recent evidence that rTMS of the cerebellum can relieve hand tremor due to essential
      tremor. TMS uses electromagnetic induction to generate controlled currents in targeted brain
      structures that can be identified and defined using MRI-based neuronavigation. TMS is safe if
      appropriate guidelines are adhered to. To date, the impact of rTMS on ET has not been
      sufficiently established, but pilot studies offer promising results.

      The investigators are testing whether MRI-guided neuronavigated cerebellar paired pulse TMS
      demonstrates abnormal physiologic measures in ET subjects compared to controls and whether
      there is reduction of tremor via cerebellar rTMS in patients with ET. The investigators plan
      to collect imaging, functional and neurophysiological assessments before and after the rTMS
      to identify the mechanistic underpinnings of rTMS-induced changes in tremor and
      cerebello-cortical inhibition.
    
  