
    
      Nucleic acid polymers (NAPs) utilize the sequence independent properties of phosphorothioated
      oligonucleotides to target apolipoprotein interactions involved in the formation of HBV
      subviral particles (SVPs) which are comprised mainly of the hepatitis B surface antigen
      protein (HBsAg). The effect of NAPs is to block the formation of SVPs inside infected
      hepatocytes which prevents their secretion. As SVPs account for > 99.99% of HBsAg in the
      blood, NAPs are an effective approach for clearing HBsAg from the serum of HBV infected
      patient.

      Previous clinical trials have demonstrated that treatment with the NAP REP 2139 results in
      the rapid and effective clearance of HBsAg from the blood. This HBsAg removal has the
      immediate effect of unmasking the underlying, pre-existing anti-HBsAg (anti-HBs) response,
      allowing clearance of HBV virus from the blood.

      HBsAg has important immunosuppressive effects in HBV infection which have been shown to block
      both adaptive and innate immune processes. Removal of HBsAg from the blood of patients
      removes this immunosuppressive effect.

      Thus, an important additional effect of removal of HBsAg from the blood is to greatly enhance
      the effect of immunotherapeutic agents like pegylated interferon alpha-2a or thymosin alpha-1
      to stimulate recovery of complete immune control of HBV infection.

      HDV superinfection can only occur in patients with HBV infection because HDV requires the
      HBsAg protein for its assembly. Therefore, it is expected that the removal of serum HBsAg
      (from HBV SVPs) and unmasking of the anticipated, pre-existing anti-HBsAg response by REP
      2139 will result in the clearance of HBV and HDV from the blood. Furthermore, the enhanced
      effect of immunotherapy in the absence of serum HBsAg has the potential to provide a durable
      control of both HBV and HDV infection that will persist after treatment.
    
  