
    
      This pharmacokinetic (PK) study will evaluate if a double dose (3.0 mg) of levonorgestrel
      (LNG) emergency contraception (EC) overcomes known drug-drug interactions (DDIs) with
      efavirenz (EFV)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) or rifampicin (RIF)-containing
      tuberculosis (TB) therapy. The safety of double-dose (3.0 mg) LNG EC versus standard-dose
      (1.5 mg) will also be compared.

      Participants will be volunteers who do not currently require EC for contraception. This study
      will enroll women who are 16 years of age or older. Group assignment will be determined by
      infection status (HIV or TB; participants cannot be coinfected), and, for those who are
      living with HIV, by ART regimen at enrollment. Women living with HIV who are taking EFV-based
      ART will be randomized to receive a standard dose LNG EC (Group A) or a double dose of LNG EC
      (Group B). Women taking dolutegravir (DTG)-based ART will be assigned to a standard dose of
      LNG EC (Group C). Women who are HIV-negative and in the continuation phase of active TB
      treatment taking RIF and isoniazid (INH) will be assigned to a double dose of LNG EC (Group
      D).

      At study entry, participants in Groups A and C will receive a standard single dose of LNG EC.
      Participants in Groups B and D will receive a double dose of LNG EC. Intensive PK monitoring
      will be conducted pre-dose, and after the LNG EC dose. Women are expected to be at the
      clinical site while the initial 8 hour PK samples are collected and may return for the 24 and
      48 hour samples.

      All participants will complete self-report questionnaires to assess adherence to TB therapy
      and ART, menstrual history and patterns after LNG EC administration, and to collect adverse
      effects commonly reported with LNG EC (i.e., irregular bleeding patterns). Adherence to ART
      and RIF will be assessed by collecting hair samples and single plasma concentrations at
      entry. All participants will be followed for 4 weeks.
    
  