
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is an increasingly common and potentially catastrophic complication
      in critically ill patients. The incidence of AKI increases in recent years; about half of all
      patients in the intensive care units (ICU) develop AKI. AKI is associated with a
      significantly increased length of hospital stay and high mortality rates. Approximately, 50%
      of AKI is induced by sepsis.

      Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) has become routine for patients with AKI, chronic
      renal failure, ﬂuid overload as well as oliguria in ICU. In clinical practice, continuous
      venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH) is actually the method of choice for CRRT in critically ill
      and hemodynamic instable patients. CVVH has significant beneficial effects on removing
      inflammatory cytokines, improving oxygen index, decreasing vasopressor requirements,
      increasing cardiac index, and regulating immune dysfunction, specifically in patients with
      septic shock. So far, there is no uniform standard to define the timing of discontinuation of
      CRRT for AKI, as predicting recovery of renal function in patients with AKI during CRRT is
      difficult. The Beginning and Ending Supportive Therapy for the Kidney (BEST Kidney) study
      suggested the urinary output > 500ml per day as the predictor for successful discontinuation
      of CRRT. However, the urinary output is often affected by clinical interventions (e.g. using
      diuretics). Thus, it is of great importance to find out a reliable biomarker to reflect the
      renal function of the patients who receiving CRRT. Cystatin (Cys) C has received the most
      interest in previous studies. The results showed serum Cys C concentrations were declined in
      different types of RRT (including intermittent hemodialysis and CVVH). This indicates Cys C
      is unfit as an indicator for persistent renal injury or renal recovery in critically ill
      patients during CRRT.

      Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), a 25-kDa protein that covalently binds to
      gelatinase from neutrophils, is generally expressed at very low levels in several human
      tissues, however, in case of ischemia, infection, or toxic damage, NGAL rapidly released by
      activated neutrophils. Numerous studies have confirmed NGAL as a better indicator of AKI than
      serum creatinine (SCr). Schilder and colleagues reported that the plasma level of NGAL in
      critically ill patients with AKI is not affected by continuous venovenous hemofiltration
      (CVVH). However, it remains unclear if this also applies to sepsis-induced AKI, as
      considerable evidence suggests that the pathophysiology of septic AKI is different from other
      causes of AKI.
    
  