
    
      The products to be considered will be Apligraf, which is a bioengineered skin substitute, and
      TheraSkin, which is a cryopreserved split-thickness human skin allograft. This is a
      head-to-head designed study to observe the performance of each product and compare the
      results so that the clinician can readily see advantages in healing times, infection rates,
      and costs associated with each product. The study sponsors are Soluble Systems and Life Net
      Health.

      The Study will have three phases:

      The first phase will consist of a series of screening assessments designed to determine
      eligibility. The prospective patients must meet inclusion and exclusion criteria. They will
      be randomly assigned to one of the two cohorts in equal numbers.

      In the second phase, the study treatment will be administered and the patient will be
      followed until the study ulcer has completely healed (i.e., 100% closure as determined by the
      Investigator, for up to 12 weeks. During the Treatment Phase subjects will be evaluated on a
      weekly basis. Efficacy evaluations each week will include Investigator assessment of wound
      closure and evaluations of ulcer size.

      During the third phase, which will immediately follow the initial 12 weeks of the second
      phase, all patients remaining with non-healed study wounds will be treated and followed
      through an additional 8 weeks of treatment.

      Safety Assessments throughout the study will include assessment of adverse events and
      measurement of clinical laboratory parameters.

      STUDY ENROLLMENT This study will initially include 100 subjects, enrolled randomly into two
      groups, to be treated with either Apligraf or TheraSkin. The sample size was determined with
      a power calculation based on the anticipated difference in healing rate between Apligraf and
      TheraSkin. The following parameters were used to calculate the sample size. The literature on
      these two products predicts a closure rate of 68% with TheraSkin, and 47% for Apligraf within
      12 weeks.

      Assuming a 68% closure rate with TheraSkin, and a 47% closure rate, with a desired alpha
      value of p<0.05 and a power of 80%, 64 subjects would be needed. However, if a difference in
      closure rate is assumed to be only 10%, with a closure rate of 68% with TheraSkin and 47%
      with Apligraf, the power calculation predicts that 142 subjects would be needed. A compromise
      difference of 13% was used to predict that 84 subjects would be needed. If we assume a 20%
      dropout rate due to lack of compliance or adverse events, we will need to enroll a total of
      100 subjects.
    
  