
    
      In France, a central venous catheter is used in 20 to 30% of chronic hemodialysis patients as
      the vascular access device. In this patient population the recommended device is a tunnelled
      dialysis catheter (TC). TC-related infections (TCI) and TC dysfunctions are two major
      complications and are associated with increased antibiotic consumption, hospital stays,
      health costs and mortality. Strategies to prevent TCI should target endoluminal biofilm
      formation, which is the major cause of long-term catheter colonization.

      Unfractionated heparin (UFH), 5000 U/mL, is the standard interdialytic lock solution for the
      prevention of TC thrombosis. A lower-UFH concentration (1000U/mL) is associated with similar
      catheter patency. However, UFH has no antibiofilm properties. Antibiotic locks decrease the
      rate of TCI including TC- related bloodstream infections (TCBSI) and exit-site infection
      (ESI). The widespread use of antibiotic lock solutions raises concerns, however, because of
      side effects and the risk for the development of antimicrobial-resistant microorganisms.

      Ethanol is an inexpensive antiseptic agent with activity against a broad range of bacteria
      and fungi commonly involved in TCI. It acts by non-specific protein denaturation and thus is
      less likely to promote antimicrobial resistance. Ethanol concentration of 40% v/v is highly
      effective in eradicating biofilm and has no significant impact on the integrity of silicone
      and polyurethane TCs or on their mechanical properties. A small randomized controlled trial
      performed in chronic hemodialysis patients with TC suggests that once-weekly instillation of
      an interdialytic ethanol lock is effective in preventing TCBSI. However, ethanol has no
      anticoagulant properties and may induce TC dysfunctions when used alone.

      Experimental data provide evidence that a combined solution of ethanol and injectable
      anticoagulant is a promising lock solution for preventing both TC infections and
      dysfunctions. UFH, at whatever concentration, cannot be mixed with ethanol 40% v/v because of
      precipitation. ERA-EDTA recommends using low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) for blood
      circuit anticoagulation during dialysis sessions. Like UFH, LMWHs have no antibiofilm
      properties. In contrast, LMWHs can be mixed in ethanol 40% v/v with enoxaparin having the
      highest solubility, up to 1300 U/mL. Our group demonstrated that ethanol 40% v/v - enoxaparin
      400 U/mL is stable, compatible with TC materials and exhibits antibiofilm and anticoagulant
      properties in vitro (patent). No clinical studies have previously assessed the efficacy of a
      combined solution of ethanol and LMWH in preventing TCI in chronic hemodialysis patients.

      Screening Patients eligible to participate in the study will be identified by a clinical
      research assistant in each study centre at the beginning of the study and then weekly. Data
      recorded in the medical records will be used.

      Enrolment Eligible patients, previously identified during the screening procedure, will be
      recruited during a routine hemodialysis session by an investigator from centres participating
      in this study Randomization Enrolled patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio either
      to the intervention group (Ethenox) or to the control group (reference solution: UFH 5000
      U/mL or citrate 4% w/v depending on which solution is generally used). Random allocation will
      be performed by minimization using a computer algorithm. Minimization strata will be the
      study centre, the incident or prevalent nature of the TC and in the prevalent group the
      existence or not of a previous infection of the TC in place.

      Single blind procedure The study will be performed single blind for the patients and the
      analysts. The recognisable smell of ethanol and the need to prepare the Ethenox lock solution
      rule out blinding of the healthcare staff.

      Treatment Study treatment (Ethenox in the intervention group or reference solutions in the
      control group: UFH 5000 U/mL or citrate 4% w/v according to usual practice) will be used by
      the hemodialysis nurse as TC lock solution after each hemodialysis session with all
      successive TCs used during the study.

      All the centres participating in the study will use similar hygiene protocols for TC
      placement and maintenance in accordance with the guidelines drawn up by the Haute Autorité de
      Santé and the Société Française d'Hygiène Hospitalière. Audits will be conducted during the
      study to ensure compliance with guidelines.

      Study assessments Bacteriological sampling will be performed in accordance with guidelines
      for TCI.

      A monthly blood sample will be taken as part of the routine care given to the patients.

      Data will be collected weekly in an electronic case report form (e-CRF) except endpoint data
      for adjudication and serious adverse events, which will be recorded continuously.
    
  