
    
      Context: Expert recommendations for CPR skills (blowing air into the lungs, pressing on the
      chest) are poorly followed by health care providers. CPR sensors as small as a hockey "puck"
      placed on the chest during CPR delivery are able to coach a rescuer to perform better CPR
      through corrective voice feedback. More adults survive when the quality of CPR (Q-CPR) is
      improved. This new technology is currently not approved for use in children, specifically 6
      months to < 8 years of age.

      Objectives:

        1. Characterize trained pediatric health care provider opinion concerning how appropriate
           the current Q-CPR sensor ("puck"), FDA approved for children ≥ 8 years of age, is for
           use in younger children ages 6m to < 8 years of age.

        2. Determine the need for Q-CPR sensor ("puck") size changes to improve its suitability for
           younger children < 8 years of age, based upon trained pediatric health care provider
           opinion.

        3. Characterize the amount of Q-CPR sensor ("puck") overlap with standard large and small
           mock defibrillator electrode pads placed in usual locations on the chest.

        4. Evaluate trained pediatric health care provider self-reported willingness to use current
           or modified Q-CPR sensors ("pucks") in younger children, 6 months to < 8 years of age.

      Study Design/Setting/Participants: This observational study will be performed in the
      Emergency Department (ED), Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU), Operating Room (OR) and
      regular inpatient care area (RIPCA) settings at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.
      Parents and guardians of children ages 6m to < 8 years of age receiving routine clinical care
      in these patient care areas will be approached for inclusion. Health care practitioners
      (HCPs) in the ED, OR and PICU will also be approached for inclusion.

      Study Measures: Children will have their age, length, weight, and simple measurements of
      their chest, neck and abdomen taken. The differences in trained pediatric health care
      provider placement of the compression sensor and their assessment of the suitability /
      willingness to use the current or size modified sensor will be assessed.
    
  