
    
      Scientific background:

      Particulate contamination of infusion solutions and their systemic administration during
      infusion therapy has been linked to various clinical problems.

      Organ failure and Multi-Organ Failure (MOV):

      It is well established that the pathophysiology of MOV involves deteriorations of the
      microcirculation and integrity of endothelial cells. As a consequence of this an imbalance
      between pro- and anticoagulatory factors may develop and microthrombi may form. Mediators
      like tissue factor (TF) and platelet activating factor (PAF) have been linked to the
      formation of microthrombi.

      Particles have been discussed as a causative agent for this syndrome by various authors.
      Their effect on morbidity and mortality of patients has however not yet been established.

      Particles may have additional harmful effects:

        -  Direct thrombogenesis by the particle material

        -  Damaging endothelial cells in the capillary network

        -  Embolisation of the pulmonary vasculature

        -  Acting as a cristallisation focus for the development of granuloma

        -  Promoting the formation of Giant Cells

      Various authors have shown that the use of end line infusion filters significantly reduces
      the rate of thrombophlebitis. A recently published study by van Lingen et al. (2004) also
      showed that the use of end line infusion filters significantly reduced the rate of overall
      complications in neonates.

      Study Hypothesis:

      The use of end line positively charged 0.2 µm and uncharged 1.2 µm infusion filters will
      prevent particles, microorganisms and their endotoxins from the infusate to enter the
      patient's circulation in the study group and will reduce significantly the complication rate
      of these patients.

      The following clinical diagnoses are defined as "Complications". They are main contributors
      to morbidity and mortality in intensive care wards:

        -  catheter related thrombosis of the central veins

        -  sepsis with proven infectious organisms

        -  Septic syndrome without proven infectious organisms

        -  Failure of one of the following organs/systems

             1. Lung

             2. Kidney

             3. Liver

             4. Circulation
    
  