
    
      This is an Italian, single center, randomized, phase II study. ATRA (all-trans retinoic acid)
      and derivatives (retinoids) are promising anticancer agents and exert their
      anti-proliferative, differentiating and apoptotic effects through the nuclear retinoic acid
      receptors, including RARα (retinoic acid receptor alpha). Although the clinical use of ATRA
      in haematological malignancies (Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia, APL) is well established, its
      use in solid tumors is limited. However, some recent pre-clinical evidence suggests a
      possible role of ATRA in the treatment of specific subtypes of HR-positive (Hormonal
      Receptor)/HER2-negative early breast cancer (eBC).

      This is a prospective, randomized Phase 2 window-of opportunity pre-operative clinical trial
      to study the activity of ATRA in combination with anastrozole in HR+/HER2- eBCs. All patients
      will receive primary treatment with anastrozole p.o. (intended as standard of care) and will
      be randomized to add or not ATRA p.o. Patients will receive study treatments by continuous
      once-daily administration for a period of 4 weeks before definitive surgery. Treatment will
      start 28 days before the scheduled surgical resection and will be completed at the time of
      surgery, scheduled no more than 1 week after completion of the study treatment. The interval
      between diagnostic core biopsy, baseline clinical evaluation and study entry must be no more
      than 4 weeks.

      The study will compare the anti-tumor activity of the treatments in the two arms
      (ATRA+anastrozole or Aa vs. anastrozole alone or a). In this comparison, the primary outcome
      measure is the proportion of complete BC cells cycle arrest (defined as Ki67 < 2.7%), as
      previously reported. Indeed, the responder patients will be defined according the achievement
      of an absolute value of Ki67 < 2.7% because of its predictive value on relapse-free survival.
      The study aims at demonstrating that the ATRA+anastrozole (Aa) arm is characterized by
      significant therapeutic superiority over the anastrozole (a) arm.

      Clinical and ultrasound examinations, trascriptome analysis on formalin-fixed
      paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples will be performed, at baseline and at the time of definitive
      surgery
    
  