
    
      A recent update of the American Hear Association and American College of Cardiology
      Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Valvular Heart Disease1 recommended that for
      patients between 50 and 70 years of age, it is reasonable to the choice of either a
      mechanical or bioprosthetic valve; the threshold for biological valves continues to decrease
      and more younger adults will receive this kind of prosthesis. However the best biological
      option for these patients is still a matter of debate. Stented bio-prosthesis is the most
      common choice. However, the predicted 15-year risk of needing reoperation because of
      structural deterioration is 22% for patients 50 years of age2.

      In the late 80's stentless valve as the Medtronic Freestyle (FS) has been introduced with the
      hope that it may provide physiological flow in the aortic root, sinuses, and coronary
      orifices and a low risk of thromboembolism. Several randomized study and meta-analysis
      demonstrated improved hemodynamic, a larger orifice area and a midterm survival advantage of
      stentless aortic valve compared to stented aortic valve replacement3, 4. The FS valve is
      believed to provide greater durability and superior hemodynamic performance due to the low
      mechanical stress on the leaflet tissues. The failure mode of the FS is thought to be mostly
      calcification of the aorta wall and cusp tears because collagen degradation5. This phenomenon
      is inflammation mediated process.

      Aim of this study is to evaluate the rate and anatomy of the aortic wall and leaflet
      calcification of the FS prosthesis implanted as full root in patients younger than 60 years
      compared to a stented bioprostheses (Perimount Magna Ease, PM). A 3D CT scan will be used to
      assess the calcification score and to determine the relationship between calcification and
      aortic valve leaflet.

      Between 2007 and 2017, among patients younger than 60 years of age, 51 patients underwent a
      full root replacement with a FS and 49 received a Perimount Magna Ease prosthesis. Those
      patients will undergo a 3D CT scan. The group of the patient with PM will be matched in
      function of age and interval of follow-up with the FS group.

      A transthoracic echocardiogram will be performed to check residual valve insufficiency and
      trans-valvular gradients. A cardiopulmonary exercise test ( with extraction of maximal oxygen
      consumption ) combined with a trans thoracic echocardiography (stress echocardiography) will
      be performed to evaluate the patients exercise capacity and its influence on the cardiac and
      valve function.
    
  