
    
      The number of ambulatory surgical procedures is increasing rapidly. Surgery without one or
      more overnight stays in hospital is appreciated by most patients and has considerable
      economic and efficiency advantages. It is facilitated by new anesthetic and analgesic drugs
      with a more rapid onset and shorter and more reliable duration of action. Paramount for
      successful ambulatory surgery is the timely discharge of a patient who is at the time of
      discharge fit to go home.

      Early discharge Release of patients, who later experience postoperative complications
      requiring unanticipated hospital re-admission, should not occur. Fatigue, nausea, vomiting or
      pain can delay the patient's discharge.2 Patients with psychomotor impairment may be prone to
      accidents while travelling or at home.3 Short stays are an acceptable practice only if the
      patient can return home safely and comfortably with minimal side effects from anesthesia and
      surgery.

      Stages of recovery Recovery from outpatient anesthesia includes dissipation of anesthetic
      agents, normalization of physiological function, observation for medical or surgical
      complications, treatment of immediate side effects of anesthesia and surgery and, ultimately,
      discharge and return home.4 Recovery from anesthesia may be divided into three main stages.

      Early recovery Awakening and recovery of vital reflexes. Intermediate recovery Intermediate
      clinical recovery, home readiness. Late recovery Full recovery. Psychological recovery.

      Home readiness and street fitness Intermediate recovery implies that the patient is ready to
      go home (accompanied by a care taker). Street fitness means that the patient is not only
      ready to go home, but is also capable of safely taking part in the traffic.6 Part of this is
      full recovery of cognitive functions.

      Tests Scoring systems developed to guide the transfer from the hospital recovery room to the
      ward may be used to assess the early recovery of ambulatory surgical patients. The most
      commonly used method, described by Aldrete and Kroulik provides objective information on the
      physical condition of patients arriving in the recovery room after anesthesia.7 This test was
      modified in 1995 and assigns a score of 0, 1 or 2 to activity, respiration, circulation,
      consciousness and oxygenation. A score of 9 or 10 indicates adequacy of early recovery and
      enable discharge from the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU).8 Intermediate recovery to home
      readiness cannot be determined only with early recovery tests.9 Chung suggested a
      post-anesthetic discharge scoring system (PADSS), which may provide a reliable measure of
      anesthetic recovery.10 PADSS is based on vital signs, ambulation and mental status, pain,
      nausea and vomiting, surgical bleeding and fluid intake and output. The qualifications for
      discharge include a postoperative discharge score of 9 or more and the presence of a
      competent adult to accompany the patient home.

      Assessment of late recovery (e.g. when the patient is ready to drive a car or resume normal
      daily activities) requires sophisticated laboratory tests that cannot be used in normal
      clinical practice.11 Many tests have been applied to assess recovery.

      The Human Performance Measurement/Basic Elements of Performance (HPM/BEP) system® (Human
      Performance Measurement, Inc, Arlington, TX, USA) collects motor performance data. The HPM
      module for hands (BEP 1) has been used by e.g. Haavisto.12 BEP 1 is a multifunction system
      designed to measure different aspects of the upper extremity, including visual spatial memory
      capacity, simple reaction time, choice reaction time, movement speed, wrist tapping and
      co-ordination. The test-retest reliabilities of HPM/BEP tests were described in detail by
      Kauranen, and the reliability of the system was acceptable.13 The BEP1 module includes visual
      spatial memory capacity, simple reaction time, one-choice reaction time 1 speed of movement,
      two-choice reaction time 1 speed of movement, index finger-tapping speed, co-ordination test,
      digit-symbol substitution and the Maddox Wing test.

      Neuromuscular blocking agents Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are commonly used during
      surgery to facilitate endotracheal intubation, allow assisted or controlled ventilation, and
      let surgery proceed easily. Although neuromuscular function will recover spontaneously, such
      recovery is frequently only partial. However, a rapid and complete reversal of neuromuscular
      blockade (NMB) is desirable in the surgical setting to avoid residual paralysis and related
      adverse outcomes, amongst them impaired motor behaviour.

      Reversal of NMB Traditionally, reversal of NMB has been accomplished with a cholinesterase
      inhibitor (e.g. neostigmine, pyridostigmine, edrophonium) that acts by inhibiting the
      breakdown of ACh in the neuromuscular junction.14 Although effective once some recovery has
      already taken place, cholinesterase inhibitors are associated with a number of limitations,
      including the induction of cholinergic adverse events (e.g. bradycardia, bronchospasm,
      bronchial secretions, abdominal cramping) and incomplete reversal of NMB under certain
      circumstances.15, 16

      Sugammadex Sugammadex (Bridion®) has a novel approach to the rapid reversal of steroid based
      NMBA's.17, 18 The drug has been developed in The Netherlands by Organon, which is now part of
      Schering-Plough, which is part of Merck. The drug is a modified gamma-cyclodextrin that is
      water soluble but has a lipophilic cavity that traps the NMBA. The formation of this
      sugammadex/NMBA complex results in a reduction in the amount of free circulating NMBA,
      leaving the receptor available for binding to Ach.19 Sugammadex acts selectively against the
      steroidal NMBAs rocuronium and vecuronium but has little or no activity against nonsteroidal
      NMBAs (eg, succinylcholine, atracurium, cisatracurium). There is no evidence that sugammadex
      is metabolized; the drug is primarily eliminated via the renal route as unchanged drug. The
      drug is in Europe approved for routine clinical use to reverse neuromuscular blockade induced
      by steroidal non-depolarizing muscle relaxants.

      In surgical patients, sugammadex produces dose-dependent reversal of NMB induced by
      rocuronium or vecuronium.20-22 In comparative studies, sugammadex has demonstrated
      effectiveness superior to cholinesterase inhibitors for NMB reversal at several time points
      after the administration of rocuronium or vecuronium. This includes routine reversal of deep
      or moderate NMB and immediate reversal of NMB.23-25 For example, in the routine reversal of
      deep NMB, sugammadex was associated with a 15-fold shorter median time to recovery of the
      T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 compared with neostigmine under sevoflurane anesthesia.

      Sugammadex is very well tolerated with no significant cardiovascular or hemodynamic adverse
      events.26 Dysgeusia (metallic or bitter taste) was the most common adverse event, but this
      was primarily seen at doses ≥32 mg/kg; there were only a few reports of dysgeusia in surgical
      patients receiving the drug. Age, gender, race, and ethnicity do not appear to influence the
      safety of sugammadex.27

      Rationale for the study Sugammadex has been registered in The Netherlands since October 2008.
      Several anesthesiologists from all over the world, have independently reported that patients
      seem to be more alert in the early phase of recovery after reversal of NMB with sugammadex
      compared to reversal with a cholinesterase inhibitor or spontaneous recovery. However, these
      observations have not been substantiated in a clinical study.

      It has been proven that at a TOF ratio of 0,9, i.e. when clinical muscle relaxation has
      nearly disappeared and the patient can be safely extubated, 70-80% of the nicotine receptors
      are still blocked by the NMBA. An explanation for the possible increase of alertness after
      reversal with sugammadex could be that sugammadex very efficiently and quickly reverses this
      rest blockade, resulting in a quick return of alertness and cognitive functions due to an
      arousal from incoming signals from the γ-motor system. Because sugammadex is inert, it is
      less likely that an unknown pharmacological effect of sugammadex, a cyclodextrin, is
      responsible for this supposed effect.

      Increased alertness immediately after anesthesia has a positive effect on patient safety and
      wellbeing and would enable earlier discharge from the PACU. Earlier discharge contributes to
      an efficient use of the PACU in general and might allow earlier hospital discharge for
      patients who had surgery in the daycare setting, because they meet the street fitness
      criteria sooner.

      This pilot study has been designed to assess whether sugammadex indeed has, compared with
      neostigmine or placebo, a positive effect on the street fitness of patients and to assess the
      nature, magnitude and the time of onset of this effect (if any). 30 patients will be
      randomized in three groups of 10 patients each (sugammadex, neostigmine/glycopyrrolate and no
      reversal). These numbers are based on practical considerations, as there are no data
      available to base a sample size calculation on. The data for this study will enable a sample
      size calculation for a formal well-powered efficacy study. If a supposed effect on alertness
      can be demonstrated, it may be worthwhile to investigate the mechanism of action as well.

      The investigators have chosen for a trial design in which sugammadex will be used to reverse
      the neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium. Sugammadex in the first,
      neostigmine/glycopyrrolate in the second, and placebo in the third study arm, will be
      administered post surgery when clinical neuromuscular function has recovered to the level of
      TOF ratio ~ 0,9 (i.e. when 70-80% of the receptors are still occupied). It is supposed that
      sugammadex will efficiently and quickly reverse this "subclinical" rest blockade, leading to
      an increased alertness. Since a higher alertness has never been described from the
      traditional drug neostigmine or from placebo is it not expected that they have such an
      effect. The post surgery cognitive evaluations will be performed 30 minutes after this TOF
      ratio has been reached. This first 30 minutes time point is considered clinically relevant.
      In case an effect can only be demonstrated later, the relevance becomes questionable. TOF
      will only be measured until it reaches approximately 0.9, thereafter only cognitive functions
      will be evaluated.

      A limited number of commonly used cognitive tests have been selected to assess recovery and
      psychomotor function, including the Modified Aldrete Score, the trail making test, the Maddox
      wing test and visual analogue scales. With these tests any positive effect of sugammadex on
      recovery and alertness should be demonstrable.
    
  