
    
      This is an observational prospective analysis of biological characteristics of malignant
      pleural mesothelioma (MPM) patients. Frozen and paraffin-embedded tumor specimens and pleural
      effusion of patients will be collected and than will be analyzed with the following analyses:

        1. Purification of TAMs and tumour cells from pleural effusions. Pleural effusions will be
           subjected to centrifugation in order to separate cellular and non-cellular components.
           Cell-free supernatant will be collected and subjected to further analysis for the
           identification and characterization of secreted proteins (ELISA, Western Blot). Pleural
           effusion cell components will be characterized by cytofluorimetry in order to evaluate
           leukocytes composition (e.g. macrophages, neutrophils, lymphocytes). Next, to isolate
           TAMs from the cellular components, the investigators will adopt a standard protocol
           currently performed in the investigators group to purify TAMs from ascites derived from
           ovarian carcinoma patients . Briefly, TAMs will be separated by their selective capacity
           to adhere in culture plates in serum-free conditions. After 1 hour of incubation,
           non-adherent cells (mainly tumour cells and other inflammatory cells) will be thoroughly
           washed off with jets of medium. After adherence, cells were rested for 1 hour in
           standard culture conditions and subsequently lysed to extract proteins. To isolate
           tumour cells from leukocytes, a cell sorting-based approach will be used. Briefly,
           inflammatory cells will be stained with lymphocyte common antigen (CD45) antibody and
           negative cells (tumour cells) will be separated by cell sorting. Next tumour cells will
           be grown and amplified in standard culture conditions.

        2. Mass spectrometry analysis of TAMs and tumor cells Generation of proteome and the
           phospho-proteomic maps of TAMs and tumour cells will be accomplished by quantitation of
           both the entire proteome and the phospho-proteome. Results obtained with TAMs will be
           compared to untreated, M1 and M2 polarized Monocytes-derived macrophages (M-DM), while
           tumor cells purified from patients' pleural effusion will be analysed with respect to
           human mesothelial cells. Protein samples obtained from the purified TAMs and tumour
           cells, derived from the patient's pleural effusions, will be extracted using
           lysis/acetone precipitation. Cell extracts will be subsequently subjected to trypsin
           digestion and the resulting peptides will be labelled with the "iTRAQ" reagents.
           Labelled peptides will be separated with the first dimension of the separation being
           strong cation exchange (SCX) chromatography. Fractions will be collected and
           phospho-enriched, when required. The pooled mixture of peptides will be submitted to a
           second dimension chromatographic separation, organized as a two-step process: a
           desalting/concentrating pre-column, and an analytical column for the separation. System
           is a nano-flow configuration, with direct interfacing to a mass spectrometer. Tandem
           mass spectrometry will be performed on a hybrid ion-trap (IT) - Fourier transform
           ion-cyclotron-resonance mass spectrometer. Quantitative and identification data analysis
           will be carried out with Proteome Discoverer software (Thermo), using SEQUEST as the
           search engine. Statistical analysis and data classification will be carried out with aid
           of in-house written script for the freeware statistical analysis package.

        3. Co focal microscopy analysis of macrophages, tumour cells and specimens derived from
           patients. The analysis will be conducted on the cellular components derived from pleural
           effusion (as previously described) and from frozen and paraffin-embedded tissues.
           Immunofluorescence staining will be performed with markers of DNA damage and polarized
           inflammation. Furthermore, immunofluorescence analysis will be held to validate putative
           new MM molecular markers obtained from the mass spectrometry studies.
    
  