
    
      While EGFR inhibitors have demonstrated activity against NSCLC [their integration into
      first-line therapy in combination with standard agents has yielded disappointing results].
      There are many potential reasons for the disappointing results in these first-line studies [
      A single-arm Phase I trial of cetuximab in combination with docetaxel suggested better
      efficacy in second-line therapy for NSCLC than docetaxel alone but this comes at the expense
      of some increased toxicity]. Preliminary data indicate that cetuximab has single agent
      activity in this setting. The confidence intervals for this activity overlap the median time
      to progression of the current second-line cytotoxic therapy options compared in the Hanna
      study [A clinically relevant question is- does concurrent cetuximab and pemetrexed
      significantly improve upon outcomes of cetuximab monotherapy followed by pemetrexed
      monotherapy?].

      Many patients who receive EGFR inhibitors develop an acneiform rash and the severity of the
      rash is associated with good outcomes from treatment. Several of these studies have
      demonstrated no correlation between the intensity or percentage of tumor cells staining for
      EFUR expression and response to therapy. However, a Phase II study, at the University of
      Colorado, of cetuximab added to standard first-line treatment of NSCLC revealed 6/10
      responders developed the rash within 2 weeks of initiating treatment (Personal Communication,
      Dugan, et al. BMS). Therefore, early development of rash may be a clinically useful marker of
      subsequent response and novel approaches to the identification of biological markers for this
      phenotype prior to initiation of therapy may be helpful in subsequent determination of which
      patients will most likely benefit from EGFR inhibitor therapy.

      To address these issues we propose a phase I randomized study of concurrent
      pemetrexed/cetuximab compared to sequential cetuximab/pemetrexed therapy for the second-line
      treatment of advanced NSCLC. Patients will be randomized at study entry. Regarding
      prospective analysis of the rapid-rash forming phenotype, all patients will receive 2 weeks
      of initial treatment with cetuximab and undergo formal rash evaluation, serum and skin
      collection. According to the initial randomization, half of the study subjects will continue
      with cetuximab monotherapy while the remainder will receive concurrent cetuximab and
      pemetrexed. The primary study endpoint of freedom from progression and secondary endpoint of
      objective response rate will be based on the comparison of patients in (he concurrent therapy
      group with patients treated with cetuximab monotherapy with Day-14 (first receipt of
      cetuximab) as the reference treatment start date. Overall survival will be analyzed as a
      secondary endpoint to assess the efficacy of concomitant treatment with cetuximab and
      pemetrexed compared to sequential treatment with cetuximab followed by pemetrexed upon
      disease progression. As patients in both treatment arms receive cetuximab, correlative
      studies will be performed on all enrolled patients. For serum proteomic studies designed to
      identify a serum polypeptide signature associated with response to cetuximab-based therapy,
      serum samples shall be collected at enrollment, and just prior to receiving the third dose of
      cetuximab therapy. To provide the opportunity to perform retrospective pharmacogenomic
      studies, whole blood DNA will be collected from each patient at enrollment and subsequently
      analyzed for candidate gene polymorphisms once outcome data is available. Finally, an
      alternative approach to identification of markers for responsiveness to EGFR inhibition
      already in progress at the University of Chicago entails collection of skin biopsies before
      and after treatment with an EGFR inhibitor.

      As in ongoing collaborations with the University of Chicago Section of Dermatology, patients
      in this proposed study will undergo skin biopsies at enrollment and after 2 weeks of
      cetuximab therapy. The investigators will extract mRNA from the fresh frozen skin specimens
      and perform microarray studies to test the utility of mRNA expression patterns associated
      with rash and responsiveness to EOFR inhibitors in currently ongoing investigations at the
      University of Chicago. Therefore we expect this study: 1) to identify any significant
      improvement of concurrent cetuximab/pemetrexed therapy for second-line treatment of NSCLC
      over sequential monotherapy, 2) through timely minimally invasive collection of serum and
      exposed skin, to provide the opportunity to test previously identified biomarkers for
      individual responsiveness to cetuximab therapy, and 3) to confirm prospectively whether early
      development of rash on cetuximab treatment predicts responsiveness to either concurrent or
      sequential therapy.
    
  