
    
      Achieving PCI time goals is influenced by multiple factors, such as patient attributes,
      agency factors and elements of organizational Emergency Medical Services (EMS) culture.
      Organizational culture is defined as a set of shared values, beliefs, and assumptions within
      an organization that influences how people within that organization behave. Differences in
      organizational culture between hospitals have been associated with both cardiovascular
      mortality and disease-specific outcomes. Although not yet rigorously studied in the
      prehospital environment, it is likely that organizational culture contributes to differences
      in tempo and manner of completing interventions. Prehospital performance accountability and
      culture have been discussed by experts in EMS magazines but have never been formally studied.

      EMS STEMI protocols that include direct transportation to a PCI-capable hospital and
      pre-hospital PCI center activation improve patient outcomes. Unsuccessful EKG transmission,
      delayed PCI center activation, and cardiogenic shock have been shown to negatively affect PCI
      time metrics and patient outcomes. The impact of PCI delays in the rural setting has not been
      specifically studied. In addition, there are agency-level factors, such as ambulances per
      capita, number of satellite stations, miles of interstate that likely affect the EMS agency's
      ability to achieve shorter PCI times for the STEMI patients they care for. This proposal will
      use mixed methods to identify previously unmeasured components of rural EMS agency
      organizational culture, structure, care processes, and patient environment that likely
      influence PCI time and patient outcomes. In addition, this project will identify best
      practices that can be tested as novel interventions and implemented in rural EMS agencies to
      improve STEMI time metrics and therefore reduce patient morbidity and mortality.
    
  