
    
      The aim of the project is to investigate whether increased ventilation is able to improve the
      indoor air quality and thereby asthma disease control for children with asthma and house dust
      mite allergy.

      Hypotheses:

        1. An increased ventilation in the home will reduce the need for inhaled steroids in
           children with house dust mite allergy and asthma.

        2. An increased ventilation in the home will improve the quality of life in children with
           house dust mite allergy and asthma.

        3. An increased ventilation in the home will improve the indoor environment and thus
           improve asthma disease control in children with house dust mite allergy and asthma.

      Materials and methods: The study is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled intervention
      study. The intervention is balanced mechanical ventilation in the bedroom of children with
      asthma and house dust mite allergy during 9-months.

      Population: Over 3 year period (2012-2014) 80 families with asthmatic children aged 6-18
      years will be included from out-patient clinics at the children's department of the
      University Hospitals of Aarhus and Odense and regional hospitals in Kolding, Randers and
      Herning. Families will also be included from private pediatric clinics in Aarhus.

      Randomization: After inclusion children are randomized to either active ventilation or
      placebo ventilation. Randomization is done in blocks of 4 by center.

      Intervention: The ventilation units Type DUPLEX 370 EC4.D and DUPLEX 370 are installed during
      the fall and run continuously for 9 months. The ventilation system is placed outside the
      house and provides filtered conditioned air to the child's bedroom, through insulated pipes
      mounted in a window opening. The window opening was built specifically for this purpose in
      form of a thermo plate replacing the window glass. The unit provides the bedroom with at
      least 2-3 air changes per hour. The placebo unit (DUPLEX 370) is a completely similar
      installation which only recirculates the air in the room instead of replacing it. We
      recommend all parents to wash the duvet and pillow every 3 months.

      Data collection:

      Data on the children's health is collected every 3 months when the families visit the
      outpatient clinics. The children are seen by specialist doctors.

      At home visits, also every 3 months, data concerning the indoor air quality is collected.
    
  