
    
      Preliminary testing has already been performed and proves the notion that to achieve adequate
      image quality in a CT imaging phantom, at least 4 times the MRI administration dose would be
      required. These conclusions were supported qualitatively by a radiologist, radiation
      oncologist, and medical physicist, while also being backed up by quantitative measurement
      that has been accepted in the medical imaging literature. It is important for this work to
      first ensure that the imaging system is optimized, to have confidence that it will be
      successful for patients. Therefore before this study begins, substantial time and effort will
      be spent using phantoms and optimizing the imaging parameters and protocol.

      The current procedure for a patient that presents with liver cancer begins with a referral
      from the patient's primary care physician for stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). A
      radiation oncologist makes the decision whether the patient is suitable for SBRT.

      If the patient is deemed acceptable by the radiation oncologist, the next step is to undergo
      diagnostic imaging so that the radiation oncologist can identify where exactly the disease is
      located, and start the SBRT plan. Using the diagnostic images, the radiation oncologist
      outlines the areas to treat, as well as the areas that they want to spare. This information
      is given to a physicist who then plans the optimal way of delivering radiation based on the
      oncologist's specifications. Once the plan is approved by the radiation oncologist, the
      patient can be treated.

      At the time of treatment, the patient is placed in an immobilization device on a treatment
      couch by a radiation therapist. Once the patient is immobilized, an x-ray imaging system that
      is attached to the treatment machine extends out towards the patient. The machine performs a
      180-degree rotation with continuous x-ray imaging. Once sufficient imaging has been
      performed, the therapists then align these images with the previous diagnostic CT image that
      was used to plan the radiation treatment. This alignment process tells the radiation
      therapists how much to adjust the patient on the treatment couch to ensure the most accurate
      treatment delivery. Once the patient is in the proper position, the radiation treatment is
      delivered and then the patient can leave.

      The treatment procedure is then performed on five separate days each separated by 48 hours.

      The proposed research follows the same procedure with addition of a contrast injection at the
      treatment stage. A consent form will be given to the patient entailing the purpose of this
      study. It will highlight the risks and benefits of receiving contrast prior to the radiation
      treatment, as well as a complete outline of the research. If the patient consents to
      receiving an intravenous contrast injection of gadoxetate disodium then the treatment
      procedure will change as follows:

      Before the patient is placed in the immobilization device, a MRI technologist with experience
      giving gadoxetate disodium injections will give the prescribed injection according to the
      patient's body weight. After the injection is given, a liver SBRT trained radiation therapist
      will lead the patient to the treatment machine and set them up in the immobilization device
      as per standard treatments. The same time-of-treatment imaging will be performed, with the
      hypothesis that the image quality will improve because of the addition of the contrast agent.
      The contrast agent will only be administered at the first treatment because of the limited
      data on repeat injections of the drug in humans. Furthermore, for the first treatment when
      contrast is administered, a radiation oncologist, radiologist, medical physicist, MRI
      technologist, and three radiation therapists will attend.

      The patient will then be monitored for another 30 minutes with support equipment ready in the
      rare event that a side effect occurs.

      As per standard treatments, the radiation oncologist will follow up with patients at regular
      intervals during and after treatment, making sure to check with the patient for possible side
      effects of using the contrast agent.
    
  