
    
      A randomised controlled prospective study is designed with 40 patients over 2-month period
      (January 2017 to february 2017). Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is planned for all patients.
      Two groups are designed depending on whether trocar site infiltration with bupivacaine was
      performed (study group, 20 patients) or not (control group, 20 patients). The patients with
      body mass index (BMI) ≥35kg/m2 are enrolled to study. The parameters of demographic
      characteristics (age, gender, BMI, weight, and body fat percentage), preoperative comorbid
      conditions (type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension), and clinical outcomes (postoperative
      complications, mortality, readmissions) are planned to record.

      Pain evaluation

      Visual analogue scale (VAS, 0: no pain, 10: the worst imaginable pain) is planned to be used.
      VAS measurements timing is planned as follows:

        -  first postoperative day: 4th, 8th, 12th, and 24th hours

        -  second postoperative day: 48th hour.

      Operative Technique

      All patients will be operated by same surgeons and anesthetist. Peroperatively intravenous
      paracetamol 10 mg, tramadol 50 mg and fentanyl 150 mcg will be used for analgesia. Local
      infiltration of the port sites was carried out through out all layers with 40 ml 0.25%
      bupivacaine and 1:200,000 epinephrine before incision. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy will
      be performed with 5 trocars, in reverse trandelenburg position by creating pneumoperitoneum
      with 14 mmHg carbon dioxide insufflation. Trocar replacements are one 10-mm trocar in the
      midline above umbilicus for the endoscope, one 12-mm trocar to right midclavicular line
      linage to the 10-mm trocar. One 5-mm trocar to the left midclavicular line linage to the
      10-mm trocar, one 5-mm trocar to the front axiller line below the left costal margin, and
      5-mm trocar 2 cm below the xiphoid process for liver retractor. 38 F orogastric tube will be
      used. No use of nasogastric tubes and urinary catheters routinely is planned. Drain
      replacement is planned for all patients.

      Postoperative Management

      All patients will be mobilised 4th postoperative hour, and all patients will use breathing
      exercise device hourly. Postoperative analgesia protocol is designed with intravenous
      paracetamol 1 g every 8 h and deksketoprofen trometamol 50 mg every 12 h, antiemetics
      (ondansetron 4 mg every 8 h). Narcotic analgesic pethidin hcl 50 mg/ml will be ordered to
      patients who had > 5 degrees of pain according to VAS. The patients are Oral liquid diet was
      started on the second postoperative day, advanced to semisolid diet after discharging.
    
  