
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the better of two treosulfan-based conditioning regimens in patients with
      myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), by comparing 6-month
      progression-free survival.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effects of two conditioning regimens on changes in gene expression profiles,
      and evaluate the association of gene expression profiles and disease relapse.

      II. Determine the incidence of progression-free survival at 1 year and 2 years after
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).

      III. Evaluate overall survival (OS) at 6 months, at 1 year and at 2 years after HCT.

      IV. Determine the incidence of grades II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

      V. Determine the incidence of chronic GVHD.

      VI. Determine donor chimerism around days +28 and +84.

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN:

      Arm A: Patients receive treosulfan intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days -6 to -4 and
      fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2.

      Arm B: Patients receive treosulfan and fludarabine phosphate as in Arm A and undergo low-dose
      total-body irradiation (TBI) on day 0.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients in both arms undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
      transplant or bone marrow transplant on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients with a related donor receive tacrolimus orally (PO) every 8 or 12
      hours on days -3 to 56 with taper to day 180. Beginning 4-6 hours after PBSC infusion,
      patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO every 12 hours to day 28. Patients with an
      unrelated donor receive tacrolimus PO every 8 or 12 hours on days -3 to 100 with taper to day
      180. Beginning 4-6 hours after PBSC infusion, patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO
      every 8 hours to day 40 with taper to day 96.

      NOTE: Patients with related donors eligible for FHCRC protocol 2545 may receive cyclosporine
      IV, instead of tacrolimus, beginning on day -3 to day 50 with a taper to day 180.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  