
    
      This study aims to conduct a pilot of an intervention to improve care coordination between VA
      and non-VA providers using the Department of Veteran's Affairs' (VA) personal health record,
      My HealtheVet (MHV). Background: The Blue Button feature of My HealtheVet allows Veterans to
      print out a comprehensive summary of their health that can be shared with non-VA providers.
      Dual use is common and has been associated with negative health outcomes including higher
      mortality. Preliminary data collected by the principal investigator in collaboration with the
      My HealtheVet Performance Evaluation workgroup shows that few Veterans enrolled in My
      HealtheVet use it to inform either VA or non-VA providers of their care. To remedy this, the
      principal investigator has developed an online video and companion paper-based training. This
      training will teach Veterans how to use the Blue Button feature and why it is important to
      share the print out with their non-VA provider. Methods: To participate, Veterans must have
      an upcoming non-VA provider appointment, be prescribed 5 or more medications, and be
      registered on My HealtheVet with a premium account. Participants will be randomized to
      receive either training on how to use the Blue Button or training on how to search for health
      information on the Internet and if that information is good quality. Veterans in both arms
      will receive training materials and phone support. After the non-VA provider visit, both the
      Veteran and the provider will be asked to indicate what occurred during the visit, including
      whether or not the Veteran gave the provider the Blue Button print out. Both Veterans and
      providers will also be asked to complete a 15-minute qualitative interview about their
      experience during the visit. Medical records of the non-VA provider visit will be obtained.
      Outcomes: The main outcome for the study is whether the patient provided the non-VA provider
      a copy of his or her health information printed from My HealtheVet. In addition, comparison
      between the VA and non-VA provider records will be conducted to test whether Veterans who
      completed the training had 1) better medication reconciliation between the VA and the non-VA
      provider and 2) fewer instances of therapeutic or laboratory duplication. The results of this
      pilot will be used to inform a larger randomized controlled trial of the training
      intervention.
    
  