
    
      Self-management interventions are considered effective in chronic disease patients, but
      trials have shown inconsistent results and it is unknown which patients benefit most.
      Adequate self-management requires behaviour change in patients and in healthcare providers to
      equip them in supporting patients in changing their behaviour. To unravel effectiveness of
      self-management, a nurse-led intervention was developed targeting at one self-management
      behaviour, namely physical activity, in primary care patients at risk for cardiovascular
      disease: the Activate intervention. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of the
      Activate intervention, to identify which patient-related characteristics modify change in
      physical activity levels in patients at risk for CVD in primary care, and to conduct a
      process evaluation.

      A two-armed, cluster randomized controlled trial will be conducted comparing the Activate
      intervention with care as usual in 31 general practices in the Netherlands, in which
      approximately 300 patients at risk for cardiovascular disease will participate. The Activate
      intervention focuses on increasing physical activity and is developed using the Behavior
      Change Wheel (BCW). The activate intervention consists of four nurse-led consultations
      divided over a 3-months period in which 17 behaviour change techniques (BCTs) are integrated.
      Primary outcome is the level of physical activity measured with an accelerometer . Potential
      effect modifiers are age, body mass index, level of education, social support, depression,
      patient-provider relationship and baseline amount of minutes of physical activity. Data will
      be collected at baseline, at 3 months and at 6 months of follow up.

      Subsequently, the BCW was applied to analyse what behavior change is needed in nurses to
      deliver the Activate intervention adequately. This resulted in a one-day training and
      coaching sessions supervised by a health psychologist and included 21 BCT.

      A process evaluation will be conducted to evaluate the training of nurses, fidelity, dose and
      reach of the Activate intervention, identify barriers and facilitators for implementation and
      to assess participants' satisfaction.
    
  