
    
      This is a 12-week prospective study with two phases. In Phase 1 (Weeks 1-4), participants
      will self-monitor their blood pressure using the Qardio bluetooth device. In Phase 2 (Weeks
      5-12), the investigators will implement the auto-messaging system triggered by a weekly
      average systolic blood pressure >140 mm Hg or diastolic pressure >90 mm Hg. As per the
      recommendation of the ACC/AHA, the target blood pressure for patients with Stage A (at risk
      for heart failure) is systolic <130 / diastolic <80. This guideline is also consistent with
      the ACC/AHA blood pressure guideline for patients at risk for myocardial infarction. For this
      pilot study, our target blood pressure in messaging to Duke primary care providers will be
      <140 mm Hg and <90 mm Hg. For this study, the investigators will adapt the conceptual
      framework of Muldoon and colleagues whereby home blood pressure monitoring is combined with
      office blood pressures to optimize data for the PCP's clinical decision-making.

      The investigators will use the QardioArm wireless upper arm blood pressure monitor. The
      investigators opted to use this device because it is validated, and has been approved to be
      integrated into the Duke EHR system. This QardioArm monitor is compatible with both iPhone
      and Android devices, which will provide an efficient method of transferring Bluetooth data to
      Epic. Within Epic, the home blood pressures will be uploaded directly from a smartphone to
      REVIEW FLOWSHEETS, MYCHART HEALTKIT TRACKER.

      Participants will use the QardioArm device to obtain 3 separate blood pressure measurements
      per week (2 morning, 1 evening). The 2 morning blood pressure measurements will be taken
      between 5-11am before any caffeine intake or exercise. The evening blood pressure measurement
      will be taken between 4-12pm. During Phase 1, the investigators will review the individual
      and weekly average blood pressures and identify values that appear to be in error. This
      review will be used to refine the system and further train the participants on home blood
      pressure measurements if needed. Also during this phase, the investigators will develop the
      Blood Pressure Management Clinical Pathway for Patients and Survivors, based upon the ACC/AHA
      blood pressure guidelines and the ACC/AHA guidelines for prevention of cardiotoxicity.
      Lastly, in this phase, the investigators will develop the primary care provider messages to
      be implemented in Phase 2. These short messages will alert the Duke primary care provider
      that an abnormal weekly average blood pressure triggered the message and provide the target
      blood pressure for the patient. The primary care provider will be asked to either evaluate
      the patient in clinic or manage by telephone. A copy of the message will also be routed to
      the patient and to the primary oncologist. The investigators will also include a link within
      the message to an internal Maestro site for further details regarding the blood pressure
      target levels, a brief description of the chemotherapy the patient is on, and preferred
      antihypertensive medications in this population. Consistent with the ACC/AHA guidelines for
      hypertension management, including patients receiving cardiotoxic therapy, the investigators
      will use the following classification system for the weekly average systolic and diastolic
      blood pressures. Normal: systolic 95-120 mm Hg, diastolic <80; Elevated: systolic 120-129,
      diastolic < 80; Stage 1 Hypertension: systolic 130-139, diastolic 80-89; Stage 2
      Hypertension: > 140, diastolic > 90. In Phase 2, the investigators will implement and test
      the clinical pathways and messaging system.

      A total of 40 patients with a diagnosis of hypertension who are 18-74 years old who fall
      under the following criteria will be screened:

        -  10 women with Stage 1-III breast cancer who are on active cancer therapy and are
           receiving either an anthracycline (doxorubicin) or antiHER2 (trastuzumab or pertuzumab)

        -  10 men with prostate cancer on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)

        -  10 individuals with CLL on ibrutinib therapy

        -  10 HSCT survivors (who had a malignancy)

        -  Have a smartphone (iPhone or Android)

        -  Have a Duke primary care provider and Duke oncologist (who is being treated at the Duke
           Cancer Center)

        -  Have access or willing to set up access to Duke MyChart (patient portal).

        -  English speaking patients

      The investigators selected these four groups for the following reasons. Stage I-III breast
      cancer has a 5-year cure rate exceeding 90%. Anthracyclines (doxorubicin) and antiHER2
      therapy (trastuzumab or pertuzumab), mainstays of breast cancer therapy, are cardiotoxic and
      associated with acute and long-term heart failure. Pre-existing hypertension is a key risk
      factor for development of heart failure in this group. Androgen deprivation therapy is
      associated with an increased risk of CVD, again, hypertension is a key risk factor for
      development of CVD in this group. Monotherapy with ibrutinib, or similar novel tyrosine
      kinase inhibitors, has substantially extended life expectancy for individuals with
      symptomatic or advanced CLL. Notably, ibrutinib may lead to new onset or progressive
      hypertension and/or atrial fibrillation. HSCT survivors are exposed to cardiotoxic therapies
      (anthracyclines, chest radiotherapy) pre-HSCT. Post HSCT complications (GvHD) and chronic
      comorbidities (hypertension) also contribute to the group's increased risk for developing CVD
      and congestive heart failure. Thus, blood pressure management is an essential component to
      improving long-term outcomes for patients in these four groups.

      To develop and implement the messaging system, it is important to have the patient, the
      oncologist, and the primary care provider all in the Duke EHR and patient portal.
    
  