
    
      Post-operative bleeding is a major source of morbidity in cancer patients who require
      surgery. Bleeding is a primary concern for oncology providers because of its short and long
      term implications, including unanticipated transfusion, increased length of hospitalization,
      unexpected return to the operating room, or even death. Despite these risks, current
      guidelines for prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in surgical patients support
      provision of anticoagulant medications to all post-operative patients. New data shows that
      current practice has an unfavorable risk/benefit relationship for the majority of cancer
      patients who need surgery.

      Cancer and need for a surgical procedure are two recognized risk factors for VTE-this has
      created the perception that post-operative anticoagulants are appropriate for all cancer
      patients. Current VTE prevention guidelines are largely geared toward the "average" cancer
      patient who requires surgery, based on aggregate data from large groups of surgical patients
      who have similar procedures. Emerging data demonstrates that the 2005 Caprini score, a
      patient-centric VTE risk calculator, can identify a 15-fold variation in post-operative VTE
      risk among the overall surgical population. Data from our National Comprehensive Cancer
      Network (NCCN) center support that the Caprini score is valid specifically in oncologic
      surgery patients, and that 50% of cancer patients have Caprini scores ≤6 with an expected
      90-day VTE rate of less than one percent. Our preliminary data show that low risk Caprini ≤6
      patients have a substantial increase in bleeding (3.8% vs. 1.8%) but have no demonstrable VTE
      risk reduction when post-operative anticoagulants are provided.

      Current guidelines that mandate chemical prophylaxis for cancer patients who have surgical
      procedures require a strategy that has no proven benefit and may produce a bleeding-related
      harm. The proposed work will utilize current paradigms of individualized VTE risk
      stratification to identify cancer surgery patients at low risk for VTE and will examine the
      impact of de-implementation of chemical prophylaxis in this low risk population The
      investigators will conduct a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled pilot trial at the
      Huntsman Cancer Institute, which is an NCCN site. The trial will identify surgical patients
      at low risk (Caprini score ≤6) for post-operative VTE and will randomize them to standard of
      care (enoxaparin 40mg once daily) versus placebo for the duration of inpatient stay. The
      trial will generate critical, real world data from an NCCN site that quantifies patient
      eligibility & patient and provider willingness to randomize as well as expected 90-day
      attrition and event rates. This pilot study would generate trial-specific infrastructure and
      experience while providing data necessary for sample size calculations for a larger pragmatic
      trial to fully examine the impact of chemical prophylaxis de-implementation in cancer surgery
      patients at low risk for VTE.
    
  