
    
      Subject recruitment: Healthy subjects (males and females, 18-75 years of age) in Winnipeg,
      who are voluntarily signing an informed consent approved by Research Ethics Board in
      University of Manitoba, will be eligible to the study. Exclusion criteria include: 1)
      candidates have a history of myocardial infarction, stroke, hypertension, diabetes,
      hyperlipidemia, chronic kidney disease; 2) participants are taking hypoglycemic,
      anti-hypertensives, lipid lowering medications or antibiotics within a month.

      Dietary product: Freeze dried Saskatoon berry have been obtained from Prairie Berries Inc.
      The berries were freshly frozen and no any supplementation was added to the dried berry. The
      product has been processed by certified facilities and the batch of dried berry has passed
      pathogen analysis.

      Regimen: Participants (n=20) will orally administrate 30 g/day of freeze dried Saskatoon
      berry during breakfast for 10 weeks.

      Scheduled visits:

      Visit 1: Consent and enrolment. A questionnaire for domestic questionnaire including dietary
      intake and physical activity will be filled. Measurements of body weight, height and blood
      pressure will be taken during the visit.

      Visit 2 (<1 week from the visit 1 and before the start of berry administration): 75 g oral
      glucose tolerance test (OGTT) after an overnight fasting. Insulin, liver enzymes (alanine
      transaminase or ALT, aspartate transaminase or AST), creatinine, lipid profile and
      inflammation markers (C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factorα or TNFα) will be measured as
      baseline.

      Participants will be provided with sealed packages of dried Saskatoon berry and instruction
      of the administration. Insulin and lipid profile will be tested in blood samples withdrawn at
      fast glucose for OGTT.

      Visit 3 (at 5 weeks after the start of administration of Saskatoon berry): Participants will
      be asked to provide feedback on general well-being and the intake of Saskatoon berry. Body
      weight, blood pressure and heart rate will be measured and recorded.

      Visit 4 (at 10 weeks after the start of the dietary regimen): Participants will be asked to
      collect stool sample with the collection kit within 1 week before the visit and bring it to
      the visit. They will also be asked to have an overnight fasting the night before visit. They
      will receive an OGTT. Blood samples for insulin, liver enzymes, creatinine, lipid profile and
      inflammation markers will be collected from each participant. During the visit, body weight,
      blood pressure and heart rate of participants will be taken. Questionnaires on participants'
      dietary intake, physical activity and feedback to the study will be completed.

      Participants will receive a $50 honorarium gift card for their participation. Sample
      collection and analyses: OGTT, ALT, AST, creatinine and lipid profile will be analyzed in
      Clinical Chemistry in Health Science Centre, Winnipeg. Inflammation mediators will be
      analyzed in the Dr. G. Shen's laboratory. Homeostatic model assessment-insulin resistance or
      HOMA-IR will be calculated based on fasting plasma glucose and insulin. Stool samples will be
      aliquoted and stored under -80°C before submission. Microbiome analysis will be conducted in
      Integrate Microbiome Resource at Dalhousie University.
    
  