
    
      Diastolic heart failure is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the ventricles of
      the heart become stiff and do not fully relax, preventing the heart from properly filling
      with blood. The circulation of blood then backs up, and blood collects in the body's organs,
      primarily the lungs. However, people with diastolic heart failure may have a normal ejection
      fraction, which is a measure of the amount of blood that the heart pumps out with each heart
      beat. Having type 2 diabetes may increase the risk of diastolic heart failure. Also, people
      with both heart failure and type 2 diabetes are more likely to experience poor health and
      even death than are people with only heart failure. It is possible that diabetes leads to
      increased stiffness of the ventricles and the aorta, which is the main blood vessel into
      which the heart empties. Exenatide, part of a class of medications known as glucagon-like
      peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists, is a new medication that is currently used to treat
      elevated blood sugar levels in people with diabetes. Some studies have shown that this class
      of medications may have a positive effect on the heart and blood vessels. The purpose of this
      study is to determine the effect that exenatide has on aortic and left ventricular stiffness
      in people who have type 2 diabetes and diastolic heart failure.

      This 12-week study will enroll adults with type 2 diabetes and diastolic heart failure with
      normal ejection fraction. At a baseline study visit, participants will undergo a physical
      examination, blood pressure and heart rate measurements, a blood collection, an
      echocardiogram to obtain images of the heart, and a non-invasive test that measures blood
      flow in the aorta. Participants will then be randomly assigned to receive either exenatide or
      usual care. Participants who receive exenatide will inject the medicine twice a day for 12
      weeks. At Week 4, these participants will attend a study visit to adjust the medication
      dosage and to report any problems, and at Week 6, study staff will follow up with
      participants by phone. All participants will attend a study visit at Week 12 for repeat
      baseline testing.
    
  