
    
      Having established a network of units (UK and Europe) who are also keen to answer this
      question we have powered a prospective observational cohort study to demonstrate a
      significant reduction in surgical complication rate (30% to 15%). In conjunction with an on
      going Swedish randomised trial we hope that the data from this study will provide compelling
      evidence for UK surgeons to change practice. If the study reveals only a modest difference in
      complications, we will use the data gathered to design and reapply again for full funding for
      an RCT with the additional advantage of being able to clearly demonstrate a network of units
      capable of recruiting the necessary number of patients. The overarching aims of this study
      are therefore to:

        1. Determine the difference in surgical complication rates between HP and IAPE

        2. Assess the effect of IAPE technique on intra operative tumour perforation rate

      The objectives of the study are to:

        1. Determine surgical complication rate for each procedure (graded by Clavien-Dindo)

        2. Assess impact on secondary outcomes (length of stay, readmission, reintervention,
           medical complications, time to chemotherapy, quality of life)

        3. Determine if the complication rate in IAPE is dependant on surgical technique

        4. Determine patient and clinician acceptability to randomisation if required

      Data Collection

      Data will be collected on specific CRF at baseline and 30 post operative days, all data will
      be completely anonymised and no further data will be collected past 30 days. The easy to use
      and well validated Clavien-Dindo scale will be use to grade surgical complications, but we
      will also calculate the Comprehensive Complication Index which integrates all medical and
      surgical complications and is felt to represent a more accurate estimation of post operative
      complications (4). Data will be collected at the following time points:

      BASELINE INTRAOPERATIVE POST OPERATIVE (30 days) Age Surgical approach (lap, open)
      Pathological stage Sex Anaesthetic type TME quality BMI Operative time Length of stay
      Comorbidities Intra operative perforation Readmission ASA score Length of anorectal stump
      (HP) Surgical complications (Clavien-Dindo scale) Radiological stage Antibiotics Medical
      complications Distance of tumour from anal verge Method of IAPE (one vs two stage)
      Comprehensive Classification Index score Preoperative therapy 30 day quality of life Quality
      of life Patient willingness to randomise Reason for avoiding primary anastomosis Surgeon
      willingness to randomise Surgeon's reason for op choice

      Data Analysis As this is an observation analysis, reporting only the unadjusted difference
      between HP and IAPE may result in a biased comparison. The primary analysis will therefore be
      a multivariable analysis adjusting for any confounding factors. To ensure the analysis is in
      keeping with the sample size calculation, evaluations of the primary outcome will be based on
      a 90% confidence interval.
    
  