
    
      Oral burning can have many different etiologies. Secondary burning mouth disorders (BMD) due
      to systemic (i.e. diabetes, nutritional deficiencies, allergies), local (i.e. Candidiasis,
      Lichen planus) or functional factors (i.e. tongue parafunctional activities, mouth breathing)
      are usually fairly easy to identify and are treated by eliminating the respective cause. A
      primary BMD as a specific disease is a challenging disorder with regard to assessment and
      treatment for both, the patient and the dentist. The prevailing hypothesis of a predominantly
      psychological cause is questioned by recent research results. The typical burning sensation,
      the partly efficacy of medication that is usually used in chronic, neuropathic pains and
      recent neurophysiologic studies and finally the finding of a degeneration of epithelial nerve
      fibers in BMD patients give reason to assume a peripheral and/or central neuropathic
      etiology. That is, the transduction of nociceptive stimuli in the orofacial region and the
      transmission and modulation of the nociceptive input might be altered. The hypothesis of a
      disorder of the gustatory system assumes that gustatory input has an inhibitory influence on
      the trigeminal nociceptive system. A hypogeusia or ageusia, maybe caused by peripheral nerve
      degeneration that has been found in BMD patients would therefore lead to a decreased
      gustatory input which in turn gives way to a central disinhibition of trigeminal nociception,
      leading to a more painful perception in the oral region. The aim of this study is to first
      identify patients with a primary burning mouth disorder by excluding other possible causes
      for oral burning. By means of qualitative and thermal quantitative sensory testing and a
      gustatory examination in the individual patient we want to find out whether neurosensory
      differences exist between patients with a primary BMD and controls and whether gustatory and
      neurosensory deficits always coexist in BMD-patients.
    
  