
    
      Bimaxillary osteotomy is a surgical procedure in the field of orthognathic surgery (from
      Latin, "ortho" straight and "gnatho" jaw) for the correction of dentofacial deformities, both
      for functional and aesthetic reasons. The incidence of this deformity is estimated to be
      around the 5-10% of the population. Genetic, environmental and embryonic factors are
      postulated to be the origin of such deformity, though its origin is still unknown. The
      surgical technique is complex, with the performance of mandibular and upper jaw osteotomies
      that allow to advance, retrude, impact and rotate these bones, to align the facial axes. For
      all these reasons, the anesthetic management of these patients is a challenge. First, the
      foreseeable difficulty of managing the patient's airway; and second, the control of the
      patient's pain in the perioperative period.

      Therefore, bimaxillary osteotomy is a frequent surgery and potentially painful in adults.
      Bimaxillary surgery under general anesthesia is the common practice. And peripheral
      non-ultrasound-guided peripheral nerve blocks are widely used by surgeons. These minor
      blockades are used to avoid the undesired effects of anesthetics and analgesics; mainly the
      adverse respiratory effects of opioids. The practice of loco-regional anesthesia provides a
      control of perioperative pain in a multimodal way showing effective postoperative analgesia
      and minimizing the respiratory depression caused by the excess use of opioids.

      In general, during bimaxillary surgery the surgeon performs the infiltrations with local
      anesthetic (LA) in a pre-incisional manner for the blockade of the terminal branches of the
      maxillary nerve intraorally and intranasally. The choice of LA is influenced by
      considerations such as the start of action, duration and toxicity. A wide range of LA has
      been used in maxillofacial surgery, such as lidocaine and ropivacaine among others. Both LA
      produce a reversible blockade of the sodium channel of the neuronal membrane, and are
      synthetic derivatives of cocaine. Both possess three essential functional units (hydrophilic
      tertiary amide chain, linked by an intermediate amide chain, to another lipophilic aromatic
      ring-portion). This means, both LA are amide type; but even if they belong to the same group
      of LAs there is still great differences in the beginning of action, duration of action and
      toxicity. Lidocaine has a faster start of action (short latency) than ropivacaine, and has an
      antiarrhythmic effect. Ropivacaine is more potent, the action last longer than lidocaine, and
      is less cardiotoxic than other equipotent LA such as bupivacaine and levobupivacaine.

      Subsequently, the introduction of loco-regional nerve blocks has meant for the
      anesthesiologist, in the last three decades, a revolution in the management and control of
      perioperative pain. The expansion of the practice of loco-regional nerve blocks has been seen
      in both upper and lower limbs, as well as in trunk and abdomen. On the contrary, the facial
      blockages (both superficial and deep) have not experienced the same; laying its practice to
      the surgeon, or to anesthesiologists working on the chronic pain domain. The subsequent
      introduction of ultrasonography (USG) in the 1990s in the perioperative period also
      represented an important advance for anesthesiologist both in terms of safety and in terms of
      ease of management of venous and arterial catheterizations, and practice of loco-regional
      blockages. Consequently, USG experienced anesthesiologists have recently published in regards
      to the use of ultrasounds (US) for the blockage of facial nerves in children and adults
      undergoing maxillofacial surgery. USG devices are increasingly accessible, more portable,
      cheaper and safer; and therefore, its introduction in the field of perioperative pain
      management of maxillofacial surgery has still a long way to go.

      The maxillary nerve, just like the ophthalmic, is only sensitive. It is detached from the
      anterolateral border of the trigeminal ganglion, laterally to the ophthalmic. From its
      origin, it goes above, crosses the foramen rotundum and penetrates into the background of the
      infratemporal fossa until it enters the pterygopalatine fossa (except the middle meningeal
      nerve, all its branches reach the pterygopalatine fossa before reaching the facies). In the
      pterygopalatine fossa the maxillary nerve is located in the upper part of the cavity and
      passes superiorly to the maxillary artery and superolaterally to the pterygopalatine
      ganglion. The maxillary nerve receives and conducts the sensitivity of the skin of the cheek,
      the lower eyelid, the wing of the nose and the upper lip. Its deep branches drive the
      sensitivity of the mucosa of the lower part of the nasal cavities or respiratory area, and of
      the dental roots and the gums of the maxilla.

      Therefore, in order to produce an effective anesthesia of the maxillary area, the needle can
      be introduced through the pterygomaxillary fissure to the pterygopalatine fossa, with risk of
      vascular and nerve puncture. However, with real-time vision of the ultrasound-guided block,
      these risks will be limited, allowing a direct localization of the maxillary artery, position
      of the needle and the distribution of LA within the pterygopalatine fossa. The
      pterygopalatine fossa is anatomically deep and surrounded by bones. The most optimal
      ultrasound window is the infrazygomatic path, allowing the visualization of the entire axis
      of the pterygopalatine fossa up to the foramen rotundum.

      The usual practice for the ultrasound-guided maxillary nerve block is the placement of the
      ultrasound probe in an infrazygomatic position and the introduction of the needle by
      suprazygomatic route for better visualization of the procedure. The approach by
      suprazygomatic route from the frontozygomatic angle is one of the safest and recommended
      routes to reach the foramen rotundum. This trajectory limits the insertion of the needle in
      the anterior portion of the foramen rotundum, avoiding, this way, the inadvertent puncture of
      the intraorbital content through the infraorbital fissure.

      Experienced anesthesiologists in anesthesia for maxillofacial surgery, perform bilateral
      ultrasound-guided blockade of the maxillary nerve by suprazygomatic route with ropivacaine
      for greater control of perioperative pain. These investigators avoid the use of a combination
      of LA for maxillary nerve block. The combination of several local anesthetics in the same
      nerve block is sometimes used in perioperative anesthesia with the intention of compensating
      the short duration of action of some agents whose start of action is fast, such as lidocaine,
      and the high latency of the agents that present a more lasting action, such as ropivacaine.
      The combination of lidocaine and ropivacaine offers clinical advantages (rapid onset, long
      duration). However, to date, indications for combining LA are scarce because of the use of
      catheters in many forms of regional anesthesia that allow to prolong the duration of the
      block. This is nevertheless not an extended practice among anesthesiologists in maxillofacial
      surgery. On the other hand, it is important to also remember avoiding the use of maximum
      doses of two LA combined, which is based on the erroneous belief that their toxicities are
      independent; on the contrary, the toxicities have an additive character.

      Multiple drugs have been used to increase the time of action of LA, such as adrenaline,
      clonidine, dexamethasone, ketamine and dexmedetomidine, among others. To the study patients,
      adrenaline is always administered along with physiological serum by the surgeon at the local
      level to improve the surgical field, both in patients who undergo pre-incision infiltration
      and bilateral blockade of the maxillary nerve. The use of Clonidine is ruled out because it
      is not supplied in the hospital center where the investigators will carry out the study. The
      use of dexamethasone and ketamine is ruled out, because they will be administered
      intravenously in the patient's perioperative period as anti-inflammatory agents and
      anesthetic adjuvant, respectively. And the use of Dexmedetomidine is also ruled out in order
      to prolong the effect of the nerve blockade as this indication is not in the technical file.
    
  