
    
      The investigators propose to conduct a comparative randomized trial of 45 patients who will
      be recruited during their office visit at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital Outpatient
      Center in Cambridge and/or the Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) Spine Center in Boston.
      All patients with chronic LBP who elect to receive a spinal injection will be eligible to be
      screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria. Prior to the injection appointment in
      Charlestown, Massachusetts, chronic lumbar pain patients are seen by the interventional
      physiatrist for an examination and discussion of pain management care options. If the patient
      and MD determine that a spinal injection is indicated, and the patient meets the inclusion
      criteria, the medical assistant will hand the patient an informational flyer describing study
      procedures and briefly describe the study. As the study poses minimal risks and low patient
      time burden beyond the context of standard clinical care, the patient will indicate their
      wiliness to participate at the end of this clinic visit.

      The patient's status will be registered in Epic and will be viewable by authorized study
      staff. If a consented study participant is active on gateway, the Epic Patient Reported
      Outcome Information System (PROMIS) measures identified could be administered via the Epic
      patient portal or they could be administered via iPad as per usual procedures at the
      injection clinic appointment in Charlestown. Upon arrival to the injection appointment in
      Charlestown, front desk personnel will hand study participants (flagged in the Epic record)
      additional paper questionnaires that are not included in the Patient Reported Outcome
      Measures (PROMs) PROMIS questionnaire battery but are recommended by the National Institute
      of Health (NIH) task force on research on chronic LBP patients or otherwise identified by the
      co-investigators as important to address the study aims. If the patient is not active on
      gateway, an iPad will be used to collect the PROMs PROMIS Epic measures upon clinic arrival.
      Once all measures have been collected, patients will be randomized using a computer-generated
      schedule that will randomly assign participants into either the control, computer delivered
      audiovisual intervention (AV), or the virtual reality (VR) delivered intervention.

      Those patients randomized into the control group will receive usual care. After the
      injection, the control group will receive the anxiety measure and the pain intensity measure.
      These will be administered in paper format and collected by authorized study personnel. This
      will conclude study participation.

      Study participants randomized into the audiovisual (AV) intervention group will watch and
      listen to a 5-minute guided relaxation session on a computer in the pre-procedure examination
      room prior to the injection. The injection is not part of the study procedures and is
      performed in a separate fluoroscopy suite. Authorized study personnel will be present in the
      clinic on injection days. Clinic personnel will notify study staff of the patient's
      randomized status. Study staff will enter the injection preparation room and make sure the
      patient is comfortably seated. Study staff will launch the 5-minute audiovisual presentation
      on a computer and leave the room. Clinic personnel will enter after the presentation is
      concluded and continue with standard clinic preparation for the injection. The presentation
      is commercially available by Provata Health. No data will be collected or identifying
      information provided in this process. After receiving the injection and returning to the
      preparation exam room, study staff will facilitate completion of the anxiety thermometer, the
      pain intensity measures, and a single response measure that asks if they would be interested
      in viewing the same presentation on their home computers. This will conclude study
      participation.

      Those study participants randomized into the VR group will watch and listen to the same
      5-minute presentation via a VR headset and smart phone. Once a study participant's status has
      been randomized into the VR group, study staff will enter the injection preparation room,
      ensure the participant is comfortably seated, orient the participant to the device, apply the
      headset on the participant to ensure comfort and launch the VR 5-minute presentation. Study
      staff will then exit the room. No data will be collected or identifying information provided
      during this process. The Samsung Galaxy 7s and the Samsung adaptable VR headset will be used
      to deliver the intervention. Clinic staff will enter the room after the 5-minute VR
      presentation and continue with standard clinic pre-injection procedures. After the injection
      and upon return to the preparation room, study staff will facilitate administration of the
      anxiety thermometer measure, the pain intensity measure, the virtual reality symptom
      questionnaire that addresses 13 symptoms that people who view VR delivered content may
      experience, and a single response question that asks if they would be interested in viewing
      the VR content on their own at home. This will conclude study participation.

      The VR headset will utilize a disposable cloth face barrier and will be thoroughly cleaned
      with alcohol solution between patient use. A disposable hygienic face barrier will be applied
      to all areas of possible direct patient contact of the VR headset. This barrier is held in
      place by cloth straps, is hypoallergenic, and only surrounds the eyes (therefore will not
      affect vision or respiration). Provata health produces content that can be delivered through
      VR or regular delivery via a computer screen (AV). By delivering identical content in two
      different ways, the investigators will be able to determine if the method of delivery
      provides any specific advantages or disadvantages. The investigators will also be able to
      compare outcomes with those who received usual care.
    
  