
    
      The target group of this trial is smokers with low education working in hospitals in the
      Capital Region of Denmark.

      The aim is to develop a new tailored smoking cessation program for and together with smokers
      with low education. We selected following seven positions/occupations as proxy for low
      socioeconomic status: cleaner, porter, kitchen staff, social and health care assistant,
      service assistant, technical staff and medial secretary.

      In first step the investigators perform focus group interviews with the target group to
      identify wishes and barriers. In next step the investigators design the new tailored smoking
      cessation program together with smokers with low education.

      Then the investigators test the effect of the smoking cessation program in a randomised
      controlled trial. All hospitals in the Capital Region of Denmark except one are included (the
      last hospital is situated on a remote island). Half of the hospitals are randomised to be
      intervention group and the other half is control group. Recruitment will be by written
      invitations, posters and primarily by peer-recruitment (smokers with low education who are
      ambassadors for the project at the work places). Posters and written invitations show photos
      of the ambassadors in the target group and their statements; why they have decided to quit
      smoking.

      The group-based smoking cessation intervention is designed with guidance from the anchor
      persons. There is no moralizing or disease-focusing, few written materials and a lot of
      drawings and humor. The intervention will be in small groups (4-6 persons), with six sessions
      (á 1½-2 hours) taking place at the workplace during working time. All counsellors are
      ex-smokers. Stress-management is included at each session. We offer free nicotine products or
      varenicline by choice, for up to 12 weeks. Nicotine replacement therapy is always based on
      the patch and combined with inhaler or mouth spray p.n. Nicotine gum is not offered.

      The investigators measure validated abstinence rates at each session and 6 months after last
      session.

      Main end-point is smoking rates after 12 months in intervention hospitals compared with
      smoking rates in control hospitals.
    
  