
    
      In the past few decades there has been predictions regarding the level of edentulism, and the
      need for prosthetic rehabilitation of the population. Although studies estimate a decline in
      the percentage of edentulism, and a decreased need for removable prostheses, this is
      predicted to be offset by a projected 79% increase in the population that is 55 years or
      older, the number of individuals with existing prostheses needing new prostheses and
      maintenance, and the professional and public health responsibility to serve this population
      regardless to the level of edentulism. In spite of these demographic predictions, the need
      for prosthodontics services, both fixed dental prostheses and removable dental prostheses
      will continue to an oral health concern, in part due to the an aging population that retains
      more of their teeth resulting in partial edentulism.

      Prosthetic rehabilitation should not only replace missing teeth, but it should restore oral
      function and have a positive impact on Oral-Health-Related Quality of Life (OHRQoL) of our
      patients. As the population continues to age worldwide, and the U.S. specifically, it will
      become increasingly important to improve the OHRQoL for the segment of our population
      possessing removable prostheses with high stability, and highly retentive prosthetic
      services. Traditionally, both complete and partial removable dentures lack retention and
      stability, and one recommendation to improve the function has been to utilize dental implants
      to retain and stabilize the prosthesis. Although, several investigations have evaluated the
      OHRQoL patients wearing removable the preponderate emphasis of these studies has been on
      complete denture patients. In addition, OHRQoL studies are generated by patient self-reports,
      and limited evaluation of actual oral function has been compared to the patient self-reported
      function. This study will use the OHIP to evaluate the OHRQoL of patients with distal
      extension partial dentures, as well as, actually measure the patients chewing ability.

      This prospective cohort study is designed to gather preliminary data on the improvement of
      patient satisfaction and oral function for individuals wearing distal extension partial
      dentures that are supported by smaller length dental implants. Thirty healthy male and female
      participants aged 18 to 65 will be treated at the University of Minnesota Dental School, in
      the Clinical Research Center. A lower partial denture will be fabricated using routine
      prosthodontic techniques. The participants will receive a 7 mm X 3.75 mm or a 8.5 mm X 4.1 mm
      tapered implant, A Locator Abutment will be used to connect the denture to the implant to
      improve the retention and stability of the partial denture. The chewing ability and chewing
      pattern will be evaluated with a jaw-tracking device and the masticatory muscle activity will
      be evaluated with surface Electromyography (EMG). OHRQoL, chewing function, and patient
      satisfaction will be measured at the 1, 2, 6, and 12-month recall appointments.
    
  