
    
      Community-based organizations in Ukraine that are currently providing social services to
      veterans or their families and are interested in receiving training to provide CSS will be
      engaged as implementing partners. Individuals selected to be providers at these organizations
      will complete a 2-day Provider Training and will additionally receive ongoing supervision
      over the course of the study to ensure intervention fidelity and appropriate response and
      support to individuals needing referral to mental health treatment.

      Cluster-level randomization to CSS or eTAU will be carried out at the workshop level within
      provider, such that all Providers will deliver both the CSS and eTAU workshops to groups that
      have been randomly allocated to either receive CSS or eTAU. In this way, all organizations
      will offer both CSS and eTAU, integrated into each organization's regular program offerings
      and advertised through organizations' regular communication channels.

      As part of the registration and triage procedures included as regular programming in both
      arms of the trial, participants will self-complete a short, locally validated Self-Assessment
      Form that assesses symptoms of distress (depression, post-traumatic stress), functional
      impairment, and safety risk (two safety-related questions assessing recent thoughts of harm
      to self or others). This assessment will be completed in advance and reviewed by an M&E staff
      member prior to the workshop, but assessment scores will not determine workshop eligibility
      (e.g., people with low scores can still participate). One exception to this is that any
      individuals who respond positively to either of the safety questions will be contacted by the
      CSS/eTAU provider within 24-hours for further safety assessment. If no safety issues are
      identified, they will be registered for the workshop as normal; however, identified safety
      issues will trigger an appropriate safety planning or referral response as described below,
      which may include bypassing the workshop in lieu of direct enrollment in treatment services.
      At the end of the workshop, participants will be informed of the study and invited to
      participate; those who agree will provide informed consent.

      After the workshop, as part of regular programming the provider will follow up individually
      with participants to discuss recommended next steps. Evaluation of level of need, and
      therefore choice of follow-up response, will be made by the provider using the
      self-assessment results as well as any information reported to the provider during the
      workshop (such as new safety concerns, or changes in problem scores). Follow-up contacts will
      be ordered by priority.

        1. Individuals who indicate any new safety concerns at the workshop will be contacted
           within 24 hours for further assessment to determine the appropriate referrals and/or
           safety plan.

        2. Individuals with high symptom scores, but no safety concerns, will be contacted within
           72 hours and offered a referral to outpatient mental health care.

        3. Individuals with moderate symptom scores will be contacted within 1 week for triage and
           encouraged to use the newly learned skills over the next month. On that triage phone
           call, participants will be told they will be re-assessed in one month to determine if
           they still require mental health treatment (at which time they would be referred if
           indicated). For those who attended CSS (rather than eTAU), providers will also ask about
           participant use of the cognitive coping skill over the past week, including asking them
           how often they've used it, whether it has been helpful, and soliciting an example
           through a series of questions that walk them through the skill.

      At one month, all study participants who were not immediately referred to outpatient mental
      health services at baseline will be sent an individual link to re-administer the
      self-assessment, the CSS skill check, and complete an implementation feedback questionnaire.

      For all study participants who receive an outpatient mental health referral, either immediate
      or delayed, engagement outcomes will be assessed three months following referral.
    
  