
    
      Weight loss in cancer patients can be the result of inadequate intake or absorption of
      nutrients and/or tumor-induced weight loss due to metabolic changes the tumor is creating in
      the body (1). Inadequate intake resulting in a starvation state can simply be the result of
      eating less due to depression, nausea/vomiting, feelings of fullness, and taste changes (2).
      Though not intentional the weight loss caused by these symptoms can be explained and reversed
      by increasing intake of nutrients. Unintentional weight loss induced by the tumor can be
      caused by multiple physiological factors that increase the catabolism of muscle and fat and
      increased nutrient intake alone may not reverse the weight loss. Unintentional weight loss
      can predict a poor prognosis in cancer patients which is most likely due to decreased doses
      of treatment (3-5).

      Usual care for weight loss in cancer patients varies among practitioners and can include
      nutrition counseling by a registered dietitian or by the practitioner themselves. Treatment
      can vary from counseling patients to increase intake of nutrient dense foods to prescribing
      medications in order to improve appetite or mood, to decrease feelings of fullness, or to
      control nausea/vomiting, etc. (6). However, these interventions do not always work. For
      varied reasons not all patients are able to improve their oral intake of food items and in
      patients with tumor induced weight loss increased oral intake does not improve the metabolic
      changes.

      Anti-depressant medications have weight related side effects (7-9). Mirtazapine has been
      shown to have side effects of increased appetite and increased weight in cancer subjects
      studied for use with depression and nausea. (10-13). These results appeared to range from
      changes in appetite to changes seen in metabolic processes such as changes in the cytokine
      system to reduce inflammation seen in cachectic patients. Therefore, using mirtazapine in
      cancer patients even without depression may help to stop unwanted weight loss and increase
      survival by allowing patient to complete prescribed treatment.
    
  