
    
      The Aims

        -  Aim 1 To investigate the effect of SDF application on gingival status in elder patients
           with gingivitis. To accomplish this aim, the subjects with gingivitis will be randomly
           allocated to two groups: group 1(case group) will receive SDF application and group 2
           (control group) will receive Normal Saline. The SDF and normal saline will apply on the
           selected teeth with gingivitis once a week during a three-week period. The gingival
           status will be evaluated at baseline before the application of either SDF or normal
           saline. Then at the second week and fourth week after the final application. The
           measurable outcomes will be Plaque Index (PI) and the Gingival Index (GI). In addition,
           record of existing brushing and flossing habits. If SDF application shows an improvement
           in the gingival condition (reduction in the plaque and gingival indices) in treatment
           group comparing to the control group it indicates that its effectiveness not only on
           dental caries as published, but it is also may extended to include gingivitis.

        -  Aim 2 To quantify the presence of bacterial pathogen in the dental biofilm. To
           accomplish this aim, a sample of dental plaque will be taken from the teeth selected in
           this study by swab using the dental kit (Ubiome) before and after the SDF or normal
           saline application to quantify the presence of bacterial pathogen at baseline before the
           application, 2 weeks and 4 weeks after the application.

      Summary:

      The proposed therapeutic intervention of Silver Diamine Fluoride (SDF) in treating geriatric
      patients with gingivitis will establish a new adjunctive and inexpensive protocol for
      treatment of gingivitis. Gingivitis is inflammation of gingival tissues caused by dental
      biofilm bacterial infection. Left untreated, gingivitis will cause tooth loss. The
      preliminary results will provide new recommendations for treating geriatric patients in a
      safe, effective, and low-cost manner. This study will also address the gap in scientific
      knowledge regarding the use of SDF to treat gingivitis in elderly patients.

      Research Hypothesis: The application of SDF varnish is expected to improve the gingival
      condition and can be an effective approach in the treatment of gingivitis in geriatric
      patients.

      Null Hypothesis: The application of SDF varnish does not improve the gingival condition and
      cannot be an effective approach in the treatment of gingivitis in geriatric patients.

      Research Question: Does the application of silver Diamine Fluoride on teeth with gingivitis
      will improve the gingival condition in geriatric patients with gingivitis
    
  