
    
      OBJECTIVES: Phase II Study:

        -  Compare the response rate in women with previously treated metastatic breast cancer
           treated with capecitabine vs vinorelbine.

        -  Compare the duration of response in patients treated with these drugs.

      Phase III Study:

        -  Compare overall and progression-free survival in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Compare time to treatment failure in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Compare overall safety of these drugs in these patients.

        -  Compare quality of life and clinical benefit response in patients treated with these
           drugs.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center and taxane resistance (refractory vs resistant vs sensitive).

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive vinorelbine IV on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21
                days.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat
                every 21 days.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      If sufficient response rate is determined in phase II, the phase III study is initiated.

        -  Phase III: Patients are randomized and receive treatment as in phase II. Quality of life
           is assessed prior to randomization, at weeks 3, 6, 9, 18, 24, and 30, and then every 12
           weeks until disease progression.

      Clinical benefit response is assessed daily while patient is on study.

      Patients are followed every 6 weeks until disease progression and then every 12 weeks
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 72 patients (36 per treatment arm) will be accrued for phase II
      of this study and a total of 406-452 patients (203-226 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      phase III of this study within 18.5 months.
    
  