
    
      The proposed research will combine traditional medical care with an integrative model of
      care; music therapy will be an integrative intervention and we will study the effects of
      music therapy interventions, which include: clinical improvisation, rhythm which can enhance
      assisted walk and music-assisted physical movement which may encourage patients to experience
      a greater tolerance to pain, improving gait, range of motion, endurance, and the ability to
      relax, motivation to participate in daily activities.

      Methodology:The primary goals are to assess pain, independence, compliance, length of stay,
      patient satisfaction/patient report, level of kinesiophobia and anxiety/depression related to
      medical condition during the period post-spine surgery.

      Design of the Study:This study will use quantitative and qualitative methodologies. A
      randomized control design that will include two groups of patients that will be targeted to
      include up to 60 male and female patients.

      The experimental group will receive music therapy and standard care and a second group will
      serve as a wait-listed control, receiving only standard care. Patients with undergoing ASP,
      PSF or A/PSF will be placed with consent randomly into the experimental or control group.
      Patients belonging to the experimental group will receive one music therapy session after
      surgery.

      For both groups, the VAS Pain Rating Scale, the HADS - Hospitalization Anxiety/Depression
      Scale, the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, and the Color Analysis Scale will be introduced.
      For both groups of patients measurements will be logged before and after the music therapy
      session, or no intervention during the same time period.

      Procedure: Patients will be recruited by the attending doctor, nurse, physical therapist
      and/or social worker. Patients in the experimental group will participate in an active
      music-listening and active music-making session post-spine surgery.

      The music therapy session will last approximately 30 minutes and will encourage patients to
      engage in active music-making to release pain, and to reduce anxiety/fear related to surgery
      and recuperation. The music therapy sessions will include:

        1. Warm up: Verbal or musical discourse

        2. Treatment section: Based upon assessment of patient's needs during the warm up,
           treatment options will include the use of live music and either:

           Tension release/relaxation through entrained music visualization or Incentive-based play
           through clinical improvisation or rhythmic drumming

        3. Closure/Integration (if awake) to reflect upon the session and issues that may have
           arisen.
    
  