
    
      Background Use of Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS) has increased substantially in
      the past decade, and nearly 70% of ENDS users also smoke cigarettes (i.e., dual users). There
      is evidence that ENDS can be used as an effective smoking cessation aid. However, most dual
      users use ENDS intermittently, which does not appear to promote smoking cessation. ENDS use
      appears to be associated with increased overall nicotine addiction in some dual users and
      could perpetuate or increase combustible cigarette (CC) smoking. These concerns have
      contributed to policy changes to restrict ENDS use. For example the FDA's Center for Tobacco
      Products finalized a rule to regulate ENDS and could reduce the amount of nicotine in ENDS.
      Further, some states have begun to restrict access to ENDS. Market restrictions, FDA warning
      labels, and public education messaging have the potential to reduce ENDS consumption. Little
      is known, however, regarding the mechanisms of change in ENDS use that could affect nicotine
      addiction and CC smoking in dual users. Thus, the investigators are conducting a pilot
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test how change in ENDS nicotine (i.e. pharmacology) and
      change in frequency of ENDS use (i.e., behavior) affects nicotine addiction and CC smoking
      among dual users. Findings will inform understanding of how change in ENDS use contributes to
      nicotine addiction and how regulation that results in reduced nicotine consumption from ENDS
      could affect tobacco use among dual users.

      Both pharmacological and behavioral factors contribute to nicotine dependence and thus could
      be mechanisms by which change in ENDS affects addiction among dual users. Prior research
      identified that switching to low nicotine CCs (i.e., change in pharmacology) and reduction in
      number of CCs (i.e., change in behavior) independently reduced nicotine dependence and demand
      for cigarettes within-participants over time. Similarly, observational data indicate that
      self-selected use of lower nicotine content ENDS (i.e., pharmacology) and less frequent
      vaping (i.e., behavior) appear to be associated with lower overall nicotine dependence among
      dual users. However, there is a lack of experimental research on whether change in ENDS
      nicotine content or frequency of use affects overall nicotine dependence among dual users.

      Specific Aims

      Primary Aim 1: To assess the feasibility of abruptly switching to low nicotine ENDS pods or
      abruptly reducing number of ENDS pods.

      Aim 2: To assess the influence of switching to reduced nicotine ENDS compared to ENDS use as
      usual on CC smoking and nicotine dependence.

      Aim 3: To assess the influence of reducing number of usual nicotine ENDS pods compared to
      ENDS use as usual on CC smoking and nicotine dependence.

      Secondary Aim 4: To assess the influence of switching to reduced nicotine ENDS pods compared
      to reducing number of usual nicotine ENDS pods on CC smoking and nicotine dependence.

      Methodology The procedures are based on a methodology demonstrated to be feasible in a prior
      research. Potential participants who screen eligible will complete a videoconference call
      with study personnel to 1) display their photo ID to confirm their identity, 2) display their
      Juul device to confirm that they use Juul products, and 3) review the consent form.
      Participants will provide written consent using the REDCap e-consent procedure. Consenting
      participants will answer brief nightly questionnaires about the amount they smoke CCs and use
      JUUL during a baseline week (week 0). During the baseline week (week 0) research personnel
      will mail participants a personal iCO Smokerlyzer (https://www.covita.net/ico-overview/) for
      remote breath carbon monoxide (CO) measurement. Research personnel will also mail a pregnancy
      test to all female participants of reproductive potential (see Inclusion/Exclusion criteria
      section below). At the end of the baseline week (week 0), participants will be emailed a link
      to a REDCap survey to answer demographic and tobacco-related baseline questionnaires, to
      report their breath CO level using their personal iCO Smokerlyzer, and, for women of
      reproductive potential, to report the results of their pregnancy test. Women who are pregnant
      or plan to become pregnant will not be eligible to participate in this study and will be
      removed from this study if they become pregnant. At the end of the baseline (week 0) REDCap
      survey, participants will be randomly assigned to A) abruptly switch to low nicotine ENDS
      pods, B) abruptly reduce number of usual nicotine ENDS pods per week, or C) use ENDS as
      usual. After completing the baseline REDCap survey, participants will attend a curbside
      pickup in a designated area in the University Health Center parking lot to pick up study JUUL
      pods according to their condition. All participants will continue to complete brief nightly
      questionnaires throughout the remaining 4-week study period. In addition, participants will
      provide breath CO samples remotely using a personal iCO Smokerlyzer provided by the study and
      complete tobacco related questionnaires remotely via REDCap at the end of each week
      throughout the study period.

      Participants will use their own JUUL products during baseline (week 0) and will be instructed
      to only use JUUL products provided by the study throughout weeks 1 through 4. In order to
      increase the validity of participants' self-reported adherence to study ENDS products (i.e.,
      feasibility), the investigators will inform participants that self-reported noncompliance
      will not influence their payment or future participation. At the end of week 0, the
      investigators will provide participants with 4-week supplies of JUUL pods based on their
      assigned condition and the number of pods they used during baseline (i.e. week 0) via
      curbside pickup. The investigators will provide participants who are randomized to switch to
      low nicotine ENDS with 100% of the number of JUUL pods/week used during the baseline week,
      but all JUUL pods provided will have a nicotine content reduced to 60% of baseline (i.e., 3%
      nicotine JUUL pods). The investigators will provide participants who are randomized to reduce
      number of ENDS with approximately 60% of the number of JUUL pods/week used during the
      baseline week, and all JUUL pods provided will have the regular nicotine content (i.e., 5%
      nicotine JUUL pods). The investigators chose to reduce participants' number of JUUL pods to
      approximately 60% of baseline to match the 60% reduction in nicotine in the group assigned to
      switch from usual (5%) to low (3%) nicotine JUUL pods. In addition, a similar magnitude of
      cigarette reduction was feasible in a prior trial. Finally, participants randomized to use
      ENDS as usual (control condition) will be provided with 100% of their baseline number of JUUL
      pods/week containing regular nicotine content (5%). Participants in all conditions will have
      the option to choose their preferred flavor of JUUL pods among the flavors sold legally in
      Vermont when they are participating. The investigators will clearly and explicitly state that
      they are not requiring participants to change CC smoking. Given the potential for
      compensatory CC smoking during the study period, the study will have a data and safety
      monitoring board (DSMB) review the study procedures and monitor participants' safety as
      necessary.

      At the end of week 4 the investigators will provide all participants with advice to quit all
      tobacco products. They will also provide all participants a referral to the national quitline
      for information on the benefits of quitting tobacco. In addition they will offer to mail a
      one-month supply of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) to participants who confirm they have
      no contraindications for NRT to help them quit. Thus participants interested in NRT will
      complete a brief screener via REDCap at the end of week 4. Participants who endorse a) Recent
      heart attack (in last month), b) Heart disease that is untreated, c) Arrhythmia or irregular
      heartbeat, d) High blood pressure not controlled by medications, e) An allergy to adhesive
      tape, f) Skin problems that require treatment, or g) Stomach ulcer or diabetes will receive a
      referral to the quitline but will not be eligible for NRT. The investigators will not provide
      any participants with ENDS products after week 4 of the study period. Finally, all
      participants will complete a web-based follow-up survey and provide a breath CO sample 4
      weeks after study completion (i.e., 8 weeks after randomization) to assess tobacco use, ENDS
      use, quit attempts, and behavioral economic measures.
    
  