
    
      We propose to enroll a total of 25 patients with recently diagnosed pulmonary embolism.
      Inclusion criteria will include moderate to severe shortness of breath as rated by the
      patient on a standard scoring system, a systolic blood pressure of >89 mm Hg unless the
      patient has a known prior history of low blood pressure, and blood oxygen saturation of >80%.
      Exclusion criteria will include: altered mental status, inability to use a nasal cannula, a
      large need for supplemental oxygen, pregnancy, pneumothorax, recent use of nitrate-containing
      medications, recent use of thrombolytic drugs, requirement for inotropic or pressor support,
      or a level of methemoglobin greater than 10%.

      After obtaining informed consent, subjects will have blood drawn and vital signs will be
      obtained. They will subsequently begin to breathe oxygen and NO supplied through a nasal
      cannula delivered from the iNOvent device. The patients will undergo serial measurements of
      their blood pressure, arterial oxygen saturation and will have their serum methemoglobin
      level monitored via a non-invasive probe. Titration of the amount of NO delivered will be
      made periodically based on the patient's vital signs. If an absolute safety endpoint is
      reached, NO will be rapidly weaned. Based on the patient's response to NO as determined by
      their vital signs, a maintenance dose of NO, not to exceed 25 ppm, will be reached. Subjects
      will continue to receive this concentration for up to 2 hours prior to weaning. Patients will
      be asked once more to rate the severity of their shortness of breath and blood will be drawn
      just prior to weaning. Should the patient reach a safety endpoint, the NO will be weaned at
      an earlier timepoint.

      We will determine the percentage of patients able to complete the full protocol without
      reaching a safety endpoint, the percent change in methemoglobin level, the trend in
      patient-reported shortness of breath, percent change in SBP and oxygen saturation and the
      number of patients who withdraw during induction for any reason.
    
  