
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the frequency and spectrum of mutations in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2
      (FGFR2) in low-, intermediate-, and/or high-risk endometrioid endometrial cancer from
      GOG-0210. (Project 1) II. Determine the relationship between FGFR2 mutation and
      clinicopathologic variables including disease-free and overall survival in low-,
      intermediate-, and/or high-risk endometrial cancer from GOG-0210. (Project 1) III. Identify
      the cognate FGF ligands and receptors expressed in normal endometrium and endometrial
      cancers, and examine their expression on multiple tissue microarrays for GOG-0210 to
      determine their association with clinical outcome. (Project 1) IV. Identify epigenetic
      biomarkers (differential methylation of CpG island loci) associated with recurrence and
      disease progression in endometrioid endometrial cancer from Washington University School of
      Medicine (WUSM). (Project 2) V. Confirm epigenetic biomarkers (differential methylation of
      CpG island loci) associated with recurrent and disease progression in endometrioid
      endometrial cancer from GOG-0210. (Project 2) VI. Define the performance (sensitivity and
      specificity) of epigenetic biomarkers associated with recurrence and disease progression in
      endometrioid endometrial cancer from an independent cohort of cases from GOG-0210. (Project
      2) VII. Develop a molecular screening regimen to compliment family history risk assessment to
      identify carriers of Hereditary Non-Polyposis Colorectal Cancer (HNPCC)-related and other
      forms of inherited endometrial cancer from GOG-0210 that was not ascertained by family
      history. (Project 3) VIII. Estimate the prevalence of HNPCC-related and other forms of
      inherited endometrial cancer in GOG-0210. (Project 3) IX. Define the relationship between
      defective DNA mismatch repair and clinical and epidemiological factors in GOG-0210. (Project
      3) X. Determine the clinicopathologic significance of mismatch-repair defects including
      associations with disease-free and overall survival in GOG-0210. (Project 3) XI. Assess
      expression of five candidate ERK1/2 substrates in the normal endometrium, primary endometrial
      cancers (from WUSM and GOG-0210) and endometrial cancer cell lines and determine if substrate
      phosphorylation is ERK-dependent. (Project 4) XII. Determine the relationship between ERK
      substrate-phosphorylation status and upstream ERK-signaling pathway activation in primary
      endometrial cancers from WUSM and GOG-0210. (Project 4 XIII. Determine the clinicopathologic
      significance of ERK substrate expression in primary endometrial cancers from WUSM and
      GOG-0210. (Project 4) XIV. Explore GSK3/3 inhibition as a therapeutic treatment of
      endometrial cancer and assess the role of inhibiting other ERK substrates in endometrial cell
      lines. (Project 4) XV. Explore the predictive and prognostic accuracy of a panel of single
      nucleotide polymorphisms alone and with informative clinical, surgical, and pathologic
      variables in a cohort of Caucasian women with stage IB or IC vs IIIC endometrioid endometrial
      cancer from WUSM and GOG-0210. (Project 5)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Previously collected samples are analyzed for biomarker and other laboratory analyses.
    
  