
    
      Background: The Institute of Medicine has proposed 5 hour naps for residents on extended
      overnight call-duty shifts citing resident and patient safety. Concerns raised about this
      recommendation include increased handoffs, truncated continuity, and if residents would be
      able to effectively use the protected time for sleep.

      Objectives: The purpose of this study is to test if protected time for sleep during extended
      duty overnight shifts improves resident fatigue and if they actually utilize the time for
      sleep.

      Methods: All interns rotating through the medical intensive care unit from October 2009
      through October 2010 will work extended shifts every 3rd night. On Sunday through Thursday
      nights they will have a 5 hour protected period from 2 AM to 7 AM. During this time they will
      relinquish their pager and cell phone to the Night Float PGY2 or PGY3 who is already
      responsible for the ICU patients. The four hours between 2 and 6 am are entirely protected.
      From 6 AM to 7 AM, interns will be expected to start computer rounding on the ICU patients
      and to begin progress notes for the remaining members of the ICU team but still have no
      pager, cell phone, or cross coverage duties. On Friday and Saturday nights there will be no
      protected time but these interns will have 42 consecutive hours off following their extended
      shift.

      Results from the October 2009 to October 2010 protected time cohort of interns will be
      compared with two comparison groups from the same institution and the same medical intensive
      care unit during the academic year June 2008 to June 2009. The first comparison group is
      interns working 30 hour shifts every 3rd night without any protected time and an average of
      80 hours per week. The second comparison group is interns working a maximum shift length of
      16 hours and an average of 60 hours per week.

      The primary outcome will be measurement of fatigue (daytime multiple sleep latency tests).
      Secondary outcomes include the amount slept as measured by actigraphy, assessment of burnout
      (Maslach Burnout Inventory) and depression (Beck Depression Inventory-II).
    
  