
    
      Sleep is important for well-being. Lack of sleep and poor quality of sleep (Insomnia) are
      risk factors for psychiatric and somatic diseases such as depression, cardiovascular disease,
      diabetes and memory disorders and increases the risk of cognitive errors and accidents.

      Psychiatric patients suffer from a wide variety of sleep disorders. Insomnia symptoms are
      known to increase the likelihood of later depression and even the use of disability pensions
      due to depression.

      Various sleep disorders are also common in patients with schizophrenia. Previous studies on
      schizophrenia have reported-, symptoms of insomnia, especially the problem of falling asleep
      and poor sleep quality, circadian rhythm disruption, hypersomnolence and nightmares among the
      patients.

      Cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is an evidence-based treatment for
      insomnia. CBT-I can be implemented as an individual treatment, on a group basis or via the
      internet. There is evidence that CBT-I can also be used to treat a patient with a major
      psychiatric disorders, but randomized clinical trials (RCT) have rarely been published. Our
      research is based on the hypothesis that symptoms of insomnia in patients with schizophrenia
      can improved by CBT-I and, further, by improving patients' sleep quality their health and
      quality of life can also be improved.

      The present study is designed to investigate the effect of two different treatment programs
      as compared to treatment as usual (TAU). The purpose of this study is to determine whether
      CBT-I can help relieve sleep symptoms and improve quality of life and well-being in patients
      with schizophrenia. At the same time, the study provides information on factors that are
      commonly associated with sleep and well-being in patients with major psychiatric disorders.
      The intervention study is conducted as an RCT, in which subjects are randomized into three
      groups: 1) Treatment as usual (TAU), 2) TAU and Internet-based therapy for insomnia (ICBT-I),
      and 3) TAU and group therapy for insomnia (GCBT-I).

      The aim of this ongoing randomized controlled trial is to recruit 84 - 120 participants from
      Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa (HUS) Psychiatry Outpatient Clinics for Psychosis,
      and they have previously participated in the nationwide SUPER Finland study (a study on
      genetic mechanisms of psychotic disorders and a part of the Stanley Global Neuropsychiatric
      Genomics Initiative). The study is performed on a cycle basis with a target of 12 to 24
      patients per cycle, randomly assigned to three intervention groups.
    
  