
    
      Background. Numerous publications call for innovation based on integrated care principles,
      investment in self-management and use of eHealth to improve outcomes for allogeneic Stem Cell
      Transplant (alloSCT), patients with complex care needs and multiple morbidities. While
      eHealth supported integrated care models are effective, real-world implementation and
      sustainability remain elusive. Combining implementation science with computer and behavioural
      science methods, we will implement and evaluate the newly developed SMILe-Integrated Care
      Model (SMILe-ICM) for alloSCT patients, aiming to reduce first year post-alloSCT
      re-hospitalizations.

      The SMILe-ICM is the first theory-based comprehensive eHealth supported integrated care
      model. Developed by marrying different methodological approaches, it comprehensively
      addresses alloSCT needs by optimizing care coordination and care processes, and by reducing
      response times in cases where the patient's condition is deteriorating at home. SMILe-ICM
      includes four self-management care modules (i.e., monitoring & follow-up, medication
      adherence, infection prevention, physical activity) and combines a human role newly embedded
      in the SCT team, i.e., a Care Coordinator (CC), with a technological component (i.e., the
      SMILeApp). Patients' symptoms and health behaviours are monitored and transferred, as
      necessary, to their CC, who supports them in their self-management. Alongside the alloSCT
      team, the CC manages complications based on care algorithms. Thus, SMILe-ICM targets alloSCT
      patients' clinical and behavioural short- (e.g., infections) and medium-term outcomes (e.g.,
      adherence, treatment burden, GVHD). Our SMILe-ICM pilot work indicates high-level
      acceptability, feasibility and technological performance.

      Purpose. Embedded in implementation science methodology, we aim to implement and test the
      SMILe-ICM at the University Hospital Basel (USB) in the first year post-alloSCT. In addition
      to targeting one primary outcome, re-hospitalization rate, our secondary outcomes will
      include effectiveness (e.g., health care costs, medication adherence) and implementation
      outcomes (e.g., acceptability, fidelity). We will also describe and evaluate our
      implementation pathway. Patients will be followed up 3 months after the end of the
      intervention period.

      Methods. A hybrid 1 effectiveness-implementation randomized controlled trial will include 80
      adult alloSCT patients from the USB Department of Haematology who are transplanted and
      followed up at USB, have basic German proficiency and elementary computer literacy, and who
      provide written informed consent. Patients with physical or mental conditions limiting their
      use of the SMILe-ICM's technology component will be excluded. Approximately ten days before
      the scheduled alloSCT, a stratified randomization (based on participants' clinical risk
      scores) will assign patients 1:1 to the control group (CG) or the SMILe-ICM intervention
      group (IG). The CG will receive usual care; the IG will receive the SMILe-ICM (see above)
      over one year with 12 scheduled CC visits and continuous use of the SMILeApp. The
      re-hospitalization rate (primary outcome) and total healthcare utilization costs (payers'
      perspective) will be assessed using medical records. Medication adherence will be assessed
      via the BAASIS© scale, treatment burden via the PETS© scale, health-related quality of life
      via the EQ-5D-5L© (value set for Germany EQ-VT v. 2.0-quality-adjusted life years), and acute
      and chronic GvHD episodes and survival via medical records. Implementation outcomes will be
      assessed from both patient and CC perspectives via questionnaires and the implementation
      pathway via qualitative data collection techniques (i.e., focus groups with patients,
      clinicians). Quantitative data will be collected using a blinded standardized method in
      patients' first year post-alloSCT, then 3 months thereafter. Intention-to-treat and
      per-protocol analyses will be conducted using the rate ratio by unconditional maximum
      likelihood estimation (Wald) for the primary outcome. Qualitative data will be analysed using
      mind-mapping techniques and thematic analysis.

      Conclusion: The SMILe-ICM implies a systemic innovation in the follow-up care of alloSCT
      patients, targeting short- and medium-term outcomes. Bolstering patient's self-management,
      this eHealth-supported behavioural science-driven integrated care approach aims at fast
      responses to health deterioration. This implementation science methodological innovation will
      also develop insights regarding the implementation process. Should it prove effective, then,
      it will also prepare the SMILe-ICM for scaling up or out to other chronically ill patient
      populations.
    
  