
    
      Perioperative myocardial ischemia has been studied in the pre-, intra-, and postoperative
      periods. The intraoperative incidence is similar to the preoperative period but the
      postoperative incidence is doubled that of the preoperative period. These results have two
      implications: postoperative myocardial ischemia cannot be predicted by preoperative
      ambulatory ECG monitoring since only half of those are seen preoperatively; the postoperative
      period is when significant myocardial ischemia occurs.

      The role of myocardial ischemia, especially prolonged ischemia, in perioperative myocardial
      infarction (PMI) has been recognized by a number of investigators. In the presence of
      postoperative myocardial ischemia, the relative risk of a postoperative cardiac event was 16
      in one study and the odds ratio for an ischemic cardiac event was 9.2 in another. Using
      12-lead continuous monitoring, one study found that all PMI were preceded by myocardial
      ischemia.

      Ambulatory ECG in the postoperative period has been well reported in the past. Recently,
      Landesberg reported the sensitivity and specificity of lead placements to detect myocardial
      ischemia in the postoperative period. Lead combinations were compared with continuous 12-lead
      ECG in 185 consecutive patients. Combining two precordial leads, the sensitivity for
      detecting ischemia was 97.4% for V3 + V5; 92.1% for V4 + V5; and for infarction was 100% for
      V3 + V5 or V4 + V5.

      We believe that the pathogenesis of PMI is multifactorial. Apart from the coronary anatomy
      and the vulnerable plaque, stress hormones and catecholamine surges in the perioperative
      period are well reported. Stress increases systolic BP, which is a major determinant of LV
      wall tension, and hence, myocardial oxygen demand. The oxygen cost of "pressure work" is
      greater than "volume work", with the area-under-the-curve for LV pressure closely correlating
      with myocardial oxygen demand. Hypercoagulable state has also been implicated in PMI.

      With so many possible pathogenesis, it is our belief therefore that postoperative myocardial
      ischemia may be one of the final pathways just before postoperative ischemic cardiac
      complications. This is especially so when all PMI were preceded by myocardial ischemia in one
      study. With potentially multiple pathogenesis, it is unknown if postoperative myocardial
      ischemia is amenable to treatment. It is, however, our belief that postoperative myocardial
      ischemia can be aborted using existing treatment modalities. The implication is that the
      reduction of postoperative myocardial ischemia may reduce the incidence of postoperative
      ischemic cardiac complications, including PMI.

      Current standard of care does not include telemetry or real-time ST monitoring on surgical
      patients. Traditional telemetry would impede low-risk patients in their postoperative
      recovery by limiting them to their beds. In the context of real-time monitoring for ST
      changes in low-risk patients, the cost of traditional telemetry with nursing may also be
      prohibitive. We propose a novel technological application, transmitting wireless ST segment
      monitoring and alarms to a Blackberry. This will alert the research team to verify via "full
      disclosure" on the ST monitor and respond directly. SpaceLab, GlobeStar, and Research in
      Motion (RIM) have developed the hardware and software respectively. We currently have written
      assurances and support from SpaceLab, GlobeStar, and RIM to conduct a pilot study for this
      novel application (see attached). We therefore propose a pilot study to determine the
      feasibility of wireless ST-segment monitoring and its treatment in post-surgical patients.
    
  