
    
      Immunosuppressive therapy with the calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) cyclosporine (CsA) and
      Tacrolimus (Tac), have radically changed the field of organ transplantation. Ironically,
      although extensively and effectively used for kidney transplantation and other solid organ
      transplants, CsA and Tac cause important adverse renal side effects: acute and chronic renal
      dysfunction, hemolytic-uremic syndrome, hypertension, electrolyte disturbances and tubular
      acidosis. Chronic nephrotoxicity from CNI has been implicated as a principal cause of
      post-transplant renal dysfunction and it is characterized by an irreversible and progressive
      tubular atrophy, interstitial fibrosis, and focal hyalinosis of small renal arteries and
      arterioles. Attempts to minimize CNIs and their known toxicities have been marginally
      successful due to unacceptable rates of acute rejection and drug toxicity. Patients are
      converted to alternative immunosuppressive therapy related to CNI side effects including
      neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, cardiovascular (HTN, hyperlipidemia), metabolic (NODAT), and
      cosmetic side effects. Furthermore, this class of medications is associated also, by blocking
      Interleukin 2 (IL2) production, with negative impact on regulatory T cells (Tregs) generation
      (an important subpopulation of T helper cells that has been associated with positive
      immunomodulation and donor specific hypo-responsiveness).

      Until the approval of Belatacept for adult EBV+ renal transplant recipients, there have been
      limited alternative immunosuppressive agents available to mitigate drug induced renal
      impairment. The phase III drug trials of Belatacept in combination with MMF and
      corticosteroids have resulted in significant and sustained improvement in glomerular
      filtration rate (GFR) at one year through three years post transplant. The overall safety of
      belatacept compared to cyclosporine in de novo transplant recipients was similar. However,
      there was an increased rate and severity of early acute rejection and post-transplant
      lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) of the central nervous system in patients treated with
      belatacept.

      In a phase II switch study conducted by Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), the incidence of acute
      rejection at 24 months post conversion was similar in patients remaining on CNI (4%) compared
      to those converted to belatacept (7%). There were no reported cases of post-transplant
      lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) in this patient population as of two years post
      randomization. However, one belatacept patient from Mexico developed tuberculosis and there
      were more non-serious fungal infections in the belatacept treated patients.

      Mechanistically, CD28 (Cluster of Differentiation 28) and CTLA-4 (cytotoxic
      T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4) are important for the function of regulatory T cells
      (Tregs). Belatacept binds to CD80/CD86 (Cluster of Differentiation 80/Cluster of
      Differentiation 86) ligands on antigen presenting cells (APCs) preventing CD28 to bind with
      these ligands and deliver the costimulatory signal to activate the T Cell. CTLA-4 is a
      related receptor expressed on activated T cells that also recognizes CD80/CD86 (Cluster of
      Differentiation 80/Cluster of Differentiation 86) and is thus termed co-inhibitory. It
      transmits both cell intrinsic and cell extrinsic negative signals that impair activation.

      Investigation of the effect of early conversion to Belatacept at month 3 post-transplant on
      the subpopulations of T cells and B cells and peripheral blood and allograft biopsy-derived
      gene expression subpopulation profiles are planned. Optimization of the Belatacept
      immunosuppressive regimen to achieve good long term renal function and improved graft
      survival requires understanding the relationships of these cell populations to clinical
      outcomes.
    
  