
    
      PTSD has an emotional impact on individuals, but it is also associated with impaired
      cognitive functioning (e.g., processing speed, attention, executive functioning).
      Unfortunately, there is little research investigating both issues simultaneously. The current
      study is an effectiveness trial for an intervention called neurofeedback (NFB), which may be
      helpful in addressing both PTSD symptom severity, and cognitive dysfunction. NFB is a type of
      brain training in which a person is given real-time information (or feedback) from their own
      brain activity to help them potentially change how their brain is functioning (i.e., to work
      in a healthier or more effective manner). NFB has been in use for over 30 years, and it is
      proven to be quite effective in treating ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder);
      however, it has not been embraced as a clinical intervention for other mental health
      disorders. Recent systematic reviews of NFB suggest that this treatment intervention can lead
      to significant clinical improvements (e.g., reduction in PTSD severity), and it can impact
      both functional brain activity and cognitive function. The current study hopes to bring these
      3 areas of interest together by investigating the impact of NFB on PTSD symptoms, cognitive
      ability, and intrinsic neurological connectivity (via fMRI - function magnetic imaging).

      In the current study, participants will be randomized into one of two conditions: NFB or Wait
      List. Those in the NFB condition will begin 19 weekly, supervised (via teleconferencing)
      sessions of NFB, while the Wait List will not receive NFB for approximately 31 weeks (i.e.,
      not until final assessments are complete). After all assessments are complete, participants
      in the Wait List condition will be able to begin the same 19 sessions of NFB. Study
      participation includes pre-, post-, and 3-month follow-up assessments, and 2 optional fMRI
      scans. Due to the current coronavirus pandemic, this study will be conducted primarily
      online.
    
  