
    
      Despite a push for tailored messages, health communications are often aimed at, and viewed
      by, people with varying levels of risk. This project examined-in the context of radon risk
      messages-whether information relevant to high-risk individuals can have an unintended
      influence on lower-risk individuals. Specifically, the investigators assessed whether
      information about lung-cancer risk from smoking reduced concerns about lung-cancer risk from
      radon among nonsmokers. The investigators hypothesized that non-smokers who read a message
      that included smoking-relevant information would express less concern about the effects of
      radon exposure and less interest in testing their home compared to those who read a version
      in which smoking-relevant information was excluded. Two studies were conducted. Although the
      investigators did not exclude smokers, the focus was on participants self-identifying as
      nonsmokers (including never smokers and former smokers). Participants in both studies were
      recruited through Amazon's Mechanical Turk (MTurk). Participants viewed radon messages that
      varied in the information they communicated about smoking's effect on lung cancer. In Study
      1, smoking information was included or excluded from messages assembled from existing radon
      pamphlets. In Study 2, versions of a new radon message either excluded smoking information,
      described smoking as a major cause of lung cancer, or also described smoking's synergistic
      effect with radon on lung cancer risk. After viewing a radon health message, participants
      completed a variety of measures. Primary measures assessed respondents' anticipated sense of
      concern and related reactions if they learned that they/their home had been exposed to
      elevated levels of radon. Other key measures included questions about participants' interest
      and intention to test their home for radon.
    
  