
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity (as defined by National Cancer Institute [NCI] Common Toxicity
      Criteria version [v.] 4.0) of weekly intravenous (IV) paclitaxel with intraperitoneal (IP)
      carboplatin chemotherapy given every third week, followed by radiation therapy (RT) in
      patients with advanced stage uterine serous cancer (USC).

      II. To determine the feasibility of this regimen in women with advanced stage USC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the frequency and the reasons for early discontinuation of the study treatments.

      II. To describe patient-reported quality of life parameters at specified time points during
      the study using validated questionnaires: European Organization for Research and the
      Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 and QLQ-ovarian cancer
      module (OV)28.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define patterns of recurrence (e.g. local versus distant) and progression-free survival
      in patients with advanced and recurrent USC treated with dose dense IV paclitaxel and IP
      carboplatin therapy.

      II. To correlate surrogate endpoint biomarkers that is performed in standard histology
      processing (estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor status as well as human epidermal
      growth factor 2 [Her2/neu] status) with progression-free survival and prognosis.

      III. To assess the potential late effects of combined intraperitoneal chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy on the gastrointestinal, genitoureteral, bone marrow and other body systems
      beginning at 6 months post treatment completion during routine office visits.

      OUTLINE:

      CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15
      and carboplatin intraperitoneally (IP) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6
      courses (weeks 1-18) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      RADIATION: At provider discretion, patients may undergo 3-dimensional (3D) conformal or
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days a week for 5 weeks (weeks 19-23).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then yearly thereafter for up to 10 years.
    
  