
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Sexuality is a central aspect of being human throughout life encompasses sex, gender
      identities and roles, sexual orientation, eroticism, pleasure, intimacy and reproduction.
      Most of these aspects may be affected in breast cancer survivors (BCS). In a recent
      meta-analysis, focused on sexual function through Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) among
      BCS, female sexual dysfunction prevalence was 73,4% (95 % CI 64-82.8 %, I2 = 96.8 %) and mean
      FSFI 19.28 (95 % CI 17.39-21.16, I2 = 97.6 %). Several modifiable risk factors for sexual
      dysfunction in BCS may be optimum targets for intervention: amelioration of vaginal
      discomfort and urinary incontinence, the benefits of breast conserving surgery on body image
      or the evaluation of relationship quality. Due to the multifaceted nature of the factors
      affecting sexuality in BCS, most authors encouraged the need for comprehensive assessment and
      for a multidisciplinary approach.

      BC diagnosis and/or its treatments (surgery, chemoradiotherapy, hormonal therapy) may altered
      sexual health. Vulvovaginal health, directly linked to sexual health, is a key factor for
      female pleasure. Genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM) is caused by decline in estrogen
      at menopause, which may also appear or worsen after systemic cancer treatments as aromatase
      inhibitors (AI). GSM is associated with sexual symptoms (lack of lubrication, discomfort or
      pain, impaired function), genital symptoms (dryness, burning, irritation) and urinary
      symptoms (urgency, dysuria, recurrent urinary tract infections). BCS receiving AI are one of
      the groups most likely to present severe GSM and sexual complaints. A cross-sectional study
      on 129 BCS during the first 2 years of adjuvant AI therapy, found 3 out of 4 women were
      distressed about their sexual problems. Only 52% of women had been sexually active when
      endocrine therapy began, but 79% of that group developed new sexual problems.

      The first line of treatment for GSM is non-hormonal therapy (regular sexual activity,
      moisturizers-lubricants, pelvic-floor relaxation techniques, dilators) although in many women
      these options will not adequately control symptoms. Hormonal therapies must be used with
      caution in women with estrogen-dependent cancers. So, alternative options are emerging for
      this subset of patients, such as vaginal laser therapy. Different studies provided short-term
      data on non-cancer patients that showed laser therapy was feasible, safe and improved
      objective and subjective GSM. Data regarding sexuality derived from secondary endpoints and
      suggested that laser therapy may improve sexual function, mainly decreasing sexual pain. To
      date, data on laser therapy in BCS is scarce, moreover, few studies included patients
      receiving ongoing AI. The CO2 laser was the most frequently used device. Different reviews
      and meta-analysis found GSM and sexual function may improve significantly at short-term,
      however, the body of evidence is of low quality. Therefore, before recommendation for the use
      of laser therapy for sexual complaints in BCS with GSM, there are unmet needs to be solved as
      efficacy and safety at long-term, biases related to patients' expectations of therapy and a
      detailed assessment of the complex underpinnings of sexuality.

      AIMS:

      To answer the unmet needs previously mentioned, the aim of the current study is to verify the
      outcomes of sexual and vaginal health in breast cancer women receiving AI, who were
      experiencing symptoms of GSM, before and after CO2 laser therapy compared to a
      sham-controlled group.

      Specifically, we will compare the following subjective and objective measurements of sexual
      and vaginal health:

      MAIN GOAL: Report an improvement in sexuality:

        -  Primary outcome: sexual function (FSFI total score)

        -  Secondary sexual outcomes: resumption sexual activity (sexually active vs non-sexually
           active), sexual activity frequency (nº sexual activity/week), dyspareunia (VAS), female
           sexual dysfunction (VAS sexual life distress), sexual dimensions: desire, arousal,
           lubrication, orgasm, satisfaction and pain (FSFI) and body image (S-BIS)

      OTHER OBJECTIVES: Report an improvement on GSM symptoms (efficacy) and quality of life,
      feasibility and safety of laser therapy in BCS:

      - Secondary non-sexual outcomes: quality of life (SF-12). Verify an acidification of the
      vaginal pH, an improvement in the maturation index and an improvement in the Gloria Backmann
      Index: Vaginal Health Index. To evaluate toxicity associated with vaginal laser therapy in
      this population (AEs and SAEs). To determine how many women with the defined patient
      eligibility will complete all treatments.

      METHODS:

      DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, double-blind controlled study with two parallel study arms:
      ARM I: Patients undergo fractional CO2 laser therapy at 5 times points 30 days apart. ARM II:
      Patients undergo sham laser therapy at 5 time points 30 days apart. After completion of the
      treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month and 6 months.

      RANDOMIZATION PROCESS: A randomization list will be generated in multiple blocks of 2 and 1:
      1 ratio with STATA version 15.1 or higher.

      STUDY SUBJECTS: Patients treated or undergoing AI for BC in the Breast Cancer Unit of the
      Hospital Clínic and who present symptoms related to GSM that condition their sexual function
      and quality of life, despite receiving first-line non-hormonal treatment: regular sexual
      activity (such as mutual and self-touch masturbation, manual or vibrator stimulation, oral
      sex, sexual intercourse, massage and other forms of physical intimacy), moisturizers,
      lubricants, pelvic-floor relaxation techniques and/or dilators. Inclusion and exclusion
      criteria are summarized in Table 1.

      STUDY GROUPS: All patients will receive instructions to maintain first-line non-hormonal
      treatment, as well as sexual assessment using the PLISSIT Model according with usual care in
      our hospital.

      The study group will be treated with a vaginal fractionated CO2 laser protocol (The SMARTXIDE
      TOUCH (Deka) equipment with an autoclavable vaginal probe following the manufacturer's
      protocol.

      The control group will receive treatment with a sham-CO2 laser using a double-blinded
      protocol.

      STUDY STRUCTURE.

      SAMPLE CALCULATION Considering FSFI score as the main variable of the study, we performed a
      calculation of the hypothesis contrast study sample with the comparison of two independent
      means. Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of less than 0.1 in a bilateral
      contrast, 44 subjects in the first group and 44 in the second. The common standard deviation
      is assumed to be 1. A follow-up loss rate of 15% has been estimated.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS Descriptive statistics will be used according to standard calculation
      methods. The comparison between the two treatments at the end of the study will be evaluated
      through the change with the baseline using a mixed repeated measures model (MMRM) adjusted
      for the baseline value and including the treatment and the time in the model.

      The variables of repetitive evaluation over time are analyzed according to the following
      strategy: (a) continuous variables with a repeated measures mixed longitudinal model (MMRM);
      (b) binary or non-normal variables with marginal models (Generalized Estimating Equation:
      GEE). Other variables will be studied as follows: Fisher's exact test for categorical
      variables, Student's t test for continuous variables between 2 groups. Non-parametric methods
      for independent data (Mann-Whitney U for 2 groups or Kruskall-Wallis test for more than 2
      groups) will be used if necessary. The level of statistical significance will be 5%
      bilateral. The main analysis will be by Intention to Treat (ITT).

      IMPACT:

      What would be the impact of the project on sexual medicine field when it is successfully
      completed? Please explain how your project fits to the specific call

      The BCS receiving AI are at higher risk of developing GSM symptoms. Sexual issues are common,
      either secondary to painful sex or as a direct effect of estrogen deprivation in the brain.
      However, addressing sexual health issues in BCS still meets several barriers from both,
      patient and health care professionals. GSM symptoms do not put survival at risk, however,
      have a significant impact in the quality of life.

      The first-line treatment for GSM symptoms should be non-hormonal therapies according clinical
      guidelines, although frequently it will be insufficient to alleviate symptoms. Hormonal
      therapies are not currently recommended and must be used with caution in BCS. So,
      energy-based treatments have emerged as a promising option in this subgroup of patients.
      However, the body of evidence is lacking to make decisive recommendations [18], specially to
      treat sexual complaints. There is an urgent need to carry out RCT with larger sample size,
      long-term follow-up and blinded control group for answer various unmet needs in this field:
      short/mid and long-term safety issues and efficacy, treatment modalities (type of laser) and
      protocols (laser parameters, sessions numbers, repetitions).

      This project aims to demonstrate that emergent, non-invasive, non-anesthetic laser therapy
      has significant benefit for BCS with AI, measured in a prospective, randomized, double-blind
      controlled trial using validated tools for subjective and objective sexual and vaginal health
      outcomes and quality of life.

      Moreover, sexual health is a state of physical, emotional, mental and social well-being in
      relation to sexuality which requires the possibility of having pleasurable and safe sexual
      experiences. So, both arms of study groups will benefit from multidisciplinary approach
      including non-hormonal therapies (regular sexual activity, moisturizers, lubricants, pelvic
      floor relaxation techniques and/or dilators) and sexual assessment using the PLISSIT Model
      according with usual care in our hospital and with international recommendations.
    
  