
    
      The clinical work has been carried out in accordance with The Code of Ethics of the World
      Medical Association for experiments involving humans. The study was conducted on 30 patients
      (10 to 60 years old) with tinea versicolor attending the dermatology department outpatient
      clinic of Minia University Hospital. Local institutional review board approval was obtained
      for this study (ethical approval number is 24/18). Pregnant or lactating females and
      Immunocompromized patients. The patients were then divided into 3 groups, placebo group,
      group A and group B, consisting of 10 patients each. The placebo group received unmedicated
      formulation, Group A received the medicated formulation once daily and group B were treated
      twice daily. An informed consent has been obtained from all patients enrolled in the study
      for photography and treatment. History and general local examination were performed for all
      patients.The patients were clinically examined under normal light and using wood's lamp and
      cello-tape test was performed to confirm infection after determining the type of infection
      and in some cases scrapes were taken to detect infection in clinically indefinite cases and
      stained using potassium hydroxide 20% then examined for presence of fungal elements.
      Treatment was performed by applying the gel once or twice daily until full recovery was
      achieved with follow up once a week to reassess the condition. The clinical improvement of
      the patients, patient satisfaction and length of treatment were assessed. It was rated by
      both patient and physician as excellent, good, fair or poor according to the following
      criteria. Excellent: both the patient and the physician agreed that the result was
      satisfactory. Good: the result although acceptable was not quite up to expectations, but the
      physicians were pleased with the outcome. Fair: the improvement was evaluated by both the
      patient and the physician to be less than expected but still with some improvement. Poor:
      unsatisfactory results to the patient and /or the physician. All adverse effects were checked
      during study.High resolution digital photographs were taken for lesions of all patients using
      identical camera folder setting before starting treatment, on each follow up visit and after
      complete recovery. Clinical improvement was evaluated by physicians. The criteria for
      evaluations using a quartile grading scale were: 0=no improvement. 1=mild (percent
      improvement, less than 25%), 2=moderate (percent improvement 25-49%), 3=good (percent
      improvement 50-74%), 4=excellent (percent improvement equal to or more than 75%). In
      addition, a patient satisfaction score was rated using the following scale, A. satisfied, B.
    
  