
    
      INVEST is an investigator initiated international, prospective, randomized study comparing
      two pharmacotherapy strategies to control hypertension in ambulatory patients with coronary
      artery disease (CAD). One strategy, the calcium antagonist care strategy, centers on a
      calcium antagonist (verapamil SR) followed by addition of an ACE inhibitor (trandolapril) and
      then diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide) as needed to achieve target blood pressures (BP). The
      other strategy, the non-calcium antagonist care strategy, uses a beta-blocker (atenolol)
      followed by addition of low-dose diuretic and then an ACE inhibitor (trandolapril) as needed
      to reach target BP. In either strategy additional drugs can be added provided the calcium
      antagonist is retained in the calcium antagonist care strategy and calcium antagonists are
      omitted in the non-calcium antagonist care strategy.

      The study is organized into 15 international regions with about 1,500 study investigators
      randomizing approximately 22,000 patients who will be treated for at least two years. The
      primary response variable is the occurrence of adverse outcome, defined as any of the
      following events: all cause mortality, nonfatal MI or nonfatal stroke. A number of secondary
      response variables, including newly diagnosed diabetes will also be evaluated.

      The primary objective of this trial is to examine the hypothesis that the risk for adverse
      outcomes (all cause mortality, nonfatal MI or nonfatal stroke) in hypertensive patients with
      CAD is at least equivalent during treatment of hypertension with a calcium antagonist
      strategy when compared with a non-calcium antagonist strategy.

      Unique features of INVEST are, in addition to its size and international scope, its design to
      mimic standard clinical practice and its all electronic online data entry, drug distribution
      system, study management system, and electronic physician compensation. This system will
      permit the entire trial to be conducted via the Internet. This design is believed to be a
      forerunner of clinical trials research for the future.
    
  