
    
      This study will be a pragmatic before-after intervention trial at the McGill University
      Health Centre (MUHC) Royal Victoria Hospital (Glen Site) using historical controls from
      2014-2016 at our hospital.The intervention will begin July 2016 and conclude January 2016.

      The intervention will include the following components:

        1. Educational campaign toward physicians about benzodiazepine and Z-drug prescriptions:

           An educational campaign about the purpose of the study and risks of benzodiazepine and
           sedative prescriptions will be delivered to physicians in each intervention cluster. The
           educational campaign will include a presentation by the chief of the medical service at
           teaching rounds at the beginning of the intervention, an electronic message sent to all
           physicians on the medical service, and posting of the Choosing Wisely Canada- Geriatrics
           guidelines.

        2. In-hospital patient education campaign:

      Patients will be identified from the pharmacy database and validated by a research associate
      in collaboration with the unit pharmacists based on the patient's best possible medication
      history taken at time of admission. Eligibility will be confirmed by the patient's treating
      physician with support from the principal investigator and site coordinators. Patients will
      receive a previously validated (in the outpatient setting) educational brochure about the
      risks of chronic sedative use and how to stop using them through a tapering regimen. The
      booklet currently includes information about benzodiazepines but will be adapted to also
      include information about sedatives. The preparation of the brochure has been validated in
      both English and French for comprehension and readability.

      Clusters will be defined by clinical teaching unit (CTU) at the Royal Victoria Hospital, -
      the C9 CTU and D9 CTU. Follow up of discharged patients will be until 30 and 90 days
      post-discharge.
    
  