
    
      One hundred fourteen women with tubal factor or unexplained infertility undergoing IVF
      programs in our department will be enrolled in a wild protocol. Successively, the enrolled
      patients will be divided into two different sub-protocols evaluating the role of the
      perifollicular vascularity in good- and poor-prognosis patients. The diagnosis will be
      established by hysterosalpingography and/or laparoscopic dye test and with partner's semen
      analysis.

      All patients will be randomly allocated in two independent groups (experimental and control
      groups) using a computer-software, and the random allocation sequence will be concealed in
      closed and dark envelope until the interventions will be assigned.

      In the experimental group alone, a power Doppler assessment of perifollicular vascularity
      will be performed the day of oocyte retrieval (36 h after hCG injection). The vascularity of
      each ovulatory follicle will be successively studied using an advanced image analysis
      software and its extension will be graded using a well validated grading system. The
      periovulatory follicles will be categorized in high-grade (grades 3-4) and low-grade (grades
      1-2).

      After patient' sedation with IV propofol, oocytes will be retrieved using a 17 G double-lumen
      aspiration needle with a low pressure and individually cultured marking the test-tube and,
      successively, the culture plate with a code corresponding to perifollicular vascularity
      degree. The retrieved oocytes will be washed and the mature oocytes, determined by the
      presence of a first polar body (metaphase II; MII oocytes), will be classified by an
      experienced biologist initially blinded to previous perifollicular vascularization. In
      particular, MII oocytes will be graded into three groups according to the number of
      anomalies: grade I, oocytes without any anomaly; grade II, oocytes with one anomaly; and
      grade III, oocytes with at least two anomalies.

      The three oocytes with the highest grade will be considered "the best" oocytes to fertilize
      in the control group, whereas in the experimental group they will be selected integrating
      morphological and ultrasonographic criteria. In particular, the embryologist will use the
      ultrasonographic criteria to choice within oocytes with similar morphologic degree.

      In both groups, three MII oocytes will be inseminated at 4 h after recovery with 10000-20000
      motile sperm and placed in the CO2 incubator at a temperature of 37°C in 5% CO2 in air, and
      the fertilization will be evaluated 18 h later and confirmed by the presence of two pronuclei
      and two polar bodies. The fertilized oocytes will be classified with a well standardized
      scoring system for zygotes and cultured for a total of 48 h from oocytes IVF. Before
      transfer, the cleavage embryos will be again graded according to the embryo morphology and
      the relative proportion of anucleate fragments present in the zona pellucida.

      All embryos, with exclusion of those arrested (not cleaved after 24 h from IVF), will be
      replaced in each patient without ultrasonographic guidance using ultrasoft Frydman catheter.
      The luteal phase will be supported by 100 mg natural progesterone daily administrated. A
      serum β-hCG assessment will be performed on 15th day after embryos transfer.

      For each cycle, the serum estradiol levels and the number of dominant follicles on the day of
      hCG administration, the duration of ovarian stimulation, and the units of r-FSH administered
      will be recorded. The concordance between the ultrasonographic grading score and the oocyte
      degree will be also evaluated in each case.

      Cancelled cycles (cases of absence of follicular response after 35 days of treatment or a
      serum E2 value >2500 pg/ml), fertilization (percentage of fertilized oocytes / total
      oocytes), implantation (percentage of intra-uterine gestational sacs / total transferred
      embryos), clinical (percentage of rising β-hCG with sonographic evidence of intrauterine
      gestational sac and fetal cardiac activity at 7 weeks of pregnancy / total non-cancelled
      cycles) and ongoing (percentage of vital pregnancies confirmed by ultrasonography at 12 weeks
      of gestational age / total non-cancelled cycles) pregnancies rates will be evaluated in each
      patients. The number of multiple pregnancies and ovarian hyperstimulation syndromes (OHSS)
      will be also recorded in both groups.
    
  