
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. To identify the factor structures and norms of the SRS, CAST, and AQ;

        2. To assess the concurrent validity of the SRS, CAST, and AQ;

        3. To assess the discriminative validity of the three scales by testing the difference of
           total scores and subscales scores of the SRS, CAST, and AQ between the ASD,
           attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and control groups;

        4. To correlate the autistic characteristics between parents and children and compare the
           magnitude of correlations of autistic traits across the 3 groups.

      This is a cross-sectional questionnaire survey in school-based and clinic-based samples. The
      participants include (1) ASD group: 200 cases with DSM-IV ASD; (2) ADHD group: 200 cases with
      DSM-IV ADHD; (3) Normally developing control group: a school-based sample of around 1200
      grade 1 to grade 8 students. 100 students randomly selected from school-based sample will be
      reassessed at a 2-week interval for the test-retest reliability study. The teachers will
      complete the SRS and SNAP-IV (for ADHD symptoms); parents will report on their children on
      the SCQ, SRS, CAST, SNAP-IV, and CBCL, and report themselves on the SRS, AQ, and ASRI;
      children will report on themselves using the SRS, AQ, SNAP-IV, and YSR. Parents of clinical
      participants will be interviewed by the ADI-R or K-SADS-E to confirm their diagnosis of ASD
      and ADHD, respectively.

      We expect that this study will reach the following objectives:

        1. To establish psychometric properties of the Chinese versions of SRS, CAST, and AQ for
           future use in clinical, school, and research settings;

        2. To obtain the preliminary information about the prevalence of ASD, and understand the
           correlation of autistic traits in family;

        3. To enhance the awareness of school teachers and counselors about ASD among students.
    
  