
    
      The objective of this Phase II application is to develop an online self-directed learning
      (SDL) intervention program that seeks to improve caregiving and self-care skills among ethnic
      Chinese dementia caregivers. The benefits of such a product may include improved
      psychological health in caregivers and a reduction in behavioral disturbances among elderly
      care recipients with dementia. While online dementia caregiver interventions are advantageous
      in reaching broad audiences, these individuals face significant challenges in engaging the
      target audience and keeping them engaged throughout the intervention program. The proposed
      online SDL skill training intervention addresses these challenges with a comprehensive
      engagement design to ensure retention and effective learning in the training program.

      All Phase I Study Aims have been successfully completed. The prototype provides preliminary
      evidence that an SDL training intervention is able to successfully engage ethnic Chinese
      caregivers of elders with dementia, improving perceived self-efficacy to manage caregiving
      tasks, while reducing negative emotions in the caregiver. Phase II Specific Aims: The Phase
      II study will further develop the prototype into a fully-functioning online SDL skill
      training intervention for ethnic Chinese dementia caregivers, and evaluate it in a randomized
      control trial. In Specific Aim 1, the research team will develop additional multi-lingual
      training video clips to complete the training program, and make them available for
      Cantonese-, Mandarin-, and/or English-speaking caregivers from different Chinese cultural
      backgrounds. In Specific Aim 2, the research team will develop software that enables and
      integrates all engagement design functionalities. In Specific Aim 3, the research team will
      conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of the SDL training
      intervention based on a comprehensive engagement design (intervention arm) compared to one
      that does not rely on a comprehensive engagement design (control arm).

      Evidence of the effectiveness of the SDL intervention will contribute to the larger
      information and communication technology field, increasing the public's understanding and
      basic knowledge of effective engagement in the rapidly growing field of online health
      interventions. The comprehensive engagement approach developed through this research could be
      transferred to other ethnic minority groups facing dementia caregiving challenges, as well as
      other populations facing challenges related to the management of other chronic conditions.
    
  