
    
      A randomized, triple-blind clinical trial with 90 participants will be conducted (age
      range18-65 years) with chronic periodontitis will be received and intensive periodontal
      therapy under local anaesthesia. Participants will be randomly assigned using block
      randomization in two groups. Test group premedication with 2 gr of oral amoxicilline 1 hour
      before periodontal treatment and control group with 2 gr of placebo 1 hour before treatment.
      High-sensitivity assays will be used to quantify serum concentrations of inflammatory marker
      (Interleukin (IL-1β), Interleukin 6, Tumour necrosis factor α, MCP 1, C Reactive Protein
      (CRP), plasma haemostatic (D-dimer), and von Willebrand factor antigen (r-WF:Ag).

      Samples of blood will be taken at baseline (before treatment), inmediatly finished the
      treatment, 30 minutes and 1, seven and 30 days after treatment to asses bacteremia and
      inflammatory markers.

      Bacterial isolation and identification: Bacterial colonies will be isolated on both selective
      and nonselective culture medium for aerobes and anaerobes bacteria. Sensitive Digital
      quantitative polymerase chain reaction will be used to quantify bacteria.

      Concentrations of CPRus, inflammatory, haemostatic and endotellial cell activation markers
      will be quantified by high-sensitive enzyme liked inmunosorbent assays according to the
      manufacturer´s protocol. For each cytokine, comparisons between groups will be made by time.
      The levels of cytokines expressed in picograms will be transformed into international units
      for the statistical analysis.

      In case it follows a normal distribution, an analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated
      measurements between groups with post hoc corrections made by Wilcoxon test will be used. In
      case it doesn´t follow a normal distribution, Non parametric test such as Friedman´s test
      will be used. Values of p<0.05 will be accepted as statiscally significant.
    
  