
    
      Even if colonoscopy is considered the reference standard for the detection of colonic
      neoplasia, polyps are still missed. In large administrative cohort or case-control studies,
      the risk of early post-colonoscopy cancer appeared to be independently predicted by a
      relatively low polyp/adenoma detection rate. The adenoma detection rate among different
      endoscopists has been shown to be strictly related with the risk of post-colonoscopy interval
      cancer. When considering the very high prevalence of advanced neoplasia in the FIT-positive
      enriched population, the risk of post-colonoscopy interval cancer due to a suboptimal quality
      of colonoscopy may be substantial. Available evidence justifies therefore the implementation
      of efforts aimed at improving adenoma detection rate, based on retraining interventions and
      on the adoption of innovative technologies, designed to enhance the accuracy of the
      endoscopic examination.Nowadays, Artificial intelligence (AI) is gaining increased attention
      and investigation, since it seems to improve the quality of medical diagnosis and treatment.
      In the field of gastrointestinal endoscopy, two potential roles of AI in colonoscopy have
      been examined so far: automated polyp detection (CADe) and automated polyp histology
      characterization (CADx). CADe can minimize the probability of missing a polyp during
      colonoscopy, thereby improving the adenoma detection rate (ADR) and potentially decreasing
      the incidence of interval cancer. GI Genius is the AI software that will be used in the
      present trial. The software is developed by Medtronic Inc. (Dublin, Ireland) and is intended
      to be used as an adjunct to colonic endoscopy procedures to help endoscopists to detect in
      real time mucosal lesions (such as polyps and adenomas, including those with flat
      (non-polypoid) morphology) during standard screening and surveillance endoscopic mucosal
      evaluations. It is not intended to replace histopathological sampling as a means of
      diagnosis.

      The objective of this study was to compare the diagnostic yield obtained by using CADe
      colonoscopy to the yield obtained by the standard colonoscopy (SC). As the risk of
      progression is higher for large than for small adenomas the specific contribution of the new
      technique in reducing the miss rate of large neoplasms represents an important outcome to be
      assessed in the study. In addition, given the suggested association of a higher miss-rate of
      serrated and flat lesions with an increased risk of early post-colonoscopy CRC, the benefit
      of the new technique in reducing the miss rate of these lesions will be assessed.
    
  