
    
      Previous studies, including our studies using the alcohol clamp, have shown that alcohol
      pharmacokinetics differ between women and men. Some of the factors that may contribute to
      these sex differences in absorption, distribution and metabolism include variation in lean
      body mass (and total body water), liver size and differences in activity or capacity of
      alcohol metabolizing enzymes in the stomach and livers of women and men. A fundamental
      difference between men and women is in the levels of the sex hormones estrogen and
      testosterone, which can influence several of the above factors. Sex differences in alcohol
      pharmacokinetics, and estrogen itself, have been postulated as determinants of the increased
      susceptibility of women to alcohol-related liver disease. An additional area of interest is
      sex- and age-related differences in sensitivity to the effects of alcohol. The elderly are
      thought to be more sensitive to alcohol and show greater impairment than younger individuals.
      However, it is not clear if these changes are due to pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic
      factors.

      The objectives of this project are (I) to evaluate the influence of age and sex on alcohol
      elimination rates in men and women, and (II) to determine the influence of age and sex on the
      initial response and acute adaptation to alcohol on measures of subjective perceptions of
      alcohol effects and heart rate. This study will be conducted in 24 young and 24 older
      participants, with equal numbers of males and females in each group. Comparison of alcohol
      elimination rates across these groups and correlation with liver volume and sex steroid
      levels will provide a means to examine the influence of sex hormones, estrogen and
      testosterone, in age-related and sex-related differences in alcohol metabolism and liver
      volume. This study will examine age- and sex- related differences in response to alcohol on
      subjective measures of intoxication and mood, as well as on heart-rate and
      psychophysiological responses to emotional visual stimuli (pictures). This study will also
      evaluate the effect of acute alcohol administration on gene expression in peripheral blood
      cells. Findings from these studies will provide important new data regarding the role of sex
      steroids (estrogen and testosterone) on the metabolism of alcohol, and a better understanding
      of age- and sex-related differences in metabolic processes that may underlie medically
      important differences in the responses of individuals to alcohol.
    
  