
    
      In patients with cryptogenic stroke, up to 4 randomized trials and subsequent meta-analyses
      have recently shown a significant reduction in recurrent ischemic stroke events following
      percutaneous closure of patent foramen ovale (PFO) . All randomized trials but one excluded
      patients older than 60 years, and a mean patient age of about 50 years was reported in the
      single randomized trial including older patients. Thus, whereas PFO closure has been
      established as the new gold-standard therapy in young patients with cryptogenic stroke and
      PFO, there are no definite recommendations on the management of patients older than 60 years.
      Some studies have shown that older patients with cryptogenic stroke exhibit a much higher
      prevalence of PFO (compared with patients with stroke of known cause), similar to that in
      younger populations, but scarce data exist on acute and mid-term clinical outcomes of older
      patients undergoing PFO closure.

      The investigators have recently reported the results of study comparing the long-term
      clinical outcomes of patients older (vs. younger) than 60 years in our centre. A total of 475
      consecutive patients (90 older than 60 years) were included, and the main results can be
      summarized as follows: 1) older patients with cryptogenic embolism and PFO exhibited a higher
      burden of cardiovascular risk factors; 2) PFO closure was safe in older patients, with no
      differences in periprocedural complications compared with younger patients; 3) at long-term
      (median of 8 years) follow-up post-PFO closure, the global mortality rate was higher among
      older patients, but differences were driven by noncardiovascular mortality (mainly cancer),
      and 4) the rate of recurrent stroke/TIA was low (much lower than that predicted by the RoPE
      score), but there was a tendency toward a higher incidence of recurrent stroke/TIA among
      older patients, which appeared to be partially related to cardiovascular risk factor burden
      (no differences in recurrent ischemic event rate were observed after adjustment for baseline
      differences in cardiovascular risk factors between groups). The main limitation of this study
      was the relatively low number of patients older than 60 years, precluding an appropriate
      evaluation of the factors associated with poorer clinical outcomes in this population. Thus,
      the investigators are planning to confirm prior findings in a collaborative project including
      a much larger cohort of patients. Also, the results of this retrospective study would provide
      the rationale for a CIHR submission on a randomized trial targeting this group of patients.
    
  