
    
      The principal study proposed in this work will be composed of two phases. Phase I will
      consist of a longitudinal analysis, tracking the progression of cachexia and associated
      dysmetabolic state throughout treatment for oesophageal cancer (OC) and examining the impact
      of this decline on measures of physical functioning. A total of 88 newly-diagnosed OC
      patients will be recruited for Phase I. In Phase II, participants from Phase I will be
      re-assessed and if deemed suitable, will be enrolled onto a multidisciplinary team
      rehabilitation programme aimed at improving functional status. This rehabilitation programme
      will take the form of a randomised controlled trial (RCT) and will be based on the
      well-established cardiac rehabilitation programme model. It is anticipated that approximately
      50% of participants enrolled onto Phase I will be suitable for progression to Phase II.

      Outcomes The primary outcome across both Phase I and Phase II is functional capacity.
      Secondary outcomes including inflammatory status, energy metabolism and nutritional status
      will be measured as appropriate during the study. All outcomes are discussed in detail
      elsewhere.

      Phase I: Longitudinal Study Examining the impact of progressive cachexia, dysmetabolism and
      cancer treatment on functional capacity in OC patients

      Phase I will be designed as a longitudinal analysis, commencing at the time of diagnosis,
      tracking the progression of cachexia and associated dysmetabolic state, incorporating
      inflammatory profiles, energy metabolism (oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis) and gut
      hormones, throughout treatment for OC and examining the impact of this decline on measures of
      physical functioning. Assessments will be completed at diagnosis (T0), cycle 2 chemotherapy
      (T1), cycle 3 chemotherapy (T2), pre-oesophagectomy (T3), post-oesophagectomy (T4), 4-weeks
      post-surgery (T5) and six months post-surgery (T6). All assessments will be completed during
      the same day as routine out-patient appointments thereby reducing the burden on participants.
      Furthermore, blood samples will be taken during routine clinical sampling and CT scans will
      be completed as part of routine medical care.

      Phase II: Randomised Controlled Trial Can rehabilitation following curative treatment for OC
      optimise health-related functional outcomes?

      Phase II will examine the effect of a 12-week rehabilitation programme, incorporating a
      walking intervention, individualised nutritional advice and education session, on functional
      status following curative treatment for OC. Following completion of Phase I and medical
      clearance to progress to Phase II, participants will be randomised 1:1 to either the
      intervention group or a control group. The control group will not receive the intervention
      however following completion of final assessments, participants will be offered an individual
      exercise and dietary session with the research physiotherapist and dietitian. During the
      intervention period, participants in the control group will continue to receive routine
      medical care.

      The primary outcome for the multidisciplinary rehabilitation programme will be a change in
      functional capacity as measured by aerobic capacity. Secondary measures of functional
      capacity will include a stair climbing test, hand grip and physical activity. Body
      composition will also be measured by bio impedance analysis. The secondary outcomes that will
      be assessed are nutritional status, dietary quality and healthy related quality of life
      (QOL). Inflammatory profiles, measures of energy metabolism and gut hormones are unlikely to
      be influenced by the proposed rehabilitative intervention and therefore will not be measured.
      Assessments will be completed at, programme completion and three months post programme
      completion. Assessments take place at the Welcome Trust-HRB Clinical Research Facility St.
      James's Hospital. The rehabilitation programme will consist of three main components; 1.
      Exercise session, 2. Dietary sessions and 3. Education sessions. The intervention outlined
      below is devised based best evidence, pilot data and clinical expertise. The design final
      design will be informed form the results of the feasibility study and from needs identified
      in Phase I.

      Exercise Sessions The exercise component of the rehabilitation programme will take the form
      of a 12 week supervised and home-based walking intervention. A walking intervention was
      chosen as walking is the most common form of exercise completed by adults nationally and
      worldwide, it is safe and feasible for deconditioned cohorts and represents a functionally
      meaningful activity. The feasibility of implementing a similar programme in cancer survivors
      has been previous established.

      Group walking sessions will be supervised twice weekly during the first four weeks of the
      programme to re-introduce exercise to participant's lives in a safe and structured manner. As
      the programme progresses the frequency of supervised sessions will decrease to increase
      participants independence with the protocol. In the absence of guidance on appropriate
      exercise prescription in cancer cohorts, exercise intensity will be prescribed in accordance
      with the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) guidelines for exercise in deconditioned
      populations (28). Initially, activity will be prescribed at a light intensity and will
      progress during the programme to a moderate aerobic intensity. The proposed starting
      intensity is based on pilot data from the investigators institute suggesting that aerobic
      fitness levels are either 'poor' or 'very poor' in the early post-treatment phase.
      Participants will wear Polar Heart Rate monitors during all sessions to ensure compliance
      with the exercise prescribed. The goal at programme completion will be participation in 30
      minutes of moderate intensity activity five days per week, as per the ACSM physical activity
      guidelines.

      Nutrition Sessions Nutrition sessions will be delivered during week 1, week 2 and then
      fortnightly on a one to one basis. Weight and circumferential measures will be recorded at
      each session and dietary intake will be assessed as described previously.

      The education delivered in the nutrition sessions will be individualised to participants
      needs. There is limited knowledge of the specific nutritional needs of oesophageal cancer
      survivors. Based on experience at this centre, the investigators anticipate that a
      heterogeneous mix of dietary issues requiring intervention will present in this cohort. These
      include persistent weight loss, anorexia, gastrointestinal disturbance and altered bowel
      habit. In addition, participants may require specific dietary advice to reduce the risk of
      other diseases e.g. cardio-protective dietary advice. Furthermore, the increase in physical
      activity by participants throughout the intervention will require dietary monitoring and
      advice to avoid inappropriate negative energy balance.

      The feasibility study will assist in identifying specific nutritional issues facing
      oesophageal cancer survivors and help inform content and delivery of the nutrition education
      sessions. The target for participants is optimal dietary intake in line with the WCRF
      guidelines for cancer survivors. Supporting literature detailing prescriptive dietary advice
      will be developed and provided to participants.

      Education Sessions Education sessions will be delivered weekly during weeks 1-4 and
      fortnightly thereafter by a range of members of the multidisciplinary team. As per the
      cardiac rehabilitation model, education sessions will talk place after the exercise session
      and cool-down, to monitor participant recovery following exercise. Education topics covered
      by the physiotherapist will include advice regarding physical activity guidelines,
      discouraging sedentary behaviour and overcoming barriers to physical activity. The dietitian
      will discuss dietary management of gastrointestinal symptoms and will also educate
      participants on healthy eating for cancer survivors as per World Cancer Research Fund,
      including practical advice and strategies to achieve dietary goals. Participants will be
      encouraged to highlight topics that may be of particular concern to them for discussion. As
      per the cardiac rehabilitation model, such topics may be covered by members of the
      multi-disciplinary team including the surgeon, gastrointestinal nurse, occupational therapist
      or social worker. Education sessions will take place at the Welcome Trust-HRB Clinical
      Research Facility St. James's Hospital.
    
  