
    
      Ankle ligament injuries are one of the most common musculoskeletal injuries among physically
      active people, accounting for ~ 14% of all sports-related orthopedic clinic visits. And it is
      stated that injuries that delay the return to sports the most. 4% of these injuries and the
      most common are the lateral ankle ligament injuries. 70% of the general population, not only
      specific to sports, suffers ankle injuries at least once in their lifetime. The ankle lateral
      ligament injuries cause an average of 6.9 days of work loss, and it has been reported that
      the quality of life of these patients is affected by their long-term results. When people who
      play sports are taken into consideration, an ankle sprain can affect the quality of life of
      the individual, as well as reduce performance and keep it away from education and
      competition.

      Ankle sprains often occur during physical activities such as basketball and football, which
      require sudden stops, bounces, landings, and swings around a stable foot. Most lateral ankle
      sprains occur when combined with excessive inversion or adduction with additional plantar
      flexion.

      Functional or chronic deficiencies develop in the lower limbs as a result of ankle ligament
      injury, resulting in various abnormalities. Motor coordination disorders due to instability,
      adhesions, peroneal muscle weakness, and loss of proprioception can be seen in the talus or
      subtalar joint. Instabilities are usually caused by loss of strength after an acute lateral
      ligament injury, hypomobility in the joint, inadequate improvement in proprioception, or
      inadequate healing of the ligament. Almost 40% of patients with lateral ankle injury develop
      a condition known as chronic ankle instability (CAI). CAI is characterized by the occurrence
      of recurrent cases of instability that cause constant ankle sprain and the giving-way
      sensation of the ankle after the first ankle sprain. The diagnostic criteria are detailed in
      the International Ankle Consortium, Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT) is often used to
      evaluate functional ankle instability.

      Among the most important factors causing instability in the ankle are proprioceptive
      disorders, pain, and muscle weakness. Therefore, rehabilitation programs generally focus on
      exercises that include muscle strengthening, balance training, neuromuscular training, and
      proprioceptive training protocols. In another combined supporting study, Huang et al.
      investigated the effects of combined balance exercises with plyometric exercise against
      plyometric exercise in individuals with functional ankle instability and showed that the
      combined program will reduce postural oscillation in static conditions, and improve stability
      and energy propagation models in dynamic postural control. One of the factors contributing to
      CAI is thought to be the loss of strength of the ankle circumference muscle groups in both
      concentric and eccentric directions. It is assumed that a decrease in the strength of the
      muscles of the more proximal joints, such as knee and hip, not just ankle oriented, may also
      be effective in the formation of CAI.

      It has been shown in systematic review and meta-analysis that proprioception disorder
      contributes to chronic ankle imbalance. In another study in individuals with unilateral
      chronic ankle instability, both extremities were evaluated in terms of strength and
      proprioception, a decrease in the sensation of kinesthesia was observed, and loss of eversion
      force and proprioceptive disorders were reported on both sides.

      Although ankle instability treatment approaches vary widely in all these studies, there is no
      detailed study comparing applications unilaterally and bilaterally in the literature. Our
      study will contribute to the literature to the next rehabilitation programs by comparing
      unilateral and bilateral exercise training prepared by rehabilitation protocols in many ways
      in two different groups
    
  