
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To test the effects of an advanced practice nurse (APN) standardized
           nursing-intervention protocol (SNIP) model vs usual care on overall quality of life
           (QOL) and psychological distress from initial treatment to 6 months post diagnosis for
           patients with pancreatic cancer.

        -  To compare symptom control in these patients.

        -  To compare geriatric assessment outcomes in these patients.

        -  To test the effects of the SNIP intervention as compared to the usual care group on
           resource use by these patients.

        -  To test the effects of SNIP on patients' and clinicians' satisfaction with care.

        -  To describe the effects of SNIP on patients' management of transitions from one phase of
           chronic illness to another.

        -  To identify subgroups of these patients who benefit most from the SNIP in relation to
           sociodemographic characteristics, disease/treatment factors, and geriatric assessment
           predictors.

        -  To obtain feedback from clinicians regarding interpretation of findings and application
           to the routine care of pancreatic cancer patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are sequentially enrolled to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 is enrolled during
      months 4-21 and group 2 during months 25-54.

        -  Group 1 (usual care): Patient questionnaires are administered at baseline and at 3 and 6
           months. The clinicians' satisfaction with care is also evaluated.

        -  Group 2 (advanced practice nurse [APN] intervention): Patients are accrued by an APN.
           Patients meet with the APN periodically to assess their physical well-being including
           ambulatory care needed, care of physical symptoms (i.e., pain, fatigue, nausea and
           vomiting), and psychological well-being. Questionnaires are administered at baseline and
           at 3 and 6 months.

      In both groups, questionnaires include the FACT-Hep, Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale,
      Psychological Distress Thermometer, Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment, and Patient
      Satisfaction with Intervention. Clinicians also complete questionnaires. Patients' medical
      charts are also reviewed.
    
  