
    
      Lumbar spinal stenosis is a common cause of chronic pain and disability in older adults and
      is the leading reason for spinal surgery in older adults. In this condition, degenerative
      changes in intervertebral discs and osseous anatomy of the spine result in narrowing of the
      spinal canal and neuroforamen in close proximity to the traversing spinal nerve roots,
      causing back and radicular leg pain, paresthesias and weakness. In the absence of a
      progressive neurologic deficit, initial treatment of lumbosacral radicular pain includes
      physical therapy, activity modification, and oral neuropathic or analgesic medications. If
      this conservative approach fails to relieve pain, an image guided epidural steroid injection
      (ESI) is the second-line treatment. Surgical decompression may be a treatment option for some
      patients who fail conservative therapy, but it is not uniformly effective and is associated
      with substantial direct and indirect risks. Further, some patients are unwilling to undergo
      invasive surgical treatments, and in others, surgery is contraindicated due to medical
      co-morbidities.

      Epidural steroid injections are widely used for the treatment of spinal stenosis. Over 25% of
      all epidural steroid injection in the Medicare population are administered for the treatment
      of pain associated with spinal stenosis, accounting for more than 500,000 injections per
      year. When performed with sterile technique and fluoroscopic-guidance, epidural spine
      injections of steroid are safe. However, steroid use in the epidural space is associated with
      rare but catastrophic sequelae including paraplegia due to spinal cord infarction. The larger
      size or aggregation of particulate steroids likely obstructs arteriolar blood flow to the
      spinal cord if inadvertently injected into radicular arteries during TFESI. In addition,
      epidural steroid use is associated with common immediate/short-term adverse events such as
      facial flushing, headache, insomnia, transient hypertension, increased blood glucose in
      patients with diabetes. Injections must often be repeated when administered for chronic
      radicular pain given a typical natural history of life-long pain associated with this
      condition, which increases the risk of long-term sequelae including osteoporosis, adrenal
      suppression, hypertension, cataracts, gastrointestinal bleeding, and immune system
      dysfunction among many others.

      Furthermore, the injection treatment paradigm for patients with spinal stenosis has not been
      optimized. While transforaminal epidural steroid injection appears to be superior to both
      placebo saline injection and lidocaine injection at short-term to intermediate follow-up when
      performed for the indication of radicular pain due to acute disc herniation, the highest
      quality evidence to date suggests a lesser degree of efficacy for the indication of leg pain
      due to spinal stenosis This is particularly problematic given that radicular pain related to
      disc herniation is self-limited, whereas spinal-stenosis related radicular pain does not tend
      to improve over time. Thus, there is a large group of patients with spinal stenosis who fail
      to respond to physical therapy and oral medication management, yet either wish to avoid
      spinal surgery or are not eligible, and suffer from chronic pain and debility given the poor
      treatment options. Clearly, better treatments with more optimal safety and side-effect
      profiles compared to epidural corticosteroids must be investigated in this context.

      There is therefore a critical need to identify safe and effective treatments for this common
      clinical condition, which would allow for improved patient function and pain relief. Amniotic
      Fluid (AF) is a promising new biologic treatment with neuro-protective and regenerative
      properties. Early after conception and until the mother's water breaks for the delivery of
      their infant, the fetus is bathed in amniotic fluid. AF functions as a supportive cushion to
      the fetus and provides a protective environment. AF is a rich source of nutrients, cytokines
      and growth factors that are required for fetal development and maturation. AF also contains
      multiple cell types with the potential to differentiate along multiple cell lineages. The
      protective and regenerative properties of AF are achieved via the exchange of water and
      solutes with surrounding tissues. This is accomplished via the utilization of different
      pathways during the course of a pregnancy that likely contribute to changes in the
      composition of AF with gestational age.

      Early evidence demonstrates that concentrates of AF inhibit the development of peritonitis
      and accelerate defense-repair mechanisms within damaged joints, demonstrating protective
      biological properties. Since these early publications, more sophisticated evaluations have
      revealed the presence of antimicrobial, immunomodulatory, and growth-promoting activities of
      AF. For example, low AF antimicrobial activity is associated with a high incidence of an
      infectious syndromes in pregnant women. Components with antimicrobial, antiviral and
      antifungal activity that are present in AF include lysozyme, peroxidase, transferrin,
      beta-lysin, immunoglobulins and zinc-peptide complexes. Immunomodulatory properties of AF are
      evident from studies showing that enteral feeding of AF suppresses the pro-inflammatory
      responses in preterm pigs with necrotizing enterocolitis. Further, growth-promoting
      activities of AF are supported by both animal studies and in vitro studies, showing that AF
      can enhance neochondrogenesis, regenerate peripheral nerves and bone, accelerate
      re-epithelialization in corneas, and promote healing of human skin wounds. Some of the
      factors that are found in AF that may contribute to these activities include inflammatory
      mediators such as TNF-a, IL-6, IL8, and IL-1048 trophic factors that include EGF, IGF-1, FGF,
      HGF and TGF-a, and hyaluronic acid, an important factor in promoting re- epithelialization in
      human skin wounds.

      Human AF also contains factors that appear to minimize scarring and adhesions. Ozgenel et al,
      describe how adhesions and scarring are reduced or eliminated in a peripheral nerve rat
      model. It is interesting that a fetal incision made early in gestation will heal without a
      scar whereas one made in late gestation heals with scar formation. Hyaluronic acid, which is
      found in high levels in AF, inhibits collagen synthesis. This hyaluronic acid-rich
      environment is due to a relative lack of hyaluronidase in AF and to the presence of
      hyaluronic acid-stimulating factor in AF. In a study investigating the effect of AF on
      proteases important to wound healing, human AF was shown to enhance collagenase activity, but
      to inhibit activities of hyaluronidase, elastase, and cathepsin.

      Our team has already conducted studies to assess the hypothesis that nutrients, cytokines and
      growth factors contained in the non-cellular fraction of AF are useful for reparative and
      regenerative treatments in patients. The first aim was to determine the feasibility of
      consenting and screening volunteer donors for the routine collection of AF from full-term
      pregnant women scheduled for caesarean- section (C-sections) and then processing the AF for
      clinical applications. The second aim was to develop a processing method that resulted in a
      cell-free AF preparation suitable for clinical applications. The third goal was to gain a
      better understanding about components of AF procured from full-term pregnancies. Initially,
      36 pregnant women consented and passed the donor screening criteria. AF was successfully
      collected from 17 individuals. Median AF volumes were 70 mL (range 10-815 mL; n = 17). Fluid
      chemistries were similar, but some differences were noted in HA levels and cytokine profiles.
      Cytokine arrays revealed that an average of 304 ± 20 (mean ±SD; n=3) of 400 proteins tested
      were present in AF with a majority of cytokines associated with host defense. The proteins
      examined were annotated in the protein arrays as anti-inflammatory or pro-inflammatory.
      Twelve (12) of 17 (70%) of proteins known to have Anti-inflammatory cytokines were detected
      in the AF samples, while only 5 of 14 (36%) pro-inflammatory proteins were detected in AF
      samples. There were no (TNF)-α, or IL-1β found in AF samples. Three (3) cytokines were
      detected with both pro- and anti-inflammatory activity. Some of the peptides encountered and
      classified according to their function are found in Table 1 below:

      Table 1 Pro-inflammatory OPN, PAI-I, CD163, RAGE, IL17, IL1R3 Host defense IL-27, LAG-3,
      GITR, PD1 Innate Immunity hCGb, Galectin-3, TLR-2, Osteoactivin Antimicrobial TSP-1,
      lactoferrin, CXCL14, Trappin-2, CCL-28, MIG Anti-inflammatory IL1-ra, MBL Embryonic
      development DKK1, DKK3 Angiogenesis VEGF R1, Transferring, TIMP-2 Wound healing OPN, PAPP-A,
      FAP
    
  