
    
      Factor VII is one of the main components of the coagulation process. It belongs to the serine
      proteases and it dependents on vitamin K in order to function. Its primary function is to
      initiate the clotting process itself, along with tissue factor: Following a vascular
      endothelial injury, there is a response of vasoconstriction, the blood flow in contact with
      the subendothelial matrix, at that time, TF, a protein in the same matrix, binds to and
      activates the VII coagulation factor, then, FVIIa-TF complex begins the coagulation cascade,
      at the end of that cascade, fibrin is formed.

      The factor VII gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 13, sized 12 kD, contains 12
      axons that encode a protein composed of 406 amino acids, it's located at a distance of 2.8 kD
      from the gene of factor X.

      More than 120 mutations have been found in factor VII gene to date, the association between
      genotype and phenotypes is unclear in most cases however. Seligsohn and his colleagues
      described one of the mutations in Factor VII, 5-Ser339Phe, which was found in three Tunisian
      families and caused a tendency to bleed through a mechanism of reduced factor X activation.

      When it comes to Factor VII deficiency, the missing is never hermetic as such condition is
      not compatible with life as seen from work on knockout mice. Partially missing factor VII is
      the most common of all rare coagulation problems. Clinically, these are usually epistaxis,
      easy bruising, gum bleeding, muscle hematoma, hamarhtrosis, hematuria, postoperative
      bleeding, although there may also be conditions of life threatening blood in the nervous
      system and in the gastrointestinal tract. Except for increased menstruation that occurs in
      about 70% of the women with factor VII deficiency, there is no gender difference in symptoms.

      Suspicion of Factor VII deficiency is usually done in the course of screening in family
      members with a known deficiency or on tests following an episode of bleeding, such as
      epistaxis or surgery in areas with a tendency to bleed (nose, throat or teeth) .

      An abnormal PT test indicates a lack of factor VII. An elongated PTT test can suggest
      hemophilia A and B (missing factors VIII and IX, respectively), lack of factor XI, incomplete
      factor XII or von disease willebrand / VWF . The extension of PT also implies a deficiency in
      the factors X, V, II and fibrinogen, and the result is represented by a percentage relative
      to normal people.

      The diagnosis of Factor VII deficiency is laboratory. The initial laboratory tests are PT,
      aPTT and platelet count, followed by a FVII coagulant activity test for prolonged PT states.
      In order to confirm the result, the FVII assay is performed again

      Prothrombin time is typically analyzed by a laboratory technologist on an automated
      instrument at 37 °C. Blood is drawn into a test tube containing liquid sodium citrate, which
      acts as an anticoagulant by binding the calcium in a sample. The blood is mixed, then
      centrifuged to separate blood cells from plasma (as prothrombin time is most commonly
      measured using blood plasma). A sample of the plasma is extracted from the test tube and
      placed into a measuring test tube Next an excess of calcium is added to the test tube,
      thereby reversing the effects of citrate and enabling the blood to clot again. Finally, in
      order to activate the extrinsic / tissue factor clotting cascade pathway, tissue factor is
      added and the time the sample takes to clot is measured optically. The prothrombin ratio
      (INR) is the prothrombin time for a patient sample divided by the result for control plasma.

      There are two types of Factor VII deficiency. The first is a quantitative with both a lack of
      FVII coagulant activity and with a low level of FVII antigen, the second one is qualitative
      with a low FVII coagulant activity but a normal level of FVII antigen. In fact, the
      examination of the antigen distinguishes between these two missing types, but does not
      predict the tendency to bleed, and it is not recommended to diagnose Factor VII deficiency on
      the basis of the antigen test. However, for known patients receiving a recombinant factor it
      can be useful.

      There are no clear guidelines for the treatment of hereditary deficiency VII. Recombinant
      factor VII is a choice in many cases for both children and adults, but there are other
      treatment options as discussed in our study.

      The purpose of the current study is to find a correlation between the value of PT\INR and the
      level of factor VII, we tried to do so by a retro-prospective study on patients known to have
      a factor VII deficiency at Laniado hospital, such a correlation could make both the diagnosis
      and the management of people with factor VII deficiency easier and more accessible.
    
  