
    
      People who attend the study sessions will participate in sessions of relaxation or of
      spiritual support depending on the group in which they were selected.

      One way to see if there was influence of these activities for the person is measuring some
      factors such as heart rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure. The interventions will be
      conducted by the researcher and the data will be collected by a research assistant.

      Before being accepted to participate in the study each participant will be evaluated if
      he/she meets the needs of the research (day 1); thus it will be observed if she has or not no
      physical condition to perform normal activities of daily life (Eastern Cooperative Oncology
      Group - ECOG/Scale Zubrod) like this and your cognitive ability ((Mini-Mental State
      Examination MMSE/Brucki et al. 2003); if the patient is performing another type of
      complementary therapy will be considered his/her temporary interruption during the study
      period (Sheet inclusion and monitoring).

      After this assessment, women who can participate in the research will answer questions about
      their identification (Identification Card of the study participants). They will answer five
      questions about spirituality (Pinto; Pais-Ribeiro, 2007).On the day 2, 3 and 4, during
      relaxation or spiritual support,the study participants should allow being recorded heart
      rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure (ANOVA); this will be done by means of a sensor
      (or electrode) as those used for ECG and results will appear on a monitor (monitor BM5).

      The sessions of relaxation or of spiritual support will be scheduled in three consecutive
      meetings in the same week, during the activities of the Teaching, Research and Rehabilitation
      Center for Mastectomized Women (REMA) of the University of São Paulo at Ribeirão Preto
      College of Nursing (EERP-USP).

      The questionnaires also will be made at the end of the study (day 4), after sessions of
      relaxation or spiritual support to see if there was any change in the two stages and between
      the two groups (ANOVA). At the end they will give a score from 0 to 10, or give their opinion
      on the experience of the meetings (Experience Rating Scale).

      Women who are selected to the sessions of relaxation may perform the activity of spiritual
      support in future schedules, if they want. It is necessary to participate of the selected
      activity, i.e., relaxation or spiritual support, and they cannot switch groups during the
      research.

      The research ends in 2014 jun.
    
  