
    
      This is a prospective longitudinal study of patients with minor stroke versus age-similar
      controls that will make use of the following protocol:

        -  Patients are admitted to the hospital for acute stroke and undergo work-up including
           MRI; they are entered into a clinical outcomes database (routine clinical care)

        -  All patients are scheduled for an appointment in the Bayview Stroke Intervention Clinic
           approximately 4-6 weeks +/- 4 weeks post-stroke

        -  Seen at 4-6 weeks (routine care)- consented and tested if enrolled (per research
           protocol, as part of a prior approved study on stroke recovery)

        -  Those meeting inclusion criteria for MEG testing will be consented and undergo the
           following additional procedures: 1 month MEG visit at the University of Maryland- brain
           activity will be measured at rest and during cognitive tasks evaluating domains such as:
           executive function, attention, and multi-tasking including a visual naming test Repeat
           MEG at approximately 6 months +/- 4 weeks post-stroke

      University of Maryland's MEG Protocol:

      The head shape will be measured using a 3D tracking system. This involves using a plastic
      stylus to mark a series of points around the head that will map the entire surface of the
      head. In addition, each of three "fiducial" points; one in front of each ear and one above
      and between the eyes will be marked. The purpose of the head shape measurement is to be able
      to co-localize brain activity recorded with the MEG with the subject's MRI.

      Magnetic fields will be recorded using a 275-channel whole-head MEG system. A third-order
      gradient will be used for noise cancellation.

      The MEG system non- invasively measures the magnetoencephalographic (MEG) signals (and,
      optionally, electroencephalographic EEG signals) produced by electrically active tissue of
      the brain. These signals are recorded by a computerized data acquisition system, displayed,
      and may then be interpreted by trained physicians to help localize these active areas. The
      location may then be correlated with anatomical information of the brain. MEG is routinely
      used to identify the locations of visual, auditory, somatosensory, and motor cortex in the
      brain. MEG is also used to non-invasively locate regions of epileptic activity within the
      brain. The localization information provided by MEG may be used, in conjunction with other
      diagnostic data, in neurosurgical planning.

      The total length of the MEG recordings will depend on the length of the tasks (an estimate of
      30-45 min has been used). There will be a 2-5 -minute break between each run. For all runs
      magnetic fields will be recorded in 42 consecutive 10-second trials. In this way if there are
      artifacts during the session, such as the subject moving his or her head, the 10-second trial
      during which this occurs can be eliminated from analysis.

      Patients will return for their 6 month post-stroke follow-up (routine care) and testing (if
      part of the recovery study)
    
  