
    
      Surveillance. The VINCat Program was developed in the 2007 as the Nosocomial Infection
      Surveillance system in Catalonia, covering a population of seven and a half million people.
      The system is similar to other international reference programs, such as the National
      Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN), and its described in detail on the VINCat website.
      Hospitals carry out active and prospective standardized surveillance, and are classified
      according to their number of beds into three groups: group 1 (500 beds); group 2 (200-500
      beds); group 3 (200 beds). The staff performing surveillance had received training in the
      VINCat surveillance methodology to ensure the collection of homogeneous, accurate data.

      Surveillance is continued at least for 30 days after the operation. All public and private
      participating hospitals report data voluntarily and receive feedback once a year.

      Monitoring of colorectal surgery is performed prospectively and continued until a minimum of
      100 interventions per year is reached in each hospital, although some centres include all
      their yearly cases. Hospitals with less than 10 interventions per year are excluded.
      Participating hospitals record the data on an Internet-based database.

      Follow-up and post-discharge surveillance. Patients are followed up by trained infection
      control staff. Active mandatory post-discharge surveillance is performed at least to day 30
      post surgery by a multimodal approach including electronic review of clinical records
      (primary and secondary care), checking readmissions, checking emergency visits, and reviewing
      microbiological and radiological data.

      Development of the colorectal surgical site infection program. In 2015, a multidisciplinary
      team of nurses and medical specialists from the VINCat Program, and surgeons belonging to the
      Catalan Society of Surgery was set up to formulate a specific bundle of SSI preventative
      measures for colorectal surgery. The literature for optimal care during the preoperative,
      intraoperative and postoperative phases was reviewed, including evidence on oral antibiotic
      prophylaxis and mechanical bowel preparation. Practices were chosen either by their high
      levels of scientific evidence or by being considered, by consensus, reasonable, associated
      with minimal risk, and potentially beneficial.

      The working group developed a 6 measures bundle to be voluntary implemented by the
      participating hospitals. The measures of the bundle are: intravenous and oral antibiotic
      prophylaxis, mechanical bowel preparation (MBP), laparoscopic surgery, maintenance of
      normothermia, and the use of a wound retractor.

      The intervention began on 1 January 2016, with diffusion of the bundle measures via e-mail,
      and a workshop addressed to all to the surgical and ICT teams.

      Definitions. SSI is defined according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and is
      stratified into categories of surgical procedures (-1 to 3) according to the risk of surgical
      infection defined by the NHSN.

      Design of the pragmatic trial. Implementation of the bundle precluded randomization. The
      study compared two phases: baseline (BP), from 2008 to 2015, and implementation (IP), from
      2016 to 2018.

      Fifty-five of the 66 hospitals participating in the VINCat Program were included in the
      analysis. Prospective surveillance was performed by the infection control team (ICT) of each
      hospital to ensure appropriate data collection. The surveillance period lasted from January
      2007 to December 2018. During the first 4 years of the program, the results of colon and
      rectal surgery were aggregated. From 2011, data is separated for each type of surgery.

      As all eligible patients were included in the pragmatic design, informed consent was not
      obtained.

      The study was conducted as a performance improvement project and approved by the Ethics in
      Research Committee.

      Statistical analysis Data will be summarized as frequencies and proportions for categorical
      variables or as medians and interquartile range (IQR) for continuous variables. Infection
      rates will be expressed as cumulative incidence, that is, the crude percentage of operations
      resulting in SSI/ number of surgery procedures. Data will be also stratified by year, risk
      index category, hospital group and SSI type.

      To analyse the relationship between two qualitative variables, contingency tables will be
      used, and the chi-square test or the likelihood ratio test will be performed. The analysis
      will be completed with grouped bar graphs. To analyse differences in the proportion of
      infection over the years, the logistic regression model will be performed. The results will
      be presented in terms of OR or estimated infection rates, with the corresponding 95%
      confidence intervals. The significance level will be set at 5% in all tests. The results will
      be analysed using software: Statistical Analysis Systems (SAS) v9.4, SAS Institute Inc.,
      Cary, USA.
    
  