
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pMEK and EphA2 signaling effectors in pre- and post- treatment biopsy tissues
      from patients with advanced staged measurable primary or recurrent endometrial cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4 (CTCAE v. 4) of dasatinib administered in
      combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in patients with advanced staged measurable
      primary or recurrent endometrial cancer.

      II. To record the objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) v.1.1.

      III. To describe the progression-free survival and overall survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship of micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) 520d-3p (miR520d-3p) and EphA2
      in pretreatment biopsies.

      II. To evaluate downstream EphA2 signaling effectors, such as CAV-1, pAKT, FAK, paxillin, and
      p130cas in pre- and post-tissue treatment biopsies.

      III. To explore the effect of dasatinib on the expression of other Eph family members such as
      EphB2 and EphB4.

      IV. To quantify circulating tumor cells (CTCs) before and during the individual treatment
      phases.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive induction therapy comprising dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 14
      days. *Beginning 7 days later, patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours
      and carboplatin IV on day 1, and dasatinib PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: * Patients who have had prior external-beam pelvic or extended-field pelvic/para-aortic
      radiation therapy must receive treatment at a reduced dose.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  