
    
      Invasive pulmonary Infection with Aspergillus species has emerged as one of the most common
      causes of infectious death in critically ill patients (38%-79%). The incidence of invasive
      pulmonary Aspergillosis (IPA) in intensive care units is still not sufficiently clear and
      ranges between 0.3 % and 19 %. In the last two decades, IPA has been documented as an
      emerging disease in ICU patients without classic risk factors. The establishment of new
      therapeutic options in oncology with small-molecule kinase inhibitors (SMKI) and CAR
      (chimeric antigen receptor) T cell therapy have also led to an increase in IPA. Furthermore,
      during the influenza epidemics since 2009 and during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, IPA was
      observed in COVID-19 patients without classic risk factors. The cultural detection of molds
      can take between several days and up to 2 weeks, as this is a slow growing fungus. An
      Aspergillus Galactomannan EIA (enzyme immunoassay), an Aspergillus PCR (polymerase chain
      reaction) examination of the respiratory tract material is already available after 4-24
      hours. A test using Aspergillus Galactomannan LFA (lateral flow assay) or LFD (lateral flow
      device) even furthers reduces this interval to 45 minutes. These tests allow the attending
      physician to initiate a much faster antimycotic treatment. Up to now, the samples for these
      examinations have been routinely obtained from bronchoscopically obtained bronchoalveolar
      lavage fluids. In this bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), body-warm saline solution (NaCl) is
      instilled into segmental ostia of the lung and immediately re-aspirated . However, there are
      first indications that examinations from bronchial secretions using deep suction without
      bronchoscopy achieve similar results to the examination of the BAL. The bronchoscopic
      diagnosis in COVID-19 patients is probably associated with an increased risk of infection for
      the examiner due to the aerosol formation during this examination. Two studies from the first
      wave of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic have therefore used secretions from the bronchial system =
      non-bronchoscopic lavage (NBL) to diagnose IPA. This method appears to be reasonable save,
      appropriate and less risky, but has never been scientifically validated for aspergillus
      infections. It is not yet clear whether the Aspergillus Galactomannan EIA, the Aspergillus
      PCR test and the Aspergillus LFA test provide comparable or transmissible results in both
      lung compartments. A direct comparison of the test results of the bronchoalveolar lavage
      (BAL) and the bronchial secretion (NBL) have not been described in the literature.

      Study Design:

      Monocentric prospective exploratory (and in the course confirmatory) cohort study.

        1. st pilot phase: Pilot study to test the feasibility and to gain information for the case
           number calculation of a subsequent larger prospective study.

        2. nd study phase: The statistically calculated number of patients who undergo a
           bronchoscopy during their stay at the UKE and who are urgently suspected of having IPA
           or who are confirmed to have IPA will be examined for bronchial secretions (NBL) and BAL
           fluids.
    
  