
    
      Introduction: Early-onset Schizophrenia (EOS) is a rare and severe condition displaying early
      dissociative disorder (i.e., age of onset < 18 years). A higher rate of neurodevelopmental
      abnormalities is observed in EOS compared to adult onset schizophrenia (AOS). Thus, patients
      affected by EOS typically present intellectual, learning, communication or neuromotor
      impairments, as well as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Early signs of autism
      spectrum disorders (ASD) are also found in 30% of patients with EOS.

      Cytogenetics abnormalities, including copy number variations (CNVs), are frequent in
      neurodevelopmental disorders and have been linked to ASD physiopathology. Implicated genes
      encode proteins playing a role in brain development, synaptic morphology, plasticity and
      neurogenesis. In addition, an increasing number of genetic abnormalities are shared by EOS
      and ASD, suggesting that schizophrenia can be considered a neurodevelopmental disorder.

      The main objective of the present study is to identify mutations in genes involved in
      neurodevelopmental pathways in our cohort of patients affected by both EOS and ASD.

      Method and analysis: We describe here a multicenter study in a pediatric population named
      "Exploration and characterization of genetic and phenotypic profile of the 'early
      dissociative disorder' associated with autism spectrum disorder (GenAuDiss)". The study
      started in April 2014. The inclusion criteria are: age 7 to 22 years, diagnoses of EOS with
      co-morbid ASD and IQ > 50; as well as parents and siblings of the included patients.

      We perform standardized psychiatric assessments (MINI, K-SADS-PL, PANSS, SANS, TCI 226, and
      AQ) and neurocognitive evaluations (IQ, TMT A/B, and verbal fluency). Then, we study variants
      of the coding part of the DNA (exome), using next generation sequencing (NGS) process on trio
      (mother, father, and child). Divers bio-informatics tools such as RVIS and PolyPhen-2 will be
      used to prioritize the potential candidate genes. The inclusion period of this study will end
      in November 2019.

      Ethics and dissemination: The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee 'Sud
      Méditerrané V' (number 14.002) and by the French National Agency for Medicines and Health
      Products Safety (ANSM 2013-A01699-36). All patients, their parents and siblings signed
      informed consent upon enrolment in the study.

      Results of the present study should help to unravel the molecular pathology of EOS, paving
      the way for an early therapeutic intervention
    
  