
    
      This is a phase II, single arm, unblinded study of ceritinib in patients with rel/ref
      hematologic malignancies. Up to 24 evaluable subjects will be enrolled with an interim
      analysis for efficacy after the first 9 subjects are enrolled. Any subject who takes at least
      on dose of study drug will be evaluable for safety. Only subjects who complete at least 1
      cycle of study drug and have clear progression on physical exam or have had at least one
      restaging study will be considered evaluable for response. Each subject will receive the same
      dose of 750mg po daily at the study entry. Subjects with stable disease or better will be
      allowed to continue study drug until disease progression or until intolerable adverse events
      or patient or physician decision. Intrapatient dose reductions will be allowed for adverse
      events. Blood and tissue samples, will be collected and used for exploratory analysis.

      Dose Level 0 (starting dose) 750mg/day Dose level -1 600mg/day Dose level -2 450mg/day

      Baseline evaluations are to be conducted within 30 days prior to start of protocol therapy
      unless otherwise noted in the time to events table. Scans and x-rays must be performed within
      six weeks prior to the start of therapy. Bone marrow biopsy must be performed within twelve
      weeks prior to starting therapy. In the event that the patient's condition is deteriorating,
      laboratory evaluations should be repeated within 48 hours prior to initiation of the next
      cycle of therapy. All the labs have to be within the study eligibility range prior to the
      start of study treatment.

      All visits should occur within 3 days before or after the scheduled day of the visit. An
      early or late visit will not shorten or extend the duration of that cycle - all cycles will
      be 28 days.

      If study drug is held for any reason then the missed days should still be counted as a day in
      the cycle. However, if the study drug is on hold when a 28 day cycle ends, then day 1 of the
      next cycle and the necessary evaluations should not be started until drug is restarted.
      Therefore, the cycle during which a drug is held could potentially have more than 28 days.

      Patients will be followed for up to 2 years after completion of therapy or until progression
      of disease or death, whichever comes first. In follow up, patients will be seen every 3
      months for physical exam, lab draws for the first two years after completing all study drugs
      or until alternative therapy is begun or until progression of disease or death-whichever
      comes first. Radiographic imaging will be performed every 6 months for the first two years
      after study drug is completed.

      Patients removed from study for unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution
      or stabilization of the adverse event and will continue to be followed until progression of
      disease or death. Unacceptable adverse events are those that lead to stopping of a study drug
      and for which there is no resolution of drug related toxicity after a 6 week washout period
      so that the subject is removed from study as defined in section 6.

      Patients removed from the study due to progressive disease will be followed until resolution
      or stabilization of any adverse events due to the agents, after which their follow up will be
      completed.

      At a minimum, all patients who discontinue ceritinib treatment, including those who refuse to
      return for a final visit, will be contacted for safety evaluations during the 30 days
      following the last dose of treatment
    
  