
    
      Study Groups:

      If participant is found to be eligible to take part in this study, participant will be
      assigned to a dose level of paclitaxel based on when participant joins this study. Up to 8
      dose levels of paclitaxel will be tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose
      level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group
      will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were
      seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of paclitaxel is found.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of mitomycin and cisplatin.

      HIPEC Treatment and Study Visits:

      On the day of HIPEC treatment, participant will receive heated mitomycin, cisplatin, and
      paclitaxel as a liquid that is injected through 3 to 4 small incisions in participant's
      abdomen over about 1 hour. Heated mitomycin, cisplatin, and paclitaxel will be delivered
      through plastic tubing that is connected to a pump into the abdominal cavity. The pump pushes
      the heated drugs into the abdominal cavity and then pulls it out and recirculates the drugs.
      The skin of the abdominal cavity is temporarily closed during this procedure. A pump will be
      used to pump the heated drugs in and out of the abdominal cavity over 60 minutes while the
      surgeon gently presses on the abdominal wall so the drugs can reach all areas in the
      abdominal cavity. After 60 minutes, the drugs are removed and the abdominal cavity will be
      washed. The remaining fluid will be removed before the surgeon closes the abdominal cavity
      with stitches.

      Additionally, participant will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side
      effects. Participant may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given
      and their risks.

      Participant will remain in the hospital for 3-7 days after treatment.

      While participant is in the hospital after surgery, blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) may be
      drawn for routine tests at any time that the study doctor thinks it is needed.

      One (1) time between 2-6 weeks after HIPEC Treatment:

        -  Participant will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      Participant will have routine clinic visits or participant will be called every 6 months
      after the HIPEC procedure. Participant will be asked about any other cancer treatments
      participant may be receiving. If participant is called, these calls should last about 5-10
      minutes. If participant stopped the study early, the study doctor may ask participant to
      return to the clinic for extra CT scans, PET scan, or MRIs during the follow-up period.

      Participant will have a CT scan, PET scan, or MRI of participant's chest, abdomen, and pelvis
      every 6 months for 5 years after surgery to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Participant will be on study for about 5 years after participant's last procedure (HIPEC or
      surgery). Participant will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse, if intolerable
      side effects occur, or if participant is unable to follow study directions.

      Participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.
    
  