
    
      Dyads will use the R/S unit for 90 days, unless they request it to be removed prior to the
      end of the study. The research team (N. Fowler, PhD) will assess measures at baseline, 30
      days, 60 days and 90 days. The primary outcome is a caregiver-assessed measure usability.
      Secondary measures include patient- assessed usability, and objective measures of frequency
      and type of use and computer literacy for both caregiver and the individual with ADRD22.
      Methods to collect user data (frequency, clicks, etc.) will be collected using tools
      developed in Aim 2. Desired outcome measures include (1) a mean score of >80 ("Good") on the
      ten-item System Usability Scale (SUS) modified by IU investigators to accommodate older
      adults23; (2) a 80 percent acceptability rate on the Behavioral Intention 3-item scale; and,
      (3) at least 70 percent of participants using R/S a minimum of weekly. SUS is a validated
      ten-item scale (e.g., "Learning to use RememberStuff® was quick for me") using a five-point
      response scale (strongly disagree to strongly agree). Acceptance will be assessed as the mean
      score on a 3-item Satisfaction scale (e.g., "Rate your satisfied with RememberStuff®?"). This
      scale was adapted by IU Investigators for health IT and uses a seven-point response scale
      from 0 (not at all) to 6 (a great deal). Satisfaction is one of the canonical assessments for
      user acceptance of technology. SUS and Satisfaction questionnaires will be
      researcher-administered by study staff either face-to-face in the participant's homes, or via
      telephone. The mean and standard deviation for the composite SUS, acceptability rate and
      weekly usage will be calculated to a 90% confidence interval. Other secondary measures are
      adapted from Holden et al and are guided by the UTAUT221. Mean caregiver scores on the
      measures will also be compared to mean scores of the patient measures to examine congruence
      in usability and acceptability within the dyad.
    
  