
    
      Once patient has signed the Informed Consent to participate in this trial, demographic
      information and medical history will be collected from each participant on the day of
      surgery. Research staff will record this information from the medical chart. The Medical
      Outcomes Study Questionnaire 12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12) will also be
      administered at this time to obtain baseline value. Randomization will occur by assigning the
      participant a subject ID number, and this ID number will correspond to a treatment allocation
      based on a pre-designed randomization schema. This treatment allocation
      (intervention/control) will be contained in a sealed, opaque, envelope with the subject ID
      number that is designated on envelope. The master randomization list will be created and held
      by an independent data monitor who will both create and hold the master randomization list.
      (This individual will likely be contacted through the University of Pittsburgh's CSTI
      group...correspondence currently ongoing). CTSI will hold master randomization list and will
      provide treatment allocation confidentially to the unblinded PI.

      Study coordinators, Co-Is and subjects will be blinded. PI will be the only individual who is
      unblinded as he is completing the treatment. Once patient is randomized to a treatment group
      by research staff, Auriculotherapy will be performed by Dr. Jacques Chelly using a
      cryopuncture device in the pre-operative setting, either with nitrogen gas (intervention
      group), or an empty cryopunture with no gas (control group). Dr. Chelly is formally certified
      in auriculotherapy.

      After proper disinfection of the designated ear, the treatment consists of the stimulation of
      9 ear points on the ipsilateral ear. These points include:-Ω2 (the master point for the
      mesoderm), the shoulder point, 6 points involved with the pain pathway (the stellar ganglion,
      the sensory and motor C7 branches, the sensory master point (MSP), the reticular master point
      (RMP) and the point corresponding to the Thalamus). Finally, the stimulation of the ACTH
      point completes the treatment. The total time required to complete auriulotherapy treatment
      is approximately 10 minutes. The enrolled subject will also receive an interscalene block as
      per standard of care. The patient will receive standard of care treatment for surgery,
      post-operative pain management, and physical therapy. After surgery, the subject will be
      assessed at time of hospital discharge to review how to complete the subject diary,
      administer pain satisfaction questionnaire (0-6) and obtain NRS pain at rest and with
      movement scores (0-10). When the patient is discharged from the hospital, the subject will be
      asked to take home and complete a subject diary where they will record their total
      narcotic/pain medication consumption, pain satisfaction score (0-6), and NRS pain score
      (0-10), and adverse events daily for first 5 days post-discharge, and then once a month for
      three months (post op days 30, 60 and 90). The subject will be instructed to complete the
      diary just before bedtime on these post-op days. The patient will be contacted via telephone
      on Day 3 post-operatively, and then on post-operative days 30, 60 and 90 to remind subject
      about diary completion for that evening and to assess any adverse events. On the
      post-operative Day 30, 60 and 90 telephone calls, functional recovery will be measured using
      the Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire 12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12). The
      subject will also be asked to assess their overall patient satisfaction at the Day 90 call,
      on a scale of 0 (least satisfaction) to 10 (most satisfaction). Analgesic efficacy in both
      groups will also be evaluated by the amount of total narcotic consumption (measured with IV
      morphine equivalent doses of analgesics used to provide pain relief). Secondary outcome
      measures will include time to readiness for discharge from PACU, time to hospital discharge,
      readmission to the hospital, percentage of patients readmitted because of pain related
      issues, overall patient satisfaction, patient satisfaction relating to pain management and
      functional recovery. Functional recovery will be measured using the Medical Outcomes Study
      Questionnaire 12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12).
    
  