
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the pathologic complete response of patients with stage II or III transitional
           cell cancer of the urothelium treated with neoadjuvant gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and
           carboplatin followed by observation or immediate cystectomy.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, if molecular markers predict response, survival, and tumor
           recurrence in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine recurrence rates and cystectomy-free survival of patients who choose
           observation after an initial response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the survival of patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by
           cystectomy vs observation.

        -  Determine the feasibility, tolerability, and toxicity of these regimens in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1
      and 8 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 4-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo a third
      transurethral resection of bladder tumor.

      Patients with T0 disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy may choose to undergo observation.
      These patients undergo cystoscopies with biopsies every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months
      for 1 year, and then every 6 months until disease progression.

      Patients with T1 disease or greater after neoadjuvant chemotherapy undergo immediate
      cystectomy. Patients with T0 disease may also choose this option. Patients undergoing
      immediate cystectomy are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 95 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  