
    
      Blood pressure is measured in the triage amongst most children presented to the Pediatric ED.

      There are many barriers to obtaining an accurate BP measurement in children, including
      inappropriate technique, lack of equipment, but also - pain, and the child's
      uncooperativeness or anxiety. The latter may even be accentuated in an ED setting.

      These factors may lead to falsely elevated BP readings, which may provoke significant anxiety
      in children and families and possibly lead to a cascade of unnecessary investigation and
      consultations.

      Additionally, an abnormal measured BP value routinely mandate an additional measurement
      attempt which itself may cause anxiety and restlessness among children, especially toddlers
      and infants, and prolongs the entire triage process.

      The Second Task Force Report on Blood Pressure Control in Children emphasizes taking blood
      pressure measurements in a quiet environment, using a proper size cuff and using appropriate
      technique. Ideally, BP should be measured several times in a a relaxed child and in a quiet
      setting, however this scenario is nearly impossible in the ED, as demonstrated in a previous
      retrospective study that indicated that although BP was elevated in 52% of children who
      underwent triage blood pressure measurement in the ED, the measurement was repeated in only
      38%.

      In the past decade, there has been a rapid growth in the presence of therapeutic clowns in
      hospitals, particularly in pediatric settings. A recent study conducted in a pediatric ED in
      Israel has demonstrated the benefit of medical clowns in diminishing pain and anxiety during
      painful procedures being performed on children in the ED.

      Previous studies conducted in our institute have demonstrated a beneficial effect on vital
      signs (blood pressure and heart rate) as a sign of decreased anxiety following the
      incorporation of a medical clown in a multisystem team caring for pediatric patient.

      Blood pressure measurement among pediatric patients, although not a painful procedure, may
      cause a stressful reaction, prolonging the entire process and requiring additional attempts -
      making it a time consuming task in a busy ED.

      A medical clown may have a beneficial effect on the pediatric patient by decreasing the
      stress reaction and may therefore shorten the entire process making it much more efficient.

      The investigators are unaware of any studies conducted related to the effect of the use of
      medical clowns during ED blood pressure measurements in the triage.
    
  