
    
      Study hypothesis: Targinact is effective as oral analgesia after major colorectal surgery and
      is associated with less gut dysfunction than Oxycodone.

      Up to 40% of patients suffer delayed return of gut function after elective colorectal
      surgery, leading to prolonged hospital stay and higher inpatient costs. For the patient, this
      is characterised by a variety of symptoms including nausea and vomiting, delayed ability to
      regain normal oral intake, abdominal discomfort/distension and constipation. Although
      post-operative gut dysfunction tends to resolve spontaneously in 3-7 days, both symptoms and
      supportive treatment (nasogastric tube insertion, repeated venous cannulation for intravenous
      fluid administration etc) are unpleasant.

      Elective colorectal surgery is a common hospital intervention hence a reduction in the
      prevalence of post-operative gut dysfunction would be expected to benefit a large number of
      patients with attendant reduction in health service costs. The objective aligns well with the
      current national dissemination of Enhanced Recovery after Surgery programmes by the UK
      Department of Health and Scottish Government.

      Post-operative gut dysfunction is multifactorial. Opioid analgesics are contributory and all
      Enhanced Recovery after Surgery (ERAS) programmes emphasise strategies to minimise systemic
      opioid use (eg using regional or local anaesthetic techniques).

      Targinact has not been evaluated in the setting of short-term post operative analgesia in
      colorectal surgery but offers the potential to achieve effective analgesia with a lower
      incidence of gut dysfunction and therefore an important role within the ERAS program after
      colorectal surgery. Oxycodone is currently the oral opioid analgesic of choice in our unit
      and most patients are prescribed a combination of oxycodone and oxynorm as step-down
      analgesia following cessation of systemic or epidural analgesia, often in combination with
      fentanyl patches.

      Data will be collected from patient hospital records and questionnaires administered by the
      principal investigator and research study nurse.

      Multiple measures will be employed to record both presence of good function and absence of
      dysfunction.

        -  Time to first flatus

        -  Time to first bowel movement

        -  Time from surgery to cessation of iv fluids

        -  Total dose of rescue antiemetic (protocol ondansetron not included)

        -  Reinstitution of iv fluids (Y/N) Quantity of laxative used

        -  Measurement of oral nutritional intake:

      Preoperative intake will be recorded by means of a recall diary. Postoperative oral intake
      will be recorded by the participant using a food diary for 7 days from the date of surgery.
      Energy intake will then be estimated using CompEat Pro® forWindows® (Nutrition Systems,
      Banbury, UK). Time to attain and maintain 80% of normal solid food intake and the percentage
      Recommended Nutritional Intake (RNI) achieved on days 1-3 and days 5-7 after surgery will be
      used in comparisons between study groups.

        -  Validated nausea and vomiting score (Miles and Wengritzky)

        -  Presence of abdominal distension (Y/N)

        -  13C Stable Isotope Gastric Empyting Breath Test to measure gastric motility on the
           second postoperative morning. The technique has been previously used in the Edinburgh
           Department of Surgery and validated to be a reproducible and accurate measurement of
           upper GI motility.

      Additional data to be recorded:

        -  Patient demographics, co morbidity, regular medications

        -  Pre op bowel function questionnaire

        -  Postoperative nausea and vomiting prediction data (Apfel score)

        -  Day 3 achievement of discharge criteria (pain controlled by oral analgesia, tolerating
           adequate oral diet and fluids, independently mobile and willing to go home) Y/N

        -  30-day/Inpatient mortality

        -  Duration of hospital admission

        -  Complications (recorded by organ system and severity as assessed by Clavien/Dindo scale)

        -  Unscheduled readmissions to hospital within 30 days of discharge

        -  Patient-reported outcome questionnaire
    
  