
    
      In OCTAVIA; enrollment in a 1:1 ratio according to gender group will be ensured by a
      computer-assisted matching algorithm for gender and age (< 50, 51-70, and > 70 years).
      Matching has the purpose to enable enrollment of an even number of male and female patients
      in balanced age groups. This type of dynamic algorithm is appropriate when the composition of
      the referral population is not known in advance.

      OCTAVIA will assess gender differences in the mechanism of plaque rupture. The study will
      also evaluate the changes in the vascular territory remote from the infarct related lesion,
      the local vascular response to primary angioplasty interventions and the correlation with
      clinical outcomes over one year of follow-up. These data are important to support a gender
      based differential strategy and can have a substantial impact for the improvement of clinical
      practice in the treatment of women with STEMI.

      The study sample of 140 patients is sized to address the hypothesis that the female
      population has a lower prevalence of plaque rupture (primary endpoint) at baseline OCT than
      the male population. Computations were conducted assuming a prevalence of rupture of 82% in
      males and 60% in female patients (22% lower).

      Confirmatory power calculation was performed on the basis of stent Strut Coverage at 9 month
      follow-up (co primary endpoint). Stent-strut coverage and apposition have been linked to the
      risk of stent thrombosis. However, our understanding of DES healing in male and female
      patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction is restricted to post-mortem data.
      The investigators assumed a per patient stent strut coverage (a continuous variable with
      right skewed distribution) with mean of 97.0% and standard deviation of 4.0% in men, versus
      mean of 95.0% and standard deviation of 4.0% in women, following Xience Prime implantation.
      Thus, aiming for a 5% 2-tailed superiority alpha, an 80% power, and assuming a 1:1 enrollment
      according to gender, a total of 64 patients per group should be enrolled. Anticipating a 10%
      dropout rate due to patients lost to follow-up and inadequate imaging (included major side
      branch sections), the total enrollment is set at 70 patients per group (total population of
      140 subjects).
    
  