
    
      1. To survey the incidence of HPV infection in CIN and cervical cancer patients.

           Using epidemiologic data drawn from a wide range of countries and population groups,
           investigators have found evidence of HPV in 90% to 95% of cervical cancers. The
           incidence of HPV in cervical cancer was 79% in our own report. Besides, 91% of
           high-grade CIN cases and 50% of low-grade CIN cases could be attributed to HPV infection
           in Taiwanese women. Because these reports for Taiwanese women were published around 10
           years ago, it is important to survey and update the incidence of HPV in CIN and cervical
           cancer patients in Taiwanese women. We will survey the incidence of HPV infection in 500
           cervical cancer patients, 100 patients of CIN and 100 normal population patients.

        2. To survey the human leukocyte antigen haplotype in CIN and cervical cancer patients.

           HLA class I and II alleles have been reported to associate with the nasopharyngeal
           carcinoma in Taiwan. Besides, human leukocyte antigen class I and II alleles might
           interplay in the response to interferon-alpha treatment in Taiwanese patients with
           chronic hepatitis C virus infection. We will detect the HLA class I and II haplotype
           first and then correlate them with the CIN and cervical cancer patients.

        3. To identify the correlation between HLA class I and II haplotype and HPV infection and
           CIN and cervical cancer.

           We will further survey the correlation between HLA class I and II and the genotypes of
           HPV in CIN and cervical cancer patients. We will identify which HLA class I and II
           haplotypes have positive or negative correlation with HPV infection, CIN and cervical
           cancer. Then we would determine which specific HLA antigens are important in determining
           the risk of HPV infection, CIN and cervical cancer.

        4. To elucidate the immunologic responses to HPV type 16 in HLA2 with different II
           haplotypes and the role of immunogenetics in the carcinogenesis of cervical cancer.

      HPV type 16 has been identified to be the highest incidence of malignant HPV genotypes in
      cervical cancer. Our laboratory has set up immunologic assays for evaluating the immune
      responses to HPV type 16. We will survey the immune response to HPV type 16 in those HLA
      class I and II haplotypes which have positive or negative correlation with the HPV infection
      and cervical cancer. We would identify which population of HLA genotype are more susceptible
      to HPV infection and invasive cervical cancer and elucidate the role of immunogenetics in the
      HPV infection and carcinogenesis of cervical cancer.
    
  