
    
      Objective. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the feasibility of a new monitored
      self-guided digital cognitive behavioural therapy format through one of the key components of
      an intervention for depression and anxiety (Problem Solving) and to answer the question: Do
      patients with significant levels of depression and/or anxiety symptoms consider the monitored
      self-guided digital format usable and credible?

      Background. Problem Solving is a behavioral modification intervention focusing on the
      training of adaptive problem-solving skills in order to cope more effectively with everyday
      stressful events. It is one of the most well-examined therapeutic interventions for
      depression, with reliable support regarding symptom improvement in depression traditionally
      delivered with therapist-guidance when administered via the Internet. Since a new monitored
      self-guided digital intervention for depression and anxiety has been developed, including the
      key component Problem Solving, it is of importance to assess both the usability and
      treatment-credibility of this format to evaluate if it is feasible.

      Methodology. Based on similar feasibility studies including around ten participants, a number
      of 16-30 participants will be included in this study to compensate for potential drop-outs.
      Participants will be recruited via a psychiatric clinic belonging to Stockholm County Council
      in Stockholm, Sweden, and will be patients in queue for treatment for depression and/or
      anxiety in a psychiatric setting. Inclusion criteria will be significant depression and/or
      anxiety symptoms. The participants included in the study will access the key component
      Problem Solving during four weeks while being on waitlist for regular treatment. They will be
      introduced to the intervention as a self-explanatory tool with possible beneficial effects on
      depression symptoms. Self-assessments will be carried out during the intervention. The scores
      on these scales will be compared to available published data from these scales from
      evaluations of therapist-guided Internet-based interventions if available, and otherwise data
      from these scales from studies on other digital interventions for mental health. The
      participants will also answer questions concerning their experience of the format.
    
  