
    
      The most severe patients infected by the virus that causes COVID-19 develop severe
      respiratory failure (called ARDS) and require mechanical ventilation in the intensive care
      unit to help maintain oxygen delivery to the blood. Often these patients further deteriorate
      while on mechanical ventilation. This trial will determine the feasibility and safety of a
      therapy that can potentially improve lung function, reduce the need for mechanical
      ventilation and hopefully impact mortality.

      Adult patients with COVID-19 induced respiratory failure will be randomly assigned to receive
      either standard treatment or standard treatment plus exogenous surfactant. If enrolled in the
      latter, exogenous surfactant will be instilled into the lungs within 48 hours of intubation.

      The study is founded on extensive research on ARDS for over 30 years, leading to evidence
      suggesting that exogenous surfactant administration may be beneficial in this disease.
      Importantly, exogenous surfactant is already utilized all over the world to reduce mortality
      in preterm infants. When tested in adults with ARDS, it was shown to be well tolerated and
      safe. Furthermore, clinical and laboratory evidence suggests that this therapy may be most
      effective in patients with a direct lung infection, and when administered shortly after the
      patient is intubated. In this study, twenty patients who are proven COVID-19 positive and
      require MV due to progressive respiratory failure will be randomized to receive either 1)
      exogenous surfactant (BLES) as soon as possible and within 48 hours of intubation and
      stabilization, or 2) treatment as usual (will not be treated with surfactant). The overall
      goal is to improve the outcome (mortality) of mechanically ventilated COVID-19 patients.
      Although the investigators anticipate that clinical outcomes may improve in the small group
      of patients receiving exogenous surfactant therapy in this small, single center study, the
      primary goal is to first determine feasibility and safety. Should the investigators obtain
      promising results, the data obtained from this study will be used to develop a large trial to
      test the impact of this therapy on the clinical outcomes, including mortality, associated
      with COVID-19.
    
  