
    
      An experimental study was conducted between July and November 2010 in order to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of imiquimod as a treatment option for photoaging.

      The sample population was made up of individuals from both genders, older than 40 years, who
      worked at a flower growing farm located in a rural area of Rionegro (Antioquia) with an
      altitude of 2,125 meters above sea level; approximately composed of 80 people.

      The sample size was calculated considering improvements in 50% or more of patients had to be
      detected, with a confidence interval of 95%, a power of 80%, a sampling error of 5%.

      There were five visits: one at baseline and at months 1, 2, 3 and 4. In each visit patients
      were assesed clinically, a photograph was taken and adherence and side effects were
      investigated. Treatment was given during the first 3 months. A biopsy was taken at baseline
      and during the 4th month assessment. The last visit for clinical monitoring, photographic
      follow up and skin biopsy was at 16 weeks (4 weeks after discontinuation of the medication).
      In this last visit patient's satisfaction was evaluated through a survey.

      The clinical assessment of photodamage performed by two dermatologists independently
      included: Changes in texture: dryness/roughness; changes in color: mottled hyperpigmentation,
      lentigines, yellowing; wrinkles: fine, deep wrinkles and laxity; telangiectasias.

      Clinical signs like dryness, burning, erythema, itching, fissures and scabs were used to
      measure skin irritation.

      Severity for the parameters measured in the clinical assessment of photoaging and the
      assessment of skin irritation was graded on a point scale of 0-3 where 0 was absence, one was
      mild, 2 moderate and 3 severe.

      Biopsies were taken from sites adjacent to the temporal facial area. Aseptic iodine solution
      was used on the selected area, then the biopsy site was infiltrated with lidocaine 2% (about
      0.5 cc) with a short 30-gauge needle and once analgesia was obtained a punch biopsy number 4
      mm was taken. The skin biopsy was kept in a jar with formalin properly labeled and sent for
      histopathology. Then the biopsy site was sutured with 5-0 prolene. The biopsies were sent to
      the pathology department of the CES University for hematoxylin-eosin staining and they were
      blind - read by two dermatopathologists who evaluated the following parameters: epidermal
      changes: epidermal thickness, thickness of the granular layer, melanin content, atypia of
      melanocytes and keratinocytes, dermal-epidermal junction: pigment incontinence; dermis:
      inflammation, solar elastosis, fibrosis in the papillary dermis and telangiectasia.

      Adherence was measured by asking patients in each one of the visits and it was considered
      excellent when the drug was applied 3 times per week, regular if the patient missed 2-3
      applications between visits and poor if he/she missed more than 5 applications.
    
  