
    
      Subjects perform the recovery session after completing the exercise protocol. Participants
      are allocated to the control or intervention group following an order of arrival to the
      study.

      The spinning session is performed using the same protocol for all participants after 24h
      physical rest. They were asked to perform this session as a regular spinning class. The
      session is carried out in the afternoon (room temperature 22±3.5°C) on a modified spinning
      bike (Keiser®, M3). They are allowed to drink water during the session and performed the
      test, while they listen a compilation of music that lasted 50min composed of 9 tracks.

      Each track corresponds to a specific phase of the spinning session. The phases being labeled
      as warm-up, sitting, seated climbing, jumping, and running, based on the official spinning
      program manual. Some phases are repeated during the session, the compilation being purposely
      designed for beginner practitioners of a spinning class. In addition to the music protocol,
      the participants are asked to maintain a pedal stroke cadence that had previously been
      established for each track. For the resistance applied to the flywheel, the participants are
      free to adjust it according to their sensation and interpretation of the spinning session.

      Recovery Procedures

      A cycle of 3 Vichy shower and whirlpool baths are applied during 30-minutes period. Vichy
      sedative shower are applied for 90-120 sec to the sides of the trunk and the abdomen,
      avoiding as much as possible the gall bladder area, at a temperature of 36-38ºC. A short,
      partial jet spray followed the shower. A whirlpool bath is administered where subjects
      immersed the body until their clavicle level for a 10min period with a water temperature
      ranging 33.5-35.5 ºC. Aromatherapy application using lavender and chamomile oils is used in
      all Spa therapy sessions.

      The control group performed a rest session in supine position in a room with neutral
      temperature condition with a same duration to Spa session. Participants of both groups are
      encouraged to drink water "ad libitum" to prevent dehydration.
    
  