
    
      Congenital and developmental cataract is a priority of Vision 2020: the Right to Sight, the
      global initiative to reduce the world's burden of avoidable blindness, because it is an
      important treatable cause of visual handicap in childhood throughout the world. Successful
      management of childhood cataract is dependent on early diagnosis and referral for surgery
      when indicated. Accurate optical rehabilitation and postoperative supervision are also
      essential. The timing of surgery of childhood cataract depends on the etiology and on the
      degree of visual interference. Severe bilateral cataracts with significant obstruction of the
      visual axis must be treated and surgery is recommended as soon as possible after discovery.
      Ideally cataracts should be removed before 3 months of age. In unilateral congenital cataract
      cases the prognosis for useful vision following surgery depends on prompt restoration of a
      clear visual axis, correction of aphakia, and aggressive treatment of amblyopia. In China,
      severe visual impairment is common in pediatric patients with cataract, and delayed
      presentation to hospital and late surgical treatment are found to be the major reasons.
      Therefore, in order to control childhood blindness and severe visual impairment in China, it
      is essential to ensure that pediatric patients with cataract could have good timing of
      surgery, postoperative rigorous supervision, accurate optical rehabilitation and aggressive
      treatment of amblyopia.

      The importance of follow-up has been widely accepted and applied for research by many
      clinical disciplines. It is no doubt that rigorous and regular follow-up is essential to
      successful management of childhood cataract, for the cataract degree and visual development
      are individually different and changing, and the long-term visual acuity might be influenced
      by many factors. In other word, individual strategy according to the results of follow-up is
      the best choice for management of childhood cataract. The key to make the most appropriate
      individual strategy for each cataract child is strict follow-up on the basis of good
      communication. However, communicating with children and their families is complex, routinely
      involves the physician-parent-child triad and other family members, and is influenced by the
      developmental and cognitive stage of the child, interaction dynamics within the family, and
      differing parent and child needs. In addition to communication difficulties, financial
      difficulty and transportation difficulties were also the common causes for pediatric
      patients' parents to refusal or abandonment of treatment plan in China.

      As a developing country, China's health-care level is currently unsatisfactory and the
      health-care reform still needs a long way to go. However, with the rapid economic
      development, Chinese cell phone users exceed 900 million people and this amount is to make
      China as a country with the largest number of mobile phone users in the world, mainly because
      of huge population and economic development, without factors related to healthcare. Actually,
      mobile phone communication has been suggested as a method to improve delivery of health
      services around the world, and most of the researches of health care via mobile phone are
      focused on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. As an average-medical-resource-limited
      country but the largest mobile phone market, China should more use the potential of mobile
      technology in health systems compared to other countries. It is one of the goals of
      health-care reform that a wide range of medical services could be improved by providing
      patient-focused support and management through the health-care system. If mobile phone use
      does improve health outcomes in resource-limited settings, especially for chronic, congenital
      and developmental diseases needing good communication and collaboration, such as childhood
      cataract, this mobile health technology could thus be included in health-system strategies
      and help improve health development goals.

      In this trial, we aimed to assess whether mobile phone communication between pediatric
      ophthalmologists and parents of cataract children involved in the Childhood Cataract Program
      of Ministry of Health of China improved follow-up adherence and detection rate of the timing
      of surgery, postoperative complications and necessary replacement of glasses.
    
  