
    
      Background Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a common joint disease, which may cause severe pain
      and lead to a reduced quality of life. It has been shown that the prevalence of symptomatic
      OA in those aged 60 and above was 9.6% in men and 18% in women. Primary treatment of knee OA
      is conservative including physical activity, exercise and analgesics. Meta-analysis shows
      small to moderately sized effects of exercise on pain and function. Total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA) is the gold standard option for the treatment of painful OA of the knee when
      conservative treatment is not sufficient.

      Unicondylar knee arthroplasty (UKA) can be used as the treatment of knee OA isolated to a
      single compartment instead of TKA. Both UKA and TKA have been used for decades as a treatment
      of knee OA. However, operative indications for TKA and UKA overlaps, but they are not
      similar. Therefore, the outcome or survivorship of these procedures cannot be compared
      directly.

      Some advantages of UKA over TKA have been reported, including faster recovery time, reduced
      perioperative morbidity and mortality, a subjective preference of feeling more normal knee,
      lower cost and improved return to work and sport. On the other side national arthroplasty
      registers like the National Joint Registry of England and Wales (NJR), the Australian
      Orthopaedic Association National Joint Replacement Registry (AOANJRR), the Swedish Knee
      Arthroplasty Register (SKAR), and the Finnish Arthroplasty Register (FAR) consistently report
      around a threefold increase in crude cumulative revision rate at 8 to 10 years for UKA
      compared with TKA 7-10. Few reports have been published about patient-perceived outcomes
      following TKA compared with UKA. Newman et all compared fixed bearing UKA to TKA and
      published better range of movement (ROM) after UKA. Sun PF et all compared mobile bearing UKA
      to fixed bearing TKA. They didn't had significant difference in ROM or Knee Society score
      (KSS) postoperatively after mean 52 months follow-up, but in TKA group had significantly more
      postoperative deep vein thrombosis and more blood loss.

      A study comparing cemented UKA (Oxford, Biomet) and TKA, have been published using
      patient-perceived outcome measures, but the study protocol lacks of blinding. There is no
      published randomized controlled, double-blind trial which compares patient-perceived outcomes
      after TKA and UKA.

      Oxford mobile bearing UKA is most used unicondylar prosthesis according to national
      registries. The most common reason for revision of UKA according to NJR is aseptic loosening,
      accounting for up to 48% of all UKA revisions. Other reasons for UKA revision in Finland
      where malalignment, prosthesis fracture, instability, infection, fracture, patella
      complication and other reasons (35%). A randomized controlled trial of 62 knees comparing
      cemented and cementless Oxford UKA has demonstrated a greatly reduced incidence of tibial
      radiolucencies with similar functional outcomes at 1 year 15. Cementless Oxford unicondylar
      knee is relative new product and was developed to address problems related to cement
      fixation, and has been demonstrated in a randomised study to have similar clinical outcomes
      with fewer radiolucencies than observed with the cemented device. New Zealand Joint Registry
      (NZJR) data shows revision rate 1,37/100 component years for cemented Oxford phase 3 and
      0,72/100 component years for cementless Oxford phase 3 UKA. The uncemented Oxford UKA has a
      significantly lower revision rate than the overall mean of 1.27 /100 observer component
      years. Also the NJR show better survivorship for cementless unicondylar arthroplasty compared
      to cemented unicondylar arthroplasty. On the other hand cementless TKA shows lower
      survivorship compared cemented TKA in Finnish Arthroplasty Register (FAR). There are no
      published randomized controlled, double-blind trial which compare patient-perceived outcomes
      after cemented TKA and cementless Oxford UKA.

      The aim of the study The aim of this study is to compare functional, clinical, patient
      satisfaction, and implant survival results of cementless UKA with those of cemented TKA at 2
      months, 1, 2, 5 and 10 years after the procedure.

      Study setting The study design is a multicenter, double-blind and randomized trial of knee
      replacement patients. Arthroplasty procedures will be performed by experienced knee surgeons
      who are experienced in both UKA and TKA operations. As UKA we will use cementless Oxford
      phase 3 mobile bearing prosthesis with Microplasty instrumentation (Biomet) and as TKA
      cemented Triathlon CR condylar prothesis (Stryker). According to power analysis, we are going
      to recruit 140 patients from 3 orthopedic units in Finland. Participants will be randomized
      to UKR or TKR.

      Study participants Participants with anteromedial osteoarthritis of knee will be included in
      the study. Patients must be applicable for both a medial UKR and TKR.

      Recruitment and consent Potential patients will be contacted in outpatient clinics by the
      participating orthopedic surgeon. At this stage patients will be provided with an 'Invitation
      letter' and a information sheet which will explain why they have been approached and will
      provide further details about the study. Those patients, who voluntary will take part to the
      study, will be screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria. If the patient is appropriate
      for the study, pre-assessment clinic appointment will be organized. The pre-assessment
      appointments are routine appointment for a short time before their scheduled operation date.

      Study assessments Preoperative assessments will include a patient reported questionnaire
      examining pain, other Symptoms, function in daily living, function in sport and recreation
      and knee related Quality of life. (OKS and KOOS). Also a clinical assessment of range of
      motion and function of the knee, will be carried out. Preoperative weight bearing X-rays
      knees 20 degrease flexion, valgus stress x-rays and mechanical axis will also be taken.

      After the operation, the operative details will be recorded and routine postoperative
      radiographs collected. Operative details will be sealed and saved. Code will be opened and
      randomization will be cancelled only if it's necessary. Reasons which might result in
      cancellation of randomization are, for example, symptoms of the operated knee which might
      require revision arthroplasty. Cancellation of randomization occurs also if the patient wants
      to discontinue participating to the study.

      Control outpatient policlinic appointment will be arranged for the clinical examination at 2
      months, 1, 2, 5 and 10 years post operation. Outpatient controls will be carried out by
      orthopedic surgeons, who are not aware which type of operation -UKA or TKA - was performed.
      Range of movement and stability are assessed. The radiographs are not available for the
      patient at the outpatient policlinic, but they are controlled by radiologists and the
      orthopedic surgeon to complications. Patients are informed of any surgical complications or
      possible abnormal findings in X-rays, and are treated using standard methods.

      A postal questionnaire (containing the 15D, OKS and KOOS) will be sent out at 2 months, 1, 2,
      5 and 10 years post randomization. Additional clinical appointments (if needed) will be
      performed by surgeon not participating study operations or controls.

      Randomisation

      2 to 24 hours before the operation, if a patient is confirmed to be eligible for the trial,
      the surgeon opens an envelope containing the study-group assignment (TKA or UKA). The
      assignment will not be revealed to the patient. The sequentially numbered, sealed envelopes
      will prepared by a statistician with no involvement in the clinical care of patients in the
      trial. Randomizations will be performed in a 1:1 ratio with a block size of 4. The
      randomization sequence involved stratification according to age (45 to 60 or 61 to 79 years
      of age), sex, and preoperative OKS (0-17, 18-27, or 28-48). Only the orthopedic surgeon and
      other staff in the operating room will be aware of the group assignment, and they do not
      participate in further treatment or follow-up of the patient.

      Total knee replacement procedure TKA is performed through a standard medial parapatellar
      incision, which provides easy access to the knee joint. Skin incision is done to midline.
      Intramedullary guide is used for alignment of femoral and tibia saw cuts and component
      positions. Components will be cemented in position. The patella will not be resurfaced.
      Intraoperative local infiltration analgesia (LIA) is used for postoperative pain management.
      Drain is not used.

      Partial knee replacement procedure UKA involves only the replacement of affected medial
      compartment. In the study, the operation will be performed through standard medial
      parapatellar incision with midline skin incision, but the knee joint and fascia will be
      opened like in standard Oxford minimally invasive incision. The procedure will be performed
      by using Oxford Microplasty instrumentation and following Microplasty surgical technique
      (Biomet Orthopedics). Intraoperative local infiltration analgesia is used for postoperative
      pain management. Drain is not used.

      Safety The study participants have symptomatic medial knee OA and have failed conservative
      treatment. Patients, which are suitable for knee replacement have been selected from
      outpatient clinic. The operation will be performed as standard knee replacement.

      The study participants will be informed of the risks associated with anesthesia and knee
      replacement surgery. Potential intra- or perioperative complication are; anesthesia-related
      complications, wound infection, bleeding, fracture, rupture of collateral or patellar
      ligament, thrombo-embolic complications, death, ongoing pain, and deterioration of existing
      co-morbidity.

      Surgical long-term complications following the knee replacement are loosening of implant,
      lack of osteointegration of a cementless implant, periprosthetic fracture, luxation- or wear
      of bearing, infection, adverse knee pain 12 months after operation, knee stiffness, and
      lateral compartment OA in UKA. These complications may need surgery as revision, open
      debridement, washout or as worse even amputation.

      Ethics and study registration We have approval of the institutional review board of Ethics
      Committee, Hospital District of Southwest Finland.
    
  