
    
      Ultrasound (US) is an imaging technique increasingly used in rheumatologic practice. US is a
      noninvasive, bedside, objective and sensitive tool for visualizing synovial inflammatory
      joint changes in RA that were not detected by conventional clinical examination. US has added
      value over clinical management of RA patients and is potentially helpful at several steps of
      the disease: early diagnosis of early arthritis, evaluation of disease activity,
      identification of poor prognostic RA, and possibly confirmation of remission status before
      tapering treatment. The potential role of this technique in the management of RA has been
      highlighted by the recent EULAR recommendations on how to use imaging in RA clinical
      practice. Nevertheless, only few studies have evaluated the value of US to predict clinical
      outcome and therapeutic response. In a Spanish longitudinal study including 42 early RA
      patients, the number and grade of Power-Doppler ultrasound (PDUS) synovitis were the best
      parameters correlated with disease activity at following visit. Since 2004, the OMERACT
      (Outcome Measures in Rheumatology) group has evaluated metric properties of US in RA. A
      semi-quantitative (0-3) score of synovitis combining B-mode and Power Doppler abnormalities
      was defined, the PDUS Global OMERACTEULAR Synovitis Score (GLOESS). This score recently
      demonstrated its responsiveness in a multicentre therapeutic trial of patients starting a
      treatment by abatacept, as soon as after one week of treatment. However, in this study,
      variation of this score until 4 months failed to demonstrate a correlation with clinical
      status or response as measured by DAS28-derived criteria at 6 months, suggesting that these
      tools evaluate different aspects of disease activity in RA and should be considered
      complementary in clinical practice, or maybe that DAS28 is not a sufficient stringent
      composite score. A similar semi-quantitative (0-3) score of tenosynovitis was developed and
      validated by the OMERACT. On the other hand, no study to date has demonstrated the
      responsiveness of this tenosynovitis score in RA. However, one study compared intra-muscular
      glucocorticoid or glucocorticoid administered in soft tissues and demonstrated that
      peri-tendinous infusions were more efficient at 3 months, both clinically and with US.

      Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are questionnaires used in clinical trials and daily care,
      with answers directly collected from patients. They allow the evaluation of domains that are
      often neglected (fatigue, quality of life, subjective disease activity, sleep disorders,
      etc). PROs are used as multifunctional criteria and therefore can be used as prognostic,
      therapeutic-evaluation or therapeutic-decision outcomes. Many studies have compared patient
      self-assessment and evaluation of disease activity by an experienced clinician to determine
      whether substituting patient assessment of disease activity is possible.

      Clinical response during the first 3 months is associated with remission or low disease
      activity in the long term (6 to 12 months) in some studies. However, the real added value of
      US (or PRO) to predict medium or long term clinical outcome is not so well-known.
    
  