
    
      Of critical importance in the approach to care of these patients is differentiating the
      majority of people who can be safely discharged for outpatient management from those who are
      at risk for serious adverse events and require hospitalization. Recently, Oakland and Jairath
      developed a clinical prediction rule for safe discharge among patients with LGIB using data
      from their UK National Audit. The next step in the development of a clinical prediction rule
      is external validation in independent cohorts. Measures of predictive accuracy for risk
      scores, such as the AUC, are overly optimistic when calculated from the derivation cohort
      from which the risk score was derived. Therefore, it is essential to evaluate its performance
      using independent and diverse validation cohorts. Thus, the goal of this study is to perform
      the first prospective, multi-centered, external validation of the Oakland-Jairath risk score
      on an independent and diverse population who present to the emergency room with LGIB. This is
      a prospective multi-centre observational study to externally validate the Oakland-Jairath
      LGIB risk score, herein referred to simply as the "risk score".

      Consecutive patients presenting to hospital over a 6 month period will have their risk score
      calculated and followed for the development of an adverse outcome over a 28 day period. The
      risk score will be determined for research purposes only but will be shared with the treating
      physician if requested as the details of the risk score itself is within the public domain.
      Patients will be eligible regardless of discharge status and all admission decisions will be
      made solely by the treating physicians. To increase the diversity of the validation cohort,
      increase generalizability, and hasten recruitment, the study will be conducted at 4 centres:
      Western University, University of Alberta, University of Montreal, and McGill University.
    
  