
    
      Background: Hospital readmissions within 30 days are frequent, with rates varying usually
      between 12 and 20%. Is it therefore recognized as important to improve the quality of the
      transition of care period in order to avoid as much as possible hospital readmissions. There
      are however still several gaps in current knowledges. First, most trials to reduce hospital
      readmission have been performed on specific patient populations such as patients with
      diabetes or heart failure, and therefore the findings may not be well generalizable to other
      high-risk population. Second, while some specific interventions have been showed to reduce
      readmission, these were complex and resources demanding, and no trial targeted these
      interventions to the patients who are most likely to benefit for better effectiveness, using
      a widely validated prediction tool, such as the "HOSPITAL" score. Finally, most studies
      tested unimodal interventions instead of more promising multimodal interventions.

      Specific aim: the goal of this proposal is to evaluate the effect of a multimodal
      transitional care intervention prioritized to higher-risk medical patients on the composite
      of 30-day unplanned readmissions and death.

      Methods: the investigators will conduct a multicenter randomized controlled trial in medical
      inpatients discharged home or nursing home, who are identified as having a higher risk for
      30-day readmission. Risk of readmission will be predicted using the simplified HOSPITAL
      score, which includes 6 variables routinely available before hospital discharge and which has
      been previously validated in more than 200,000 patients across 6 countries in its original
      version, and in nearly 120,000 patients in its simplified version. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to the intervention group or usual care group. The primary outcome will be the first
      30-day unplanned readmission or all-cause mortality. The primary analysis will be a
      comparison between two groups according to the intention-to-treat principle.
    
  