
    
      Sixty consecutive patients with dysphagia associated to isolated acute (within the previous
      24 hours) brainstem ischemic stroke satisfying the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      enrolled.

      Swallowing evaluation Clinical evaluation comprises fiberoptic endoscopy that will be used
      for scoring the Penetration/Aspiration Scale. The Penetration/Aspiration Scale will be scored
      by two otolaryngologists and one neurologist blinded to the patient's study group allocation.
      Moreover, feeding status will be evaluated by the clinical "Dysphagia Severity Rating Scale",
      ranging from 0 (normal fluids, normal diet, and eating independently) to 12 (no oral fluids,
      no oral feeding). Moreover the "Functional Oral Intake Scale", ranging from 1 (nothing by
      mouth) to 7 (total oral diet with no restriction), and the "Dysphagia Limit Test", evaluating
      the amount of water that can be swallowed without piece-meal deglutition or clinical signs of
      aspiration, will be used in patient evaluation. Piecemeal deglutition will be evaluated both
      clinically and by means of electromyographic recordings from the mouth floor muscles.
      Moreover, simultaneous electromyographic/mechanographic recordings from the above mentioned
      muscles, as well as from cricopharyngeal muscle and from the thyroid cartilage will be also
      performed. The changes in cortico-pharyngeal excitability will be evaluated by recording
      motor evoked potentials from the pharyngeal muscles after transcranial magnetic stimulation.

      Randomization: patients will be randomly assigned to either the active treatment (real) or
      sham groups according to a computer-generated list. Randomization will be stratified in order
      to match age, and severity of dysphagia.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation: anodal transcranial direct current stimulation will
      be delivered through two 25-cm2 rectangular surface electrodes, with the active one placed
      over the "pharyngeal" area of the motor cortex contralateral to the side of brainstem lesion
      and the reference one on the contralateral supraorbital ridge. Furthermore, the electrodes
      will be fixed in their position using a set of adjustable rubber straps placed around the
      head. For the active intervention (the "real" stimulation group), current intensity will be
      slowly increased up to 2mA. This intensity will be maintained for 20 min before the
      stimulation will be slowly turned off over a 10-sec period. For the "sham" intervention, the
      current will be left on only for 30 sec, while the electrodes will be left in place for a
      further 20-min period. All patients will be evaluated at baseline, and after 4 consecutive
      days of stimulation.
    
  