
    
      Patients with diabetes mellitus have a several-fold increased risk for cardiovascular disease
      (1-3, 16). Early diagnosis of theses diseases might prevent or at least postpone occurence of
      clinical manifest CAD and CHF. Multifactorial intervention, with a special interest on
      cardiac disease are proven to be beneficial for diabetic patients (4). Whether all patients
      benefit from a multi-drug supply including lipid lowering agents or antihypertensive drugs is
      not known. Thus, special population have to be defined, who profit most. E.g. the STENO-
      study population (4) consisted of patients with microalbuminuria. Microalbuminuria is known
      to be a good marker for outcome in this population (5). Consistently to the fact that
      microalbuminuria is a good marker for long-term outcome, the STENO-Investigators found a
      long-term benefit (average 7.8 years) for multi-factorial intervention in this special
      population. We recently found, that Nt-proBNP (Roche) is an excellent short-term predictor of
      cardiovascular events and death (10 months on average) in diabetics without a history of
      cardiac disease (6), which is already known for long-term (7-10). Patients above the normal
      range have a 10 % risk of first occurrence of a cardiac disease or death within short time.
      The advantage of Nt-BNP as a marker of risk is based on the fact, that it is increased in all
      cardiac disease dependent on the severity. Our data reveal that Nt-proBNP is superior to most
      known markers. The limitations of traditional surrogate marker of risk in diabetic patients
      was recently discussed in a joint statement of the American Heart and Diabetic Associations (
      Diabetes Care 2007 Januar).Whether lowering blood pressure or cholesterol is the optimal
      surrogate for therapeutic success is questionable. The Jikei Heart study (11) nicely shows a
      comparable decrease in blood pressure in several treatment groups, but a tremendous
      difference in outcome. The heart failure paradoxon demonstrates, that in this population
      patients with low blood pressure (12) or low cholesterol (13) are those with worse prognosis.
      And heart failure is immanent in diabetes. On the other hand a decrease in Nt-proBNP under
      therapy is known to be an excellent marker of outcome (14). We hypothesize, that including
      diabetic patients without a history of cardiac disease but increased levels of Nt-BNP will be
      an excellent short-term risk-population for prevention therapy. And, decreasing Nt-proBNP
      levels by optimized therapy will be a good marker for success to decrease the risk for future
      imminent events

      Patients will be randomized into two groups:

      Group A: Patients will be cared by a cardiologic unit. In accordance to the guidelines
      investigations will be performed to proof the existence of a manifest cardiac disease.
      Further on treatment will be tailored to minimize the individual risk profile in accordance
      to the guidelines (15). The main therapeutic focus will be a decrease in Nt-proBNP to 50% of
      the value at index time or below normal values. Secondly, a special focus will be set on
      optimizing anti-hyperglycemic therapy by a diabetologist (treatment to target). Further
      guideline-recommended medical treatment will be initiated if not yet started (if no
      contraindication exists all patients will receive oral anti-platelet therapy and lipid
      lowering medication). After obtained informed consent, patients will be investigated as
      clinical appropriate.

      Performance of echocardiography is mandatory to exclude aortic stenosis and to proof the
      existence of heart failure- as recommended by the guidelines. Group A:patients will receive
      scheduled visits monthly to optimize pharmacologic treatment.

      After optimization visits will be performed as clinical appropriate. In between patients have
      the opportunity to contact a responsible person and will be contacted additionally by
      telephone to proof therapeutic success. As clinical appropriate every visit laboratory sample
      will be drawn, demographic data, data about diabetic complications, pulse and blood pressure
      will be taken, to test, whether treating goals are reached (see CRF for details). After one
      year a scheduled visit is mandatory to obtain laboratory samples, pulse and blood pressure to
      proof final therapeutic success based on the goal parameter, cholesterol, Nt-pro-BNP, heart
      rate, blood pressure, HBA1c. Group B patients will be cared by the treating physicians as
      before. The patient and the physicians will be informed about the results of the
      investigations. After 1 year the patients receive a scheduled visit, where demographic data,
      data about diabetic complications, lab samples, ECG, and blood pressure will be taken.
      Anamnesis about hospitalization and drug prescription will be obtained. If a patient
      prematurely dies, data will be obtained by the treating physician or other responsible
      institutions. After two years only data about hospitalization and death will be obtained by
      telephone contact with the patient or the Melderegister in Group A and B. Observation period:
      1 year Cohort: 150 patients in each group

        1. Stamler J., Vaqccaro O., Neaton JD., Wentworth D. Diabetes, other risk factors, and
           12year mortality for men screened in the multiple risk factor intervention trial
           Diabetes Care 1993;16:434-44

        2. Kannel WB, McGee DL. Diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors: the Framingham study.
           Circulation 1979;59(1):8-13.

        3. Almdal T, Scharling H, Jensen JS, Vestergaard H. The independent effect of type 2
           diabetes mellitus on ischemic heart disease, stroke, and death: a population-based study
           of 13,000 men and women with 20 years of follow-up. Arch Intern Med 2004;164(13):1422-6.

        4. Gaede P, Vedel P, Larsen N, Jensen G, Parving HH, Pedersen O. Multifactorial
           intervention and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med
           2003;348:383-93

        5. Pambianco G., Costacou T., Orchard TJ The prediction of major outcomes of type 1
           diabetes: a 12-year prospective evaluation of three separate definitions of the
           metabolic syndrome and their components and estimated glucose disposal rate: the
           Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications Study experience. Diabetes Care
           2007;30(5):1248-54

        6. Neuhold S, Nt-BNP as a short-term predictor of cardiovascular hospitalization or death
           in diabetic patients without history of cardiac disease compared to classical
           risk-factors EASD Meeting 2007 Amsterdam

        7. Dawson A; Jeyasslan S; Morris AD; Struthers AD. B-type natriuretic peptide as an
           alternative way of assessing total cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes
           mellitus Am J Cardiol.2005 Oct 1;96(7):933-4

        8. Tarnow L; Plasma N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and mortality in type 2
           diabetes Diabetologia 2006;49: 2256-2262

        9. Gaede Hildebrandt P, Hess G, Parving HH, Pedersen O. P; Plasma N-terminal pro-brain
           natriuretic peptide as a major risk marker for cardiovascular disease in patients with
           type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria Diabetologia 2005;48:156-163

       10. Bhalla MA; Prognostic role of b-type natriuretic peptide levels in patients with type 2
           diabetes mellitus JACC 2004;44:1047-54

       11. Mochizuki S, Dahlöf B, Shimizu M, Ikewaki K, Yoshikawa M, Taniguchi I, Ohta M, Yamada T,
           Ogawa K, Kanae K, Kawai M, Seki S, Okazaki F, Taniguchi M, Yoshida S, Tajima N; Jikei
           Heart Study group. Valsartan in a Japanese population with hypertension and other
           cardiovascular disease (Jikei Heart Study): a randomised, open-label, blinded endpoint
           morbidity-mortality study. Lancet. 2007 Apr 28;369(9571):1431-9.

       12. Lee T, Chen J, Cohen D, Tsao L. The association between blood pressure and mortality in
           patients with heart failure Am Heart J 2006 Jan;151(1):76-83

       13. Rauchhaus M, Clark AL, Doehner W, Davos C, Bolger A, Sharma R, Coats AJ, Anker SD. The
           relationship between cholesterol and survival in patients with chronic heart failure. J
           Am Coll Cardiol 2003 Dec 3;42(11):1933-40

       14. Bettencourt P, Friões F, Azevedo A, Dias P, Pimenta J, Rocha-Gonçalves F, Ferreira A.

           Prognostic information provided by serial measurements of brain natriuretic peptide in
           heart failure. Int J Cardiol. 2004 Jan;93(1):45-8.

       15. Guidelines on diabetes, pre-diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases: executive summary.
           The Task Force on Diabetes and Cardiovascular Diseases of the European Society of
           Cardiology (ESC) and of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Eur
           Heart J. 2007 Jan;28(1):88-136.
    
  