
    
      Grazoprevir/elbasvir combination therapy (grazoprevir 100 mg/ elbasvir 50 mg, Zepatier®, MSD)
      has been recommended as the 1st-line treatment for genotype 1b chronic hepatitis C by the
      updated international guidelines, and the rates of sustained virologic response (SVR) can be
      higher than 95% in either treatment-naïve or peginterferon-experienced patients with genotype
      1b chronic hepatitis C. Moreover, even among patients with liver cirrhosis, the efficacy of
      grazoprevir/elbasvir combination therapy remains very high. In addition, drug-related adverse
      effects (AEs) were quite low in previous studies, and less than 1% of cirrhotic patients
      discontinued this therapy during treatment period (4). Grazoprevir/elbasvir combination
      therapy is an effective and safe treatment for chronic hepatitis C.

      Chronic hepatitis C is one of the most common indications for liver transplantation. Patients
      underwent liver or kidney transplantation always suffer from recurrent chronic hepatitis C.
      Recurrent chronic hepatitis C can result in liver cirrhosis, liver decompensation, and death.
      Chronic hepatitis C is also associated with a higher incidence of chronic rejection, graft
      failure and mortality after kidney transplantation. Treating hepatitis C virus (HCV)
      infection after liver or kidney transplantation was a big challenge before the development of
      new direct-acting antiviral (DAA). Not only a low SVR rate but also a high rate of severe
      adverse effects results in the hesitation of peginterferon-ribavirin combination therapy.
      Although some new DAAs can be used in organ transplantation, the cost remains quite high.
      More new DAA choices for patients underwent organ transplantation are needed.

      The clinical data of grazoprevir/elbasvir combination therapy on the treatment for patients
      with chronic hepatitis C after liver or kidney transplantation remain lacking. With high
      virologic response rates and low adverse effects in the management for chronic hepatitis C,
      grazoprevir/elbasvir combination therapy could be a good option for patients underwent liver
      or kidney transplantation. No drug-drug interaction (DDI) was noted between
      grazoprevir/elbasvir combination therapy and steroid, and the DDI with the most commonly-used
      immunosuppressant, tacrolimus, was also not significant, The drug levels of
      immunosuppressants can be carefully monitored and adjusted during treatment period. The aim
      of this study is to assess the efficacy and tolerability of grazoprevir/elbasvir combination
      therapy in treating genotype 1b chronic hepatitis C after liver or kidney transplantation.
    
  