
    
      Introduction The face is an anatomically complex structure, consisting of skin, muscles for
      both fine and gross motor functions, a complex bony structure, and vital sensory organs.
      These structures allow one to eat, breathe, see, hear, and speak. Injuries to the face caused
      by traumatic events such as motor vehicle collisions, assault, and falls can result in facial
      trauma, which can result in swelling and disfiguration that impairs the important functions
      of the face, sometimes to a life threatening degree. These injures and the resultant swelling
      can also precipitate psychological and social consequences.1-3 Lymphedema is an abnormal
      amount of fluid that causes swelling, usually in the arms or legs. Though lymphedema can
      occur as a result of trauma, it is most commonly associated with side effects of certain
      cancer-related treatments such as radiation therapy and lymph node removal. The most common
      presentation of lymphedema is in the upper extremities due to breast cancer treatment.4 As
      such, standards of care for management of lymphedema are primarily derived from the cancer
      research literature and involve the extremities.5 The current gold standard treatment for
      patients with extremity lymphedema is complete decongestive therapy (CDT).6 CDT is a
      multimodal therapy consisting of four components: manual lymph drainage, compression
      wrapping, exercise, and skin care.6 Manual lymph drainage (MLD) is a delicate form of massage
      designed to improve tissue and cellular health by facilitating fluid removal from edematous
      areas. Compression wrapping utilizes compression garments or short stretch compression
      bandages and is primarily used in the acute (or intensive) phase of CDT as a means to
      reinstate sufficient resistance to skin tissues whose elastic fibers are damaged by
      lymphedema. Exercise, especially when combined with compression, improves removal of fluid
      from the affected area. Finally, skin care treatments keep skin clean and moisturized to
      reduce infections that can occur with lymphedema.6 These same therapeutic techniques of CDT
      have been employed at Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center (OLOLRMC) and adapted to
      treat facial edema in patients with facial trauma with anecdotally good results in terms of
      cosmesis. To the best of our knowledge, no clinical studies examining the effect of
      lymphedema treatment in the management of blunt facial trauma currently exist. Beyond the
      consideration of cosmesis, we also seek to determine if this intervention improves clinical
      outcomes such as time to swallowing and reduced time utilizing mechanical ventilation. This
      study will prospectively evaluate the use of complete decongestive therapy to test the
      hypothesis that this intervention results in improved clinical outcomes in patients with
      blunt facial trauma.

      Specific Aims Specific Aim I: To determine whether complete decongestive therapy can
      significantly reduce facial lymphedema as measured by a previously established facial
      composite scoring protocol.

      Specific Aim II: To determine whether complete decongestive therapy can improve clinical
      outcomes for patients with facial trauma Study Objective and Endpoints Study Objective The
      primary objective of this study is to determine the effect(s), if any, of complete
      decongestive therapy in the management of facial trauma.

      Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint will be the composite facial score measured on the day
      of discharge from the Trauma Neuro Critical Care (TNCC) intensive care unit (ICU) at OLOLRMC.
      This measurement is based on the Head & Neck Lymphedema (HNL) program at MD Anderson Cancer
      Center (MDACC) whose standard evaluation protocol includes specific point-to-point
      measurements of the face (Smith & Lewin 2010; Smith and Lewin 2014). A series of key facial
      measurements are totaled to provide a "composite facial score". Based on the clinical
      experience at MDACC with more than 150 patients, their HNL program has developed criteria to
      define clinically detectable improvements in external HNL. Those criteria are a drop in
      lymphedema stage or a minimum threshold of 2% reduction in the composite measurement equating
      to at least a 2-cm change in absolute values (Smith & Lewin 2014).

      Secondary endpoints

      Because the facial and neck composite scores only provide evaluation of the extent of edema,
      we also seek to assess patient outcomes with regards to the following:

        1. Stage of lymphedema as defined by the MDACC HNL edema rating scale

        2. Number of mechanical ventilation days

        3. Narcotic pain medicine utilization

        4. Steroid utilization

        5. Pain scale scores as determined by the Visual Analog Scale or the adult non-verbal pain
           score

        6. Time to swallowing

        7. ICU length of stay (ICULOS)

        8. Hospital length of stay (LOS)
    
  