
    
      The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recently reissued a Grade B recommendation,
      initially made in 2010, for clinicians to screen children ages 6-18 years for obesity and
      refer identified youth to comprehensive, multi-component programs with >26 contact hours that
      include nutrition and physical activity targets and are supported by behavioral strategies.
      Re-issue of this recommendation highlights the continued importance of comprehensive
      family-based obesity treatment programs with broad accessibility. The challenge in meeting
      this objective is the lack of community-based obesity treatments for children. The majority
      of children in the U.S. do not receive evidence-based treatment of obesity, with few such
      programs available to youth from low-income backgrounds.

      There are multiple efforts underway to broaden both the empirical support for, and
      accessibility of, pediatric weight management interventions. One such strategy is
      implementation within the primary care setting as families are already accustomed to
      attending visits for medical concerns and because physicians are important drivers of health
      behavior change. An alternative strategy, also with high impact potential, is embedding
      interventions in established organizations within the communities in which families live,
      thereby decreasing logistical barriers (e.g. transportation) and enhancing program
      credibility.

      The JOIN for ME program, developed as a collaboration between United HealthGroup and Y-USA,
      is an empirically tested, effective pediatric weight control intervention for children ages
      6-12 years that is delivered by facilitators within a community setting and potentially
      scalable nationally. The primary aim of this study is to test the effectiveness of the the
      JOIN for ME intervention in two different types of community setting, housing authorities and
      patient-centered medical homes, with the intention to increase equity and access to care for
      families in low-income settings. To accomplish this aim, formative qualitative work was
      conducted during 2019-2020 with key community stakeholders and families within the targeted
      community settings. The formative work resulted in adapting "participant facing" intervention
      materials and tools as well as the development of systems to connect families with local
      community resources. These developments will be implemented in intervention delivery as a
      means of increasing acceptability of the intervention and assessing its potential for broader
      scale dissemination within community settings. Further, certified Community Health Workers
      (CHWs) will deliver the proposed intervention given their ability to serve as intermediaries
      between healthcare systems and the community.

      A total of 128 children (ages 6-12) with BMI > 85th% will be enrolled in this study and
      receive the JOIN for ME weight control intervention. Participants will be assigned to active
      or delayed treatment conditions (4-month delay) based on an a priori set of rules pertaining
      to recruitment strategies and timeline. Evaluation of primary outcomes, change in child and
      parent weight status and health-related quality of life (HRQL), will be obtained at baseline,
      4 months, and 10 months.

      The following hypotheses will be tested:

        1. Children who receive the JOIN for ME program immediately will demonstrate greater
           decreases in percent over median BMI and zBMI from baseline to 4 months compared to
           those in the delayed treatment onset prior to receiving the intervention.

        2. Children who receive the JOIN for ME program immediately will demonstrate improvements
           in HRQL from baseline to 4 months compared to those in the delayed treatment onset.
    
  