
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effect of venlafaxine or another serotonin-reuptake inhibitor with vs
           without zolpidem, in terms of sleep continuity, in women with breast cancer or at high
           risk for developing breast cancer who experience hot flushes and associated sleep
           disorders.

        -  Compare quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified by concurrent use of serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SRI).

        -  Stratum 1 (no concurrent SRI): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral venlafaxine once daily and oral zolpidem once daily
                for 5 weeks*.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral venlafaxine once daily and oral placebo once daily
                for 5 weeks*.

        -  Stratum 2 (concurrently on SRI): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral zolpidem once daily for 5 weeks*.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 5 weeks*. NOTE: *After 5 weeks
                of study treatment, patients in stratum 1 may taper or continue venlafaxine over 2
                weeks (for a total duration of venlafaxine use of 7 weeks); patients in arm I of
                both strata may taper or continue zolpidem over 1 week (for a total duration of
                zolpidem use of 6 weeks); continuation or tapering of drugs in both arms occurs in
                an open-label fashion off study.

      In both strata, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      In both strata, hot flushes, sleep continuity, sleep quality, and quality of life are
      assessed at baseline and at weeks 1, 3, and 6.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 119 patients will be accrued for this study within 20 months.
    
  