
    
      This will be a multicenter, phase IV, interventional study to assess the efficacy and safety
      of Targin (Oxycodone/Naloxone) Korean patients with CIPN(Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral
      Neuropathy) who need opioid combination treatment with existing pregabalin of last dose prior
      to study enrollment without changing.

      Upon providing written informed consent, subject will be screened in the study and assessment
      will be performed at that time such as safety data (adverse event (AE)/serious adverse events
      (SAEs)) including laboratory results, physical examination, vital sign, medical history
      taking, 24 hours pain intensity score, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic
      Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT-GOG/NTX), physician's overall satisfaction and subject's
      overall satisfaction. If patient is eligible in inclusion/exclusion criteria at the time of
      visit 1, the patient will receive treatment with Targin. Re-screening, study drug dose
      interruption is not allowed. The duration of study drug dose interruption is defined as for 1
      week.

      Treatment with Targin will be started at 10/5mg twice daily for 4 weeks, and proper titration
      (up-titration) will be allowed at each visit according to the investigator's decision. Dose
      titration up to a maximum of Targin 40/20mg twice daily will be permitted during study
      period.

      The up-titration will be considered by investigator's judgement as followings; (1) if the
      rescue medication was used more than 2 times per day, on average or (2) based on the daily
      average Numeric Rating Scale (NRS), if the NRS was changed to worsen since the previous
      visit, (3) Investigator's judgement by considering any titration needed situation (e.g. dose,
      frequency of rescue medication).

      Safety laboratories will be obtained at baseline (visit 1) and study end (visit 4) in a local
      laboratory. The laboratory values within 4 weeks prior to baseline (visit 1) will be allowed
      to use at study visit 1.

      The rescue medication is the 5mg of (Immediate release codon trade mark)IRcodonTM .

      Patients will be withdrawn from the study if the following circumstance require study drug
      discontinuation:

      Failure of pain control (Failure of pain control will be decided by investigators judgement,
      e.g. there is poor pain control or lack of efficacy despite 2~3 times of up titration.)
      Adjustment of the other analgesics due to AEs except Targin or IRcodonTM Adjustment of the
      other major pain management modality (e.g. chemotherapy, radiotherapy, surgery, non-surgical
      interventional therapy, etc.) Withdrawal of informed consent Pregnancy Any other significant
      risk to the patient's safety in the clinical judgement of the investigator
    
  