
    
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) affects 11% of American children. ADHD is a
      source of considerable psychosocial, educational, and neurocognitive impairment. It is
      co-morbid with multiple psychiatric disorders and poses an economic burden. Pharmacotherapy
      is often the first-line treatment for children with ADHD, but such medications are associated
      with adverse effects, including insomnia, loss of appetite, headaches, stomachaches, tics,
      moodiness, and irritability. Further, concerns about substance misuse and diversion, as well
      as parental preference, can limit the use and utility of medications. These limitations
      underscore the urgency of developing behavioral interventions that do not pose such concerns.
      At this time, however, behavioral treatments for ADHD are generally less effective than
      pharmacotherapy, emphasizing the need for better non-pharmacologic interventions.

      Mindfulness-defined here as nonjudgmentally paying attention to the present moment-is a
      promising behavioral approach to ADHD treatment, as evidence suggests that mindfulness
      improves attention in both healthy adults, and those with ADHD. Mindfulness also improves
      neurocognitive outcomes in children and adolescents, including executive function and
      attention, suggesting that mindfulness may be an effective treatment for ADHD in young
      persons.

      This is a feasibility study of a novel intervention: Mindfulness-Based ADHD Treatment for
      Children (MBAT-C). MBAT-C is derived from Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR), a
      well-known and extensively-studied mindfulness intervention. Unlike all other
      mindfulness-based interventions, however, MBAT-C is tailored to the needs, abilities, and
      vulnerabilities of children with ADHD through the use of age-appropriate class length,
      homework assignments, contemplative practices, and discussion topics. Specifically, MBAT-C
      includes 16 twice-weekly 30-minute sessions over 8 weeks. Each session includes two brief
      meditations, discussion, an exercise, and homework.

      In this study, 45 children ages 7-13 with ADHD will be randomized into one of three treatment
      groups: MBAT-C, medication (MED), or a combined intervention (COM).

      The aims of the study are as follows:

      Aim 1: Evaluate feasibility of MBAT-C

      Aim 2. Measure within-group change from pre- to post-treatment on ADHD-relevant outcomes.
    
  