
    
      The diagnosis of CP, which can be observed with high risk infants, is based on the
      observation of many neurological and clinical signs. The diagnosis usually takes place
      between 12-24 months. In the past years, before 12-24 months, it was seen as a hidden or
      silent period that could not be fully defined in terms of CP. However, today this definition
      has been found invalid because the diagnosis of 'high risk of CP' or CP can be predicted
      precisely before the corrected 6 months.There are 3 methods with the best predictable
      validity of determining CP before the corrected 5-month period: Neonatal Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) (86% -89% sensitivity), Prechtl's Qualitative General Movement Assessment (GMs)
      (98% sensitivity), Hammersmith Infant Neurological Evaluation (HINE) (90% sensitivity).
      Various difficulties are encountered in long-term follow-up of infants who are discharged
      from neonatal intensive care units (NICU) in developing countries. Many of these infants are
      referred to pediatricians or pediatric neurologists as needed. Others are not routinely
      monitored. However, in order to encourage more consistent and disciplined early assessments
      for high-risk infants, the guides applied should be adapted to neonatal follow-up clinics.
      For this reason, various health professionals working in the field of Pediatrics should be
      supported in providing objective tests and training materials in order to provide
      coordination and create a common language in the follow-up process. It is known that the HINE
      test does not require certification training and whose reliability is valid, does not have a
      Turkish version. Using proven methods to determine these needs and to direct the necessary
      professionals is a more important guide for clinicians. In order to meet the needs in this
      field, the Turkish version of the HINE scale in 6-12 months of infants was adapted and this
      validity and reliability study was planned.
    
  