
    
      This is a double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled trial. We will evaluate two doses of
      selenium (50 and 200mcg) vs placebo over six months.

      Participants are postmenopausal women with osteopenia or osteoporosis (T-score -1.0 to -3.0).

      The investigators will include participants with any baseline serum selenium concentration
      for generalisability, but the primary endpoint efficacy analysis will only include women with
      baseline serum selenium below 120 mcg/l.

      Primary endpoint: Urinary N-telopeptide of type I collagen (NTX/Cr). Secondary endpoints:
      other bone turnover markers, BMD, muscle function, thyroid function, blood glucose,
      anti-oxidant activity, inflammatory markers The investigators will make the primary analysis
      based on women with baseline serum selenium below 120 mcg/l. To ensure adequate power for
      this analysis we will plan to recruit 120 women (we expect that 100 of the 120 will have
      serum selenium below 120 mcg/l based on our previous cross-sectional study). The
      investigators will review the baseline serum selenium results when 40 women have been
      recruited to confirm the expected distribution of baseline levels, and we will adjust the
      total recruitment number accordingly to ensure at least 99 women with serum selenium below
      120mcg/l have been randomised for the final primary endpoint intention-to-treat analysis.

      Participants will be randomised according to a schedule produced by Sheffield Teaching
      Hospitals pharmacy according to their standard operating procedure. Randomisation will be
      carried out independently of the study investigators using block randomisation. The blind
      will only be broken if judged by the PI as clinically necessary for the wellbeing of a
      participant.

      The study may be stopped early if the investigators, sponsor or DMEC identify a safety
      concern.

      Trial management will be done by the Academic Unit of Bone Metabolism CTIMP group (who meet
      monthly), and progress reported to the AUBM management group and Lay Panel. We will establish
      a TSC and DMEC.
    
  