
    
      We hypothesize that autologous fat grafting can provide a minimally invasive therapy
      facilitated by enabling technology of specialized instrumentation to effectively mitigate
      pain syndromes at amputation sites, by introducing volume stable subcutaneous tissue over
      bony prominences and peripheral nerve trunks, thereby avoiding surgical revisions and
      preserving limb length.

      We further hypothesize that enriching the fat graft with autologous adipose stromal cells
      utilizing the Tissue Gensis Cell Isolation System (CIS), a regenerative medicine approach,
      will lead to improved retention of the fat graft over time and result in a more favorable
      outcome.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Treat painful amputation sites in 30 patients with fat grafting to provide additional
           subcutaneous tissue padding over bony structures and nerve trunks. Limb anatomy and
           healing of the graft over time, along with stability/persistence of the new tissue, will
           be assessed by high resolution CT scanning with 3D reconstruction. Patients will be
           followed for 24 months after treatment to define long term outcomes. The primary outcome
           measures will be pain at the amputation site and improved ability to tolerate a
           prosthesis. Patients will be randomized to receive either standard fat grafting (15
           patients)or cell enriched fat grafting (15 patients). Patients will be enrolled who have
           pain at an amputation site that limits function and/or interferes with the ability to
           use a prosthesis.

        2. Assess biologic properties of the cells within the fat graft and correlate with clinical
           outcomes. This will include adipose stem cell yield per volume of fat tissue, cell
           proliferation, capacity for adipogenic differentiation, lipolysis, and cell
           sub-population analysis by multiparameter flow cytometry. Results of these assays will
           be correlated with graft volume retention to search for predictors of good clinical
           outcome that are related to variation on adipose biology between subjects.

        3. Measure quality of life in patients before and after autologous fat grafting using
           validated psychosocial measures. This will include, among other tools, SF 36, the Beck
           inventory, and instruments designed for assessing limb function.

      Study Design:

      Single center site, prospective, randomized, pilot outcomes study with treatment performed at
      the University of Pittsburgh.

      The primary outcome measurements will be: 1) fat graft retention at the amputation site; and
      2) improved ability to tolerate a prosthetic device. This study will examine if fat grafting
      with cell enrichment using the Tissue Gensis Cell Isolation System, (CIS) will demonstrate
      increased fat retention and decreased pain compared to standard fat grafting alone.

      Clinical Impact:

      This study will significantly impact military trauma care by validating a minimally invasive
      cell based technique for alleviating pain at amputation sites and improving function with a
      prosthesis. Importantly, the goal will be reached without invasive surgery, increased risk,
      and a prolonged recovery. Given the high amputation rate in the current conflicts, this work
      is highly relevant to the care of the wounded warrior. A major goal of this study will be to
      transfer the techniques and knowledge gained to physicians throughout the Department of
      Defense healthcare system.
    
  