
    
      The study was prospectively conducted between June 2020 and August 2020. Children
      hospitalized in Kayseri City Hospital Pediatric Infection Clinic for coronavirus disease and
      receiving oral AZ treatment were included in the study. Approval was obtained from the local
      ethics committee. Written informed consent was obtained from the patients and their families.
      AZ treatment was given as oral 10 mg / kg (maximum 500 mg) on Day 1, followed by 5 mg / kg
      (maximum 250 mg) on Days 2-5 once a daily. A 12-lead ECG was obtained before the treatment
      and on the 1st, 3rd and 5th days of the treatment. Patients who did not have at least one ECG
      before and after the treatment and whose QT and Tp-Te intervals could not be calculated due
      to excessively parasitic ECG were not included in the study.

      ECG was obtained with a GE Mac 2000® device with a paper speed of 25 mm / sec, 10 mv / mm
      amplitude standard. ECGs were scanned with a scanner and transferred to the computer as JPEG
      format. QT, Tp-Te intervals were measured by a pediatric cardiologist using ImageJ® program.

      Intervals between two consecutive R waves were defined as RR interval. QT interval was
      defined as the interval from the beginning of the QRS complex to the end of the T wave.

      The end of the T wave was defined as intersection of the terminal limb of the T wave with the
      isoelectric baseline. The longest and the shortest QT intervals across 12 leads were defined
      as the maximum QT (QTmax) and the minimum QT (QTmin) intervals, respectively. They were
      corrected according to heart rate by using the Bazett Formula and defined as corrected QTmax
      (QTmaxc) and corrected QTmin (QTminc), respectively. Bazett formula was preferred to provide
      uniformity and enable comparison with other studies [Bazett: QTc = QT/(RR)1/2]. QTc
      dispersion (QTcd) was defined as the difference between QTmaxc and QTminc.

      For the T-wave peak to T-wave end interval (Tp-e) measurement, time interval between peak of
      T wave, ie the time point in which T wave had highest amplitude and end of T wave which also
      was defined as the crossing point of T wave and isoelectric line was noted as a function of
      time. Tp-e was also corrected according to heart rate and referred as Tp-ec. The longest and
      the shortest Tp-e intervals were defined as the maximum Tp-e (Tp-emax) and the minimum Tp-e
      (Tp-emin) intervals, respectively. Tp-e dispersion (Tp-ed) was defined as the difference
      between Tp-emax and Tp-emin. Tp-e/QT and Tp-ec/QTc ratios were calculated as maximum and
      minimum seperately.13 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The normality of distribution of the ECG
      measurements and ratios were determined with Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Descriptive statistics
      are expressed as mean ± standard deviation (SD) for continuous variables and proportion for
      categorical variables. Friedman test was used to evaluate repetitive ECG measurements before
      and after treatment days. P value < 0.05 was considered as statistically significant. All
      statistical analyses were carried out with the Statistical Package for Social Science for
      Windows version 22.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL).
    
  