
    
      The pilot study is a prospective cohort study of consented subjects who require below knee or
      above knee amputation. The study will start with 18 subjects to assess proof of concept. If a
      correlation is identified, then a new proposal will be submitted with a larger cohort.

      Our hypothesis is that the Spy Elite System can help identify areas of poor tissue perfusion
      at the time of lower extremity amputation, and predict future potential wound healing
      complications.

      Primary outcome variables include wound healing at 30 days, and intra-operative imaging of
      amputation sites using the Spy Elite System. Secondary outcome variables include level of
      amputation, 30-day wound healing complications, readmission rate, need for revision, and
      subject demographics and co-morbidities.

      Subjects who agree to participation will undergo the amputations in the operating suite as
      per routine. The Spy Elite System will be implemented after final wound closure and prior to
      dressing placement. A single injection of 10 mg of Indocyanine Green will be administered,
      followed by 10 ml bolus of normal saline as per manufacturer IFU and recommendations
      (Attachments B, C, D). Recording from the Spy Elite Device will be saved for analysis. Also,
      a digital photograph of the surgical wound will be saved for comparison. No changes in
      operative management based on Spy Elite System will take place in this study.

      At subjects routine 30-day follow up appointment, wounds will be assessed for complications,
      a digital photograph of the incision will be saved, and secondary endpoints will be obtained.

      Possible correlations between perfusion values from the Spy Elite System recording and wound
      healing will be analyzed by the Investigators. The values will not be known until after the
      photos are taken and the investigators compare ischemic areas to normal areas based on the
      collected photographs.
    
  