
    
      Hyperbilirubinemia is a condition that occurs in newborns when there is too much bilirubin in
      the blood. It is the most common cause of newborns being readmitted to the hospital. It may
      be harmless or harmful depending on what the cause is and how bad it is. The serum level of
      bilirubin required for jaundice varies with infants skin tones and body region, however
      jaundice usually becomes visible in the white part of the eye at smaller levels. Although
      jaundice in newborn is generally not harmful, it is important to monitor newborns to identify
      those that are at risk of developing a neurological dysfunction from high bilirubin levels.
      As part of standard of care all hospitalized newborns are routinely monitored for the
      development of jaundice by nursing staff and physicians every 8-12 hours. Although jaundice
      in newborns can usually be detected by lightening/whitening in the skin with digital
      pressure, this method of visual estimation is very inaccurate and unreliable. Transcutaneous
      bilirubin measurements are non-invasive and has proven to be equivalent to total serum
      bilirubin measurements. The JM-103 has been proven to be an effective TcB measure in
      ethnically diverse populations for patients >35 weeks gestational age. The JM-105 has been
      upgraded from the JM-103 with greater efficiency and accuracy. The basic function is the same
      but has been improved with a larger touch screen, data storage and transmission
      functionality.

      This prospective multi-centre study will be conducted to determine the diagnostic accuracy
      and performance of the use of the JM-105 in providing transcutaneous bilirubin measurements
      to estimate serum total bilirubin in neonates ≥ 24 weeks of gestational age who have or have
      not undergone phototherapy. The study will compare each of the measurements of transcutaneous
      bilirubin (TcB) obtained for 10 days via the JM-105 device with a neonatology team-ordered
      series of serum total bilirubin (TSB) measured by high-performance liquid chromatography.
    
  