
    
      The management of malignant colorectal tumors pT1 after polypectomy is not yet standardized,
      for the presence of histological features increasing early lymph node involvement. Three
      recent meta-analysis have identified some pathological criteria influencing the risk of lymph
      node metastasis in early colorectal cancer, but there is not agreement in the conclusions
      between these articles. Because this uncertainty, the decision making criteria for this
      patients can be different in every Institute. Furthermore, the majority of the literature
      refers to surgical patients, with lack in demonstrating, at long-term, the absence of lymph
      nodes metastasis in patients not operated after endoscopic polypectomy.

      Retrospective study:

      From a retrospective period of 6 years, with at list 2 years of follow-up, all patients who
      underwent endoscopic polypectomy for malignant colorectal polyp pT1, will be enrolled for the
      study.

      The patients will be divided into two groups: patients who did only the endoscopic treatment
      (EG), and patients who underwent complementary surgery (SG).

      The most important histopathological criteria to list in the database, when available (to
      establish the high risk of lymph node metastasis) are as follows:

        1. Lateral margin of healthy tissue (high risk: <1mm and piecemeal polypectomy)

        2. Depth of submucosa invasion (high risk: >1000 μM or sm2-sm3 for sessile polyps and
           Haggitt level 4 for pedunculated polyps)

        3. Vascular invasion (high risk: presence); method of determination (Hematoxylin & Eosin or
           immunohistochemical marker)

        4. Lymphatic invasion (high risk: presence); method of determination (Hematoxylin & Eosin
           or immunohistochemical marker)

        5. Tumor budding (high risk: presence)

        6. Tumor differentiation (high risk: grade G3-G4 or mucinous)

      Other data to be reported are as follows:

        1. Demographic and clinical data for all patients

        2. Decisional context (multidisciplinary group decision; single specialist decision;
           patient decision) and decision making criteria for complementary surgery for all
           patients

        3. Type of surgical resection for SG, access (laparotomy, laparoscopy or transanal), site
           of lesion (right, transverse, left, sigmoid colon or rectum)

        4. Histopathological criteria, other than the 6 high risk criteria above

        5. Histopathological finding after surgical resection for SG

        6. Postoperative data (hospital stay, morbidity with Clavien-Dindo's classification) for SG

        7. Type and length of follow-up for all patients (EG and SG) (endoscopic surveillance,
           thoracic and abdominal CT scan, positron emission computed tomography (PET-CT),
           carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) determination, clinical examination)

      Prospective study:

      According to the histological characteristics, the patients will be considered with low risk
      (without any histological criteria), or with high risk (with at least one of six criteria).

      The histopathological criteria to consider the malignant polyps at high risk of lymph node
      metastasis are as follows:

        1. Lateral margin of healthy tissue <1mm and piecemeal polypectomy

        2. Depth of submucosa invasion >1000 μM or sm2-sm3 for sessile polyps and Haggitt level 4
           for pedunculated polyps

        3. Presence of vascular invasion, determined with the immunohistochemical marker CD34 or,
           in alternative, with Hematoxylin & Eosin

        4. Presence of lymphatic invasion, determined with the immunohistochemical marker D2-40 or,
           in alternative, with Hematoxylin & Eosin

        5. Presence of tumor budding (low and high grade)

        6. Tumor differentiation grade G3-G4 or mucinous

      Patients who will present at least one of these six criteria, will be considered at high risk
      for lymph node metastasis.

      Every Institute will take an independent decision about therapeutic strategy: only endoscopic
      treatment (EG), or complementary surgery (SG).

      To participate to the prospective study, is mandatory to obtain these 6 pathological
      characteristics.

      It is strongly recommended a multidisciplinary discussion for all patients, in presence of at
      least one surgeon, one endoscopist, one pathologist and one oncologist, as well as one
      radiotherapist for rectal lesions.

      The surgical resection for the colon can be performed with laparotomic, laparoscopic or
      robotic approach, based on single Institute surgical experience. For the rectum, the surgical
      approach (laparotomic, laparoscopic, robotic, transanal resection) will be decided by the
      surgical team in accordance with the multidisciplinary group, based on single Institute
      experience and patient clinical features.

      All patients (EG and SG) have to perform within one month from diagnosis or, in any way,
      before the surgery for SG, a thoracic and abdominal CT scan with contrast (for staging) and
      CEA determination.

      The histopathological finding to be reported after surgical resection for SG are as follows:
      number of lymph nodes, number of metastatic lymph nodes, margin distance from the site of
      polypectomy, local residual tumor.

      Follow-up program:

        -  EG: colonoscopy at 6 and 12 months for colic lesions, recto-sigmoidoscopy at 6, 18 and
           24 months and colonoscopy at 12 months for rectal lesions

        -  SG: colonoscopy at 12 months for colic lesions, recto-sigmoidoscopy at 6, 18 and 24
           months and colonoscopy at 12 months for rectal lesions

        -  Thoracic and abdominal CT scan with contrast at 12 and 24 months

        -  Clinical examination and CEA determination at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months

      Statistic analysis:

      Retrospective study: considering a 10% prevalence of pN+ patients with pT1 colorectal tumor,
      including the above 6 histopathological criteria as predictors in logistic regression model,
      the investigators estimate to retrospectively collect data from 600 patients.

      The continuous numerical data will be expressed as average and standard deviation or as
      median and interquartile range, if appropriate. A descriptive analysis for collected
      variables will be done and the pN+ prevalence will be calculated. A logistic recession model
      will be estimated, for evaluating the 6 histopathological criteria effect on presence of
      lymph node metastasis. Furthermore, the disease-free survival will be calculated with
      Kaplan-Meier method. A p-value < 0.05 will be considered significant. Statistic analysis will
      be done with Software 3.3.2 (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria).

      Prospective study: the investigators want to evaluate a sensibility of 0.80 for overall
      histopathological criterion (i.e., patients with at least one of six criteria are considered
      at high risk, patients without the six criteria are at low risk), in order that the maximum
      estimation error does not exceed 0.10, with a 95% confidence interval. Considering a 10%
      prevalence of pN+ patients with pT1 colorectal tumor, including the above 6 histopathological
      criteria as predictors in logistic regression model, the investigators estimate to
      prospectively collect data from 615 patients.

      The continuous numerical data will be expressed as average and standard deviation or as
      median and interquartile range, if appropriate. A descriptive analysis for collected
      variables will be done and the pN+ prevalence will be calculated. The diagnostic capacity of
      the overall histopathological criterion will be evaluated calculating sensibility,
      specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy. A similar
      evaluation will be done for every single histopathological criterion with explorative
      purpose, if appropriate. A p-value < 0.05 will be considered significant. Statistic analysis
      will be done with Software 3.3.2 (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria).

      Statement:

      With the retrospective observational study, the investigators can quickly have an extended
      overview about the current management of endoscopic pT1, to verify if there is, in fact,
      decisional heterogeneity, and to analyze the pathological criteria influence in lymph nodes
      metastasis. The limit of retrospective study, in the other side, is data heterogeneity, but
      this topic is recent, and it is normal not to have uniformity between different Institutes.
      This problem could be solved with the prospective study, where pathological criteria are
      included in the protocol itself. The strong points in this prospective project are: 1)
      uniformity in pathological analysis, 2) without any mandatory indication for complementary
      surgery, in order to maintain the observational nature of the study; 3) the multidisciplinary
      discussion for every patient, an aspect more and more required by hospital administrations,
      and 4) the uniformity in follow-up, that is a feature not yet clear in the literature for
      endoscopic pT1. Furthermore, this prospective study can be the base to create a national
      register, to set up future studies on this topic, as analysis of tumor molecular
      characteristics.

      The elaboration of this protocol followed the STROBE statement Guidelines and Explanation.
    
  