
    
      Our expected outcome include development of new treatment approaches for FI which are
      mechanistically based, effective, safe, low cost, less invasive, low risk and less dependent
      on patient compliance.

      The impact of our project include a new non-invasive treatment modality for FI, a scientific
      basis for the development of this treatment and improved understanding of the peripheral and
      central neuroenteric axis in FI.

      Aim 1: Test the hypothesis that neuromodulation therapy with combined repetitive translumbar
      magnetic stimulation (rTLMS) and transsacral magnetic stimulation (rTSMS) improves symptoms
      in FI patients. Investigators will evaluate the efficacy, safety and optimal frequency
      setting of rTLMS and rTSMS for FI by investigating whether 6 sessions of weekly therapy with
      1 Hz or 5Hz or 15 Hz magnetic stimulations of the lumbar and sacral regions provides
      therapeutic response in FI patients. Investigators will randomize 48 patients with FI and
      assess symptoms and anorectal function. The primary outcome measure will be the reduction in
      number of episodes of FI. The secondary outcome measures will be i) bowel symptoms/severity
      (FISI, FICA), ii) quality-of-life (FI-QOL), iii) psychosocial function, iv) anal sphincter
      pressures, v) rectal sensation, vi) rectal compliance. A safety assessment will monitor
      adverse effects.

      Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that repetitive translumbar magnetic stimulation (rTLMS) and
      transsacral magnetic stimulation (rTSMS) will improve FI symptoms and anorectal function
      through modulation of ascending and descending signaling pathways in the neuroenteric axis.
      Investigators will investigate the mechanistic basis for rTLMS/rTSMS therapy by examining the
      neuroenteric axis. Investigators will examine rectal and anal motor evoked potentials (MEPs)
      in 48 FI patients with transcranial, translumbar and transsacral magnetic stimulations
      (descending signaling), before and after 6 sessions of therapy with 1 Hz or 5 Hz or 15 Hz
      magnetic stimulations. Also, investigators will examine the cortical evoked potentials (CEP)
      after anal and rectal stimulation (ascending signaling). investigators will determine whether
      rTLMS and rTSMS therapy shortens latency and increases amplitude and area under curve (AUC)
      of anal and rectal MEPs and ano-cortical and recto-cortical CEPs when compared to baseline.
      Investigators will identify if the locus for improvement lies in the afferent signaling,
      efferent signaling or both and whether the neuroplastic changes are central or peripheral.
      The primary outcome measure for efferent signaling will be the latency of lumbo-anal and
      sacro-anal MEP responses and for afferent signaling will be the latency of ano-cortical CEP.
      Secondary outcome measures include anal and rectal electrical sensory thresholds,
      lumbo-rectal and sacro-rectal MEPs and recto-cortical CEPs and correlations of FI episodes
      and bowel symptoms with changes in latency and MEP measurements.

      Participants will maintain a two week prospective fecal incontinence symptom diary. Baseline
      questionnaires will be administered. Patients demonstrating at least one episode of fecal
      incontinence per week, on average, will be eligible, pending all other eligibility criteria
      is met. Patients will come for brain-gut assessment (as above) as well as baseline anorectal
      manometry (if needed per protocol specifications). Patients will be randomized to one of the
      three hertz groups and have treatment one within one week of baseline assessments. A total of
      six weekly treatments (with a +7 day window allowed), will occur. After the six treatments,
      patients will have all baseline assessments repeated (brain-gut assessments, anorectal
      manometry and questionnaires).
    
  