
    
      INTRODUCTION Following the first reported cases in China, there has been a worldwide pandemic
      of a new virus commonly known as, Coronavirus. The virus causes a number of conditions
      including; cough, high temperature, painful muscles and breathing difficulties. The disease
      the virus causes is known as Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). In the majority of cases
      these symptoms will get better without any treatment and without needing admission to
      hospital. In a small proportion of cases, the symptoms can be so bad that patients will need
      admission to hospital. Of the group admitted to hospital an even smaller group (approximately
      5% of all confirmed coronavirus cases) will need treatment in an intensive care unit. This is
      often for severe breathing difficulties and sometimes requires the patient to be put on a
      breathing machine. The breathing machine is also known as a life support machine or
      ventilator and needing its support is known as 'ventilation' or 'being ventilated'.

      In other conditions causing severe breathing difficulties requiring ventilation, pressure can
      be put on the right side of the heart ('the right heart [or right ventricle];' the part of
      the heart pumping blood to the lungs). This can cause the right heart to fail, struggling to
      pump blood forward and with a build-up of back pressure. This is also known as right heart
      (or ventricular) dysfunction. Patients needing ventilated, who develop problems with the
      right heart, are less likely to survive their intensive care stay. No scientists have
      examined whether patients with COVID-19, requiring ventilation, have problems with their
      right heart.

      METHODS Using noninvasive ultrasound scans of the heart (echocardiography) the investigators
      will explore whether ventilated patients in intensive care have problems with their right
      heart. The investigators will also collect blood samples to look for damage to the heart
      during this time.

      AIMS The aim of this study is to determine how many patients with COVID-19 needing
      ventilation have problems with the right heart. The investigators will explore if those
      patients with right heart problems are more likely to die by 30 days following their
      intensive care admission. By examining clinical data, the investigators will also look to see
      if any other conditions or treatments increase the risk of right heart problems. By
      identifying right heart problems in these patients, the investigators may be able to guide
      future studies to determine if any specific treatments targeted at protecting the right heart
      can improve outcomes in this patient group.
    
  