
    
      Osteoporosis affects approximately 1 in 3 women over the age of 50 and accounts for more days
      spent in hospital than diabetes and breast cancer; amongst women of that age group. Aging, a
      sedentary lifestyle, a poor diet and smoking are all risk factors. A healthy diet (including
      food rich in calcium, vitamin D and phytoestrogens) may protect against osteoporosis and risk
      of fractures. Phytoestrogens in the diet are of putative benefit through and post the
      menopause. The term phytoestrogens describes a wide variety of plant food derived chemicals
      having a structure similar to estradiol (oestrogen). The three main classes of phytoestrogens
      are the isoflavones, the lignans and coumestans. Oil seeds are a good source of lignans, with
      flaxseeds being particularly rich. Flaxseeds consumption has previously been associated with
      changes in bone turnover markers in postmenopausal women.

      This study therefore is designed to test the hypothesis that consumption of a quantity of
      flaxseeds achievable in an individual's habitual diet (40g) will induce improvements in bone
      turnover markers, mediated through the increased circulation of phytoestrogens, in
      postmenopausal women.

      . The study arms are i) A placebo control arm, volunteers consume a placebo 40g porridge
      (matched for fibre and fat with the flaxseed product) every day over 12 weeks, or ii) 40g of
      flaxseeds added to 40g porridge daily over a 12 week study period. Adherence to the
      intervention will be assessed via analysis of concentrations of the mammalian lignans
      enterolactone and enterodiol in urine. The primary outcome for the study will be changes in
      markers of bone health. The secondary outcomes for the study will be changes in urinary and
      plasma androgens. Volunteers will need to attend the Hugh Sinclair Unit of Human Nutrition
      clinical unit on four occasions to facilitate screening and the study visit.

      Volunteers will be required to provide a fasting blood (30ml; 2 tablespoons); 24 hr urine
      (started the day prior to each study visit) and faecal samples at all 3 study visits
      (baseline, weeks 6 and 12). As vitamin D status and bone turnover markers are related to bone
      health, the volunteers will be given the opportunity to undergo an additional measurement of
      total body composition using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) at baseline and week 12.
    
  