
    
      Dementia is a chronic, progressive neurodegenerative syndrome, characterized by an abroad
      category of non-reversible impairment in cerebral function, making a long-term and gradually
      decrease in the ability to mental cognitive tasks and performance of daily activities.

      The World Health Organization says that 47.5 million people around the world are living with
      dementia. Alzheimer's disease is the most common type of dementia. Alzheimer's disease is
      often getting worse with time, affecting memory, language, and thought.

      According to the record from Ministry of Health and welfare in Taiwan. The population over 65
      year-old is more than 3.36 million. It is estimated that there are more than 250,000 people
      with mental disabilities, and nearly 600,000 people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
      Alzheimer's disease is accounting for 60-70%, the most common type of dementia. With the
      aging of population, experts predict that the number of patients suffering from Alzheimer's
      disease will be up to 800,000.

      In 2016, a study based on the health insurance database in Taiwan showed that 78.2% of
      patients will take Chinese medical treatment, such as herbal medicine, acupuncture or
      traumatology medical therapy like massage after diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease during
      1997-2008.

      The clinical trial is a pilot study. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      efficacy of traditional Chinese herbal medicine(TCM) of Alzheimer's dementia. The
      participants diagnosed as Alzheimer's dementia will be given Traditional Chinese herbal
      medicine powder, each pack included of Jia Wei Xiao Yao San granule(5 gm), Gou Teng granule
      (1.1 gm),and Ba Ji Tian (1.1 gm), 2 times per day for 12 weeks. The participants will be
      assessed by the MMSE, IADL, NPI-Q, GDS, QOL-AD, CCMQ, which will be conducted at baseline,
      0weeks, 12weeks, and follow-up (16 weeks). To see if the traditional Chinese herbal medicine
      can improve the symptoms of Alzheimer's dementia or its related symptoms.
    
  