
    
      Purpose of our study Comparison of the effects of different physiotherapy and rehabilitation
      methods in hospitalization after Open Heart Surgery (OHS).

      Expected results: Routine cardiac rehabilitation program (RCRP) + virtual reality group and
      RCRP + inspiratory muscle training group pain, dyspnea, anxiety, depression, quality of life,
      respiratory muscle strength We believe that there will be good progress in pulmonary
      function, 6 minutes walking distance evaluation results, and best developments will occur in
      RCRP + virtual reality + inspiratory muscle training group.

      In this context, it is planned that patients undergoing OHS surgery will be randomly divided
      into 3 groups. Group 1 routine cardiac rehabilitation program (RCRP) 2. Group RCRP and
      inspiratory muscle training 3. Group RCRP and virtual reality application Treatment of
      patients will be administered twice daily during their stay in the hospital. The patients
      will be evaluated by clinical measurements and scales based on patient notification and
      before and after the treatment and their effectiveness and superiority over each other will
      be determined.

      Literature summary:

      Open Heart Surgery is one of the most effective and reliable treatment options in coronary
      artery diseases and the most common coronary artery bypass surgery in the world is used to
      prolong the life expectancy of patients and reduce symptoms. Patients undergoing cardiac
      rehabilitation program after Open Heart Surgery are extremely important and the benefits of
      cardiac rehabilitation; reduction in symptoms, exercise tolerance and increase in workforce,
      improvement in blood lipid and general risk profile, decrease in smoking, stress management
      and self-improvement, atherosclerotic status, new coronary attacks, hospitalizations,
      decreases in morbidity and mortality.Despite the well-known positive effects of open heart
      surgery, respiratory complications are common in patients with decreased respiratory muscle
      strength in the postoperative period.

      Inspiratory muscle training with yararlı Threshold iştir performed after open heart surgery
      helps to increase respiratory muscle strength and endurance, and potential beneficial effects
      have been demonstrated in cardiac patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.

      In a randomized controlled trial of 38 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery,
      respiratory muscle training has been shown to provide improvements in maximum inspiratory
      pressure, maximum expiratory pressure, peak flow rate, and tidal volume results. In another
      randomized controlled trial of 47 patients with coronary artery bypass surgery, the patients'
      postoperative ventilation capacity and respiratory muscle strength decreased. It was reported
      that inspiratory muscle training increased the tidal volume and vital capacity parameters.

      Hospitalization is an experience that increases the anxiety and anxiety of the individual.
      Individual in the hospital environment; they may feel threatened, feel fear and insecurity.
      Using virtual reality glasses can help patients to feel different in a different environment.
      This may be beneficial to the patient in eliminating the negative emotions brought by the
      hospital environment and may positively affect their participation in the treatment.

      Virtual reality applications, which have gained importance in many areas of medicine, have
      shown that improved exercise programs and enriched environment provide better functional
      performance in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. After reviewing the literature related to
      virtual reality combined rehabilitation applications after coronary artery bypass surgery,
      there are only three studies in the form of walking and exercise training in virtual
      environment.

      In a randomized controlled trial of 60 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery,
      the patients were divided into two groups: the traditional cardiac rehabilitation group and
      the additional virtual reality group of traditional cardiac rehabilitation. The patients were
      evaluated on the day of preoperative, postoperative first, third and discharge days with
      Functional Independence Measurement (FIM), 6 Minute Walk Test and Nottigham Health Profile.
      Traditional cardiac rehabilitation program applied to both groups twice a day was determined
      as breathing exercises, airway cleaning techniques, metabolic and motor exercise training. In
      the study group, motor exercises in traditional cardiac rehabilitation program were performed
      twice a day using virtual reality and kinesiotherapy. As a result of evaluations, cardiac
      rehabilitation combined with virtual reality application has been shown to provide better
      functional performance in patients.

      In 2006, 20 patients who had undergone coronary artery bypass surgery were included. It has
      been shown that a rehabilitation program with virtual reality applications is useful to
      improve the physical capacity of patients. In another study conducted on 32 patients
      undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery in 2005, it was reported that the inclusion of a
      virtual reality environment in cardiac rehabilitation programs would accelerate the maximum
      recovery of patients' cardiovascular functions.

      In the literature, there is no study in which the inspiratory muscle training was performed
      in a virtual environment created by virtual reality glasses.
    
  