
    
      The study uses a replicated randomized single case design. Twelve participants were recruited
      from three pain clinics and five primary care centers in different municipalities in central
      Sweden. The clinics and care centers provided addresses and sent a total of 600 letters with
      information regarding the study to patients who had completed a multimodal pain
      rehabilitation (MMR) at their facility within the last three years. Participants were also
      recruited via the Internet through an advertisement on Google Ads that was visible for two
      months. No reward was offered for taking part in the study. Potential participants were
      screened and provided demographic information on a secure internet based platform. Afterwards
      all screened individuals received a telephone call. Excluded individuals were informed about
      the reason for exclusion and given recommendations regarding alternative treatment options
      when indicated. Eligible participants were screened further using selected parts of the Mini
      International Neuropsychiatric Interview. They were also given more information about the
      study and invited to ask questions. Individuals who met selection criteria were randomized in
      blocks of four using randomizer.org and half participated in an initial pilot study while
      half participated in the treatment study reported here. Participants for the treatment study
      were thereafter randomized to either a short (five week) or a long (10 week) baseline as well
      as separately randomized to one of five therapists. Therapists were two clinical psychology
      students in their last year of training, one graduated clinical psychologist, one
      postgraduate clinical psychology fellow and one certified clinical psychologist. Participants
      gave written informed consent by sending in a form included in the initial information
      letter.

      Participants were 12 individuals with chronic pain problems. The sample consisted of 9
      females (75 %) and 3 males (25 %). Participants' age ranged from 30 to 60 (M= 47, sd= 9). See
      table 1 for further description of the participants. All participants had completed MMR
      within the past three years.

      Participants for the treatment study filled in baseline measurements at between 3 and 10 time
      points. Baseline measurements were separated by at least five days. In connection with the
      last baseline measurement, participants filled out pretreatment measurements and started
      treatment, consisting of 10 weekly modules. Process measurements were filled out once every
      module, as well as longer measurements at mid- and post treatment. A follow-up was done via
      the platform after 3 months. Treatment consisted of 10 weeks of internet delivered, therapist
      guided CBT based self-help treatment based on the Unified Protocol.
    
  