
    
      The "Agricultural Health Study" (AHS) is a collaborative effort between the National Cancer
      Institute and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. The U.S. Environmental
      Protection Agency and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health are providing
      support for a limited exposure assessment effort. Initial data collection on a prospective
      cohort of 89,655 study subjects has been completed as of December 1997. Participants
      completed questionnaires that included items on pesticides used, other agricultural
      exposures, and work practices that modify exposure as well as on other activities that may
      affect either exposure or disease risks (e.g., diet, exercise, alcohol consumption, medical
      conditions, family history of cancer, other occupations and smoking history). Phase II of the
      study (1998-2003) updated information on occupational exposures, diet, work practices and
      medical history by means of a computer assisted telephone interview. We also collected buccal
      cells on sample of 34,000 study participants to assess the effect of inheritable
      polymorphisms and the interaction of environment and genomic predisposition. The stimulus for
      this prospective investigation comes from the growing evidence that, despite a low mortality
      overall, farmers experience an excess of several cancers. These excesses have been observed
      in retrospective epidemiological studies among agricultural workers in several countries.
      Excess cancers are observed for the lymphatic and hematopoietic system, connective tissue,
      skin, brain, prostate, stomach and lips. Several of these tumors (brain, NHL, multiple
      myeloma, and prostate) are also increasing in the general population in many of these
      countries. This suggests a common set of exposures may explain the high rates in farmers and
      rising rates in the general population.

      Farmers, their families, and other pest control workers may have contact with a variety of
      potentially hazardous substances including pesticides, solvents, fuels and oils, engine
      exhaust, dust and zoonotic viruses and other microbes. Our cohort study includes all
      registered pesticide applicators in Iowa and North Carolina and the spouse of applicators who
      are farmers. The health effects of pesticide use are the primary focus of the study. The
      influence of other farm exposures are also being evaluated.
    
  