
    
      Impaired mobility is strongly linked to cognitive function and vice versa. Cognitive
      functions are strongly associated with mobility function, most commonly assessed using gait
      speed. In the Health ABC Study, Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST) and Modified Mini
      Mental Status (3MS) scores were significantly associated with gait speed and gait speed
      decline. Poor lower extremity performance predicts faster age-related cognitive decline and
      increased incidence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia. This study will explore
      the role of tau protein as the neuropathologic basis for these associations.

      Brain imaging markers may be the link between cognitive measures and gait. White matter
      disease is commonly measured by quantifying white matter (WM) lesion load, which is
      associated with small vessel ischemic disease. More subtle microstructural changes can be
      observed by calculating fractional anisotropy (FA) from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Aging
      is accompanied by changes in cortical volume, white matter microstructure and an increased
      prevalence of WM lesions. WM lesions have been strongly implicated in declining physical
      function. These brain changes are associated with impaired balance, slower movement speeds,
      slower chair stand times and increased falls risk.Recently, Aâ accumulation in the brain has
      also been linked to slow gait. This finding suggests a pathologic mechanism linking Alzheimer
      s disease processes to gait impairments. However, Aâ accumulation itself may not be the
      critical neuropathic change. In recent studies of Aâ42 and phosphorylated tau protein in
      cerebral spinal fluid, it has been found that low Aâ42 levels themselves are not associated
      with impaired cognition, but that elevated tau levels are also required. If the process of
      cognitive impairment parallels the process of gait impairment, it might be that tau levels
      are more important correlates of gait changes. To the investigators' knowledge the
      relationship between CSF tau levels and mobility has never been explored. PET ligands for
      brain tau have recently become available, but the relationship between brain tau accumulation
      and gait has yet to be determined. In this study, investigators will relate gait
      characteristics to CSF Aâ42 and phosphorylated tau levels, and perform brain PET imaging in a
      subset to related tau protein accumulation to gait characteristics for the first time. Both
      mobility impairment and Alzheimers disease (AD) occur in the context of the aging vascular
      system. Over the past 15 years, it has been recognized that abnormalities of thoracic aortic
      stiffness are associated with the development of abnormalities in small vessels supplying the
      brain and kidneys. As the aorta stiffens, the propagation speed of the systolic flow wave
      increases through the aortic lumen. (Stiffness within the thoracic aorta can be accomplished
      through measurement of aortic pulse wave velocity.) In hypertensive patients, aortic archway
      pulse wave velocity has been associated with increases in left ventricular mass as well as
      lacunar brain infarcts independent of age, sex, and the duration of hypertension. In the
      Multi-Ethnic Dallas Heart Study aortic arch pulse wave velocity is an independent predictor
      of white matter hyper-intensities. In those with diabetes, increasing aortic stiffness
      contributes to the development of small vessel microvascular dysfunction which is associated
      with deep white matter atrophy as well as cognitive decline. Recently, a stiffness mismatch
      between the thoracic aorta and small vessels within the cerebral microcirculation has been
      described. This mismatch impacts microvascular pulsatility and appears to diminish diffusion
      anisotrophy between the cerebral spinal fluid and the CNS microcirculation. This observation
      may contribute to retained amyloid type protein in those with AD.
    
  