
    
      Design: The PCI California Audit Monitored Pilot with Offsite Surgery (PCI-CAMPOS) program is
      a prospective, multi-center pilot trial allowing elective PCIs at hospitals without on-site
      cardiovascular surgery in California. The pilot program was established by California Senate
      Bill No. 891 (SB 891) which was enacted in January 2009 authorizing the California Department
      of Public Health (CDPH) to set up a pilot program to allow California hospitals without
      surgery on-site to perform elective PCIs. The PCI-CAMPOS program was designed to compare PCI
      outcomes at the pilot hospitals with offsite cardiac surgery to PCI outcomes at established
      California hospitals with onsite cardiac surgery.

      The CDPH requested pilot hospital applications in December 2009, selected 6 hospitals out of
      over 30 applicant hospitals in May 2010 and contracted with University of California, Davis
      (UCD) to train, audit, and monitor the program. The CDPH appointed a 12 member Advisory
      Oversight Committee (AOC) with 6 at-large members nominated by the California American
      College of Cardiology (CAACC) and 6 members from the pilot hospitals (1 principal
      investigator from each participating pilot hospital). The pilot program was funded by CDPH
      from fee assessments of participating pilot hospitals. The study was approved by the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) at each pilot hospital and at the University of UCD
      coordinating center, and each patient is asked to provide written informed consent for pilot
      participation (unless unavailable in critically ill patients).

      The National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR®) CathPCI Registry (v. 4.3, 4.4) was selected
      as the data entry format for both pilot hospitals and non-pilot hospitals. The pilot PCI data
      is entered using the NCDR® CathPCI Registry v.4.3 and v.4.4 on an internet accessible UCD
      Velos server (Velos eResearch v9.1.2, Velos, Inc., Fremont, CA). The non-pilot hospitals
      enter their data using various NCDR® approved onsite software or the central NCDR® CathPCI
      v.4.3 and v.4.4 website. The pilot hospital data is entered within 72 hours of each procedure
      and immediately available to the PCI-CAMPOS coordinating center. The non-pilot data is
      entered individually or obtained from quarterly data harvests submitted to NCDR®. After
      masking patient, operator, and hospital identity, this non-pilot California NCDR® CathPCI
      registry data is downloaded annually from the NCDR® center to the UCD PCI-CAMPOS coordinating
      center. The UCD coordinating center performs all pilot audits and has full access to the
      pilot information. The UCD coordinating center performs all pilot and comparative analyses.
      Interim data summaries and analyses are presented to the full AOC for review at 6-12 month
      intervals throughout the study.

      Outcomes: The pilot hospital outcomes are compared with hospital outcomes from non-pilot
      California hospitals performing either elective PCIs with surgery on-site or ST segment
      elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) only PCIs. The non-pilot clinical data is obtained
      from the 120 California hospitals that submit their clinical data directly to the NCDR® data
      center and is used for the analysis of the data. Both the non-pilot and pilot data sets are
      analyzed and compared using SAS statistical software (version 9.3 for Windows, SAS Institute,
      Cary, NC).

      Study Participants Hospitals: The non-pilot hospital group consists of all 120 California
      hospitals which submit PCI data directly to the NCDR® central database. For all elective
      PCIs, these hospitals have on-site surgery available for any post-PCI patients who require
      emergency coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery.

      The pilot hospital group consists of all 6 hospitals selected by the CDPH, which met the
      eligible hospital criteria as required by SB891 SEC.2. Section 1256.01 (c) (09/25/2008).

      Operators: Operators are approved to perform procedures under the pilot program based on the
      operator criteria as required by SB891 SEC.2. Section 1256.01 (c) (09/25/2008). Pilot
      operators underwent training for the assessment of the operator, and the assessment of
      patient inclusion and exclusion requirements by UCD staff and were also were required to pass
      a competency exam. Non-pilot operators did not receive special training and their identity
      was masked to comply with NCDR® requirements.

      Emergency (and salvage) pilot hospital PCIs are performed by any credentialed
      interventionalists at the pilot hospitals. Non-emergent (elective, urgent) PCIs are
      redirected to the pre-qualified pilot operators.

      Coders: Data entry coders at each pilot hospital received an initial 1 day training session,
      followed by a competency exam. On-going training, telephone, and email access to the
      coordinating center are available throughout the program. Non-pilot coding is also performed
      by coders at each onsite hospital participating in the NCDR® CathPCI Registry.

      Patients: All pilot hospital patients who consent and meet the SB891 SEC.2. Section 1256.01
      (A through D) (09/25/2008) selection criteria for PCI at pilot hospitals are enrolled in the
      program. All patients with STEMI who present to the pilot hospitals are included in the STEMI
      PCI group. STEMI-excluded patients who are low to moderate risk for complications are
      included in the STEMI-excluded group. Patients deemed high-risk (both high lesion and patient
      risk) for complications are excluded from the pilot program. These high-risk patients are
      either discharged or transferred to non-pilot hospitals with onsite surgery for
      revascularization with PCI or CABG.

      Pilot Protocol After completion of each PCI, the required information is entered online into
      the NCDR® CathPCI Registry v.4.3 and v.4.4 UCD server. All cases are then reviewed by the
      central coordinating site for data field completion and data consistency. All cases with
      complications [death, stoke, CABG, shock, congestive heart failure (CHF), cardiac arrest,
      IABP (intra-aortic balloon pump), perforation, significant dissection, tamponade, and new
      requirement for dialysis] and a randomized 10% of non-complication cases are then selected
      for a pilot-site audit that includes a review of all medical records and angiographic images.
      Audit reviews produce multiple queries that are transmitted to the hospital coders for
      discussion with operators. An iterative process eventually leads to a consensus agreement in
      most cases. In rare cases, when auditor-operator agreement is not achieved, the case is
      referred to the angiographic committee or to the AOC for a final determination. The patient
      and procedure data is stored on the Velos Server; the angiographic images are saved on an
      Xcelera R3.3L1 Server (Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V.); and the statistical analyses
      are stored and performed on SAS software, version 9.3 for Windows (SAS Institute, Cary, NC).

      Non-pilot Audits: California hospital PCI data that is submitted individually or at 3 month
      harvests to the NCDR® central database is reviewed for completeness and data accuracy by
      NCDR® and receives a red, yellow, or green light before acceptance. The vast majority of the
      hospitals in California that perform PCI participate in the NCDR CathPCI registry. The NCDR®
      in addition to employing robust data quality strategies for its participating hospitals also
      performs a limited number of site audits to directly assess data accuracy. The complete NCDR®
      non-pilot California data is downloaded annually to the UCD central site for comparison
      analysis. The downloaded data is masked to protect patient, operator, and hospital identity.

      Statistical analysis: A PCI risk model has been developed and risk-adjusted endpoints are
      compared for the 6 pilot and 120 non-pilot hospital PCI procedures. To compare the
      demographic and clinical profiles and observed outcomes between CA-NCDR® (non-pilot)and
      PCI-CAMPOS (pilot), all continuous and categorical variables are reported as mean ± standard
      deviation (SD) or percentages, and compared with the t test or chi-square test (two tailed),
      respectively. The primary safety endpoint is a composite event which includes in-hospital
      death (regardless of length of stay), stroke, and/or patients who were transferred for an
      emergent CABG. The non-pilot data and the pilot data are merged as a single data source for
      development of the risk adjustment models for the composite outcome. With the combined data,
      we perform a bi-variable analysis to identify significant demographic and clinical risk
      factors for the composite outcome and serve as candidate risk factors for the multivariable
      logistic risk models. We developed both parsimonious and refined risk models with the
      combined data and use only non-pilot data for model validation purpose. All models are
      evaluated with the Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness-of-fit statistic. The c- statistic is reported as
      a measure of predictive power. The refined model is then used for computation of provider's
      expected and risk-adjusted composite event rates. A general linear model for analysis of
      variance (GLM/ANOVA) is used to compare observed, expected and risk-adjusted composite event
      rates between CA-NCDR® and PCI-CAMPOS hospitals. We further compute 95% confidence interval
      (CI) of provider's risk-adjusted composite event rate using the Poisson exact probability
      method for pilot and non-pilot hospitals and pilot operators. We determine provider's
      performance rating based on a comparison of the 95%CI of provider's risk-adjusted composite
      event rates and to the California average composite event rate that includes both CABG
      on-site and off-site hospitals. Two performance rating analyses are conducted for hospitals
      (or operators in pilot hospitals): (1) based on all PCIs and (2) based on PCIs with STEMI
      excluded. We also assess the correlation between provider's total and STEMI excluded PCI
      volume and risk-adjusted composite event rate among hospitals and operators in pilot
      hospitals. All reported p-values are 2-sided, and p-value < 0.05 are considered to be
      statistically significant. All statistical analyses are conducted at the UCD with the use of
      SAS software, version 9.3 for Windows (SAS Institute, Cary, NC).
    
  