
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major burden for the affected patients, who
      are continuously struggling with the hallmark symptoms breathlessness, cough, and sputum
      together with high levels of anxiety and depression and impairment of quality of life (QoL).
      The potential value of complementary interventions in COPD has long been recognised, yet so
      far, no overall significant effects of psychosocial intervention programs such as cognitive
      behavioural therapy or supportive/analytical psychotherapy have been found.

      Mindfulness-based interventions have been shown to improve levels of physical symptoms,
      stress, anxiety, depression, and QoL in other chronic conditions, and could also be relevant
      in COPD. The present randomized controlled trial will test the efficacy of mindfulness-based
      cognitive therapy (MBCT) in COPD patients. The investigators hypothesize that compared to
      treatment-as-usual, the add-on of MBCT will result in improved psychological (anxiety,
      depression) and physical outcomes (physical health status, activity level, inflammatory
      markers). Furthermore, the investigators will explore the possible moderating role of
      individual differences in sociodemographic and disease-related characteristics and the
      perceived quality of the therapeutic alliance, as well as the mediating role of mindfulness,
      breathlessness catastrophizing, self-efficacy, and self-compassion for the hypothesised
      effect.

      Patients recruited from the Department of Respiratory Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital,
      will be randomized to participate in either an 8-week MBCT program as an add-on to the
      already established pulmonary rehabilitation program (intervention group) or pulmonary
      rehabilitation only (treatment-as-usual). Questionnaires assessing outcomes, mediators and
      moderators will be completed before, during, and after the intervention as well as at a 3 and
      6 mo. follow-up.

      This study will be one of the first to test the efficacy of MBCT in COPD, bringing attention
      to a patient group that is relatively ignored by the public as well as in the health
      psychological empirical literature.

      After data collection, but prior to analysis, inaccuracies in the content of the registration
      were discovered. Some changes made prior to recruitment of the first participant had not been
      registered. The inaccuracies were amended in an update, 15 February 2017: 1) The primary
      outcome measure of iBODE (objective physical health status) was omitted (no data were
      collected). 2) The time frame for primary outcomes was changed from "Baseline, week 8" to
      "Baseline, 6 mo. follow-up". 3) Prior to data collection, three variables to be included in
      moderator and mediator analyses were added (therapeutic working alliance, mindfulness, and
      breathlessness catastrophizing).
    
  