
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the safety and response rate of activated marrow infiltrating lymphocytes
           (aMILs) in patients undergoing autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for
           newly diagnosed, stage II-III multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the overall in vitro fold-expansion and assess pre- and post-expansion for
           myeloma T-cell specificity in assessing the feasibility of generating aMILs from myeloma
           patients.

        -  Assess the toxicity of aMILs.

        -  Evaluate the effect of aMILs on hematopoietic engraftment, including neutrophil
           engraftment, platelet engraftment, and primary graft failure (if failure occurs).

        -  Evaluate response rates utilizing the Blade criteria, including the complete response
           (CR) rate, near complete response (nCR) rate, very good partial response (VGPR) rate,
           partial response (PR) rate, minimal response (MR) rate, and overall response rate (CR,
           VGPR, PR, MR).

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate T-cell reconstitution, including absolute lymphocyte counts, CD3+, CD4+, and
           CD8+ T-cell counts.

        -  Evaluate progression-free survival and overall survival.

        -  Evaluate anti-tumor immune response.

        -  Determine pneumococcal-specific vaccine responses.

        -  Determine delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo collection of marrow infiltrating lymphocytes (MILs)* either at
      diagnosis prior to the initiation of induction therapy or upon completion of induction
      therapy. The MILs bone marrow product undergo ex vivo activation and expansion of T cells for
      7-8 days to produce activated marrow infiltrating lymphocytes (aMILs). Patients then undergo
      stem cell mobilization and leukapheresis to collect the peripheral blood stem cells 12 days
      after mobilization. Patients receive melphalan IV over 20-30 minutes on days -2 and -1 and
      undergo a peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0 as planned. Patients receive
      aMILs infusion on day 3. Patients receive pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine on day 21.

      NOTE: *Patients who have completed induction therapy receive pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine
      approximately 2 weeks prior to MILs collection; patients undergoing MILs collection prior to
      starting induction therapy do not receive a pre-transplantation vaccine.

      Blood and bone marrow samples are collected periodically for laboratory correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 1 year.
    
  