
    
      The current pandemic caused by the rapid spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) demands urgent reorganization. Hospital multidisciplinary and
      departmental collaboration was required to work on all the principles of overvoltage
      capacity, including: new space definition; provision's resources; staff recruitment; and ad
      hoc training. Likewise, assistant protocols suffered continuous modifications to deal with
      this new situation.

      Catalonia is one of the 17 autonomous communities of Spain and it has been granted global
      competencies in the area of healthcare. The Catalan healthcare model is a multi-provider one
      integrated in a unique public network. The organization is structured in four integrated
      health areas, one of which is the Integrated Health Area of Barcelona Esquerra (Área Integral
      de Salud de Barcelona Esquerra - AIS-BE), caring for a population of 524,000 inhabitants,
      representing 35% of the population of Barcelona. The territory referred to this study,
      includes the Hospital Clinic as reference center, two general hospitals and 19 primary care
      centers. The Hospital Clínic -a tertiary university hospital- is a public institution with a
      long reputation of excellence in care provision, training and research at national and
      international level.

      The management of the Hospital Clinic worked on a contingency plan, at internal and
      territorial level, together with the Health Department of the Generalitat de Catalunya. For
      the internal contingency plan to deal with the pandemic, different committees were created.
      Two of them were the Technical /Operational Committee and the ICU Committee. The technical
      committee included the Departments of Internal Medicine, Infections, Pneumology, Microbiology
      and all the medical and surgical departments with ICUs, occupational health, and the
      transversal Home Hospitalization Unit (HH) to maximize cooperation among professionals,
      levels of care and institutions. Hospital-at-home is defined as the service in charge of
      providing active treatment by health care professionals, in patient's house, for a condition
      that otherwise would require traditional hospitalization for a limited period of time (8).
      Hospital-at-home is a safe and cost effectiveness service, and has become a popular response
      to the increasing demand for acute hospital beds.

      The idea of transforming a hotel into a healthcare facility wanted to solve three needs: a)
      grouping patients who required HH, b) providing more beds (offering intermediate care to
      patients who didn't require critical care) and c) allowing the isolation of people who cannot
      do it at home.

      This paper consists in an observational and descriptive study with a cross-sectional design,
      in which we analyze patients' experience during admission in a Medicalized Hotel using a
      validate survey.

      The study population consisted of patients admitted in Medicalized Hotel led by Hospital
      Clinic, Barcelona from 25th March to 8th May.

      Inclusion criteria: All patients admitted in Medicalized Hospital who agreed to participate
      in the study Exclusion criteria: non localized or localized but rejected to participate,
      language barrier and dementia.

      Data collection: The Picker Patient Experience Questionnaire validated into Spanish was used
      to measure the patient experience. The PPE-15 was developed to elicit feedback from patients
      to highlight aspects of care that needed improvement and to monitor performance and care.

      Participants included in this analysis responded voluntarily to an online questionnaire
      distributed by mail, focused on their experiences around Medicalized Hotel admissions and
      transitional care strategies after 1 month of discharge. The questionnaire was carried out by
      telephone to the patients who did not have email address. The investigators, reported if the
      questionnaire was self-administered or by phone. The investigators used the platform
      "enquesta.clinic.cat" that guarantees confidentiality and security and no identification
      details were collected.

      Other variables collected: Socio-demographic data, such as gender, age, nationality, civil
      status (married, single, widow/widower, in a relationship), housing status (living alone or
      not), educational level (compulsory school, upper secondary school or university), and
      employment status (still working or not), and review clinical records, like length of
      Medicalized Hotel stay (days of admission), inpatient's unit (those who had been in a ICU),
      patients discharge destination and comorbidities (Charlson Comorbidity Index). The data
      collected from the medical history database were encrypted and stored in an internal and
      safety server.

      All participants were informed in advance about the aim of the study. They received all
      recommendations given by legal services of the Hospital Clinic and were invited to
      participate. The confirmation of the study participation, as well as allowing the researchers
      to use the information collected from medical history, will be made by clicking the link to
      access into the questionnaire. This study was approved by the Ethics and Investigation
      Committee of the Hospital Clinic (CEIm).
    
  