
    
      Over the last decades, the use of combined antiretroviral therapy has led to profound
      suppression of HIV-1 replication and increased the survival of persons living with HIV (PLWH)
      to close to that of the general population. As a consequence, the spectrum of diseases
      related to HIV has shifted from opportunistic AIDS-related diseases towards
      long-term-age-related complications. Individuals living with HIV are now exhibiting
      accelerated development of obesity, metabolic derangements and cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      Recent compelling clinical evidence has documented a drastic shift in anthropometric profiles
      among persons living with HIV. In addition, several reports present dolutegravir, a
      second-generation integrase inhibitor currently highly prescribed for its high antiviral
      efficiency, as the potential cause of unpredicted weight gain. A critical gap in the
      investigators' knowledge is a lack of understanding of the etiopathology of the contribution
      of dolutegravir on weight gain and the consequential impact on obesity and cardiovascular
      disease in persons living with HIV on combined antiretroviral therapy. As overweight and
      obesity are among the leading risk factors for cardiovascular disease in persons living with
      HIV, it is critical to directly investigate whether dolutegravir increases fat mass in
      persons living with HIV and whether body weight gains-associated with dolutegravir based
      regimen contribute to the increased prevalence of CVD in this population of people.

      This application seeks to investigate alterations in body fat and cardiometabolic risk
      markers associated with dolutegravir. The investigators propose that in patients with
      undetectable plasma HIV RNA, there is a direct correlation of weight gain and dolutegravir
      after antiretroviral regimen switch. They also contend that dolutegravir associated weight
      gain induces a phenotypic metabolic shift which alters the vascular endothelium and
      potentiates CVD risk. If the investigators are correct in their hypotheses, modifications in
      the clinical practice of treatment and prevention strategies for CVD in people living with
      HIV may be warranted.

      Herein the investigators propose a novel translational study which will concomitantly
      investigate in human patients and animal models of HIV:

        1. whether dolutegravir based regimen increases body weight

        2. the mechanisms whereby dolutegravir increases body weight

        3. whether dolutegravir-mediated body weight gain increases the risk for CVD in PLWH.
    
  