
    
      Background/Significance The number of youth visiting the ED with MH issues has risen
      dramatically in the last decade.1 EDs have become a safety net for a strained mental health
      system that is under resourced and lacks adequate services to meet demands at the impatient
      and outpatient level.2 EDs bear a high burden of caring for children and adolescents with
      acute psychiatric illness, and pediatric patients with MH-related visits require substantial
      ED resources.2,3 Visits to the ED for MH are longer, more likely to be triaged to urgent
      evaluation and result in more admissions or transfers compared to visits for other
      reasons.4,5 ED revisits are also are also common in pediatric MH patients, with a recent
      study finding return rates of 6-9% within 72 hours, and return rates around 30% over a 4-year
      study period.6 ED visits for children and adolescents with MH concerns are resource
      intensive, and further research will be crucial for improving the management of these
      patients.2,3

      Information lacking on resources needed by MH diagnostic subgroup:

      MH issues encountered by ED physicians cover a broad range of diagnoses. Bardach et al.
      examined MH hospitalizations and identified the following as the most common diagnostic
      subgroups: depression, bipolar disorder, psychosis, externalizing disorder, anxiety disorder,
      ADHD, eating disorder, substance abuse, reaction disorder and autism.7 ED visits for MH
      concerns are often thought to mainly involve suicide attempts, self-harm behavior or
      psychosis, but a recent study of a large urban pediatric ED found that almost half of the
      visits were for behavioral problems.8 Preliminary data has described that almost half of the
      behavioral assessments done at CH in 2013 were on individuals with developmental disorders
      (i.e. autism spectrum disorders). The number of MH ED visits for behavioral issues is
      growing, but there is limited information regarding this population.8 Overall, the ED
      experience has not been well documented based upon diagnostic subgroup, but there are
      critical differences in MH patients depending on their primary concern, specifically
      connection to outpatient resources and risk of ED revisit.8,9 In order to more efficiently
      help MH youth it is crucial to obtain information regarding services, and how this differs by
      diagnostic subgroup.8

      Text-messaging to improve MH referral follow-up:

      The ED represents a suboptimal care setting for MH youth but does provide an important
      opportunity to identify children and adolescents in crisis and connect them with external
      resources.8 Unfortunately, successful follow-up with MH resources by ED patients has been
      shown to be low, with some studies finding follow-up rates below 30%.10,11 A recent study
      found that 66% of patients visiting the ED with suicidal behaviors successfully followed up
      with a mental health provider, a more positive number, but one that still shows a large need
      for improvement.12 Strategies are needed to improve successful follow-up with MH outpatient
      referrals as failure to comply with ED discharge guidelines could result in worsening of
      symptoms and return visits to the ED. While ED providers have a unique opportunity to
      identify MH youth and provide referrals, they also have limited time and resources. If an
      intervention is to be incorporated into usual care in the ED, it must be simple, efficient,
      and easy to replicate. Automated text messaging reminders have been shown to increase
      attendance to healthcare appointments.13 Over 90% of Americans reported owning a cell phone
      in 2013, and 81% report using their cell phone to send or receive text messages.14 In
      addition, the cost and personnel requirements needed to implement an automated text message
      based system are low, making this a unique intervention technique that could be easily
      incorporated into usual care in any ED.15 A recent study found that automated text message
      appointment reminders improved follow-up attendance to primary or specialty care in adult ED
      patients.15 Additional research is needed to examine the potential of a text message strategy
      to increase attendance to follow-up appointments in a diverse population of youth visiting
      the ED the MH concerns.

      Conclusion:

      The overall goal of the proposed study is to collect vital information needed to develop
      programs that improve outcomes and reduce revisits in children and adolescents who present to
      the ED with primary MH concerns. Pediatric ED visits for MH issues are increasing.1 The
      current system is in need of improvement, yet more information is needed to accelerate
      change, including information on which MH populations need to be targeted, and on simple,
      reproducible interventions which improve connection with community resources. The proposed
      project will collect data on a cohort of MH patients from two large urban EDs to characterize
      diagnostic subgroups and current access to care, will follow all patients 3-months post visit
      to identify risk factors for ED revisits and barriers to outpatient care, and will test a
      novel text message reminder system focused on improving the linkage of MH patients with
      follow-up referrals. The EDs of CH provide the vast majority of emergent pediatric care
      within the Twin City Metro area, and a substantial proportion of these visits are mental
      health related. The proposed project provides a unique opportunity to meet the study goals,
      and sets the stage for future work focused on improving care and outcomes for MH youth.

      Research Question

        1. Which pediatric MH patients visiting the ED at CH are in the most need of additional
           support (lowest baseline access to and utilization of outpatient care, highest risk of
           ED revisit, lowest follow-up with outpatient referrals)?

        2. Does a targeted text-message communication method improve compliance with ED discharge
           in pediatric MH patients?

      Specific Aims and Hypotheses

        1. Characterize the primary MH concerns of children and adolescent visiting the EDs of CH
           and assesses their baseline access to and utilization of external MH resources.

           Hypothesis: MH patients will represent several subgroups of primary concerns and these
           subgroups will differ in their baseline connection to and utilization of community
           resources.

        2. Follow all enrolled MH patients post visit to determine factors associated with ED
           revisits and barriers to outpatient care.

           Hypothesis: Patients who have public or no insurance, who visit the ED with
           self-inflicted injuries, or who identify multiple barriers to connecting with outpatient
           MH care will have higher rates of ED revisits.

        3. Develop and test a novel text-message communication method focused on increasing rates
           of discharge referral follow-up in ED patients with MH concerns.

      Hypothesis: Patients randomized to a text-message communication system will have higher rates
      of follow-up care and lower rates of ED revisit compared to patients who receive usual care
    
  