
    
      This study will be performed in the emergency department and ICU's of Massachusetts General
      Hospital (MGH). Thirty patients requiring mechanical ventilation will be enrolled. The design
      is a case series with repeated measures analysis. All patients will receive the experimental
      treatment as well as conventional ventilation and unassisted oxygenation as observed prior to
      initiation of mechanical ventilation. The compressor used will be manufactured by Spiro LLC /
      10xbeta based on the open source MIT design. The device is powered by an uninterrupted power
      supply from a standard electrical outlet and it alarms if unplugged.

      The patient will be moved into a negative pressure room. After patients with respiratory
      failure are intubated and stabilized on a conventional ventilator, they will receive 15
      minutes of artificial respirations with the automated compressor with the conventional
      ventilator standing by. They will be returned to the conventional respirator after this
      period, or sooner if necessary. The endotracheal tube will be briefly clamped during the
      rapid transition from one device to another to minimize aerosolization of any viral particles
      and to retain any PEEP.

      If the initial study period demonstrates successful respiratory support, then the procedure
      may be repeated once with doubling of the automated compressor treatment time to 30 minutes.
      There will be a minimum 15-minute observation period with conventional mechanical ventilation
      between the two study periods. Additionally, there will be one hour of data collection after
      the study periods. The total duration of the two intervention periods, the intervening period
      and data collection is two hours. The primary outcome is arterial oxygenation.

      Patients are chemically paralyzed to facilitate intubation as part of standard care.
      Rocuronium is typically used for intubating chemical paralysis in the MGH emergency
      department. It has a half-life of 66 minutes. A single repeat bolus will be provided if
      needed to ensure chemical paralysis for the duration of the study. If the patient is already
      intubated and no longer chemically paralyzed, than one bolus of rocuronium, and a second as
      needed, or just a temporary increase in ongoing sedation will be provided to minimize
      spontaneous respiration. The airway circuit will be continuously monitored with a separate
      pressure and flow monitor (Nico) with recorded digital output throughout the experiment.
    
  