
    
      Background

      Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is a group of nonatherosclerotic, noninflammatory arterial
      diseases that usually involve renal and carotid arteries. Patients with FMD may present with
      renovascular hypertension and/or with cerebrovascular symptoms. The prevalence of FMD in
      hypertensive patients is estimated at 4/1000. Angiographic classification includes the
      multifocal type, with multiple stenoses and the 'string-of-beads' appearance that is related
      to medial FMD, and tubular and focal types which are not clearly related to specific
      histological lesions. FMD may affect one or more vascular beds and progress to more severe
      stenosis and to renal or cerebrovascular complications. FMD appears to be familial in 10% of
      cases (OMIM #135580).

      Renal artery FMD may progress to more severe stenosis and to renal atrophy, and/or to
      stenoses affecting more arteries within or outside the renal vasculature. The risk of
      progression as assessed from available studies was probably overestimated because
      documentation of progression was obtained from angiography, a procedure which is not
      routinely undertaken in patients with favourable clinical and biological outcomes. The
      disease is progressive, however, and literature stated that patients with FMD should undergo
      yearly duplex ultrasonography to detect progression of disease, restenosis, or loss of kidney
      volume.

      There are very few data on prognosis of patients with symptomatic carotid or vertebral artery
      FMD. The risk of arterial disease progression over time is unknown. The risk of ischemic
      stroke ranged from 0 to about 3% per year in the few studies which assessed that issue.

      Objectives

      The primary objective is to estimate the incidence and risk factors for progression of FMD
      lesions. This will be assessed by comparison between initial and 3 years abdominal and
      supra-aortic trunks vascular imaging (angiography, CT-angiography or Magnetic Resonance (MR)
      angiography), monitoring of downstream consequences development of lesions progression and
      clinical events.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to estimate rate of genetic polymorphism that may influence disease progression or be
           associated with complications

        -  to assess the frequency of multi-site FMD (common objective with the ARCADIA study)

        -  to collect standardized clinical, radiological, and biological data in patients with FMD
           through a national registry (common objective with the ARCADIA study)

        -  to organize a clinical, radiological and biological database and a biobank that will
           constitute a unique resource to initiate further clinical research (common objective
           with the ARCADIA study).
    
  