
    
      With an aging population, heart failure is becoming more common and there is an increasing
      role for physiotherapy involvement with these patients. The Heart Failure Clinic is conducted
      by a heart failure physician, cardiac nurse, and a pharmacist. Occupational and Physical
      Therapists are available on a consult basis. The Clinic has expanded quickly from 49 new
      patients in 2004 - 2005 to 435 new patients in 2010 - 2011.

      Due to space and time constraints in the clinic an Allied Heath Education Class was created
      to provide an interactive multidisciplinary education session. All new patients, regardless
      of their NYHA classification, and their families are invited to attend the class. Speakers
      include a Physiotherapist, Occupational Therapist, Dietician and Pharmacist. There is a
      didactic section followed by discussion after each of the speakers.

      Few studies have focused on physical activity as one of the major self management strategies
      for heart failure. There is little understanding by patients about how physical activity can
      improve symptoms of heart failure over time in conjunction with other lifestyle
      modifications. Physiotherapists have the skills to provide this education and develop
      individual exercise programs. Patients are currently provided with verbal and written
      educational material regarding a diagnosis of heart failure, physical activity, diet and
      medication.

      Previous experience with patients following acute cardiac events, either medical or surgical,
      has shown that providing patients with a DVD which reinforced inpatient education was
      successful in bridging the gap between inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation programs.
      Patients were able to review the education provided in their own time. Therefore, a DVD was
      developed which focused on typical education provided to the heart failure patient by the
      physiotherapist.

      We will compare two randomly assigned groups. The first will receive standard education
      received in heart failure clinic and an optional Allied Health Education Class plus a copy of
      the Keeping the Beat with Physiotherapy: Heart Failure edition DVD. The second group will
      receive the standard education provided through the heart failure clinic and the optional
      education class.

      Participants will be followed up three times over a six month period via telephone. The
      survey questions require a simple yes/no answer or are of a likert-style. After each
      telephone survey participants, will be asked to mail in their exercise and weight logs. Chart
      reviews will also be conducted for the collection of readmission rates and the number of
      clinical visits occurring during the study.
    
  