
    
      The trial will be advertised and introduced to patients admitted to the OU Children's
      Hospital labor and delivery or antepartum units by research nurses. Interested participants
      will be consented. Researchers are choosing to only include patients undergoing non-emergent
      cesarean in order to improve their ability to control parameters such as room temperature and
      labor-related clinical or subclinical maternal infection, which are known confounders.
      Further, they are limiting their investigation to fetuses 32-36 weeks gestation, since this
      population represents the largest preterm delivery population. Recruitment and randomization
      will be stratified by gestational age with an aim to enroll at least 44 pregnancies at 32-
      34weeks and 6 days and 20 pregnancies between 35-36weeks and 6days. Last, it is impossible to
      recruit patients outside of the inpatient setting for a study investigating preterm delivery,
      as such deliveries are rarely predictable in the outpatient setting. There will only be one
      site for this study, the OU Children's Hospital labor and delivery and antepartum units.

      The proposed study is a pragmatic randomized controlled pilot trial of neonatal warming
      techniques with participants allocated in a 1:1 ratio using a random block allocation table
      using blocks of size 4 and 6 that are stratified by gestational age ranges of 35-36 weeks and
      6 days and 32-34 weeks and 6 days. Since there cannot be a placebo intervention, neither the
      patient nor the neonatal team will be blinded to the group assignment. The group assignments
      will be made and coded by a third party at the time of randomization. Patients will be
      randomized to their respective groups immediately prior to surgery.

      Researchers will aim for an operating room temperature of 65-70 degrees F. surgical field
      once the cesarean has begun. In the intervention group, the therThe surgical technician will
      be provided with the necessary neonatal wraps and mattresses in a sterile fashion, and they
      will ensure these are available on themal mattress will be activated immediately prior to
      hysterotomy and placed on the sterile field with delivery of the infant directly onto the
      mattress. The infant will be dried, stimulated and bulb suctioned as deemed necessary per
      standard of care followed by wrapping. In the non-intervention group, the infant will be
      delivered onto the sterile field, dried and suctioned as deemed necessary per OU standard.
      Cord clamping will be delayed for 60 seconds in all infants under the supervision of both the
      obstetrician and the neonatal resuscitation team. If either team believes delayed cord
      clamping is no longer considered safe, as is our usual protocol, the cord will be clamped and
      cut and the baby will be handed off to the neonatology team. After the infant is handed to
      the neonatology team along with all group assignment specific materials (wrap and thermal
      mattress, if in the intervention group), neonatal temperature will be assessed immediately
      upon arrival to the resuscitation warmer using a digital thermometer placed in the axillary
      space. Infant temperature will be recorded at 1) arrival to the warmer, 2) after the
      neonatologist deems that in-room resuscitation is complete and 3) at admission to the
      Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), Mother Baby Unit (MBU) or Post-Anesthesia Care Unit
      (PACU) depending on the baby's needs; determined by the resuscitating physicians. These
      measurements will be recorded by research nurses in a data collection sheet. Further, the
      research nurse will record the time from delivery to the time it takes for the infant to
      arrive at the warmer. Upon arrival at the warmer, the mattress and wrap will be removed as
      neonatal evaluation takes place.

      As immediate neonatal temperature is not generally discussed with patients unless there is an
      issue such as concern for infection, neonatal temperature will not be routinely discussed
      with all participants. Only if there is concern for neonatal infection or if there is
      hyperthermia (>37.5 degrees C) will the study results be discussed with the patient.
    
  