
    
      Approximately 650 000 new cases of head and neck cancer are diagnosed worldwide each year
      (2). Europe alone, it is estimated that there are approximately 143 000 new cases and more
      than 68 000 deaths each year (3). The vast majority (>90%) of head and neck malignancies are
      squamous cell carcinomas. Most (60-70%) patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
      neck (SCCHN) present with loco regionally advanced disease (2).

      Standard treatment options for SCCHN include surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
      Single-modality treatment with surgery or radiotherapy is generally recommended for the 40%
      of patients who present stage I or II disease. Each of the two modalities results in similar
      survival with cure rates ranging between 60% and 90% (3).

      For the 60% of the patients who present with locally advanced disease at diagnosis, combined
      modality therapy is generally recommended. For patients with unresectable disease the current
      standard treatment is concurrent cisplatin-based chemoradiation. This is also the standard
      for patients with resectable disease when organ preservation is desired and, as adjuvant
      treatment, for patients with high-risk pathological findings at surgical resection.

      Despite such an approach, a substantial percentage of patients (20-30%) develop local and/or
      regional recurrences and distant metastases (3). Recurrent disease is often not resectable,
      and even in resectable cases, some patients decline the surgical procedure due to quality of
      life considerations. Additionally, in recurrent disease the radiation tolerance of the normal
      tissues makes re-irradiation technically challenging and frequently more toxic than the
      initial course (4). The prognosis of patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN is generally
      poor, with a median survival of 6-9 months (5).

      The therapeutic ratio in recurrent SCCHN is narrow. Therefore, there is a large unmet medical
      need for novel treatments in this patient group, both to lengthen overall survival, and to
      improve the patients' quality of life
    
  