
    
      The importance of cardiopulmonary resuscitation has been emphasized in recent years. The
      chance of return of spontaneous circulation improves up to 70%. However, only 20 % of cardiac
      arrest patients can survive to hospital discharge because of post-cardiac arrest syndrome due
      to global ischemia-reperfusion injuries in cardiac arrest and resuscitation. Although there
      are some studies trying to predict the survival outcomes in cardiac arrest, the prediction
      variables are limited to the pre-arrest variables such as age, pre-morbidities. The impact of
      these variables on long term outcomes is neither clear nor well-defined. It is found that the
      chances of survival to discharge are significant different among different hospitals and
      districts. It implies that the intensive managements and treatment policies could influence
      the outcomes in cardiac arrest patients. However, the critical procedures or managements have
      not been systemically studied and remain undefined. Targeted temperature management based on
      hypothermia treatment changes the post-cardiac arrest care and improves the outcome in
      cardiac arrest patients. Under hypothermia treatment, the critical time points of evaluating
      prognosis are changed because of 24 hours maintaining cooling period and 12-18 hours
      rewarming period. The full neurological recovery cannot be evaluated at 24 hours after return
      of spontaneous circulation as the suggestion in old days without hypothermia treatment. The
      optimal time points for evaluating and predicting long term outcomes need to be re-defined.
      The accuracy of different modalities for outcome prediction also needed to be re-evaluated in
      the hypothermia treatment era. Early and precise prediction of good recovery and favorable
      outcomes are very important in determining the further intensive treatment strategies by
      physicians and family for cardiac arrest patients.

      The goals of the study are to establish the study cohort and database for out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest patients. Indications and factors influencing the application of hypothermia
      treatment on cardiac arrest patients will be analyzed. The prognostic evaluation modalities
      under hypothermia treatment will be evaluated for their accuracy and optimal time points.
      These finding and results could be applied in clinical practice in the future.
    
  