
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will receive cyclophosphamide by vein over about
      30-60 minutes on Day -2 (2 days before you receive the CD8+ T cells). If the doctor thinks it
      is needed, you will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You
      may ask the study staff for information about how the drug is given and its risks.

      On Day 0, you will receive the CD8+ T cells by vein over about 30-60 minutes. You will stay
      in the hospital overnight after the dose.

      Starting within 6 hours after the CD8+T cell infusion and then 2 times a day after that for
      14 days, you will give aldesleukin as an injection into your skin around your abdomen. You
      will be taught how to give yourself these injections.

      On Days 1, 22, 43, and 64, you will receive ipilimumab by vein over about 90 minutes.

      Study Visits:

      On Day -2:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw will
           include a pregnancy test if you can become pregnant. To continue your participation in
           this study, you cannot be pregnant.

      On Days 0, 7, 14, 22, 28, 35, 43, 49, 56, 64, 70, 77, 84, 112, and 140:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests, and
           tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

        -  Between Day 35 and 42 and again between Day 77 and 84, you will have a CT scan to check
           the status of the disease.

      On Day 3, blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests,
      and tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed to confirm the status of the disease, blood (about 1½
      tablespoons) will be drawn every 3-6 months for up to 3 years.

      The study tests may be repeated or you may have additional tests performed anytime the doctor
      thinks it is needed.

      Some of the study tests may be done at your local clinic if you cannot return to MD Anderson.
      The study staff will discuss this with you.

      Length of Treatment:

      The treatment portion of the study will last until Day 64. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      At Day 168:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests, and
           tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

      Follow-Up:

      Every 3 months after Day 84, unless the disease gets worse or you start another cancer
      therapy, you will have a CT scan or x-rays to check the status of the disease. Every 3 months
      for up to 5 years, the study staff will call you or ask your doctor how you are doing. If you
      are called, the calls should last about 10-15 minutes.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will return to the clinic every 4-6 weeks or as often
      as the doctor thinks is needed. Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests,
      immune system tests, and tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.
    
  