
    
      The plantar fascia has long been considered to play an important role in the weight-bearing
      foot, both in static stance and in dynamic function. Various functional and structural roles
      have been indicated by virtue of its anatomical attachments. Excessive repetitive loading
      concentrating upon plantar fascia is considered as the most influential factor in plantar
      fasciitis development. Abnormal foot structure may lead to high risk of plantar fasciitis.
      However, the biomechanical factor that may cause plantar fasciitis has not been thoroughly
      investigated. Orthotic device is a common treatment used for plantar fasciitis. However,
      there is no direct and quantitative data, such as stress and strain distribution of plantar
      fascia for patient with foot orthosis during gait. Therefore, the aim of this three-year
      project study is to investigate the biomechanical mechanism of different foot structures and
      to understand the biomechanical response of plantar fascia during stance phase of gait cycle
      by dynamic finite element analysis, gait analysis as well as plantar pressure measurement. In
      addition, the efficacy of foot orthoses will be evaluated by the same research process.

      In this research, a plantar fascia specific finite element foot model with tibia will be
      reconstructed from magnetic resonance images obtained from subjects with normal foot, flat
      foot and high arch foot structures. The same subject will also serve for plantar soft tissue
      material property testing, gait analysis as well as plantar pressure measurement. The
      kinematic and kinetic data from both gait analysis and plantar pressure measurement will be
      used to validate the accuracy of dynamic finite element analysis. In addition, 20 normal, 10
      flat foot and 10 high-arch foot subjects will also be recruited for gait analysis and plantar
      pressure measurement. The kinematic and kinetic data from both gait analysis and plantar
      pressure measurement will be compared with the results of finite element analysis.
    
  