
    
      Participants who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study after
      consenting. Patients will be interviewed and asked to provide their age, gender, work status,
      disability status, type of work, whether a previous pain physician has evaluated or provided
      treatment in the past and if there is any ongoing litigation. Additionally, patients will
      undergo a typical History and Physical focusing on their knee pain. The history will involve
      questions regarding the timing of the onset of knee pain and what therapies were attempted.
      There will be general questions about their cardiac and pulmonary function to assess their
      risk for surgery. The physical exam will focus on the knees. The knee will be extended,
      flexed, and palpated. There may be imaging studies, such as x-rays and MRI, of the knees
      depending on the clinical situation (Any imaging would be for surgical planning purposes
      only, and would not be used during the study). Blood work may be required before surgery. All
      of this is considered standard of care and is done for most patients. An additional 3
      milliliters (mL) of blood will be collected from a peripheral vein and stored for analysis.
      The questionnaires completed at baseline will focus mostly on the nature and severity of pain
      and how it effects the quality of life (EQ-5D-5L, Modified Pain Questions, Analgesic Log). If
      the initial baseline visit happens to be scheduled exactly 3 weeks prior to surgery, then
      patients baseline visit and Pre-op Day 1 visit will occur on the same day (In this case,
      patients will begin light therapy on that day and complete the Light Time Log). However, if
      the baseline visit occurs more than 3 weeks prior to surgery, Pre-op Day 1 will occur on a
      different day and patients will not begin light therapy or complete the Light Time Log until
      exactly 3 weeks prior to surgery.

      Throughout the course of the study, patient will be asked to complete four questionnaires
      which will be provided to the enrolled patients, each questionnaire should take 5-10 minutes
      to complete. The first weekly questionnaire is the EQ-5D-5L, which consists of six questions
      assessing the mobility, ability to perform daily activity and overall functionality. The
      second questionnaire, Modified Pain Questions, consists of ten questions assessing the
      quality, intensity, and frequency of pain. It also assesses the quality of sleep, ability to
      work, and over all satisfaction and is done weekly. The third questionnaire, Analgesics Log,
      tracks type and amount of analgesics used each day. The fourth questionnaire, Light Time Log,
      is a log detailing the length of time light therapy is used each day.

      Patients will be asked to locate a dark room in their house, three weeks prior to their
      surgery. They will be asked to turn on the provided Light Emitting Diode (LED) strip for 2
      hours a day until the day of the surgery. The patients will have the freedom to pick anytime
      during day or night to use the light. We will ask the patients to be as consistent as
      possible with the time they chose. The patients will be encouraged to engage in any activity
      to pass the time as long as it does not involve exposure to another light from an outside
      source (computers, Television, smart phones, tablets, etc…).

      A member of the research team will contact the patients to ensure that they are using the
      light therapy correctly and answer their questions. While there have been no side effects
      noticed in animals or reported in clinical trials (different study), we will also be
      inquiring about side effects. During this time, patients will be reminded to complete the
      questionnaires as described above.

      After surgery, the assigned light will be present in their hospital room after arrangement
      with the nurse managers in the hospital. A 3ml blood sample will be collected along with
      routine blood collection while in the hospital (Post-op Day 1).

      After discharge from the hospital, the patient will continue to use the light therapy at home
      for additional 10 weeks while completing the questionnaires. At the end of the study (Final
      Follow-up Visit), patients will return to the pain clinic for the final blood sample (3ml)
      and to return the completed questionnaires.

      Data Management:

      Data will be collected on standardized case report forms and entered into a HIPPA-compliant
      electronic database (e.g. Microsoft Access) that provides an appropriate interface with a
      robust statistical package . All study-related hard copy materials will be stored in locked
      file cabinets.
    
  