
    
      AIMS

      The primary aim of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a new tablet app, named
      PediAppRREST, in reducing deviations from guideline recommendations during pediatric cardiac
      arrest management.

      The secondary aim is to assess the impact of the use of the app on performance and time to
      accomplish critical interventions for resuscitation, team leader's workload, cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation quality metrics and overall resuscitation team performance. Furthermore, the
      study will have the purpose to evaluate the usability of the app.

      METHODS

      PARTICIPANTS

      Participants will be residents in Pediatrics, Emergency Medicine, and
      Anesthesiology-Intensive Care programs at four Italian University Hospitals (Padova, Firenze,
      Novara, and Roma). In order to be included in the study, residents must be BLS (Basic Life
      Support) or P-BLS (Pediatric-Basic Life Support) or PALS (Pediatric Advanced Life Support) or
      ALS (Advanced Life Support) or ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) certified, following the
      American Heart Association (AHA) or the European Resuscitation Council (ERC) recommendations.
      Additionally, to be eligible for the role of team leader residents must be PALS-certified
      according to AHA or ERC guidelines. Those residents who are unable to attend the simulation
      sessions because of maternity/paternity leave, personal/sick leave or training abroad, or who
      have participated in previous studies using the PediAppRREST app will not be eligible to
      participate in the trial.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This will be a multicenter, randomized controlled, three-parallel arm study, conducted in the
      setting of simulation. All teams, each consisting of three participants, will manage the same
      scenario of non-shockable pediatric cardiac arrest with the help of one confederate nurse who
      will act according to a script. Participants will be randomized to teams, and teams to
      interventions, using a 1:1:1 ratio. According to the allocation into one of three study arms,
      teams will use, or not use, a different PALS-related cognitive aid during the management of
      the scenario: 1) an intervention group using the tablet app PediAppRREST; or 2) a control
      group (CtrlPALS+) using the AHA-PALS pocket reference card; or 3) a control group (CtrlPALS-)
      not allowed to use any cognitive aid.

      All the simulation scenarios will be video recorded, and two independent, previously trained
      reviewers will report actions performed by the teams and time to accomplish them. Outcomes
      will be subsequently assessed by two independent outcome assessors using data extracted by
      video reviewers.

      OUTCOMES

      The primary outcome of the study will be the number of deviations from AHA PALS 2015
      guidelines recommendations during the management of pediatric cardiac arrest, defined as
      delays and errors according to a novel checklist, named c-DEV15plus, based on previously
      published guidelines, checklists and scoring systems/evaluation tools.

      The secondary outcomes will be the performance of critical actions for resuscitation and the
      time to perform them, the usability of the app (measured by open-ended questions and one
      validated questionnaire: the System Usability Scale), the team leaders' workload (measured by
      the validated NASA-Task Load Index), the quality metrics of cardiopulmonary resuscitation
      (extracted by the manikin's software SkillReporter, Laerdal™) according to AHA guidelines,
      and the overall team resuscitation performance (measured by the validated Clinical
      Performance Tool).

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION

      The investigators calculated the sample size on the basis of the results obtained during two
      previous studies: one observational simulation-based study and one pilot study conducted to
      test the app usability. Based on the preliminary results from these studies, using a single
      factor ANOVA model, 29 scenarios per each of the three groups (PediAppRREST, CtrlPALS+,
      CtrlPALS-) are necessary to detect a difference of at least 3.00 points on the c-DEV15plus
      scale using the Tukey-Kramer (Pairwise) multiple comparison procedure at a 5% significance
      level and 80% power. In consideration that some possible technical problems with
      video-recording or other study procedures could occur, the investigators aim to increase the
      recruitment of participating teams by 20% per arm, to compensate for loss of statistical
      power due to a potential insufficient sample size. Hence, the investigators plan to have 35
      scenarios per arm, for a total of 105 scenarios, which will include overall 315 residents who
      will be divided in teams of three.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      The c-DEV15plus scale, the performance and time to accomplish specific resuscitation
      interventions, workload, overall team performance and cardiopulmonary resuscitation metrics
      will be compared between groups with one-way ANOVA model, followed by the Tukey-Kramer
      multiple comparisons adjustment procedure in case of statistical significance. The outcomes
      will also be analyzed with a linear mixed model considering the team as a cluster to evaluate
      the influence of participants' characteristics on the outcome. To take into account the
      correlation of the observations within a team, the investigators will specify an undetermined
      correlation matrix. In case of a not normal distribution of the model residuals, the
      investigators will proceed with a transformation in order to normalize the distribution.

      CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRIVACY PROTECTION

      A written informed consent to take part into the study will be obtained from each
      participant. To ensure that the data collected remains confidential, all data and videos will
      be stored on password protected and secured hard-disk drives, that will be stored in locked
      filing cabinets located at the Department of Women's and Children's health, University of
      Padova, Italy.
    
  