
    
      Data from subject's EPIC medical record will be abstracted for use in research analysis - the
      following elements will be reviewed: Information regarding diagnosis, age, gender,
      ethnicity/race, medication they are receiving as well as their past medical history, and DOSS
      score. The study team member will also discuss patient's mental status with their treating
      clinician before approaching him/her. The treating clinician will be consulted and must agree
      that it is appropriate for the delirious patient to be approached for enrollment. Beforehand,
      a clinician on the research team (Dr. Gen Shinozaki) will evaluate the subjects ability to
      sign consent, and thus, whether they can be approached for enrollment.

      When subject is identified, consent team will approach to obtain consent (and assent when
      applicable), email address and research demographic information. If consented, subject
      undergo a short CAM-ICU assessment of delirium indication - the CAM-ICU is a delirium
      screening tool and is not done for screening individuals out of the study, a cognitive
      function evaluation (MoCA), Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), and a longer delirium evaluation
      (DRS-R-98) conducted by a study team member.

      Next, study personnel will obtain buccal swab samples and will assist with saliva samples.
      Trained medical staff will perform the blood draw for the blood collection sample,
      approximately 5-10 mL of blood per sample will be collected. If consented, subject will be
      asked to wear non-invasive EEG device (with two standard, clinical leads) on their head at
      the time of initial evaluation and up to two times daily during their hospital stay. What
      subjects will be asked to do/what happens in the study (in sequential order) if they meet
      inclusion criteria and consent, they will be asked to wear non-invasive EEG device (with two
      standard, clinical leads) on their head with EEG monitor capability up to three times daily
      while they are in the hospital.

      One session of non-invasive brain stimulation will be administered. Study personnel will
      again obtain buccal swab samples and will assist with saliva samples. Trained research team
      members will perform the blood draw for the blood collection sample, approximately 5-10 mL of
      blood per sample will be collected.
    
  