
    
      The aim is to design predictive models of weight and height, through predictive equations
      using segmental measurements and to develop specific growth patterns, for the nutritional and
      growth evaluation of children and adolescents with cerebral palsy from different provinces of
      Argentina.

      This research is a cross-sectional study, which consisted of two stages. First, data were
      collected from children and adolescents aged 2 to 18 years with typical development from
      which the anthropometric variables associated with weight and height were determined and then
      used for the analysis of the population with CP. A stratified sampling was made with 17
      strata according to age for each sex, pre-establishing a minimum of 20 children for each
      stratum. Data were collected transversely in two hospitals and two schools in the City of
      Córdoba until all strata were completed.

      In a second stage, data is collected from children and adolescents diagnosed with CP between
      the ages of 2 and 19 years. Data were included from 17 rehabilitation centers and therapeutic
      educational centers in 5 provinces of the country (Córdoba, Buenos Aires (CABA), Jujuy,
      Santiago del Estero and Catamarca). A sequential non-probabilistic sampling was made,
      including all possible cases of each participating institution. The variables studied were
      demographic variables, anthropometric measures, nutritional status, type of malnutrition and
      in the case of the population with PC also variables such as data on access to health,
      diagnosis, co-morbidities and feeding were included. Normal continuous variables were
      described as mean and standard deviations, while those of non-normal distribution in medians
      with their interquartile ranges. Variables are compared by means of t-test or Mann-Whitney as
      appropriate. Categorical data are expressed in percentages with a 95% confidence interval
      [95% CI]. To analyze association between variables, Chi square of Mantel-Haentzel was
      calculated, and OR with its 95% CI. For the development of predictive equations, a
      generalizable linear regression model will be used. The correlation coefficient r,
      determination R2 and F test were calculated with a p <0.05. Growth patterns were made using
      the Generalized Additive Models for Location Scale and Shape (GAMLSS) method. Nutritional
      status was assessed using the WHO Anthro Plus V1.0.4 program using the WHO standards (2007).
      The approval of the local ethics committee was obtained and written informed consent was
      obtained from the participants.

      The study of nutrition in patients with PC is an emerging field, for which this work plan
      seeks to develop methodologies that promote social inclusion by making substantial and
      necessary contributions to improve the treatment of this pathology.
    
  