
    
      PURPOSE:

      The primary purpose of this feasibility project is to evaluate the feasibility of collecting
      a case-control cohort of OEF/OIF veterans that is large enough to make possible the
      identification of genetic variants that affect the risk for PTSD after exposure to traumatic
      events.

      We will also determine if the DNA samples will be of sufficient quality for subsequent
      analyses.

      The primary purpose of the main project which is not covered by this application is to
      identify genes that affect the risk of developing PTSD.

        -  RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

             -  A.What will be the participation rates for the proposed recruitment strategy?

             -  B.How well will the proposed assessment batteries work and are there components
                that will need to be modified?

             -  C.How well will the proposed sampling methods work?

             -  D.Will any proposed study procedures need to be changed to make them work better?

        -  STUDY AIM:

      The specific aims have been developed for this feasibility phase of a main study that will
      have the goal of identifying the most important genes that influence risk and resilience for
      PTSD and understanding how those genes interact with environmental stressors to cause (or
      protect from) the clinical disorder.

      The feasibility phase protocol presented here is designed to:

        -  1.Evaluate sampling methods and participation rates in the proposed populations to
           determine recruitment feasibility for the main study,

        -  2.Develop field experience with proposed assessment batteries and measure reliability
           and validity to adjust if necessary for the main study,

        -  3.Pilot the feasibility of DNA collection, storage and analysis.

      After the feasibility phase is complete, a protocol for the main study will be planned and
      submitted for scientific peer review.

        -  METHODS:

      The OEF/OIF Roster generated by the Defense Manpower Data Center will be used to obtain a
      list of veterans who have served in at least one of the two theaters of operation since the
      beginning of the conflict in Iraq and/or Afghanistan. Access to this roster is managed by the
      VA Environmental Epidemiology Service (EES). This roster currently contains 1,001,463
      veterans, of whom 888,454 are male and 475,155 have sought treatment within the VA. Data
      points abstracted from the roster include, but are not limited to, name, address, SSN, birth
      date, combat end date, end service date, separation date, military branch, and deployment
      country. To achieve our target enrollment of 250, 1,000 veterans from the roster will be
      randomly selected for potential participation. After the sample of 1,000 is randomly drawn,
      the Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating Center (CSPCC) will mail out letters inviting
      study participation. We expect the initial 1,000 mailings to yield the following results:

        -  300 letters will be non-deliverable for which another address search and re-mail will
           take place. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that 200 letters will remain undeliverable.

        -  800 letters will be deliverable out of which 400 are expected to yield no response after
           2 weeks. Second reminder letters will be sent to those potential participants.

        -  500 will respond within 2 more weeks with 250 willing to participate (including stated
           willingness to provide DNA sample) and 250 not interested in participation.

      If the above estimates do not yield a minimum of 250 participants, a second wave of mailings
      will be sent to a new sample of potential participants (N to be determined based on
      participation rate from the first N = 1000 mailings). Although 250 participants is our target
      enrollment, we plan to enroll all veterans included in our initial mailings who desire to
      participate. We do not anticipate this to exceed 500 individuals.

      Potential participants will indicate their interest in this study by returning the response
      letter or by directly calling a dedicated toll-free telephone number. The VA website
      (http://www.csp.research.va.gov/ ) will have both descriptive information about the study
      which participants may view at any time as well as the approved informed consent documents.
      Participants will have an opportunity to ask questions about the study by contacting the
      study team at CSPCC. The information that we plan on including in the website is as follows:

        -  DATA SAFETY MONITORING PLAN:

      While loss of confidentiality cannot be guaranteed and could be a possible risk, steps will
      be taken to minimize the risk of loss of confidentiality. First, all collected data received
      by the Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating Center will be stored in locked file cabinets
      in a locked office to which only study team members will have access. In addition, Study ID
      numbers will be used to identify materials with participant responses. Any identifying
      information will be maintained separately (locked cabinet in a different office).

      With regards to participant discomfort, the participants are reminded at the beginning of the
      interview that they can refuse to answer any questions and discontinue participation at any
      time. If issues related to trauma memories arise, the participants are asked if they want to
      be contacted by the study clinician or if they would like to be provided with other
      medical/mental health resources. Participants will also be asked if they need a break at
      different intervals during the interview should the participant be experiencing any fatigue
      due to the duration of the survey. If the participant becomes upset, the study clinician will
      be contacted by the interviewer. If they simply want to talk to the clinician (per exit
      interview criteria, then they can as well). If the participant requests assistance without
      being upset or distressed, they will be provided with information to connect with local
      resources.

      The role of the psychologist will be to collaborate with all study staff, work directly with
      the study clinician, interface with central IRB and will be the first line resource where
      decisions need to be made and the first line resource for the coordinating center.

      The blood sample will be taken by a certified home health nurse who has experience in
      minimizing and managing venipuncture side effects.

      We propose to minimize potential risks related to genetic samples by never revealing genotype
      information to participants. No genotypes will become part of the participants' medical
      records. Participant samples will be coded and the same codes will be used to identify
      participants in the computer database. The computer files will be password protected. Any
      hard copies will be maintained in locked filing cabinets in a locked office, and the code
      book will be locked in a different office. Blood samples sent to Massachusetts Veterans
      Epidemiology Research and Information Center (MAVERIC) will be placed in secure storage.
      Although these blood samples will not be banked as part of the CSPG001 - VA Genomic Medicine
      Program: Specimen Collection and Banking Protocol, they will be processed using their
      approved established procedures.

        -  DATA ANALYSIS:

      Key Feasibility Outcomes and Resultant Decision Processes

        -  1. Participation Rate Evaluation:

             -  (a)If fewer than 1 in 10 participants are "cases" (i.e., have current PTSD), then
                feasibility of the main study is in question, as this would require a sample of
                over 100,000 screening interviews to achieve the future target sample size of N =
                10,000 cases.

             -  (b) If fewer than 1 in 4 potential participants agree to participate and follow
                through to providing a DNA sample, then feasibility is in question, as this would
                indicate a need for more than 4 times as many contacts in order to achieve
                sufficient screening interviews to yield the final sample. A participation rate
                lower than 1 in 4 would also indicate sufficient non-representativeness of the
                sample that findings could be questioned on the basis of unknowable sample biases.

        -  2.Assessment Batteries Evaluation and Reliability :

             -  (a)Time to complete the paper-and-pencil and interview measures will be recorded,
                and some measures may be dropped to minimize participant burden.

             -  (b)Psychometric properties of customized measures will be determined, and if
                unsuitable will be dropped, improved, or substituted. Specific critical measures to
                be evaluated are:

                  -  i.)PTSD interview components: Comparison of positive and negative predictive
                     values of the War Related Illness and Injury Study Center Questionnaire
                     (Section IV of the telephone interview)

                  -  ii.)and the Short-Screening Scale for DSM-IV Posttraumatic Stress Disorder
                     screen. Optimum measures require PPV and NPV > 0.8

                  -  iii.)MINI interview for lifetime and current PTSD: Validity versus CAPS with
                     kappa > 0.7 for lifetime diagnosis

        -  3.If the study's response system to participant psychological distress is needed during
           this phase, the safety plan will be evaluated

        -  4.Determine types and frequency of reported psychological distress to the telephone
           interview. Ensure suitable emergency response plan available for participants who
           describe psychological distress (e.g., suicidal ideation) during the telephone
           interview.
    
  