
    
      Background:

      Nurses play an important role in helping patients to manage symptoms, adhere to treatment,
      and change behavior. There has been a lack of research regarding nonpharmacologic
      interventions with patients with heart failure and other chronic conditions.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this 4-year study was to determine the effect of a nurse-led
      behavioral management intervention on health-related quality in patients with
      medically-managed heart failure. The secondary objective was to assess the impact of the
      behavioral management intervention on health care resource utilization.

      Methods:

      DESIGN: randomized controlled trial. SETTING: single site, VA San Diego Healthcare System.
      SAMPLE: Patients were enrolled in 11 cohorts a total of 116 outpatients were randomly
      assigned to one of two treatment groups to evaluate the clinical impact of the intervention.
      Group 1 received usual care for patients with heart failure (n=58). Group 2 was an augmented
      group receiving usual care plus participation in the 15-week (4-month) behavioral management
      program (n=58). Inclusion criteria were that the patient had a primary diagnosis of heart
      failure, a VA primary care provider, stable symptoms for at least one month and was able to
      walk. INTERVENTION: The behavioral management program augmented usual care and consisted of
      establishing specific goals with patients related to healthier diet, increased quality and
      amount of exercise, smoking cessation, and increased social and interpersonal activities.
      DEPENDENT VARIABLES/OUTCOME MEASURES: The five major dependent variables for this study were
      psychological symptom distress (Multiple Affect Adjective Check List - MAACL), physical
      functioning (SF-36 physical component summary score), mental functioning (SF-36 mental
      component summary score), exercise capability (6-Minute Walk), and general health perceptions
      (SF-36 general health scale score). Dependent variables were assessed at baseline, at the end
      of treatment (at 4 months), and then at 10 and 16 months. DATA ANALYSIS: Initial analyses
      included all subjects who were randomized to treatment and completed all data collection time
      points in a series of 2 by 4 ANOVAs with time as a repeated measure.

      Status:

      Completed. Final report submitted August 2003
    
  