
    
      Lesions in the cartilage are common disorders. In the knee, cartilage lesions are found in
      over 50 % of all arthroscopies, where 25 % of these are of focal character and the majority
      are found in the medial femoral condyle. The quality of life of patients with focal cartilage
      defects is significantly affected and it has been shown that the quality of life is affected
      to the same extend as in patients scheduled for knee replacement. Arthroscopy lavage and
      debridement micro fracturing, mosaic plasticity as well as osteochondral autograft
      transplantation (OATS) are methods used for treatment of the lesions. Some have shown to help
      the patients but there is an ongoing treatment gap especially for patients with knee lesions
      and early osteoarthritis.

      Episurf Medical has developed a Focal Knee Resurfacing (FKR) implant, the Episealer® implant.
      The implant is used for treatment of focal cartilage lesions of the lateral or medial femoral
      condyle in order to alleviate pain and improve range of motion. The implant and surgical
      instruments are customized to each patient's joint anatomy, position, and size of injury,
      based on patient-specific images (MRI). The Episealer® device is CE marked.

      The Episealer® implant consists of a peg and a hat. The implant exists in five different
      diameters (12,14,17, 20 and 25mm), depending on the lesion size. The shape of the hat is
      circular or oval.

      The Episealer® implant is made of biocompatible cobalt/chromium/molybdenum alloy. To enhance
      the osseointegration, the implant is coated with biocompatible hydroxyapatite onto an
      interlaying biocompatible pure titanium coating.

      A previous study (S57685) showed that Episealer is a viable option for focal cartilage
      lesions of the distal femur not responding, or not eligible for, biological treatment options
      (eg. microfracturing). This device is a good solution when there are no alternative
      treatments, except prosthesis surgery, available.

      The goal is to evaluate the efficacy, safety and performance of the Episealer® device in a
      larger sample size and on the long term.
    
  