
    
      Closed-loop control of oxygen therapy is described in the literature used for preterm
      infants, trauma patients, medical emergency use and patients with COPD. For the latter,
      closed-loop therapy has been used for patients admitted to hospital with an exacerbation, for
      domiciliary oxygen use and during exercise. O2matic is a closed-loop system that is based on
      continuous and non-invasive measurement of pulse, oxygen-saturation and respiratory
      frequency. The algorithm in O2matic controls oxygen delivery with the aim of keeping the
      saturation within the desired interval, which could be 88-92 % for COPD-patients in
      accordance with international guidelines on this topic. Saturation interval can be set for
      the individual patients, as can the range of acceptable oxygen-flow. If saturation or
      oxygen-flow can't be maintained within the desired intervals an alarm will sound.

      All studies on closed-loop systems have shown that this method is better than manually
      control by nurse to maintain saturation within the desired interval. Furthermore, some
      studies have indicated that closed-loop has the possibility to reduce admission time and to
      reduce time spent with oxygen therapy, due to more efficient and fast withdrawal from oxygen
      supplementation.

      In the present study O2matic will be tested versus manual control, for patients admitted with
      an exacerbation in COPD, and in need of supplemental oxygen. During the study the patients
      will either have oxygen controlled with O2matic or manually by nursing staff. All patients
      will have continuous logging of pulse, oxygen-saturation and oxygen-flow with O2matic, but
      only in the O2matic active group, the algorithm will control oxygen-delivery.

      The primary hypothesis will be tested, which is that O2matic is better than manual control
      for maintaining oxygen-saturation within the desired interval and reducing time with
      unintended hypoxia and hyperoxia. For this purpose 20 patients will be included in a
      crossover design with 4 hours of O2matic-controlled oxygen treatment and 4 hours with
      manually titrated oxygen with a 16 hours washout between periods.

      No safety issues has been reported in the literature. Before use O2matic will be approved by
      The Danish Medicines Agency, The Ethics Committee in the Capital Region of Denmark and by the
      regional Data Protection Board. The study will be conducted according to GCP standards with
      independent monitoring. All adverse events and serious adverse events will be monitored and
      serious adverse events will be reported to Danish Medicines Agency.
    
  