
    
      This open-label study was designed to investigate the safety, tolerability, efficacy,
      pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of canakinumab, a fully human anti-interleukin-1beta
      (anti-IL-1beta) monoclonal antibody, in patients with NOMID / CINCA syndrome. A total of 25
      to 30 patients will be enrolled into the study. The study consists of two stages:

      In the first pilot stage it is planned to enroll 5 patients undergoing PK/PD assessments in
      blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and monitoring of efficacy (CNS relapse and inflammatory
      relapse) to confirm the dose and dosing regimen before enlarging the number of patients
      enrolled into the study. Up to 5 additional patients may be enrolled in this stage if the
      variability of the responses to treatment is high. Interim analyses will be conducted as
      required. Following Stage 1, a second confirmatory stage will be conducted, enrolling 20
      additional patients. In this stage patients will be treated with the dose and dosing regimen
      based on the assessment of the efficacy profile in Stage 1 and exploratory PK/PD assessment.
      In each stage there will be a 3-week screening period to collect pre-treatment parameters, a
      run-in period (only for patients who discontinue anakinra), a baseline evaluation prior to
      each drug administration, a 24-week treatment period with fixed dosing of canakinumab, and a
      study completion visit. Patients whose body weight is greater than 40 kg will receive
      canakinumab 150 mg as a subcutaneous (s.c.) injection, and patients with a body weight less
      than or equal to 40 kg will receive canakinumab 2 mg/kg s.c. Patients will be administered
      canakinumab every 8 weeks and will undergo an observation period after each dose
      administration in order to evaluate the response to treatment. Patients who do not achieve
      complete remission following canakinumab injection in any treatment period will be re-dosed
      within Day 15 or receive the following dose adjustments:

        -  300 mg s.c. (or 4 mg/kg for patients with a body weight less than or equal to 40 kg)

        -  450 mg s.c. (or 6 mg/kg for patients with a body weight less than or equal to 40 kg)

        -  600 mg s.c. (or 8 mg/kg for patients with a body weight less than or equal to 40 kg)

      End of Study will occur when patients discontinue from the study or complete this study. The
      End of Study visit should occur 8 weeks (plus or minus 1 week) after the last injection. All
      patients who complete the 6-month evaluation may be offered to enter an extension study
      (CACZ885D2201E1) conducted to assess long term safety and efficacy data.
    
  