
    
      Neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy (nCRT) is the standard treatment modality in locally
      advanced rectal cancer (LARC) and patients achieving complete response to treatment (CR)
      usually have a better prognosis in terms of local control (LC), metastases-free survival
      (MFS) and overall survival (OS).

      Since response to radiotherapy is dose dependent in rectal cancer, dose escalation may lead
      to higher complete response rates. The possibility to predict patients who will achieve CR
      before surgery or during nCRT is of crucial importance. Recently, an early tumour regression
      index (ERITCP) was introduced, to predict pathological CR (pCR) after nCRT in LARC patients.
      In particular, the authors found that the patients with ERITCP <13.1 show a strong response
      during therapy and have a lower probability to experience distant relapses.

      Aim of this clinical trial is to investigate the impact of dose escalation in rectal cancer,
      identifying the poor responder cases using the ERI index during the course of radiotherapy
      and increasing the prescribed dose in these patients.

      Adopting this boosting protocol, an increase of 10% of CR (clinical and pathological) rate is
      expected.

      For patients enrolled in the trial, chemoradiotherapy (CRT) will be administered using the
      MRI guided Radiotherapy (MRgRT) machine available in our institution.

      The initial radiotherapy treatment will consist in delivering 55 Gy in 25 fractions on Gross
      Tumor Volume (GTV) plus the corresponding mesorectum of 45Gy in 25 fractions on the whole
      pelvis. Chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil(5-FU) or oral capecitabine will be administered
      continuously.

      A 0.35 Tesla Magnetic Resonance image will be acquired at simulation and every day during
      MRgRT. At fraction 10, ERI will be calculated.

      If ERI will be inferior than 13.1 the patient will continue the original treatment. Patients
      with complete clinical response will go through wait and see approach.

      If ERI will be higher than 13.1 the treatment plan will be reoptimized considering the
      residual tumor at fraction 10 as new therapy volume, where the dose will be intensified to
      reach 60.1 Gy.

      After the end of CRT, the clinical response will be evaluated 8-10 weeks using high tesla MR
      and CT images or FDGPET-CT image 8-10 weeks after the end of nCRT. Surgery will be performed
      12-16 weeks after the end of the CRT in case of partial or stable or progression disease,
      while in case of major or complete clinical response at restaging imaging, a Watch and Wait
      (W&W) or local excision (LE) approach should be followed. Late toxicity and quality of life
      (QoL) will be scored at first follow-up (FUP) and at 1 and 2 years of FUP according to Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0 scale, functional scales and QoL
      questionnaires (LARS and SEXUAL questionnaires, at the start of treatment, after surgery and
      at 1 and 2 years of FUP), respectively.

      The number of cases to be enrolled will be 63: all the patients will be treated at Fondazione
      Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS in Rome. All the cases will be discussed in weekly
      multidisciplinary tumor board to share the best therapeutic options, both at the diagnosis
      and at presurgical restaging.

      . The primary endpoints will be complete response considered as: ypT0N0 in case of Total
      Mesorectal Excision (TME), ypT0ycN0 in case of LE, ycT0N0 in case of WW; prospective
      validation of delta radiomics MR-guide Radiotherapy model.

      The secondary endpoints will be:3 years LC, MFS, Disease Free Survival (DFS), OS; R0
      resection rate; Tumor Regression Grade (TRG) 1, TRG 2, Neoadjuvant Rectal (NAR) score;
      Sphincter preservation rate; Organ preservation rate; Rectal and sexual functions.
    
  