
    
      This is a retrospective chart review examining our experience with the Ross procedure. There
      will be a treatment and control group. The treatment group will be children who have had the
      Ross procedure with the proximal buttressing technique. The control or comparisons group
      would be Ross procedure patients who did not receive the proximal buttressing technique. All
      children's charts reviewed will be of patients who had their surgery at Children's Healthcare
      of Atlanta between December 1994 and August 2003; only information available up until October
      10, 2003 will be used for this study. We will review approximately 75 charts for this study.

      The first aim of the study would be to examine basic information regarding bleeding
      incidence. The following information will be collected on both groups:

        -  Amount of chest tube bleeding within the first 24 hours, and

        -  Number of patients who required re-exploration for bleeding

        -  Time from cardiopulmonary bypass removal to time leaving the operating room (indicator
           of the need to "dry up").

      The second aim of the study would be to review the echocardiograms on these patients. The
      pulmonary valve size before the Ross procedure would be measured on the preoperative
      transthoracic or transesophageal echocardiogram. This would then be compared with
      postoperative studies in the Operating Room by transesophageal echocardiography. The
      pre-discharge echocardiogram and follow-up echocardiograms (which are a routine for these
      patients and, therefore, would not be necessary to add to the study protocol) would be
      reviewed. Autograft root diameters would be measured. The diameters would be at the level of
      the valve leaflets, at the level of the commissures and at the sinotubular ridge. These would
      be compared against published Z values for these patients by age, weight and body surface
      area. At the same time, any degree of aortic insufficiency or left ventricular outflow tract
      obstruction would be noted and recorded. One non-invasive cardiologist will review all old
      echocardiograms.
    
  