
    
      The management of biliary strictures depends on their correct pre-operative evaluation which
      remains challenging. Biliary strictures have various etiologies (traumatic, inflammatory,
      tumoral, ischemic etc), which are necessarily needed to be known for the correct therapeutic
      approach. Despite the emerging multitudes of new diagnostic opportunities and modalities
      (laboratory, radiological, endoscopic, histopathologic and immunohistological) which exist
      today, there is still a large number of biliary stenosis misdiagnosed with a profound
      negative impact on the patients´ outcome. The dilemma that exists is how to balance the risk
      of missing the chance of curative surgery for some malignancy and preventing some patients
      from unnecessary surgery for benign etiologies and not to waste time. Therefore, diagnostic
      methods which can maximize the chance of the preoperative diagnosis of indeterminate biliary
      strictures are needed.

      This study will:

      compare two methods helping in the diagnosis of suspected malignant biliary stricture-SMBS
      evaluate the impact of both methods on the management of patients with biliary strictures.

        -  ERCP (Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) is the most widely used diagnostic
           procedure in patients with biliary obstruction. It enables to identify the biliary
           stricture, to determinate its location and help providing tissue sampling from the
           stricture for cytological evaluation. Different methods were used to take samples from
           the site of the stenosis. Brush-cytology and endocanal forceps biopsies were the most
           used techniques, both with differents specificity a sensitivity. It was demonstrated by
           different studies, that Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization (FISH) improved the
           diagnostic yield of routine cytology. That is the reason why the investigators are going
           to combine FISH with the conventional sampling methods to maximize the chance to
           determine the etiology of stenosis early and avoid wasting time.

        -  The peroral cholangioscopy (DSOC), one of a newer method of endocanal exploration via
           ERCP- commonly known as the SpyGlass - helps to provide the visual diagnostics of the
           strictures based on morphological and vascular patterns and to provide directed
           intraductal biopsy (SpyBite) from the lesions. The combination of both methods should
           increase the diagnostic yield in the evaluation of indeterminate biliary stricture by
           DSOC. Because of its high costs, the DSOC is mostly provided later, that is when the
           ERCP cytology failed (secondary DSOC). This wasted time can be important and
           determinable for the patients´ outcome. So primary cholangioscopy could help in the
           correct management of patients with indeterminate biliary stricture, without wasting
           time.

      The study will compare the primary DSOC to ERCP. Success (positivity) is defined by the
      presence of benign or malignant cells, adequate to make the final tissue diagnosis. Another
      examination should be performed in situations where the initial method failed.

      Gold standard for final diagnosis should be the histology from surgery resection. In patients
      without surgery, clinical evaluation and cross-over methods are used for comparison of
      initial methods.
    
  