
    
      This is a randomized study with 300 African American (AA) breast cancer survivors to be
      conducted in Chicago Park District (CPD) facilities. The study will be based in six
      predominantly AA communities in Chicago (Roseland, Pullman, Englewood, Chatham, Austin, South
      Shore, Woodlawn, Calumet Heights, North Lawndale and Grand Crossing). These communities have
      at least one CPD fitness center, have populations that are at least 90% or more AA and have
      similar socioeconomic statuses. Fifty AA breast cancer survivors will be recruited from each
      community (25 treatment/ 25 control).

      The Moving Forward intervention integrates concepts from Social Cognitive Theory (SCT) and
      the Socio-Ecological Model (SEM) to promote independent behavior change. SCT suggests that
      behavior can be explained by the dynamic interaction between behavior, personal factors
      (e.g., self-efficacy), and the environment (e.g, social support). Self-efficacy is a person's
      confidence in performing a particular behavior and overcoming barriers to that behavior. A
      number of studies have supported the mediating role of self-efficacy in making independent
      health behavior changes.

      The overall goal of Moving Forward is to make independent changes in health behaviors to
      promote a healthy weight. The weight loss goal will be consistent with the recommendations of
      an expert panel at National Institutes of Health (NIH). Dietary goals aimed at producing
      weight loss, decreasing BC recurrence risk, and improving overall health include 1) a
      decrease in daily caloric intake (based on weight in pounds X 12 kcal/day with 500-750
      calories subtracted to create an energy deficit); 2) a decrease in dietary fat consumption to
      20% of total calories; 3) an increase in fruit and vegetable consumption to 7 daily servings;
      and 4) an increase in fiber to 25 grams per day. For exercise, participants will gradually
      increase their activity to a minimum of 180 minutes per week at 55-65% maximal heart rate.
    
  