
    
      The standard of care in patients with androgen independent prostate cancer (AIPC) is debated.
      Systemic chemotherapy has shown a survival advantage with a Taxotere-based regimen, but this
      therapeutic approach is associated with significant toxicity and morbidity. Furthermore, some
      patients with AIPC are asymptomatic with minimal disease burden making systemic chemotherapy
      a less attractive option. Identifying active agents that are effective in this patient
      population is of vital importance, as this may delay the need to chemotherapy, palliate
      symptoms, delay progression, and potentially prolong survival. Acceptable approaches in this
      setting include vaccine therapies, targeted agents, immunotherapy, or non-taxotere based
      chemotherapeutic programs. Targeted therapy is of particular interest as this usually avoids
      side effects of chemotherapy by attacking tumor cells and sparing normal tissue. Ongoing
      research continues to identify pathways by which the prostate cancer cells become refractory
      to androgen blockade. During the development of prostate cancer, cell survival depends
      primarily on the androgen receptor, which is bound to heat shock proteins in the cytoplasm.
      The active metabolite of testosterone, namely dihydrotestosterone (DHT) binds to the receptor
      relocating it to the nucleus where it dimerizes, activating transcription genes that are
      involved in the growth and survival of the cancer cell. Plausible etiologies for the
      development of hormone resistance and continued cell growth despite adequate castration
      include changes in antigen receptor expression, changes in the receptor structure, and
      changes in androgen receptor function with more than one mechanism contributing to this
      resistance. Several investigators have shown that the androgen receptor gene is the only gene
      that is consistently up regulated during tumor progression. This increase in androgen
      receptor mRNA and protein was both necessary and sufficient to convert prostate cancer growth
      from hormone-sensitive to hormone-refractory, and was dependent on a functional
      ligand-binding domain. Consequently, one can divide mechanisms of androgen resistance into
      those that involve the androgen receptor and those that do not.Pathways involving the
      androgen receptor allow for prostate cancer progression through amplification or mutations of
      the receptor, deregulation of growth factors or cytokines, and alteration of activators.
      Amplification of the androgen receptor gene leads to enhanced activation of that receptor
      even at lower levels of androgens. In addition, mutations in the receptor gene allow for
      activation of the receptor by different ligands. Peptide growth factors, such as insulin-like
      growth factor, keratinocyte growth factor, epidermal growth factor, and interleukin-6 (IL 6)
      can activate the antigen receptor independent of androgens.Deregulation of the apoptotic
      genes is another important pathway in AIPC development. PTEN tumor suppressor gene
      (Phosphatase and Tensin Homologue) is mutated in AIPC allowing for the loss of the inhibitory
      effect that it usually exhibits on the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway, causing
      overproduction of akt allowing for cell survival to continue. Another deregulated
      proapoptotic oncogene, namely bcl-2 allows for cell survival and eventually progression of
      disease. It has been postulated for years that tumors need an alternative source of nutrients
      once they outgrow their own supply. Folkman suggested that an angiogenic switch takes place,
      which accelerates tumor proliferation. Inhibiting tumor proangiogenic factors without
      affecting normal vasculature has become an attractive theory to inhibit tumor growth. Since
      prostate cancer, like other malignancies, require blood vessel formation to develop
      metastases, finding methods that would disrupt this process became of paramount importance.
      Two separate studies have shown that elevated levels of the vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) correspond with advanced stage, progression, and poor survival in prostate
      cancer. Since VEGF is a major regulator of angiogenesis; a process that is increased in AIPC
      and since VEGF also correlates with increased microvessel density as well as prognosis, a
      logical step was to evaluate the activity of VEGF inhibitors and other anti-angiogenesis
      agents in AIPC. Lenalidomide (Revlimid速) is an analogue of thalidomide that has demonstrated
      enhanced immunomodulatory properties and a more favorable toxicity profile. The fact that
      AIPC depends on angiogenesis and lack of appropriate immune reaction to malignant cells and
      the fact that Revlimid速 exhibits its activity by inhibiting angiogenesis with appropriate
      immunomodulation, makes this agent an attractive option to study in this disease
      setting.Several investigations suggested activity with thalidomide in AIPC but most studies
      were in patients who have failed systemic chemotherapy. In addition, Revlimid速 has been shown
      in phase I trials to be safe, less toxic and more tolerable than Thalidomide, with potential
      activity. This study aims at evaluating the toxicity and efficacy of Revlimid速 in AIPC
      patients who are chemotherapy-naive.
    
  