
    
      INTRODUCTION Around 20% of people with COVID-19 becomes seriously ill with pneumonia and
      multi-organ failure, requiring hospital admission to relieve the symptoms and reduce
      mortality. To avoid any spreading of the virus, hospitalized COVID-19 patients are isolated.
      Thus, patients hospitalized with COVID-19 are limited in their social support and their only
      in-person contact is with healthcare staff in full personal protective equipment. Several
      studies highlight that isolation due to infection may have negative psychological
      implications. Moreover, Patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 may experience fear of
      the consequences of the infection. A high prevalence of persistent mental health problems has
      been found among patients during infectious disease outbreaks such as the 2003 outbreak of
      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). Researchers and policy makers have highlighted that
      the psychological impact of the COVID-19 pandemic must be recognized alongside the physical
      symptoms for all those affected. Moreover, evidence-based evaluations and mental health
      interventions targeting hospitalized COVID-19 patients and their relatives are at present
      lacking. If left untreated, these psychological symptoms may have long-term health effects on
      patients and require treatment adding to the cost burden of managing the illness.

      OBJECTIVE The objective of this project is to test the efficacy of a minimal
      psychoeducational intervention versus standard of care at discharge for reducing symptoms of
      anxiety in hospitalized patients during the COVID-19 outbreak

      METHODS Design This is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) among hospitalized COVID-19
      patients.

      Hypothesis The primary hypothesis is that a minimal psychological intervention will reduce
      anxiety as assessed by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) subscale for anxiety
      (HADS-A) by 1.5 points from baseline to follow-up 1 month after discharge from hospital. The
      estimated decrease in HADS-A is based on the clinically important difference found in
      patients with COPD and isolation studies.

      Study population Patients will be recruited from the Department of Infectious Diseases and
      the COVID-19 isolation wards at Copenhagen University Hospital, Hvidovre; one of the major
      hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Denmark.

      Eligible patients are consecutively identified at time of admission. Included patients are
      randomized 1:1 to either a psychoeducational intervention or standard care delivered at
      discharge.

      Sample size The primary outcome of interest is the intra-individual differences in HADS-A
      scores between baseline and follow-up 1 month post discharge. The design is paired with a
      power of 0.80 and an α at p=0.05. To identify a difference of 1.5 points, which is the
      minimal clinically important difference based on COPD and isolation studies, with an SD of
      2.5 points, 25 patients are required in each group. Since the trial population consists of
      severely ill patients with high morbidity and mortality rates 2, approximately 30% of the
      sample are estimated to drop out. Thus, the RCT study requires 66 patients, with 33 in each
      group.

      Intervention at discharge Patients randomized to the intervention group will receive a
      minimal psychoeducational intervention just prior to discharge from the hospital. The goal of
      the intervention is that patients will be prepared and learn to interpret and react to
      physical and psychological symptoms that are related to recovering from a COVID-19 infection.
      The intervention consists of both written and verbal information. While both the written and
      verbal information will be primarily targeted the patient, the role of relatives and their
      possible reactions will be part of the dialogue. A manual describing the content and
      procedures of the intervention will be developed to ensure that the intervention is both
      replicable and transparent. The intervention has a planned duration of 30 minutes and will be
      conducted by a designated study affiliated researcher, who has a background in healthcare
      (i.e. nurse or medical doctor).

      Standard of care at discharge Standard of Care at discharge of patients with COVID-19 from
      hospital is to inform the patients whom to contact in case of worsening of the physical
      condition, such as increasing e.g. shortness of breath, and of precautions regarding further
      isolation to avoid infection of household and other contacts, if relevant. Information
      regarding the patient´s psychological condition is not part of a standard conversation at
      discharge.

      Blinding Due to the nature of the intervention, the RCT trial is not blinded, but the outcome
      measures are masked for health professionals and staff until the end of the study.

      Data collection Data is collected using standardized questionnaires at four timepoints;
      baseline completed within 48 hours after admission (T0), at discharge, but prior to
      intervention (T1), 1 month (T2), 3 months (T3), and 12 months (T4). Patients will answer the
      questionnaires electronically in REDCap© or via phone interview conducted by a study nurse or
      medical student. Clinical data is collected from the medical records and entered into the
      REDCap© database.

      The following internationally well validated PROMs will be used to assess mental
      health/distress:

        -  Anxiety and depression will be assessed using the Danish version of the HADS. The
           primary outcome in the RCT study is anxiety measured by HADS-A.

        -  Perceived stress is measured using the Perceived Stress Scale - 10 item (PSS-10).

        -  Harvard Trauma Questionnaire (HTQ) is used to assess subjective distress caused by
           traumatic events.

        -  Health related quality of life is measured by SF-12, a short version of the Medical
           Outcomes Study (MOS) 36-item Short-Form Health Survey SF-36.

      Sociodemographic and clinical variables The following demographic and clinical data are
      collected from the patients records: age, gender, marital status, residence in nursing home,
      medicine, smoking status, BMI, previous history of psychiatric illness, physical symptoms,
      and clinical parameters such as Temperature (>/> 38C); demand of oxygen support (< 5 litres
      O2/minute; 5-10 litres O2/minute; >10-30 O2/minute or need for mechanical ventilation).
      Biochemical parameters (Hemoglobin, White Blood Cell (WBC) count, lymphocyte count, Lactate
      Dehydrogenase, Alanine Amino Transferase (ALT), CRP). Length of hospital stay is collected at
      discharge. Information regarding contact to general practitioner and current psychological
      treatment outside of the study is collected during follow-up.

      Statistical analysis Descriptive statistics of demographic characteristics at baseline (T0)
      will be computed. The primary analysis for the RCT study will be performed on the basis of
      the intention-to-treat principle. Baseline data for the two groups will be compared with
      Student's t test, the chi-square test, or nonparametric tests. To analyse within group
      differences in outcome scores, a Student´s t test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used. A
      mixed regression model will be used to assess the change within-group and between groups over
      time. The co-variables included in the models will be chosen based on an a priori hypothesis,
      the bivariate analysis and clinical relevance. Analyses will be performed using the STATA 13
      software and in collaboration with an experienced statistician. All reported p-values are
      two-sided using a significance level of 0.05.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS The study has been approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency
      [P-2020-349]. The national Health Research Ethics Committee has assessed the intervention as
      not being a significant biomedical intervention [jr. nr. 20025879]. All participating
      patients will provide written informed consent before any data collection.

      TIME SCHEDULE This is a two-year study initiated as soon as possible and no later than mid
      April 2020.

      DISSIMINATION Publication of positive, neutral or negative results in international,
      peer-reviewed journals will be sought. In addition, results will be communicated at relevant
      scientific meetings and conferences.

      PERSPECTIVE The results from this study have a number of important potential implications.
      First, by quantifying the magnitude of psychiatric symptoms among hospitalized COVID-19
      patients, potential risk factors associated with these symptoms can be identified. Second,
      there is a need to develop and test the efficacy of minimal psychological intervention for
      reducing psychiatric morbidity among COVID-19 patients. Providing psychological treatment and
      support may reduce the burden of comorbid mental health conditions both short and long-term.
      The challenge is to provide mental health services in the context of patient isolation.
      Hence, the intervention is designed to give healthcare professionals an instrument that is
      clinically applicable and easy to implement even in isolated patients. Finally, the
      longitudinal design of the study capturing experiences over time, can be used to identify
      when in the trajectory psychological interventions are most needed.
    
  