
    
      Hypertension, or sustained systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) of 140 and 90 mmHg or
      higher, is among the most frequently encountered conditions in primary care in the U.S. The
      estimated prevalence is 30% among all U.S. adults and increases with age, reaching 65% for
      adults over 65 years of age. Hypertension is also the leading risk factor for cardiovascular
      disease, global mortality, and ranks third among the causes of disability. Treatment of
      hypertension is relatively straightforward, but patient adherence to long-term self-care
      strategies is problematically low. Three important behaviors that individuals can adhere to
      in order to help lower their BP are 1) Taking medications as prescribed by a physician, 2)
      Monitoring BP at home, and 3) Limiting dietary sodium intake. Adherence to these behaviors is
      problematic and currently ranges from 25% to 50%; the present Phase I STTR study is aimed at
      addressing the behavioral barriers for adherence to these three activities with the help of
      mobile technology. In particular, this STTR will develop and test an incentive program
      delivered through a mobile health app to increase adherence to prescribed BP control regimens
      and precipitate reduction in BP. The target participants for the test are adults with
      clinically diagnosed hypertension. The product to be developed is a mobile health app for
      patient smartphones, which delivers reminder triggers and immediate behavioral reinforcement
      through incentives to establish long-term habits. The incentives in each treatment arm are
      either purely financial or framed to target specific "mental accounts" to maximize the
      behavioral effectiveness of the intervention. The specific aims of the study are to (1)
      Demonstrate feasibility of combining behavioral economics with state-of-the-art telehealth
      technology to deliver an optimal incentive strategy to the specific group of patients to
      promote adherence and reduce BP, and (2) Compare the effectiveness of two types of
      incentives, i.e., pure financial and mental accounting, on BP and adherence to all three
      self-care activities: medications, BP monitoring, and meal logging. Phase II will test the
      efficacy of this approach in a larger and more diverse population to search for statistically
      and clinically significant improvements in blood pressure resulting from use of the app with
      the optimal incentive strategy. Initial customers are health insurers and risk-bearing
      hospital systems (e.g. those with value-based reimbursement models), who are fiscally
      responsible for healthcare expenses for large numbers of patients with poorly controlled BP.
    
  