
    
      Insomnia is a significant public health problem with substantial medical, psychological and
      financial ramifications. About 50-75% of the 3.5 million Americans who provide unpaid
      medical, practical, and/or emotional support for a loved one with cancer endorse clinically
      significant sleep disturbance. Understanding caregivers' psychosocial risk factors and needs,
      and the extent to which these are unique to the cancer caregiving context, will ensure
      appropriate and effective interventions for cancer caregivers with insomnia.

      Existing psychosocial services for caregivers are primarily delivered in-person. Although
      such interventions are effective, they suffer from low enrollment, high dropout, and limited
      reach to caregivers who already have inadequate healthcare access, like caregivers from lower
      SES or those in rural areas. Digital health interventions can lower barriers to entry to
      supportive care for caregivers as they are conveniently accessible anywhere and anytime from
      an Internet-enabled device. Sleep Healthy Using the Internet (SHUTi) is a NCI-designated
      research-tested intervention that delivers cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I)
      and holds significant potential to accessibly treat insomnia for cancer caregivers. Most
      digital health interventions tested among caregivers, however, have been developed de novo
      for specific caregiving contexts. The implicit assumption underlying highly tailored
      interventions for caregivers is that caregivers have different deficits, risk factors, and
      needs from non-caregivers. This assumption has not often been tested, and therefore the
      extent to which caregivers want and need tailoring for digital health interventions is not
      known. This study is therefore designed to provide the data necessary to ensure the highest
      quality, impact, and efficiency from existing evidence-based digital health interventions to
      meet pressing psychosocial needs among cancer caregivers. Specifically, this study will
      directly inform next research steps for tailoring and testing SHUTi for optimal impact and
      reach among caregivers.

      The SHUTi Program: SHUTi is a self-guided (i.e., automated), interactive, and tailored
      web-based program modeled on the primary tenants of face-to-face CBT-I (sleep restriction,
      stimulus control, cognitive restructuring, sleep hygiene, relapse prevention). Intervention
      content is metered out over time through 6 "Cores." Users obtain access to a new Core based
      on a time and event-based schedule (e.g., 7 days after completion of previous Core). This
      schedule is consistent with the recommendation from a task force commissioned by the Academy
      of Sleep Medicine, which deemed that an average of 6 - 8 sessions constitutes "adequate
      treatment exposure". The SHUTi program relies on user-entered online Sleep Diaries to track
      progress and to tailor treatment recommendations (i.e., assign a "sleep restriction" window).
      Each Core acts as an online analog for the weekly sessions typically used when delivering
      CBT-I in a face-to-face format, following the same general structure: 1) Core objectives
      (what will be learned and why this information is important), 2) review of previous week's
      homework and sleep diary data, 3) new intervention material, 4) assignment of homework
      (treatment strategies for the coming week), and 5) a summary of the Core's main points.
      Intervention content is enhanced through a variety of interactive features, including
      personalized goal-setting, graphical feedback based on inputted symptoms, animations /
      illustrations to enhance comprehension, quizzes to test user knowledge, patient vignettes,
      and video-based expert explanation. Automated emails are also sent to encourage program
      adherence. There is no content that is specifically about cancer or caregiving.

      Caregivers participating in this study will complete a baseline assessment (questionnaires
      and 2 weeks of daily sleep diaries), and then will receive complementary and voluntary access
      to SHUTi. Participants who choose to complete 1 or more SHUTi Cores will complete a follow-up
      assessment of questionnaires and 2 weeks of sleep diaries; participants who choose not to
      complete any SHUTi cores will be asked to provide brief feedback regarding their
      reasons/barriers.
    
  