
    
      Early mobilization following total hip and knee arthroplasty surgeries is important in
      decreasing the risk of complications such as deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolus,
      pneumonia, and urinary retention. It is also generally accepted that early mobilization may
      help prevent late complications such as joint stiffness or arthrofibrosis. Aside from these
      complications, patient satisfaction and length of hospital stay both seem to be correlated
      with early mobilization with poor mobility negatively impacting both outcomes. Therefore, it
      is important for clinicians to ensure that patients are adequately mobilizing in the
      immediate postoperative period to promote a successful recovery after total hip or knee
      arthroplasty.

      Consumer activity monitors are generally manufactured to be used in a relatively healthy,
      ambulatory population. Their accuracy has been validated in multiple studies in healthy
      subjects in a variety controlled settings. Based on these validity studies, it is clear that
      some of these consumer activity monitors have worse accuracy in certain situations, such as
      slower-paced walking or in people using assistive devices for ambulation, such as canes. The
      limitations of these devices in these settings could be problematic for monitoring
      post-arthroplasty patients since all these patients ambulate slowly, with an altered gait,
      and with a walker. No studies to date have looked at the accuracy of consumer activity
      monitors in the immediate postoperative arthroplasty population.

      The consumer activity monitor market is rapidly evolving and changing, so much so that
      monitors used just last year might be obsolete this year. Therefore, rather than examining
      the accuracy of one device versus another, it is more applicable to determine what location
      is most accurate for placement of these monitors to help providers counsel patients on proper
      use postoperatively.

      Our goal for this study is to validate and to determine the best location for placement of
      the Fitbit Zip in the postoperative total joint arthroplasty patient population.
    
  