
    
      Asthma is a serious, long-term illness that affects around 15% of children in the United
      States. During adolescence, up to 50% of teenagers stop experiencing symptoms and are able to
      discontinue treatment. However, asthma symptoms often reoccur in adulthood for many of these
      people. It is not known exactly what causes this recurrence, but potential risk factors may
      include obesity, elevated serum leptin levels, early onset of puberty, exposure to
      pollutants, parental smoking habits, and lack of breastfeeding. Additionally, it is not known
      why childhood asthma is initially more prevalent in boys, but during adolescence it becomes
      more prevalent in girls. Beginning in 1989, a group of children born on the Isle of Wight in
      the United Kingdom has been followed by study researchers to provide long-term information on
      asthma. These children have been periodically evaluated over the years and are now 18 years
      old. The purpose of this study is to analyze participants' data collected over a span of 18
      years to identify factors that may increase a person's risk of experiencing persistent or
      recurrent asthma in adulthood.

      At previous study visits that occurred when participants were 1, 2, 4, and 10 years old,
      information on the following was collected: asthma and other allergic diseases, family
      history of asthma, and early life risk factors, including breastfeeding and tobacco smoke
      exposure. A blood sample was collected at participants' 10-year study visit. For this current
      study, all 18-year-old participants will return for a study visit. Participants will complete
      questionnaires on asthma and allergy symptoms and environmental exposures, including tobacco
      smoke and pollution. Blood collection, an allergy skin prick test, lung function testing, and
      a bronchial challenge test to assess airway function will occur. Select participants will
      also have a sputum sample collected.
    
  