
    
      Neuropathic pain is defined as "pain caused by a lesion or disease of the somatosensory
      nervous system". Neuropathic pain is a huge health problem worldwide, with an estimated
      prevalence of 7-8 % in the general population. In the present study the investigators will
      search for new genetic variants relevant for the development of this type of pain.

      Peripheral nerve lesions only progress to neuropathic pain in some patients, yet is not
      completely understood why or how. Genetic studies of patients with rare neuropathic disorders
      have been important for elucidating novel molecular mechanisms of neuropathic pain, and new
      drugs for neuropathic pain are now being developed based on these findings. By using genetic
      association studies, one may identify new genetic variants which may help to identify key
      molecular mechanisms for a larger group of patients with neuropathic pain.

      This project will use existing population-based cohorts, as well as establish a specific
      registry and biobank for patients with neuropathy in order to address these specific needs.
      This will allow the investigators to identify a large number of individuals with probable
      neuropathic pain and individuals with pain-free peripheral neuropathy (disease controls).
      International collaboration will contribute to study a large group of patients, which will be
      important in order to reach the project's goals. The results from the project are expected to
      increase current knowledge on the mechanisms of neuropathic pain, opening up new
      opportunities for innovative and improved treatments.

      Dissemination of results will be organized in close collaboration with patient
      representatives, and will be done regularly throughout the course of the project. The will
      focus both on internal dissemination to the participating hospitals, and external
      dissemination through participation in conferences, submissions to scientific journals and by
      publishing patient-friendly information booklets and proactively informing media outlets and
      patient organizations.
    
  