
    
      This study will use a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART) design to
      assess when to examine initial response to treatment, as well as whether and how best to
      augment the current first line, standard of care intervention for children demonstrating a
      slower response.

      First, at program entry, the investigators will assess all toddlers using both standardized
      and experimental assessments as they enroll in the NYCIT program. After entry assessments,
      the investigators will randomize each child with equal probability to early response
      assessment at either six weeks or 12 weeks (timing). This early response assessment will be
      used to determine whether children are considered fast or slow responders to treatment.
      Children who are considered early responders will receive a splitting of one on one TA-child
      JASPER and JasPEER (JASPER including another child peer). Children responding slowly to the
      initial intervention will be randomized to continue JASPER or to add structured teaching to
      their JASPER sessions. Approximately 300 toddlers (24-36 months) with a diagnosis of ASD, as
      confirmed by clinical evaluation records required for placement at the NYCIT will
      participate. Children will be assessed prior to intervention, immediately after Stage 1(early
      response) at either six or twelve weeks, exit Stage 2 intervention, and follow up.

      If teacher/paraprofessional withdraws from the study, all reasonable efforts will be made to
      place the child with another consenting teacher/paraprofessional. Based on the first two
      years of trials working with this center, no teacher withdrew mid study. However, a small
      number of teachers did change positions or took leave (e.g., maternity leave, move for job in
      another district). In these cases, the child was transferred to another consenting teacher.

      SMART Design:

      Initial Randomize to Stage 1 Treatment

      Stage 1: JASPER (6 weeks)

      Early Responders/Slow Responders determined

      Stage 2: JASPER + JasPEER (Early Responders only)-A

      Slow Responders randomized to Stage 2: Structured Teaching + JASPER -B or Stage 2: JASPER
      (Randomized for slow responders)-C A, B, and C options occur during the following 18 weeks

      Exit assessments and Follow up assessments at 3 months post exit

      Initial Randomized to Stage 1 Treatment

      Stage 1: JASPER (12 weeks)

      Early Responders/Slow Responders determined

      Stage 2: JASPER + JasPEER (Early Responders only)- D Slow Responders randomized to Stage 2:
      Structured Teaching + JASPER - E or Stage 2: JASPER (Randomized for slow responders)- F D, E,
      and F options occur during the following 12 weeks
    
  