
    
      Delirium is one of the most common manifestations of cerebral dysfunction in severely ill
      patients (60 to 80% of ventilated patients), leading not only to short-term complications
      (prolonged duration of ventilation, prolonged hospital stay, and increased mortality) but
      also long-term repercussions in the form of impaired cognitive functions, post-traumatic
      stress syndromes, and decreased quality of life. Different forms of delirium coexist: some
      patients are very agitated while others are, on the contrary, in an apathetic state. In
      intensive care patients, the agitated form of delirium is particularly problematic because of
      the risk of self-extubation and removal of other critical medical devices.

      Pain, stress, anxiety and deregulation of wake / sleep cycles are important risk factors for
      delirium occurrence and are unfortunately frequently encountered in varying degrees in
      intensive care.

      The international guidelines for the prevention of delirium in intensive care recommend the
      daily application of environmental, behavioral and pharmacological strategies. Thus, the
      early mobilization of the patient, the respect of the waking / sleep cycles, the adequate
      control of the pain represent effective measures of prevention. These guidelines also
      emphasize the importance of minimal use of sedative treatments while ensuring the comfort and
      safety of patients.

      Finally, in the case of the agitated form of delirium, experts recommend the use of low-dose
      neuroleptics and α-2 agonists to control psychotic manifestations rather than traditional
      sedatives (mainly benzodiazepines) that can clearly aggravate delirium.

      The α-2 receptors constitute a family of receptors coupled to transmembrane G proteins with 3
      pharmacological subtypes, α-2A, α-2B and α-2C. The α-2A and α-2C subtypes are mainly found in
      the central nervous system. Stimulation of these receptor subtypes may be responsible for
      sedation, analgesia and sympatholytic effects. Α-2B receptors are more common on vascular
      smooth muscle and have been shown to have vasopressor effects. By their inhibitory action on
      adenylyl cyclase, the 3 subtypes have several effects: 1) they reduce the levels of cyclic
      adenosine monophosphate, 2) they cause a hyperpolarization of noradrenergic neurons in the
      brain stem, in particular in the locus ceruleus, 3) they suppress the neural discharge. This
      suppression inhibits the release of norepinephrine into the synapse resulting in a modulatory
      effect on the anxiety, wakefulness and sleep of patients. Activation of this negative
      feedback loop may also result in reduced heart rate and blood pressure by sympatholytic
      action.

      Currently, two pharmacological α-2 agonists, clonidine (Catapressan®, Boehringer Ingelheim)
      and dexmedetomidine (Dexdor®, Orion Corporation), are marketed and commonly used in intensive
      care for their sedative, anxiolytic and analgesic properties. Unlike traditional sedatives
      (benzodiazepines and propofol) that leave the patient unresponsive to stimuli or stupor,
      sedation achieved by administering these α-2 agonists has several advantages. The α-2
      agonists lower the general level of alertness (NREM, indifference to the environment and
      pain), but leave the waking ability intact. Therefore, under α-2 agonists, patients are more
      easily awake until a return to full consciousness, able to respond to simple orders,
      participate in their sessions of physiotherapy and communicate, within the limits of the
      presence of an intubation probe or non-invasive ventilation mask. In addition, these agents
      do not cause respiratory depression.

      Clonidine is an α-2 agonist that has an affinity of 200/1 for α-2 receptors versus α-1
      receptors. Initially marketed for its antihypertensive properties, clonidine is used in
      intensive care for its sedative and analgesic effects, especially in the treatment of
      delirium or alcohol withdrawal syndromes (alcohol, opioids, or benzodiazepines). The
      pharmacodynamics of this α-2 agonist is characterized by hepatic metabolism and renal
      elimination. The half-life elimination time is about 24 hours. The doses administered ranged
      from 0.01 μg / kg / min to 0.03 μg / kg / min and the main reported side effects were:
      bradycardia, low blood pressure and dry mouth. Pharmacodynamically, clonidine has the
      advantage to be very affordable (about 90 euros per patient for a week of treatment).

      Dexmedetomidine is the newest of the α-2 agonists. Its affinity and specificity for α-2
      receptors is much greater than that of clonidine (1600/1 α-2 / α-1 receptors)25. The
      pharmacodynamics of this α-2 agonist is characterized by hepatic metabolism and elimination
      almost completely renal. The half-life elimination time is about 2 hours. The recommended
      doses vary between 0.4 μg / kg / h and can be titrated up to 1.4 μg / kg / h. The main
      reported side effects are: bradycardia and low blood pressure. Its cost, on the other hand,
      is much higher (800 euros per patient for a one week treatment). The efficacy of
      dexmedetomidine has been demonstrated in terms of reduced mechanical ventilation time and ICU
      length of hospitalization when compared to placebo, traditional sedatives (propofol or
      benzodiazepines), neuroletics in the context of critical care delirium.

      To date, only one study has compared the effects of clonidine and dexmedetomidine in a
      prospective, randomized manner (n = 70) in order to achieve short-term deep sedation in
      post-operative mechanical ventilation patients. Study confirms sedative efficacy of α-2
      agonists and suggests greater hemodynamic stability under dexmedetomidine.

      To our knowledge, no studies have compared the effects of clonidine and dexmedetomidine in
      agitated delirium in intensive care patients. Therefore, our goal is to compare the safety of
      clonidine and dexmedetomidine (in terms of bradycardia and / or hypotension) in addition to
      standard treatment in the context of agitated delirium in intensive care patients.
      Bradycardia is defined by a heart rate <60 / min (or a decrease of 20% of the initial heart
      rate) and arterial hypotension by one of the following criteria:

        -  systolic blood pressure less than 90mmHg o(r a decrease of 20% of the initial systolic
           arterial pressure)

        -  initiation of a vasopressor treatment

        -  10% increase in the dose of vasopressor treatment, if already started
    
  