
    
      Main objective:

      Describe the roles and missions of professionals dedicated to the coordination of care
      pathways for patients with HCC

      Secondary objectives:

      Compare the indicators of quality of care in HCC centres with a nurse coordinator:

        1. Timeframe in treatment:

             -  timeframe between the first contact with the HCC centre and the first
                interventional radiology treatment.

             -  timeframe between the first contact with the centre and the first presentation at a
                multidisciplinary team meeting (MDT)

             -  time between the first contact with the centre and the diagnostic consultation

             -  timeframe between the first contact with the centre and discharge from the hospital

             -  timeframe between the first interventional radiology procedure and the next for the
                subgroup of patients who have multiple procedures during the follow-up period

             -  timeframe between the first contact with the nurse coordinator of the centre and
                discharge from the hospital.

        2. The average length of stay of hospitalization

        3. The number of visits to the emergency unit during the first month following the
           radiology intervention

        4. The number of unscheduled readmissions during the first month following the
           intervention.

      Assess the feasibility of collecting the above-mentioned timeframe and variables and the
      patients and carers feedback on the coordination of the care pathway Describe the
      organization of care pathways for patients with HCC in centres with or without a nurse
      coordinator.

      Research method: This is a retrospective descriptive pilot study. It aims to describe the
      organization of care.

      Population: Patient with a diagnosis of localized hepatocellular carcinoma.

      Data processing:

        -  Feasibility questionnaires will be sent by email.

        -  The interviews will be transcribed and coded with NVivo® software

        -  Patient data will be collected in the ecrf

        -  Data processing from anonymized files by the authors of the research only. All data will
           be centralized at Bichat Hospital (URC Paris Nord) for statistical analysis.
    
  