
    
      This project will use the multiphase optimization strategy (MOST) approach to test the
      efficacy of an autonomy supportive behavioral intervention to improve metabolic control among
      older adolescents and emerging adults (16-25) with T1D. Youth this age demonstrate chronic
      poor metabolic control that persists into adulthood leading to the premature emergence of
      short- and long-term diabetes complications. Developmentally, adolescence and emerging
      adulthood is a time when the need for independence and autonomy are particularly salient.
      This new intervention will leverage youths' desire for autonomy by designing an intervention
      to support diabetes self-management autonomy. This intervention is guided by
      self-determination theory (SDT) which suggests that autonomous (i.e., self-initiated, driven
      by intrinsic versus extrinsic motivation) diabetes management depends upon three conditions:
      1) the perception that one's behavior is self-directed, 2) feelings of competence, or
      self-efficacy, and 3) the existence of caring relationships supportive of the behavior. The
      investigators have identified three intervention components that target the SDT constructs. A
      question prompt list (QPL) is a simple, inexpensive tool comprised of a list of questions
      that patients might consider asking their health care provider during a clinic visit. QPLs
      empower patients to assume a more active role (asking questions and stating concerns) during
      clinic visits. The Motivation Enhancing System (MES) is an eHealth intervention to increase
      intrinsic motivation for health behavior change. MES content is based on the Motivational
      Interviewing (MI) framework and the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) model of
      health behavior change which posits that behavior change results from the joint function of
      three critical components: accurate information about risk behaviors or their replacement
      health behaviors, motivation to change behavior, and behavioral skills necessary to perform
      the behavior (self-efficacy). Text message reminders (TXT) are a strategy to encourage youth
      to complete their diabetes self-care that also lead to gains in self-efficacy and a stronger
      relationship with diabetes care providers through greater communication and satisfaction. The
      investigators will test the efficacy of these intervention components toward improving
      metabolic control in a component selection experiment (N=320). The experiment will use a full
      factorial research design with random assignment to determine which intervention components
      contribute to a clinically significant improvement (≥0.5%) in HbA1c. The result of this
      research will be an optimized, multi-component intervention with effect size estimates that
      will be used to inform a large scale, fully powered effectiveness trial. This theory-driven
      intervention will be scalable to a variety of chronic illness contexts and the knowledge
      gained from this research will inform self-determination theory and behavioral interventions
      targeting this population (for which there currently are none).
    
  