
    
      This study will assess the underlying safety climate in one operating ward at Sahlgrenska
      University Hospital, Göteborg. The Safety Attitude Questionnaire (SAQ) Operating Room version
      will be used to assess baseline safety climate. The use of the WHO check list will be
      investigated and documented according to a pre-defined CRF (case record form).

      After this evaluation, changes in the WHO checklist will be performed. The changes will
      include educational efforts and involving focus groups to receive suggestions on improvements
      of the WHO checklist. The revised version of the WHO checklist will be implemented. To
      evaluate effects of the changes the SAQ will once again be distributed to the involved
      personnel.

      The main objective is to explore, describe, educate and thereby improve the safety climate in
      the operating room. The setting is one of the operating room departments in Sahlgrenska
      University Hospital Gothenburg. The project includes to following parts:

        -  To assess baseline regarding the safety climate at a surgical ward at the Sahlgrenska
           University Hospital.

        -  Educational efforts on safety climate, team work, communication, and WHO check list by
           lectures and focus group discussions involving the OR team members to get input and
           suggestions on improvements of the WHO checklist.

        -  To explore differences in safety attitudes between different professions working in the
           OR.

        -  To identify areas for improvement in team work, communication and other non-technical
           skills.

        -  To re-implement the WHO check list with the aim to obtain more focus on the importance
           of teamwork and knowledge about the patient and procedure.

        -  To compare results from SAQ after implementation of safety related objectives with SAQ
           baseline data.
    
  