
    
      a) Methods and Procedures:

      Study Treatment:

      Study drug and dosing: Levetiracetam open-label, with the following titration schedule to
      begin after the initial lactate infusion:

      Study day Levetiracetam dose 1-4 250 mg 5-7 500 mg 8-10 750 mg 11-14 1000 mg 15-18 1500 mg
      19-21 2000 mg 22-25 2500 mg 26-28 3000 mg 29-56 3000 mg

      Levetiracetam will be titrated to maximized clinical response (total reduction of panic
      attacks and intervening anxiety) and minimize side effects. Subjects who develop bothersome
      side effects will be permitted to have a dose reduction to alleviate such side effects.
      Subjects unable to tolerate levetiracetam 500 mg/d will be discontinued from the trial

      Study Design:

      This is an 8 week open-label trial of the antiepileptic agent, levetiracetam, in the
      treatment of subjects who meet DSM-IV-TR criteria for panic disorder. In addition, prior to
      and at the conclusion of the open-label trial, subjects will participate in a 1 hour
      intravenous (IV) lactate infusion to determine whether levetiracetam administration blocks
      lactate-induced panic attacks.

      Study procedures:

      Screening (Visit 1): Subjects will provide written informed consent after an explanation of
      all study procedures. The Structured Interview for DSM-IV anxiety disorder module will be
      administered to confirm the diagnosis of panic disorder. A complete psychiatric and medical
      history will be obtained and a physical examination, including vital signs, will be
      performed. Subjects must experience a minimum of one panic attack per week over the month
      preceding the study. Inclusion/exclusion criteria will be reviewed and subjects will be
      assessed for compliance with these criteria. Subjects will be given a panic attack diary to
      record the number of panic attacks they experience each day. Subjects will be given the API.
      All female subjects who are able to have children will have a blood sample drawn for
      laboratory evaluation of β HCG. Subjects will be asked to return in one week.

      Baseline (Visit 2): Subjects will return their completed panic attack diary. Subjects will
      then be administered the HAM-A rating scale. Vital signs will be recorded. Subjects who
      continue to meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will undergo the 1 hour lactate infusion.

      Infusion procedure: Subjects will be recumbent in bed and made comfortable In intravenous
      line will be placed in the antecubital fossa and a slow intravenous infusion of 5% dextrose
      in water (D5W) will be administered for 28 minutes, then accelerated for 2 min. to mimic
      subsequent lactate infusion. The intravenous solution will be out of view of the subject
      behind a bedside screen. Subjects are blind to the timing of lactate administration. At time
      0 (after 30 min. of D5W infusion), an infusion of 0.5 mol/L sodium DL-lactate (at body
      temperature) is initiated. The total dose (10 ml/kg body weight) is administered over the
      subsequent 20 min., unless the subject experiences a panic attack, in which case the lactate
      infusion is immediately discontinued. At the time of panic symptoms, or at the end of 20
      min., the subject is switched back to D5W for 5 min., followed by termination of the
      infusion.

      Subjective symptoms of a panic attack will be assessed using the 28-item Acute Panic
      Inventory. The API will administered at the conclusion of the screening interview during
      which time they will be asked to describe a typical panic attack, prior to infusion of D5W,
      prior to lactate infusion, halfway through lactate infusion (10 min. into the infusion), and,
      if precipitated, at the emergence of a panic attack. To meet criteria for having a panic
      attack, a subject must experience a crescendo of anxiety, fear or apprehension, and at least
      4 of the physical symptoms listed in DSM-IV-TR for a panic attack. Subjects who experience a
      panic attack will be offered lorazepam 0.5 mg po to alleviate panic attack symptoms.

      Subjects will begin open-label treatment with levetiracetam following the initial lactate
      infusion. Levetiracetam will be titrated according to the schedule described above.

      Subjects who do not experience a lactate induced panic attack at baseline will be eliminated
      from the study.

      Day 7 (Visit 3): The HAM-A will be administered and panic attack diaries will be reviewed and
      recorded. Adverse events will be reviewed. Vital signs will be recorded. Study medication
      will be reviewed for adherence. Study medication will be dispensed.

      Day 14 (Visit 4): The HAM-A will be administered and panic attack diaries will be reviewed
      and recorded. Adverse events will be reviewed. Vital signs will be recorded. Study medication
      will be reviewed for adherence. Study medication will be dispensed.

      Day 28 (Visit 5): The HAM-A will be administered and panic attack diaries will be reviewed
      and recorded. Adverse events will be reviewed. Vital signs will be recorded. Study medication
      will be reviewed for adherence. Study medication will be dispensed.

      Day 42 (Visit 6): The HAM-A will be administered and panic attack diaries will be reviewed
      and recorded. Adverse events will be reviewed. Vital signs will be recorded. Study medication
      will be reviewed for adherence. Study medication will be dispensed.

      Day 56 (Visit 7): The HAM-A will be administered and panic attack diaries will be reviewed
      and recorded. Adverse events will be reviewed. Vital signs will be recorded.

      Subjects will repeat the lactate infusion procedure as described in Visit 2. At the
      conclusion of the second lactated infusion, subjects who have responded to treatment with
      levetiracetam will be offered up to 3 months continued treatment with levetiracetam and
      office visits at no charge until subjects are appropriately referred for continued follow-up
      treatment. Subjects not responding to levetiracetam treatment will be offered treatment with
      an FDA-approved medication for panic disorder.
    
  