
    
      This is a longitudinal observational study of the relationship between measures of β-cell
      function, genotype, immunological phenotype and potential environmental factors over time, in
      individuals with new onset T1D or first degree relatives at higher risk for T1D due to the
      presence of auto-antibodies.

      It is a multicentre international study involving clinical centres across Europe which is
      unique in the following ways:

        1. The first such collaboration in Europe

        2. Novel evaluation of C-peptide/β-cell function using both home dried blood spots and
           regular hospital mixed meal tolerance tests or oral glucose tolerance tests

        3. Identical study procedures across all clinical centres

        4. Centralised analysis/storage of clinically relevant samples

        5. The creation of a living 'Biobank' whereby participants can be recalled for study on the
           basis of specific genotype/phenotypes

        6. Linkage to innovative study of novel biomarkers to inform future interventional
           strategies

        7. A potential pipeline for future recruitment and consent to novel innovative
           interventional strategies

      The study is divided into 2 arms:

      In arm A, the investigators plan to recruit 1500 newly diagnosed T1D patients within 6 weeks
      from diagnosis. The last study visit will be planned 2 years from diagnosis or until the end
      of the study. Therefore, the duration of the study will be approximately 2 years consisting
      of 5 visits. At baseline, C-peptide and immunophenotyping are evaluated. Follow up consists
      of regular mixed meal tolerance test (MMTT) and providing blood, urine and stool samples for
      'omics', immune, viral and microbiome studies. Home dried blood spots (DBS) pre and post a
      standardized meal will be collected monthly for the duration of the study.

      These recruited participants will be included for further observational study, confirmation
      of potential biomarkers and will ultimately provide a pipeline for future recruitment to
      interventional studies.

      In arm B, the investigators plan to screen approximately 4500 unaffected first degree family
      members across all centres during the first 3 years. The family members will be screened for
      4 auto-antibodies (GAD65, IA-2A, IAA, ZnT8A).

      Unaffected family members who are auto-antibody positive will be followed up for
      approximately 4 years consisting of visits every 6 months for the first 2 years and then
      every 12 months until the end of the study. Follow up will consist of regular oral glucose
      tolerance test (OGTT) and providing blood, urine and stool samples for 'omics', immune, viral
      and microbiome studies. Home dried blood spots (DBS) will be collected monthly for the
      duration of the study.

      Unaffected participants who are auto-antibody negative will be sent annual questionnaires
      until the end of the study.

      All study participants will be consented to a living 'Biobank' where we will be able to
      request participants to be recalled by genotype/phenotype for further studies involving
      blood, urine and stool samples.
    
  