
    
      Summary of the research plan

      Background - According to published articles the frequency of groin wound infections after
      peripheral revascularization varies substantially depending on the source from 5% up to 27%.

      Aims of the study - The aim of this randomized clinical trial is to evaluate whether the
      number of groin wound infections can be reduced with an intradermal skin suture compared to
      the commonly used metal staples skin closure method.

      Methods and study design - This is a randomized clinical trial of patients undergoing a
      vascular procedure which includes an incision in the groin. The patients will be randomized
      (1:1) to two different wound closure techniques: subcuticular suture or metal staples. After
      the procedure the patients will be controlled for four to six weeks and the infection rate in
      each group is recorded. A clinical diagnosis of infection according to Centre for Disease
      Control (CDC) guidelines will be recorded, no microbiological samples will be routinely
      collected.

      Statistical analysis - A power analysis has been conducted based on Finnish RCT studies and a
      retrospective study from our own hospital (submitted to Annals of Vascular Surgery 1/2018)
      which included all isolated groin wounds from Turku University Hospital Vascular Surgery
      clinic 2015-2016. According to this analysis between 240- 260 patients are needed for each
      group.

      Time and schedule- This is a multicenter trial. Ethical committee approval was acquired in
      2015. The randomization will start in the spring of 2018 in the University Hospital of Turku.
      Later in the year in the other hospitals that are participating in the study once the
      regional authorities have given their consent.

      Ethical aspects - Ethical committee approval was obtained in 2015. The wound closure
      techniques are all in everyday use already, nothing new and experimental will be used.

      Budget - This study is a critical part of quality control and improvement in vascular
      surgery. The funding will be applied from the Finnish Academy and EVO funding from the ERVA.
    
  