
    
      2. Methods

      2.1. Trial design

      A randomized and controlled parallel clinical trial was performed involving outpatients with
      complicated DFU that were admitted to specialized diabetic foot unit between November 2017 to
      December 2019. The study protocol received full approval from the Ethics Committee of the
      Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain (C.P. - C.I. 16/484-P). Each patient provided
      written informed consent before inclusion.

      2.1. Intervention

      Participants were randomized and assigned to receive either surgical debridement or UAW
      debridement every week during a six-week treatment period.

      Soft tissue punch biopsies (3mm) were taken after wound debridement sessions at week zero and
      week six.

      2.2. Follow-up Patients were followed-up for 6 months after inclusion. During the follow-up
      period, the investigators recorded ulcer healing. Ulcer healing was defined as complete
      epithelialization without any sustained drainage up to 24 weeks after the end of the study
      follow-up.

      2.3. Sample size The sample size was calculated using the Granmo v.12 program (Municipal
      Institute of Medical Research, Barcelona, Spain)
      (https://www.imim.cat/ofertadeserveis/software-public/granmo/ ). Therefore, we analyzed 51
      patients (24 in surgical group and 27 en UAW group) with an alpha of 0.05 and a statistical
      power of 0.80.

      2.4. Randomization A computer-generated random number table was used to carry out the
      randomization of the patients into the two groups by an investigator who was blinded to the
      identity of the participants.

      2.5. Blinding None of the participants, care providers, and outcome adjudicators was blinded
      to the interventions after assignment.

      2.6. Statistical Analysis Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS for IOs version 21.0
      (SPSS, Inc. Chicago, IL, USA). The assumption of normality of all continuous variables was
      verified using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Statistical differences between groups were
      calculated using the Chi-Square test and, where appropriate, Fisher's exact test for
      categorical variables. The Mann-Whitney U test was performed for abnormally distributed
      quantitative parameters, and Student's t-test was performed for quantitative variables that
      were distributed normally. The criteria of p < 0.05 was accepted as statistically significant
      with a confidence interval of 95%.

      This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki (2013 revision) and
      followed all local laws and regulations in clinical research investigations in patients.
    
  