
    
      Rationale and Background In current practice, patients who have undergone cardiac surgery
      return to the outpatient clinic for their first postoperative review by the specialist team,
      six weeks after hospital discharge. However, there is no evidence to show that this is the
      optimal interval before these patients with ongoing risks of postoperative complications are
      reviewed. Not infrequently, after hospital discharge, cardiac surgery patients make unplanned
      hospital visits and/or require readmission during the 6-week wait for outpatient review due
      to surgery-related complications [1-3]. Whereas it is well established that 30-day mortality
      and morbidity rates after surgery are in excess of the corresponding in-hospital rates [4],
      the 42-day incidence of these postoperative complications before outpatient review, is not
      known. In fact the 30-day readmission and mortality rates are widely used as indicators of
      the quality of surgical care [5, 6], and 30-day hospital readmission rates after cardiac
      surgery as high as 49% has been reported [7]. It can be argued the long interval between
      hospital discharge and the first outpatient specialist review exposes patients to ongoing
      risks which explain the higher rates of surgery-related complications over time.
      Postoperative programmes that have incorporated cardiac surgery nurse home visits before
      outpatient review report significant reduction in hospital readmissions [8].

      Hospital readmissions contribute significantly to healthcare costs whilst compromising the
      quality of care [9, 10]. As a result strategies directed at reducing 30-day adverse outcomes
      and readmissions have focussed on the identification of predictors of readmission and their
      management [11-16]. The risk factors identified older age and co-morbidities which are
      prevalent among patients undergoing cardiac surgery in the current era; an even stronger
      reason to re-examine the long-standing outpatient follow-up practice.

      The purpose of this prospective observational study will be to assess the burden of
      postoperative mortality and morbidity in the 6-week interval between hospital discharge and
      the first planned outpatient review after cardiac surgery. This data will be helpful in
      determining if the current timing of follow-up review should be revised.

      The proposed study, will seek to answer these questions and provide scientific evidence to
      support clinical practice.

      Study goals and objectives After hospital discharge, patients who have undergone cardiac
      surgery still develop complications which can impair their recovery and sometimes require
      unplanned visits to accident and emergency departments, and hospital admissions.

      The main study goal is to define the magnitude of ongoing postoperative complications
      suffered by discharged cardiac surgery patients before their first planned review.

      Study design The study is a prospective observational study that will involve administering a
      questionnaire to consecutive adult patients who will undergone coronary artery bypass and/or
      valve surgery at our institution over a 6-month period.

      Methodology On admission for surgery, eligible participants will be approached and provided
      with study information. Prior to discharge after surgery, prospective participants will be
      consented and given the study questionnaire to take home to complete themselves or by their
      spouse/carer.

      Preoperative and peri-operative data will be collected using the standard cardiothoracic
      surgery electronic database programme (Patient Analysis and Tracking System), as is routine
      at the investigators' institution. In addition, post discharge data relating to planned and
      unplanned hospital attendance and/or admission, and any intervention by General
      Practitioner/Practice nurse during the 6 week interval before the first planned specialist
      review, shall be prospectively collected using the study questionnaire.

      Statistical analyses The data obtained from the study questionnaire will be linked with the
      peri-operative data in the cardiothoracic database, managed by dedicated and specially
      trained staff. The database is password-protected and access to the data is restricted.

      The data will be anonymised and the variables coded for statistical analyses. The analyses
      will include the determination of rates of different complications and the impact on the
      postoperative recovery. The timing of the complications/intervention will be represented on a
      frequency plot.

      Results The study findings will be discussed at local and international scientific meetings
      and published in specialty journals.

      The result will be used to generate hypothesis to support the application for a randomised
      clinical trial.
    
  