
    
      Background: Symptomatic full-thickness rotator cuff tears (FTRCT) affect up to 32% of the
      population and represent one of the more painful and debilitating shoulder diagnoses. The
      prevailing model for care pathway decisions is heavily influenced by medical imaging. Yet,
      the association between FTRCT observed on medical imaging and the presence of pain is poor,
      as two thirds of FTRCT are asymptomatic. This poses a great challenge to clinical
      decision-making and questions the belief that FTRCT causes pain. As other factors may explain
      the presence of pain, a better understanding of this phenomenon needs to be sought.

      Objective/hypothesis: The primary objective is to identify variables associated with the
      presence of pain in individuals with FTRCT. The hypothesis is that given its complex
      aetiology, no single outcome will be highly associated with pain, rather it will be important
      to consider several outcomes and their interactions. Secondary objectives include: to explore
      if a) baseline variables or b) a change in these variables following baseline can predict the
      development of pain in individuals who initially have asymptomatic FTRCT, and to study if a)
      baseline variables or b) a change in these variables following baseline can predict the
      resolution of pain in individuals who initially have symptomatic FTRCT.

      Methods: 40 adults with a FTRCT and shoulder pain (Symptomatic Group), and 40 adults with a
      FTRCT without shoulder pain (Asymptomatic Group) will be included. They will demonstrate a
      FTRCT on US examinations performed by a radiologist. Included participants will take part in
      a baseline evaluation during which sociodemographic, anatomical, genetic, psychosocial, pain
      sensitivity, neuromuscular and biomechanical variables will be assessed. The primary
      objective (cross-sectional design) will be achieved by determining if differences between
      groups are based on a sole or on several independent variables, and their relative impact on
      pain (recursive partitioning, principal component analysis, MANOVA).

      The secondary objectives (prospective design) will be achieved by following all participants
      for 2 years. Every 3 months, the participants will complete a web-based questionnaire asking
      if they have had shoulder pain. Participants in the Asymptomatic Group who develop pain and
      participants in the Symptomatic Group who become pain-free will be asked to participate in a
      follow-up evaluation within a week. Participants who remain pain-free in the Asymptomatic
      Group and with pain in the Symptomatic Group during the follow-up period will also be asked
      to participate in a follow-up evaluation at the end of the 2 years (same follow-up evaluation
      for all participants, similar to baseline evaluations). Logistic regressions will be used to
      identify the variables associated with pain development and with pain resolution.

      Relevance: Before implementing new intervention strategies, a better understanding of factors
      associated with the presence of pain is needed. By looking at different variables that could
      explain pain, this project will improve our understanding of FTRCT and fill important
      knowledge gaps.
    
  