
    
      Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is a common disorder, defined by symptom-based diagnostic
      criteria. The pathogenesis is multifactorial, and gut motor dysfunction is considered to be a
      contributing factor. Dysmotility affects both the small bowel and the colon. Changes in motor
      patterns in the small bowel in IBS are quantitative rather than qualitative, with no distinct
      patterns to distinguish patients from healthy individuals. Changes in motor patterns can
      potentially affect transit of bowel contents and contribute to symptoms. Indeed, variation in
      intestinal transit was reported in patients with IBS. Small bowel transit studies, using
      scintigraphy, radio-opaque markers and hydrogen breath test, have shown that transit is
      delayed in constipation-predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome (C-IBS) and accelerated in
      diarrhea-predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome (D-IBS).

      Lubiprostone is a novel agent that has been Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for
      the treatment of adult males and females with chronic constipation. More recently, 2
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials showed the drug to be effective in
      relieving symptoms in patients with C-IBS, resulting in approval for female patients with
      C-IBS, at a dose of 8 micrograms twice a day.

      The investigators hypothesize that lubiprostone works not just as a laxative, but by actually
      altering motility patterns in the small intestine of female C-IBS patients. These alterations
      could be measured through High Resolution Manometry (HRM), a new technique that uses
      catheters with multiple, closely spaced sensors, and special software that uses color schemes
      to portray a pressure gradient. This technique allows a detailed assessment of the direction
      and spread of individual contractions.

      The investigators would like to use HRM to see if lubiprostone affects intestinal
      contractions. The investigators would like to achieve this by administering blinded
      participants lubiprostone and placebo while they are undergoing HRM and seeing if any changes
      in contractions occur. Participants will be recruited both from the investigator's own clinic
      and by word of mouth. Patients of the investigators will be approached by a member of the
      research team during a regularly scheduled clinic visit. If interested, potential subjects
      will be provided with a copy of the consent form for review. Patients will be given ample
      time to review the consent form with friends, family, and/or other physicians. Patients will
      be informed that after they have had an opportunity to review the consent form, they may
      contact the study team to schedule an appointment with one of the co-investigators to further
      discuss the research and address any questions or concerns the patient may have. Once all the
      potential subject's issues and concerns have been addressed, and the individual would like to
      enroll in the study, an investigator or co-investigator will obtain informed consent.
      Referring physicians will be asked to give their patients the contact information for the
      study team and the recruitment process will proceed as described above.

      Participants will undergo two visits: a screening visit and a manometry visit. During the
      screening visit we will determine eligibility, including application of inclusion/exclusion
      criteria and administration of a pregnancy test. Then during the manometry visit, patients
      will receive the two capsules (lubiprostone and placebo), three hours apart during HRM.
      Patients will receive each capsule only once, but they will not know which order they're
      receiving them in.

      Patients may receive lubiprostone without participating in the research study. As
      lubiprostone is FDA approved, the indications would be the same, however, patients receiving
      the drug under standard of care would not be undergoing the HRM or receiving a placebo
      capsule. Patients also may not be required to undergo a washout from their standard
      medication before starting on lubiprostone.
    
  