
    
      Biliary tract cancer is relatively rare disease worldwide among all kinds of solid tumors.
      However the incidence of biliary tract cancer is relatively higher in Korea compared to the
      western countries. The prognosis of all biliary tract cancer is poor, that is, the 5-year
      overall survival rate is 26.7%. The main reasons of poor prognosis are: 1) there is no
      screening method to detect in early stage, 2) the relapse rate after curative surgery is
      high, 3) in metastatic/recurrent biliary tract cancer, the chemo-sensitivity is relatively
      low. And another important reason of poor prognosis is low interest of investigators. So the
      researches with new agents have been limited compared with other types of cancer such as lung
      cancer, breast cancer and colon cancer etc. In metastatic/recurrent biliary tract cancer, the
      available cytotoxic chemotherapies are composed of gemcitabine, cisplatin, 5-FU, etc. The
      most commonly used 1st-line chemotherapy is gemcitabine+cisplatin combination. (N Engl J Med
      2010; 362 (14): 1273-81) There is no standard 2nd-line chemotherapy so far.

      The overall survival with these cytotoxic chemotherapies is about 8-10 months. So far, there
      is no validated targeted therapeutic agent in biliary tract cancer, even though this tumor
      harbors diverse genetic characteristics.

      Therefore, there is a huge unmet medical need in biliary tract cancer.

      TH-302 (1-methyl-2-nitro-1H-imidazole-5-yl)methyl N,N'-bis(2-bromoethyl) diamidophos-phate is
      a nitroimidazole-linked prodrug of a brominated version of isophosphoramide mustard (Br-IPM).
      When exposed to hypoxic conditions, TH-302 is reduced at the nitroimadazole site of the
      prodrug by intracellular reductases leading to the release of Br-IPM. Br-IPM can then act as
      a DNA crosslinking agent. Tumors often consist of large areas of highly hypoxic regions that
      are known to be resistant to chemotherapy and radiation treatment. In areas of normoxia,
      TH-302 remains intact as a prodrug and toxicity is minimized. Thus, TH-302 has been designed
      to target these highly hypoxic tumor regions and this makes it an attractive candidate for
      clinical development. In addition, preclinical data suggest that after activation, the active
      moiety may diffuse to areas outside the hypoxic region, demonstrating a "bystander" effect
      and possibly exhibiting additional anti-tumor activity.

      It is well known that biliary tract cancer is hypovascular tumor, so it contains large
      hypoxic area in the tumor. Therefore it would be worthy to test TH-302 in biliary tract
      cancer.

      This study is a phase II study of TH-302 monotherapy as second-line treatment in advanced
      biliary tract cancer.
    
  