
    
      Background: The antibiotic treatment of patients with orthopedic device infections (e.g.
      prosthetic joint and osteosynthesis) is limited by the tolerance of prolonged administration
      of antibiotics and the high level of antibiotic resistance of some pathogens.

      The prolonged intravenous administration of antibiotics exposes the patients to the
      occurrence of adverse events and it is generally recommended to favor oral treatment provided
      high oral bioavailable agents can be used with regard to the patient's characteristics and
      the antibiotic susceptibility profile of the pathogens.

      Gram positive cocci especially coagulase negative staphylococci (CoNS) are predominant
      bacteria responsible for orthopedic device infections. The use of the oxazolidinone agent
      Linezolid in these settings has been validated by some studies in particular in combination
      with Rifampin but both hematologic, neurologic and metabolic potential toxicity limits
      treatment durations of more than two to three weeks. The risk of drug-drug interaction with
      any product having a mono-amine-oxydase inhibitor (MAOI) activity is another limiting problem
      with Linezolid use.

      In addition, the wide use of Linezolid has resulted in the emergence of CoNS carrying cfr
      genes responsible for high levels of Linezolid resistance. This is unfortunate as in many
      cases there is almost no other alternative for the oral treatment of orthopedic device
      infections due to these strains.

      Tedizolid intrinsic properties may improve the oxazolidinone treatment long term safety. Plus
      tedizolid should be active on CoNS strains resistant to linezolid.

      Objectives: Obtain reliable data on the tolerance, compliance and efficacy of Tedizolid used
      as prolonged (≥ 6 weeks) monotherapy or in combination therapy for the treatment of patients
      with orthopedic device infections due to Gram positive cocci.

      Hypothesis: As no data are currently available on long term safety of Tedizolid treatment,
      the investigators will compare the results of the present study regarding tolerance and
      efficacy with those of a historical cohort of comparable patients from our cohorts treated
      with Linezolid monotherapy or combination therapy for equivalent indications (data published
      in Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy Legout L et al..2010).

      Study Design: Prospective multicenter cohort study.

      The objectives of the study are :

      (i) to assess the tolerance of TEDIZOLID determined by the proportion of patients who
      experienced any adverse event attributable to TEDIZOLID during treatment and during 6 weeks
      after the antibiotic treatment, and (ii) to assess the efficacy of TEDIZOLID as single agent
      treatment or combined therapy for orthopedic infections due to TEDIZOLID susceptible bacteria
      determined by the proportion of patient with remission of the infection (i.e. absence of any
      local and systemic sign of infection in relation with the initial infection, any surgery for
      an infectious reason at the initial site or death related to the initial infection)
      determined one year after the end of the antibiotic treatment.

      Microbiologic data from failure cases will be recorded in order to assess the presence of
      Tedizolid-resistant strains, relapsing infections, or superinfection.

      Treatment: Tedizolid 200 mg once a day, administered orally for the entire treatment will be
      prescribed in patients after the definite culture results of peroperative samples will be
      available.

      Daily doses of the antibiotics associated with tedizolid will be at the discretion of the
      clinician and will have to follow the institutional therapeutical protocols.
    
  