
    
      Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL), defined as 3 or more consecutive pregnancy losses before 22
      weeks of gestation, is a multifactorial disorder, affecting 1-3% of all females of
      reproductive age. The underlying cause of RPL remain unknown in up to 50% of cases. Some of
      these cases may be affected by an aberrant immune system.

      Low p-MBL levels have been associated with RPL, while relations to high levels have been
      poorly studied. Reports concerning association between maternal p-MBL levels and perinatal
      outcomes including birth weight and gestational age are conflicting. Low MBL level may
      possess a negative effect by promoting an aggressive immune response resulting in
      autoimmunity and tissue damage.

      This study is a single center case-control study and historical cohort study, that aims to
      investigate wether high and/or low MBL plasma levels are associated with RPL (primary
      outcome) and whether it affects perinatal outcome in the first pregnancy following the RPL
      and pregnancy outcome from before RPL in women with secondary RPL (secondary outcome). Thus,
      if such association exists, MBL could become an biomarker for the early identification of
      women with need for intensified perinatal care.

      The study sample consists of Danish women admitted to the Centre for Recurrent Pregnancy Loss
      of Western Denmark. The study group includes 267 women with RPL. P-MBL levels in patients is
      compared to those of 185 female blood donors of fertile age with unknown reproductive
      history, while their perinatal outcomes is compared to all singleton births at Aalborg
      University Hospital (DK) in 2017.

      Female patients in the study group will have a blood sample taken at their first meeting in
      the the Centre for Recurrent Pregnancy Loss of Western Denmark before they become pregnant,
      and they will be followed until delivery of the first child after RPL, if pregnancy after RPL
      is achieved, or until end of study. Data on perinatal outcomes of singleton pregnancies
      before and after RPL were collected at the first consultation, from hospital records, and,
      when needed, completed by telephone or e-mail correspondence.
    
  