
    
      General study design and justification of design

      Type of study: Validation of the prototype of the fitness- and information Software:
      WeTakeCare (pilot test) in a pre- post design, no comparators

      Duration:

        -  Preparation of the validation study containing: recruiting, pre-screening, assessing,
           instructing (2-4 month)

        -  Validation implies the use of the system during expected 3-6 consecutive months,
           starting soonest in October 2015- (expected) April 2016.

      Population to be studied: Healthy elderly (aged 50+) with mild to moderate restrictions in
      the performance of ADL and their caregivers Number of participants: Involvement of a total of
      20 couples in Switzerland. Incorporating 2-5 couples in the first month to allow detection
      and resolution of any problem.

      Study phases

        1. "pre testing" of participants eligibility

        2. medical check

        3. first assessment (first part of baseline measurements)

        4. technical installation of the system Installation of the system at the end-users homes
           will be realized by staff members (See team member list) from the ZHAW.

        5. introduction of participants in the practical use of the system (second part of baseline
           measurements) To guarantee reality of the pilot it will be conducted without altering
           the environment except if there's environmental elements/factors posing risks to the
           end-users when performing the exercises/ using the program. The presence of potential
           risk factors will be controlled by occupational therapists, accompanying the
           installation of the system. If there's is any risk factor identified (i.e. reduced
           available space in front of the television screen), OT's (Occupational therapists) will
           ensure the removal. If a removal is not possible, alternate possibilities will be
           verified and in case of non-availability this will lead to study exclusion. After
           installation of the program participants will receive an initial training on functioning
           by occupational therapists Weekly follow-up controls will also be conducted by OT's
           (Occupational therapists) (short questionnaire and assessment of improvement of ADL
           capabilities). These OT's (Occupational therapists) will have received training in the
           WTC (WeTakeCare-system) use before.

        6. Validation phase with a permanent digital log and weekly measurement of…..

        7. final assessment (outcome measurements) Methods of minimising bias A description of the
           measures taken to minimize/avoid bias, including: Randomization, Blinding.

      Within the pretesting phase possible participants are screened to validate the cognitive
      status as well as the physical condition to include only elderly and caregivers which have a
      benefit from participation.

      STUDY INTERVENTION (SPIRIT #11) 8.1 Identity of Investigational Products (treatment / medical
      device) (ICH/E6 6.2.1, 6.4.2, 6.4.4; AGEK Checklist 2, item 3) Enrolled participants will get
      the technical appliances and support with the installation of the gadgets. (Kinect I
      (Microsoft-Kinect) and if necessary an appropriate Laptop) Occupational therapists will give
      a comprehensive instruction to the system, which also includes clarification of safety
      precautions.

      The participants are free to use the system within their everyday life whenever they
      want.(Alone or together with their caregivers.)
    
  