
    
      Rationale: The majority of obstetric emergencies are identified through clinical examination,
      which cannot be substituted by ultrasound. However, just as a laboratory exam, ultrasonograpy
      can provide swift point of care information on fetus presentation, viability, placenta
      position, quantity of amniotic fluid and presence of abdominal fluid to inform the clinical
      reasoning and therapeutic escalation. Ultrasound literature in low-resource settings has
      favoured antenatal care (ANC) rather than the emergency setting. Also, hand-held ultrasound
      machines may not be as performant as traditional machines used by expert operators but to
      date is still to be tested in a low resource setting.

      Objective: to assess the reliability of ultrasound findings measured by hand held ultrasound
      probes used by operators with variable experience in a low resource hospital.

      Hypothesis: There is substantial agreement between simple ultrasound findings identified
      using hand held ultrasound devices and the reference standard.

      Study design: a prospective observational diagnostic accuracy study. Study population:
      parturients admitted to the Princess Christian Maternity Hospital (PCMH) in Freetown, Sierra
      Leone.

      Sample size: no formal sample size calculation is performed. Based on current rates of
      admissions to the PCMH we expect to perform obstetrical ultrasound scan in at least 300
      patients during a 2-months study period.

      Methods: 4 trained physicians (3 naive and 1 intermediate ultrasound users) will perform the
      ultrasound investigations using the hand held device and complete a structured predefined
      report form of obstetric ultrasound findings at patient admission or according to clinical
      indications after admission. These will be compared with the reference standard, i.e. an
      ultrasound examination performed by a specialist gynecologist/obstetrician using a
      conventional apparatus in the hospital ultrasound room.

      Main study parameters/primary endpoints: The mean diagnostic accuracy among nine ultrasound
      obstetric findings collected with hand held devices versus the reference standard.
    
  