
    
      Rationale: A recent statement by Professor Chris Whitty, Chief Medical Officer, NHS England,
      emphasised the significant benefits of exercise for all people. He said, "this may be
      challenging for people self-isolating and even more so for those highly vulnerable people
      that are having to shield against the virus in their own homes" The coronavirus (COVID-19)
      pandemic has led to many changes to everyday life including the introduction of social
      distancing as well as restriction of travel. Treatment plans for patients with cancer are
      being revised or modified due to risks and benefits of certain treatments in light of the
      COVID-19 risk. The number of deaths due to the disruption in cancer services is likely to
      outweigh the number of deaths from coronavirus itself over the next five years.

      The effects of this pandemic has reportedly led to increased anxiety and distress and risks
      deconditioning due to reduced physical activity. The interventions we are proposing aim to
      enable people with cancer to optimise their physical health, nutritional state and
      psychological wellbeing and prepare for their treatment pathway (current or modified) and
      recovery during this uncertain time through exercise, nutrition and psychological support.

      The aim is to investigate whether the promotion of these interventions delivered via virtual
      clinics, in socially distanced people with cancer, can improve physical and psychological
      function and self-efficacy to self-manage. We are also aiming to evaluate health economics
      whilst following the COVID-19 government guidelines.

      Trial Design: Phase III: Non randomised Interventional Trial

      Sample Size: 1100

      Intervention: Provision of dietary, exercise and psychological advice as well as behaviour
      change support (universal interventions) as aligned to the universal interventions (with the
      caveats of COVID-19) in the Macmillan 'Principles and guidance for prehabilitation within the
      management and support of people with cancer' guideline. This complex intervention will be
      prescribed and delivered through virtual clinics where CanRehab professionals will support
      the individual. Level 3 Personal Trainers may also deliver the interventions in some cases
      with a GP referral qualification and who are competent in delivering the interventions to
      participants with cancer post-treatment.
    
  