
    
      SCIENTIFIC JUSTIFICATION:

      People with dementia that live in care homes are more prone to experience a lack of
      stimulation and be socially isolated. Activities that are likely to be beneficial for people
      with dementia are social and leisure activities, as the activities promote engagement and
      improve affect. It has been argued that these activities should be of high importance in care
      settings and that care home residents living with dementia should have access to meaningful
      activities and are supported when engaging with the activities.

      The use of touchscreen technology is one strategy that may possibly engage older people in
      enjoyable leisure activities. In past research, people with dementia and staff reported
      positive experiences with the use of technology in previous research that evaluate the
      impacts of touchscreen technology in care homes. This same research also showed supportive
      evidence for the positive contribution of the touchscreen technology for improvements in
      quality of life, relationships and interpersonal interactions. A literature review from 2017
      on the use of touchscreen technology by people with dementia and its impact on wellbeing also
      shows supportive evidence for the use of touchscreen technology in dementia care. The
      researchers concluded that touchscreen-based interventions could provide benefits on mood,
      mental health, social interaction, quality of interaction, and sense of mastery. If people
      with dementia have the appropriate support for the use of touchscreen technology, it is
      evidently possible for people to benefit from its use.

      A possible way to engage people with dementia with touchscreen technology could be through
      the use of the visual arts. Preliminary evidence shows that use of arts for people with
      dementia appears to be beneficial in reducing behavioural symptoms, depression and isolation
      and make people with dementia more able to express feelings. The use of visual art activities
      in touchscreen technology is a promising idea, as positive results from interventions using
      these activities separately can be found in scientific literature. So far, very little
      research on the benefits of visual art interventions on touchscreen devices has been made.
      Thus, there is a need to have more research on this topic. This study will add to research on
      this field and its results could be valuable to care staff and people with dementia.
      Providing people with dementia a set of exciting activities which have the potential to
      enrich people lives and be beneficial for wellbeing.

      DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY:

      The intervention activity will consist of the use of two different visual art apps on
      touchscreen tablets with people with mild to moderate dementia that lives in care homes. The
      study will take place in a nursing home in Nottinghamshire. It will involve 12 residents of
      the care home with dementia and staff members that are involved in participants' care.
      Potential participants will be identified by the care home staff, and staff members will
      indicate these people to the research team. Study data collection will take 8 weeks; four
      weeks will involve the execution of the intervention and four weeks for additional
      measurements (collect consent, screening and end measures). Given the nature of the
      intervention, no practical control condition would be a reasonable comparison for this
      intervention. Thus, the use of a cross-over design is a suitable control condition to be used
      in this study. Participants will be split into two groups of 6 participants; each group will
      use one app for two weeks and then change to the other app for another 2 weeks. Participants
      will be supported to use the app twice a week, with a maximum of 8 individual sessions over
      the four weeks. The data collection will consist of the observation of the activity and on
      the use of dementia-specific instruments and questionnaires.

      This research aims to explore the supported use of two digital art apps in a participatory
      artistic activity with people living with dementia in residential care. The research team is
      interested in checking the efficacy of the activity. The team will also evaluate if art
      activities on touchscreen tablets are accepted by participants and carers and if the
      intervention is feasible in care settings.

      The following research questions were formulated for this study:

      What effects do participatory digital art on touchscreen tablets have on people with dementia
      in care homes? (impact on participants - efficacy)

      How the insertion of the digital art activity is perceived by people with dementia and the
      care staff (acceptability of the intervention)

      How can digital art apps be implemented in care homes to be delivered by the staff?
      (practicality of the intervention).

      STUDY PROCESS AND TIMETABLE:

      • Week 1 to Week 3:

      These weeks will focus on:

      Visits to explain the study to participants and consultees (30 minutes). Collection of the
      consent of the participants and consultees and answer questions (20 minutes).

      Once the informed consent is signed potential participants with dementia will be accessed for
      cognition with the Montreal Cognitive Assessment - MoCA to ensure that the potential
      participants fit the inclusion criteria and will give the investigators a baseline on
      participants' cognition before the intervention (10 minutes).

      Once the participants are selected, staff members will be contacted to reply to questions and
      questionnaires about the participant with dementia. Staff members will be asked to provide
      demographic information about the participants (3 minutes for each participant with
      dementia), to answer questions about the care home life (5 minutes), and to answer a
      proxy-instrument, the QUALIDEM for each of the participants (5 minutes for each participant
      with dementia).

      Week 4 to Week 7:

      The intervention activities with the participants with dementia will take place during these
      four weeks. The intervention will be delivered to the participants with dementia at a quiet
      room in the care home by two co-investigators, one will be the facilitator, and the other one
      will be the observer. All the sessions will be video recorded and analysed by two independent
      co-investigators. The use of video was preferred to observation and note taken as with it is
      possible to analyse the interaction between the participant and facilitator with the
      touchscreen tablet at the same time. With the analysis of the intervention through videos is
      also possible to focus on details that could be missed with observations, as videos give the
      opportunity to pause and repeat key points of the interaction for a comprehensive analysis.

      The intervention is a 30-minutes of individual sessions, with 10 minutes of app use. The
      additional 20 minutes will include the setup of the equipment and preparation of the
      participant at the beginning of the session; and questions for the participants at the end.
      The sessions will happen in the afternoon four days a week (on weekdays), with 6 participants
      per day (one of the groups). Each group will have fixed session days, to make the staff aware
      of which participants would have a session on a specific day.

      Data collection here will be made through:

      Participants' observation: Participants' behaviour in the video records of the sessions will
      be analysed with an adapted version of the Greater Cincinnati Chapter Wellbeing Observation
      Tool.

      Questions to participants: At the end of each session, the participants will be asked to
      answer questions on visual analogue scales (VAS) to evaluate participants subjective
      wellbeing at that moment (3 minutes).

      Questionnaires and questions to staff: Staff members will be asked to answer the QUALIDEM
      once a week during the 4-week intervention for each of the participants (5 minutes for each
      participant with dementia).

      The research team will also evaluate the acceptability and practicality of the intervention:

      Acceptability: Participants will be asked at the end of the sessions (once a week) questions
      about satisfaction with the apps and the intervention (3 minutes) relevance of the activity,
      and if would be interest in continue the use of the apps (VAS, and open questions). The
      research team will also check for actual use of the touchscreen tablet between the sessions
      and will provide a form to the care staff keep a record (1 minute for each entry).

      Practicality: To evaluate the practicality of the intervention, the participants and the
      staff will be asked on the opinion on frequency and duration of the intervention (ideal and
      what was received) (3 minutes). During the intervention the researchers will make
      observations on care home daily life and will collect information on the type and amount of
      resources needed, training required and time to support the intervention. There also will be
      an analysis of the barriers and facilitators for the implementation of the activity in care
      homes. One of the researchers will collect this information through field notes of
      observation of the sessions and discussions with the care staff.

      Week 8:

      For end measurements, the MoCA (10 minutes) will be used with participants with dementia and
      the staff members will be asked to answer the QUALIDEM for each of the participants (5
      minutes for each participant with dementia).

      • At a later point (data collection finished): Once data collection is complete, the research
      team will develop the guidance on the use of touchscreen tablets in residential care for
      people with dementia. Staff members from the care home will be asked to give feedback on the
      guidance through informal consultation. This informal consultation could happen through email
      communication or in-person meetings. This should happen within 2 months after the end of data
      collection. The analysis and writing up findings should take up to 5 months.
    
  