
    
      Over 10 million Americans have osteoporosis, which is defined as a chronic, progressive
      disease presenting with deterioration of bone tissue and fragility subsequently leading to an
      increased fracture risk1. A positive diagnosis for osteoporosis is significantly correlated
      with increased age, making geriatrics patients an at-risk group for bone health
      complications2. A pathophysiological diagnosis for osteoporosis is done radiographically
      based on bone mineral density from a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry assessment (DXA)3. DXA
      scans have been used increasingly over time in geriatric populations to screen patients for
      osteoporosis4; however, one problem with DXA scans is the radiation dose due to x-ray
      radiography4. Therefore, using DXA scans as a preliminary screening method comes with risks,
      even though it is the gold standard for diagnosis3.

      Osteoporosis is often referred to as a silent disease because people are not aware that they
      have low bone density9. The first sign may be loss of height but can also be a fracture due
      to a ground level mechanical fall. As people age, their bones lose their strength (density)
      and become more brittle2,10. Unfortunately, fractures can have devastating effects on
      people's quality of life causing chronic pain, difficulties with mobility, need for increased
      assistance, isolation, increased nursing home placement and rates of death10. Also, once a
      person has fallen and had a fragility fracture, they are likely to do so again10. Our goal is
      to encourage older adult patients to follow-up with their doctors to discuss osteoporosis
      screening, diagnosis, and treatment to help reduce the prevalence of fragility fractures.

      Osteoporosis follow-up rates need to be improved in geriatric populations. Increased
      compliance with follow-ups and medication recommendations have been shown to decrease
      fracture rates in this population5. In-office patient measurements have been previously shown
      to increase compliance with treatment. In the case of smoking, carbon monoxide (CO) monitors
      increased a patient's willingness to comply with cessation protocols significantly in an
      orthopedic fracture population6.

      Quantitative ultrasound scans (QUS) have emerged as a simple point-of-care test for bone
      density. 7 For a quantitative ultrasound scan, the patient sits in a chair and places their
      heel on specialized ultrasound machine in a manner similar to having the size of the foot
      measured at a department store. The machine is portable and can be performed at the bedside.
      Prior research has demonstrated that, although QUS cannot replace DXA scans as the gold
      standard for diagnosis of osteopenia, it can still be used to immediately identify abnormal
      bone density8. Integrating QUS scans into geriatric fracture treatment comes at little risk,
      and, similar to home CO monitoring for smoking cessation, may provide additional information
      to the patient to encourage further action.
    
  