
    
      Background

      Multiple sclerosis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease of the central nervous
      system. Statins are lipid-lowering drugs which inhibit the
      3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA-) reductase, which is the main regulatory
      enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis. In recent years many studies have demonstrated, that
      statins have anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties in addition to their
      lipid-lowering effects. Therefore, statins may have therapeutic potential in immune-mediated
      disorders such as multiple sclerosis. Studies in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis
      (EAE), the animal model for the human demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis, as well as
      smaller studies in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis showed beneficial
      effect on the course of the disease. But there are also reports of negative impact of statins
      on multiple sclerosis. Therefore, bigger studies are needed to investigate the therapeutical
      potential of statins in multiple sclerosis.

      Objective

      To assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the combination of atorvastatin 40mg p.o.
      daily and interferon-beta 1b sc e.o.d compared to monotherapy with interferon-beta-1b sc
      e.o.d in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis for 12 month after completing
      the SWABIMS study.

      Methods

      Multi-center, rater-blinded, parallel-group, two arm, randomized study. Patients with
      relapsing-remitting forms of MS, respecting all inclusion/exclusion criteria, were randomized
      in the SWABIMS study in two equal-size parallel arms after three months of treatment with
      interferon-beta 1b, receiving atorvastatin 40mg/d or not in addition to interferon-beta 1b
      for 12 month.

      After successful completion of the study, patients were asked to participate in the "SWABIMS
      Follow up study" for another 12 month with ongoing medication.
    
  