
    
      Incontinence and incontinence associated dermatitis (IAD) are common problems. A recent CDC
      study noted that up to 50% of noninstitutionalized patients aged 65 and older experienced
      episodes of incontinence at least monthly, and that 40% of those with incontinence develop
      secondary IAD The treatment of IAD is focused on effective cleaning and prevention of further
      exposure to irritant liquids and solids through barrier creams. Enzymatic washes have proven
      efficacy over soap and water, and zinc oxide is the standard of care for barrier function.
      Combined, effective cleansing and barrier use treats IAD in as little as 6 days, and
      effectively prevents recurrent skin damage. In one study, an effective preventive regimen of
      regularly applied skin therapy reduced the incidence of IAD in an at risk population from 25%
      to 5%. The combination of enzymatic skin cleanser and barrier protection is the standard of
      care for maintenance of skin integrity in patients with chronic urinary and fecal
      incontinence.

      Adherence to prescribed regimens is a major barrier to regular use of substances applied to
      the perineum. Difficulty in accessing the perineum make adherence challenging to those with
      both full and limited mobility, often requiring assistance from a caregiver. The associated
      loss of independence and dignity are major detriments to quality of life. Novel formulations
      of zinc oxide, using aerosol based spray application, facilitate use and improve patient
      acceptance. In a 2014 nursing home based industry study, spray based zinc oxide was preferred
      by 80% of patients and caregivers, and improved treatment and prevention of IAD in 70% of the
      study participants.

      Adequate cleansing and drying prior to the application of barrier products is key to
      effective prevention of skin breakdown. Water-based cleaning of the perineum after toileting
      has been demonstrated to improve hygiene over standard mechanical, paper-based cleansing,
      especially in those with limited mobility or incontinence. Evidence further demonstrates that
      the addition of pH balanced cleansers, applied without mechanical abrasion from cloths or
      wipes, advances hygiene and minimizes risk of secondary infection.

      Study Aims

      The aims of this study are to evaluate the efficacy of an automated delivery system for
      cleansing the perineum, and applying zinc oxide barrier spray to effectively treat and
      prevent incontinence associated dermatitis in a population with active or recurrent IAD.
      Secondary aims will be to assess preference for the automated delivery system over standard
      wash and manually applied barrier sprays.
    
  