
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of imatinib mesylate and
           vatalanib when administered with hydroxyurea in patients with recurrent or relapsed
           grade 3 or 4 malignant glioma.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the single-dose and repeated-dose pharmacokinetic profiles of imatinib
           mesylate (in serum) and vatalanib in these patients.

        -  Determine the pre- and post-treatment antiangiogenic effects of this regimen in these
           patients, using dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI to evaluate changes in the extent of
           vascular permeability, perfusion, and relative tumor blood volume.

        -  Determine whether changes in diffusion-weighted images MRI (quantitated by apparent
           diffusion coefficient maps) correlate with tumor cellularity and tumor cell death in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine antitumor activity of this regimen, in terms of radiographic response,
           progression-free survival, and overall survival, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of imatinib mesylate and vatalanib.

      Patients receive oral vatalanib once daily, oral imatinib mesylate once daily, and oral
      hydroxyurea twice daily on days 1-28*. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients receive vatalanib alone daily on days 1-7 followed by vatalanib, imatinib
      mesylate, and hydroxyurea on days 8-35 in course 1 only.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of imatinib mesylate and vatalanib until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are
      treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients will be evaluated for 28 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  