
    
      The purpose of this project is to evaluate the efficacy of virtual reality analgesia (VRA)
      for Adult patients in acute pain in the Acute Rehabilitation unit. Given the severity of the
      opioid epidemic, physicians are looking for alternative non-opioid/non-pharmacologic
      interventions to decrease both pain, and the need for opioids.

      The recognition of pain by an individual requires both a noxious stimulus as well as
      attention on the part of the subject. Studies have shown that pain sensation is less on the
      visual analogue scale (VAS) when subjects are distracted, and that distraction can assist in
      pain control, since humans have limited attention capacity. When treating Adult patients with
      acute pain, it could thus be useful to have an effective method of pain distraction to
      improve tolerance and comfort, and to decrease the amount of narcotic medications prescribed.

      Virtual reality (VR) is a digital simulation of a three-dimensional environment in which the
      user is capable of interacting with the generated world via computerized equipment such as
      gloves or a virtual reality head-mounted display (VRHMD). 360-degree VR video is a subset of
      virtual reality which creates an immersive experience of real world environments, allowing
      the user to have a sense of presence and exploration while wearing a (VRHMD). VR exposure is
      shown to be a potent distractor and has been repeatedly shown to provide analgesia during
      painful procedures. Since adults are often very attracted to technology, computer games, and
      virtual reality, we propose a study to allow adults to interact with a custom virtual reality
      environment in order to consume a substantial proportion of their attentional resources
      during acute pain episodes. We hypothesize that immersing the patients in VR will allow these
      patients to spend less attention on pain and allow for less need for other analgesia i.e.
      opioids.

      VR has been demonstrated as a valid method of analgesia for both adults and pediatrics during
      painful procedures. To the investigator's knowledge, no one has evaluated the use of VRA to
      reduce opioid consumption in the Acute Rehab unit. In addition to relieving pain, anxiety,
      stress, and possibly decreasing general sedation, VRA may also decrease medical costs by
      decreasing length of stay.

      Virtual Reality Analgesia (VRA) has been shown by research to be more effective when more
      immersive. To accomplish this, various head-sets and technologies have been developed to
      provide a more enveloping experience. Until recently, virtual reality head-mounted displays
      (VRHMD) had not been widely accepted due to their poor performance and high cost. But recent
      developments with the Oculus Rift DK1(DK 1 is a model number) in 2012 changed this paradigm.
      The now commercially available Oculus Rift is an inexpensive state of the art VRHMD. Using
      the Oculus Rift can create a high definition and smooth environment that will allow for
      maximal distraction at a modest price point. Therefore, equipment like the Oculus Rift could
      be an ideal VRA tool in the clinical setting.

      Many corporations such as Samsung, Google, and others have invested both capital and
      development resources that have advanced virtual reality technologies and made them very
      inexpensive. With these changes, the investigators are finally at a point where both the
      hardware and the software needed to produce high quality VRHMD is now available at very low
      and moderate price points. An example of the lowest cost VRHMD is the Google Cardboard, a
      simple device that allows anyone with a cellphone to experience VR, for as little as $15.

      The investigators propose a study utilizing the highest quality VRHMD to provide VRA during
      acute pain related to trauma. It is the investigators' hypothesis that by using VRA,
      significant decrease in the overall pain and discomfort can be observed resulting in a
      decrease in consumption of oral opioids.
    
  