
    
      The rationale of the study is based on the fact that manual intra-operative modelling of a
      titanium-reinforced PTFE mesh is operator-dependent, and even in the case of very experienced
      operators it is always difficult, inaccurate and slow. The use of pre-modelled and
      pre-fabricated custom-made meshes with bevel margins and three-dimensional morphology adapted
      to the bone defect, would make it possible to carry out an important bone regeneration as it
      reduces the operating times, the risks linked to mesh borders, trauma to the soft tissues and
      the discomfort for the patient.

      This study aims to evaluate, in cases of maxillary and mandibular atrophies characterized by
      a vertical and / or combined resorption of the alveolar bone, the complication rate (intra-
      and post-operative) and the three-dimensional bone gain after traditional bone regeneration,
      where the medical device necessary for bone regeneration is cut out, shaped, and manually
      modelled by the operator, compared to digital bone regeneration. Subsequently, the medical
      device is digitally designed and made with a computerized method.

      The primary objective of the study is, therefore, the evaluation of the healing
      complications; in particular, the early or delayed exposure of medical devices used for bone
      regeneration, during the healing period. This exposure is, as reported in all clinical
      studies, the main cause of the failure of the surgery.

      A secondary objective, is the quantitative assessment of bone regeneration obtained by the 2
      techniques. In particular, the evaluation of the reconstructed bone volume (RBV) with respect
      to the planned bone volume (PBV).

      Other targets include the qualitative evaluation of bone regeneration through histological
      and histomorphometric analysis of the bone biopsies obtained at the moment that the medical
      device is removed and finally the evaluation of the peri-implant bone resorption will be
      conducted over time.

      This clinical trial, which is promoted by Prof. Giuseppe Corinaldesi and the Department of
      Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), University of Bologna, is designed as a pilot,
      randomized, multicentric, independent, parallel-group clinical trial, in which the all
      variables will be analysed prospectively.

      The study will have a selection and enrolment period of approximately 12 months and a
      treatment period of approximately 24 months. As a result, the overall duration of the study
      will be approximately 36 months.

      Over the three-year period 2019/2021, it will include the treatment of 50 patients in good
      general health conditions who are affected by partial edentulism of the maxilla or mandible
      with vertical and horizontal resorption of the alveolar bone, which requires a prosthetic
      rehabilitation supported by implants to improve function and aesthetics of edentulous areas.

      Patients will be divided into 2 study groups, according to the previously computer-generated
      randomization sequence the following will be assigned to each group: group A (control), 25
      patients who will be treated with bone regeneration with titanium-reinforced PTFE mesh,
      shaped and manually modelled by the operator during surgery; group B (test), 25 patients will
      be treated with bone regeneration with titanium mesh, designed and produced before surgery.

      The study will include 3 different treatment phases: the first phase (T0) involves bone
      regeneration using a standard technique (group A) or digital technique (group B); the second
      one (T1), subsequently, after 6 months, this will forsee the removal of the regeneration
      devices and the insertion of the implants; the third (T2), 3 months after the aforementioned,
      will forsee the final functional loading of the implants, with a consequent follow-up of the
      regenerated bone.

      All the materials and tools that will be used in the study are CE certified (with the
      exception of the custom-made mesh which, as a custom-made device, does not require CE
      certification) and have already been used in the normal care path for patients who have
      undergone bone regeneration. Moreover, the control visits and the radiological investigations
      of the data foreseen by the aforementioned protocol will be collected; They will be
      summarized in the case report form (CRF), and are those that characterize the normal care
      path of patients undergoing necessary bone regeneration for prosthetic implant rehabilitation
      when the bone quantity is insufficient.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the non-inferiority of technique B
      (digital technique) compared to technique A (traditional technique) in the incidence of
      complications.

      The Secondary objectives include: assessment of patient and operator benefits, reconstructed
      bone volume (RBV) compared to planned bone volume (PBV), histological and histomorphometric
      analysis of bone quality obtained and peri-implant bone resorption after 12 months of
      follow-up.

      The sample size necessary to support the null hypothesis is 17 subjects for each group. In
      order to compensate for any protocol deviations or possible drop-outs, the number of patients
      was increased to 25 per group.

      The results obtained in the two study groups will be subjected to descriptive statistical
      analysis and the differences between groups will be tested by means of appropriate
      statistical tests for purely exploratory and non-demonstrative purposes.

      The patient will be considered as the statistical unit of the analysis, and the statistical
      significance will be set at α = 0.05.

      The collected data will be grouped and summarized with respect to the demographic,
      anamnestic, and clinical variables of each patient.

      Exploratory analyses will be performed using descriptive statistics. The data will be
      presented both for the intent-to-treat population and for the per-protocol population.

      The sample size necessary to support the null hypothesis is 17 subjects for each group. In
      order to compensate for any protocol deviations or possible drop-outs, the number of patients
      was increased to 25 per group. The sample size was calculated using dedicated statistical
      software (STATA, StataCorp LLC) through Pearson's chi-squared test, guaranteeing a level of
      significance of 95% and a power of 80%.
    
  