
    
      Worldwide, 9.6% of men and 18% of women aged over 60 years suffer from osteoarthritis (OA),
      most of which involve the knee. Within the OA patient population, 80% of the OA patients have
      limitations of movement, and 25% cannot perform the majority of their daily activities (WHO).
      OA is a progressive articular cartilage disorder involving motor and sensory dysfunctions,
      including a decreased range of motion, muscle weakness, impaired proprioception, and pain.
      Some of these symptoms contribute to arthrogenic muscle inhibition (AMI), a reflexive
      decrease in motor output to the muscles surrounding the affected joint that is most likely
      mediated by GABAergic inhibitory mechanisms.

      AMI is characterized by abnormal afferent information transmitted to the central nervous
      system, resulting in altered afferent feedback to the quadriceps motoneurons (MN) which in
      turn results in reduced excitability of that particular pool. The altered afferent input is
      suggested to stem from stimulation of mechanoreceptors, via joint effusion or excessive
      movements, nociceptors as a response to pain, or loss of joint receptors. Although the
      evidence concerning the role of the central nervous system is scarce, pre- and postsynaptic
      spinal mechanisms directly affecting alpha-MNs seem affected. Dysfunction of γ-loops also
      seems to be involved. These mechanisms together result in AMI that manifests through
      aberrations in voluntary quadriceps torque, force control, and reflex excitability often
      measured by the H-reflex.

      Motor dysfunction thus is an important limiting factor for OA patients and involves motor and
      sensory factors. Besides the evident role of motor efferents, sensory afferents also
      influence motor control and poor proprioceptive function is predictive of poor chair-stand
      performance. Reduction of the sensory deficits could potentially increase motor function in
      knee OA. The present study aims to evaluate whether low-intensity peripheral electrical nerve
      stimulation, a form of increasing afferent input, could potentially improve OA patients'
      motor function. The most limiting factor in OA patients, however, is pain, experienced at
      rest and during movement. High-frequencies stimulation paradigms are normally used to reduce
      pain, but 40-50 minutes of low-frequency electrical stimulation (4 Hz, < MT intensity) can
      also be effective in reducing pain at rest, pain during movement, and pain sensitivity,
      although a recent systematic review questions consistency of these effects considering the
      limited evidence. Although, to the best of our knowledge, there is no clear physiological
      explanation concerning pain reductions after peripheral electrical nerve stimulation, it is
      possible that reductions in experienced pain are mediated by reduced analgesia, i.e.,
      decreased excitability of nociceptive neurons.

      Electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves and muscles has been applied in various forms to
      modulate muscle strength, motor skill, spinal- and cortical excitability. Neuromuscular
      electrical stimulation (NMES) evoked forces can generate torques up to 112% of maximal
      voluntary contraction force and increases with increasing stimulation frequency up to 70-80
      Hz.

      Whereas NMES is primarily focused on increasing muscle strength, low-intensity somatosensory
      electrical stimulation (SES) has been used to increase motor skill acquisition in neurologic
      patients and healthy participants. SES excites group Ia, Ib, and II afferents, as well as
      secondary muscle afferent fibers. SES increases motor performance the most when applied to a
      peripheral nerve at high sensory intensities (2-3 times perceptual threshold) at 10 Hz (SES
      applied in 1 Hz trains consisting of 5 pulses at 10 Hz). High-frequency transcutaneous
      electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) and sensorimotor training can both repositioning error
      reflecting impaired knee proprioception in patients with knee OA. Both TENS and SES thus
      excite afferent fibers involved in knee proprioception. Impaired knee proprioception has been
      associated with impaired ability to accurately and steadily control force and impaired
      eccentric strength. In contrast with NMES, in which induced increases in muscle force most
      likely involve changes in metabolism, hypertrophy, and possibly spinal mechanisms, and TENS,
      where large diameter primary afferents are pivotal in pain reductions, SES targets sensory
      pathways, both cutaneous and proprioceptive, which seem an appropriate target to reduce
      sensory deficits involved in OA.

      SES can improve stroke patients' motor function but whether such improvements can occur in
      patients with knee AO is unknown. Excitation of primary afferents by SES could serve as a
      physiological basis for the hypothesis that SES positively influences the afferent input to
      α-MN of the quadriceps muscles surrounding the dysfunctional joint and reduce pain. The
      increased afferent input by SES, as shown previously in healthy participants and stroke
      patients, is expected to increase motor control, measured by an increase in tracking
      performance in the dysfunctional knee joint. As a task variant to visuomotor tracking, force
      steadiness and accuracy are expected to increase after SES because these measures are
      associated with proprioception, an outcome SES is known to improve through excitation of
      muscle afferents. If this expectation is correct, SES could then be used in future studies
      and rehabilitation protocols as a primer to potentiate the effects of NMES and other exercise
      therapies designed to improve quadriceps strength and power. Second, if SES reduces pain and
      increases motor control, SES can possibly postpone surgery and can serve as an adjuvant for
      patients for patients who are unsuitable for or resist a total knee replacement to improve
      activities of daily and therefore quality of life.

      Therefore, the present study will examine the acute and delayed effects of 60 minutes of SES
      (five pulses in 1 Hz trains at 10 Hz at motor threshold intensity) of the femoral nerve in
      patients suffering from knee OA. Figure 1 depicts a schematic overview of the proposed study
      design. As an initial step, a pilot experiment in 5-6 healthy individuals should reveal
      whether there are some effects or trends observed after 30 minutes of SES, a duration
      probably would be more optimal at 60 minutes considering the 120 minutes standard used for
      improving neurological patients' hand function. The primary outcomes of the study is motor
      coordination evaluated using target tracking based on knee position and not based on
      quadriceps force, because position vs. force is less affected by the influences of pain and
      therefore more suitable in the current context. Secondary outcomes are motor control and
      proprioception reflected by increased force steadiness and accuracy, maximal voluntary
      strength and daily physical function. The investigators hypothesize based on previous data
      that afferent input induced by SES reduces abnormalities in sensory input as a result of OA,
      and therefore increases motor control.
    
  