
    
      One treatment modality for medial osteoarthritis of the knee is open-wedge high tibial
      osteotomy (HTO). The current most common way of performing HTO is to use fixation plates with
      locking bolts implanted in the patient's tibia, to allow increased stability & joint movement
      and the ability to be weight bearing on the affected leg sooner . However, despite advances
      in high tibial osteotomy technology, it can still take most patients about six months to
      fully recover from the procedure. Sedentary activities are usually picked up about a month
      after surgery, before physical work is introduced 3 to 4 months after surgery, followed by
      sports which can be reintroduced approximately 6-12 months after surgery. One reservation for
      allowing patients to be fully weight bearing early on is the perceived risk of loss of
      correction of the angle, although in practice this effect appears to be a rare occurrence .
      For example, in a series of patients Takeuchi and colleagues showed that full weight-bearing
      is possible two weeks after surgery without implications for the correction made to the joint
      angle .

      It is imperative that the open wedge is healed and repopulated by new bone, to strengthen the
      tibia and allow full recovery following HTO. Regeneration will take place naturally, although
      some surgeons apply aids to promote bone healing, such as the ChronOS β-tricalcium phosphate
      wedge. However, research into this aspect of filling the wedge has shown that there is no
      advantage to using the filler - both in terms of stability and bone healing time of the wedge
      . Although fixed systems like Tomofix facilitate early weight-bearing of the affected joint,
      the complete closure and consolidation of the wedge takes considerably longer. In one study,
      23 /27 (85%) osteotomies were fully healed twelve months after procedure . Histologically,
      there is variability in the degree of healing and indeed maturation of bone regeneration
      achieved in the tibial wedge. With current fixed plate devices, even two years
      post-procedure, a minor subset of patients will not have significant signs of regeneration in
      the surgical site. In the majority of patients, partial bone regeneration with
      fibrocartilaginous tissue takes place and in some patients by new regenerated fibrocartilage
      or hyaline-like cartilage will appear .

      HTO could be improved upon to allow an earlier return to activities by patients and to
      achieve better rates of healing - both in terms of time and maturity of the regenerated bone.
      Ellipse Technologies have devised a new nail system for high tibial osteotomy that differs
      from the established 'locked' plate and nail systems. Their system functions in a more
      gradual fashion. The wedge is created in the tibia as per normal but then the Ellipse nail is
      inserted and per day the nail is extended in small measures (appr 1.5 mm per day) until the
      desired correction has been achieved. Currently the new Ellipse system is being trialed in
      various countries in Europe, including the Netherlands and the UK. The main Ellipse trial is
      seeking to establish whether the corrective power of this medical device is more accurate
      than the plate/nail systems in use at present. The degree of bone regeneration in the open
      wedge is reported on, but not in detail - e.g. by one reporting radiologist - and by using
      standard X-ray imaging which is primarily used for angle measurements.

      This present study seeks to explore in more detail how the Tomofix and Ellipse high-tibial
      osteotomy systems function in relation to bone regeneration in the open-wedge created as part
      of the procedure by utilising CT imaging techniques rather than standard clinical X-ray
      imaging. The primary aim of osteotomy is realignment of the joint and thereby preserves the
      joint so that the patient can continue to enjoy the active life style, sports and
      recreational activities. After an osteotomy procedure, whenever a patient asks for advice to
      the clinician when they can start participating in unrestricted sports activities, clinicians
      often find it very difficult to answer this question. This is primarily because it is often
      very difficult to quantify the bone healing process precisely on radiographs. By quantifying
      the amount of bone healing on CT scan which is more clear and accurate, the clinician can
      confidently advise the patient regarding the participation in various sports activities
      without ambiguity.

      Further, by comparing the bone healing process between Tomofix plate and Ellipse nail,
      investigators can make more informed judgement regarding their performance. This research
      will also enhance the choice of implant selection in osteotomy patients based on the duration
      of bone healing.
    
  