
    
      Before the ECL:

      Patients will be recruited during the urology consultation prior to the lithotripsy for
      kidney stones Kidneys (JJ stent in place or not) using an uninjected abdominal-pelvic or
      ultrasound scanner Renal coupled to a AUSP (urinary tree without preparation). ECL is an
      Unbody method that allows the calculation to be fragmented using shock waves Generated by a
      lithotripter. It will be given to them, after explanation of this method by the doctor during
      the consultation, a AFU information sheet on the ECL explaining its steps, possible
      complications, its follow-up.

      After checking the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria, patients will be programmed to ECL
      without prior stop of acethylsalicylic acid.

      At the ECL session:

      Evaluation of blood pressure before the session and at the end. Medical history and treatment
      will be notified in the patient file Verification of blood balance (coagulation, renal
      function) and urinary (BU and ECBU) Evaluation of pain by analog visual scale (AVS) before
      and during the session. Notification of possible symptoms (adverse reactions = AR) in the
      medical file. Prescription of analgesics as well as blood balance and revaluation scanner at
      D15 Taking a post-ECL appointment with the reference urologist at D23 (+-2days)

      After the ECL session: 3-week post-ECL Consultation:

      Pain Assessment (AVS) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the ECL (stone clearance)

      Reading of the scanner performed at D15 in search of a hematoma "(the scanner will also be
      replayed from systematically by the prescriber or a urologist of the service looking for a
      hematoma and the level of efficacy of the ECL + control of the blood balance in search of a
      inflammatory/infectious/anemia/renal function Chronology of the essay:

      Duration of study estimated at: 5 years Start date of study (first patient included): 01/2018
      End Date (end of follow-up of the last patient of the study): 01/2023 Total duration of
      participation in the study for the patient: 5 to 6 weeks The end-of-study date shall be
      transmitted to the competent authority and the MPC within 90 days.

      If the study is to stop prematurely, the information will be transmitted within a period of
      15 days The competent authority and the MPC. Main judgement criterion: Proportion of patients
      with renal hematoma when performing of lithotripsy for renal lithiasis, on a 15-day scanner.

      Number of topics: 300 based on a 4-step sequential plan of Fleming type

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients over 18 years of age benefiting from the social security scheme Patients with at
      least one renal lithiasis requiring treatment with extracorporeal lithotripsy (ECL)

      Non-inclusion criteria:

      Coagulation disorder known or discovered on the pre-therapeutic balance sheet Associated
      anticoagulant therapy. Presence of another contraindications to the ECL.

      Conduct of the study:

      Study is carried out in current practice at the CHU of Clermont Ferrand in the Department of
      Urology.

      The patient will be seen in consultation by the urologist who shall prescribe the Lithotripsy
      sessions, inform him about the of the session and will provide him a AFU information sheet
      concerning the stages of the session, and then, prescribe a blood test to be presented to the
      lithotriptor on the day of the examination. Not additional accommodation to plan. The patient
      will return 3 weeks after the ECL session for his evaluation with the urologist. He will have
      previously completed a blood check and a 15-day scan of the lithotripsy session (instead of
      about 3 weeks usually).

      Benefits and risks of this study:

      Simplify patient management under acethylsalicylic acid. Decrease in cardiovascular risk by
      maintaining the acethylsalicylic acid. Increase of the risk of post-ECL hematoma
    
  