
    
      The target sample for the clinical feasibility trial are adult burn patients (18+), who were
      English-speakers, and therefore able to consent for themselves to participate in the
      research. In order to avoid unnecessary psychological or physical distress, we excluded those
      with active PTSD or psychotic symptoms, or high levels of distress as judged by Burns Unit
      clinicians, where the use of VR might be contraindicated. People with mild-moderate or well
      controlled mental health problems were not be excluded from the study. In addition, those
      with head and neck burns were excluded as they were unable to wear the VR equipment during
      dressing changes. The participants were in-patients receiving regular dressing changes during
      the study period.

      Materials used included the VR headset and the software developed using gaming environments,
      a booklet of questionnaires for the participants to complete, a monitor to measure heart
      rate, a brief interview schedule, a focus group schedule and digital recording equipment. An
      active (participatory) gaming environment was developed for participants to trial On three
      dressing change days participants were asked to complete the two 0-100 ratings 4 times -
      before their dressing change and three afterwards: immediately after the dressing change and
      then after 2 and 4 hours. They were also asked to complete the scales once on a non-dressing
      day after the study, to allow assessment of the impact beyond dressing days of the VR
      intervention. The researcher added in the dates and times for each participant in their
      booklet. These outcomes were selected as especially important to the study, but also to
      minimise participant burden. The booklet contained boxes and prompts for participants to add
      free text responses about the experiences we being monitoring, should they wish.

      Patients were not asked during dressing changes to make any comment about their experience,
      so that they could concentrate on the VR environments and to avoid adding to patient burden
      on the non-intervention condition.

      After each VR intervention dressing change, patients were asked a few questions about their
      experience of pain and the gaming environment, such as 'How was your pain during the dressing
      change while you were in the VR environment?' 'How did you feel generally during the
      experience?' 'How helpful did you find the VR during the dressing change?' etc. These short
      interviews (max 10 minutes) were recorded on a password protected digital recorder.

      After both interventions, on a non-dressing change day, another short interview (max 10
      minutes) was conducted to enable the participant to make comparisons between the different VR
      experiences and general comments about their effectiveness, usability and impact compared
      with no VR. Questions included 'Which VR experience did you prefer and why?' 'From your
      experience how does a dressing change under VR compare with one with no VR experience?' etc.

      Nursing staff were interviewed in a focus group at the end of the study.
    
  