
    
      Sleep bundle_detailed project _ English

      The patients of intensive care unit (ICU) suffer from sleep disorders or lack of sleep due to
      the particular environment. Among other problems, the noise, the lack of circadian variation
      of the light lead to a progressive temporal and spatial disorientation. The patients then are
      subject to a modification of their immunity, present agitation and confusion, neurocognitive
      disorders with consequences on the morbidity and the short and long-term mortality. An
      improvement of the sleep of the patients staying in the intensive care will have potentially
      an impact not only during the stay in the service but also for their future quality of life.

      The project " sleep bundle " aims at improving the sleep of the patients by the
      implementation of a multimodal intervention that consists in a set of measures (or bundle) at
      different levels: on a structural level in the service), organizational and individual care
      of the patients.

      The intervention, called "sleep bundle" will be proposed to each ICU patient at the bedtime:
      ear plugs, a mask for eyes, the listening of a soft music, a massage. The whole service
      structure and organization will be modified by: the installation of a bright light in the
      daytime and avoidance of light or dark at night, education of the medical and nurse staff in
      order to increase the awareness of the paitents needs (i.e. limit the light during the night
      by the use of a shadowless illumination during the night care), a protocol to adapt the
      volume of the alarms, the implementation of trash cans with shock absorber of lid in every
      cubicle, the presence of viewable clocks by all the patients (temporal orientation),
      recalling the necessity of giving to the patients their glasses and hearing aids during
      daytime.

      Design of the project and methodology: this project is a Quality improvement project with the
      classical BEFORE and AFTER approach. It will measure some quantitative measures and
      indicators before and after the implementation of the intervention, i.e. the sleep bundle.

      Primary objective:

      Determine if the sleep of the patients can be improved by the use of one "sleep bundle". The
      subjective evaluation of the quality of the sleep by the patients will be realized with the
      "Richard Campbell Sleep Questionnaire (RCSQ)", the analog visual scale, translated into
      French version, completed by the patient.

      The objective evaluation of the depth of the sleep will be realized with the BIS (Index
      Bispectral), in randomly selected patients according to a table of randomization.

      Secondary objectives:

      To determine the impact of the implementation of the " sleep bundle " on agitation, delirium,
      the number of incidents (involuntary removal of naso-gastric tubes, venous lines,
      endotracheal tubes, etc). The evaluation of the states of agitation and delirium of the
      patients will be realized via the scores SAS and CAM-ICU.

      The following data will be collected in the medical file of patients (SISIF ®):

        -  Age of the patients, gender, length of ICU stay, history of psychiatric disorders, any
           dependency (alcohol, benzodiazépines, neuroleptics, tobacco, heroin, methadone, etc).

        -  Pain scores ( EVA and CPOT), quantity of administered by painkillers, psychotrops,
           opiates

        -  Frequency of the care of nursing

        -  Admission in the room(chamber) during night

        -  Incidents : involuntary removal of catheters, endotracheal tubes, fall, violence.

      The following data will be measured in the environment:

        -  Luminosity of the cubicle(dock,garage), (the before / later) with a luxmeter

        -  Monitoring of the noise in the rooms " Soundear Draeger".

      The population will consist in:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Adults (≥18 years),

        -  Hospitalized of more than 24 hours in the ICU

        -  Predictable stay of at least another day

        -  As soon as the patients is awake, with or without endotracheal tube

        -  Glasgow ≥12, SAS = 3-4, negative CAM-ICU

      Exclusions criteria:

      Patients with neurological impairment after medical or surgical insult who require
      neurological surveillance of more than every 4 hours will not benefit from the sleep bundle.

      The sample size was calculated from the average score of RCSQ 49±23 m±DS observed of on 9
      experimental patients. We seek to achieve a RCSQ score of ≥65 (with the same DS) in 90 %. 44
      patients for the period BEFORE and 44 LATER will be needed. The data of the patients will be
      collected in a anonymous way.

      Every patient holding(retaining) the criteria of inclusion will be included in the project.
      The estimation practised for the last months before the study period shows that the number of
      liable patients to be included varies between 5 and 15 patients / week according to the
      occupation rate of the service.

      The duration of 3 periods of the project is going to vary according to the number of
      patients. By taking into account variations of occupation rate and the possible " drop backs
      out " according to the clinical evolution of the patient, we plan the next periods:

      50 patients during the BEFORE period - duration 8 weeks , 30 patients during the
      implementation of the bundle-duration 4 weeks, 50 patients AFTER the implementation -
      duration 8 weeks.

      Total duration of the project: 20 weeks.

      This project will be sustained in the service thereafter, with a continuous monitoring of the
      sleep quality of ICU patients (RCSQ ) and some indicators.
    
  