
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, neurodegenerative disease for which there is
      no cure. Multiple lines of evidence have implicated oxidative stress in the pathophysiology
      of ALS. Urate (uric acid) is an endogenous antioxidant system, and urate may serve as a major
      defense against oxidative stress. Urate has emerged as a promising neuro-protectant and
      therapeutic target based on convergent epidemiological, laboratory, and clinical data in
      multiple neurodegenerative diseases, most notably Parkinson's disease (PD). In PD, urate
      elevation has been pursued as a potential therapy by administration of inosine, a urate
      precursor that is available as an over-the-counter supplement. Administration of inosine
      results in a predictable elevation of urate levels and has been shown to be safe and well
      tolerated in PD.

      Analysis of ALS databases revealed that higher urate levels are an independent predictor of
      slower progression and prolonged survival in ALS. However, whether elevating urate in people
      with ALS would result in better outcomes is unknown. As a first step towards development of
      inosine as a potential treatment for ALS, in this study we will test whether inosine
      administration in ALS is safe and correlates with changes in the levels of biomarkers of
      oxidative stress and damage (as biomarkers of the intended biological effect).

      The primary outcome measures will be safety, as measured by adverse events and clinically
      meaningful changes in vital signs, physical examination, and standard clinical laboratory
      tests, and tolerability, defined as the ability of subjects to complete the entire 12-week
      study.

      The secondary objective of the study is to quantify the effect of the treatment on biomarkers
      of oxidative damage and stress.

      An exploratory objective of the study is to measure whether changes in these biomarkers are
      different in people with bulbar-onset ALS compared to people with limb-onset ALS.

      This study will be conducted in people who meet the El Escorial criteria of possible,
      laboratory-supported probable, probable, or definite criteria for a diagnosis of ALS. At
      screening, eligible individuals must be at least 18 years old and must provide written
      informed consent prior to screening. Subjects on a stable dose of riluzole and those not
      taking riluzole, and women of child-bearing age at screening are eligible for inclusion as
      long as they meet specific protocol requirements.

      Study participants will be administered oral inosine daily. The dose of inosine will be
      titrated to obtain serum urate levels of 7 - 8 mg/dL.

      Study participants will remain on treatment until the Week 12 visit. Each participant will
      also have a Week 16 Follow-up Telephone Interview to assess for adverse events (AEs), changes
      in concomitant medications and to administer the ALSFRS-R.
    
  