
    
      Primary Objective The main challenge of this project is to define the potential role of NK
      cells as a prognostic marker for primary unexplained infertility. To achieve this objective
      we will perform a prospective study on a cohort of 100 unexplained infertile women.
      Peripheral blood and endometrial NK cells will be immune phenotyped and their activation
      status will be analyzed. Meanwhile, the presence of herpesvirus infection will be evaluated
      in peripheral blood and correlated with the results of NK analysis. These data will clarify
      the role of NK cells in infertile female conditions, evaluating the implication of
      herpesvirus infection as a cofactor for NK cell status. These data will provide a proof of
      principle of the use of NK cell analysis as a predictive marker for unexplained infertility.

      Secondary Objective The secondary objective is to evaluate the mechanisms at the basis of the
      NK cell status in infertility. Since HLA-G and HLA-E expression is modified by herpesvirus
      infection (9), as an immune escape mechanism, and these antigens are responsible of a correct
      embryo implantation (14), we will analyze the levels of these molecules in peripheral blood
      and endometrial environment. Meanwhile, HLA-G and HLA-E genetic polymorphisms will be
      analyzed. These results will be correlated with the presence of herpesvirus infection, KIR,
      LILRB and NKG2A receptor expression on pNK and eNK cells. These data will clarify the
      implication of HLA-G and HLA-E expression and genetic background in the control of NK cell
      activation and herpesvirus infection in infertile women.

      The achievement of these objectives will be obtained with 6 workpackages/aims (WP)

        1. Infertile women characterization (WP1) (1-20mth) We will recruit 100 unexplained
           infertile women and 30 control women. These women will be clinically evaluated,
           establishing a clinical database. From each woman, we will obtain peripheral blood
           samples, endometrium biopsies, and uterine flushing.

        2. NK cell immune-phenotype (WP2) (1-20mth) NK cells from peripheral blood and endometrium
           will be analyzed for subtype percentages (CD56, CD16, CD9, CD49a), and for the
           expression of KIR, LILRB-1 and -2 and CD94/NKG2A receptors, that are known to interact
           with HLA-G and HLA-E molecules producing inhibitory signals.

        3. Th1, Th2, Th17 and LIF (WP3). (1-20 mth) Th1, Th2, Th17 and LIF levels will be analyzed
           in plasma and uterine flushing samples, to evaluate activation status. The results will
           be correlated with NK cell count.

        4. Herpesvirus infection (WP4) (12-24mth) Herpesvirus DNA (HSV-1, HSV-2, EBV, CMV, HHV-6,
           HHV-7, VZV and HHV-8) presence will be analyzed in peripheral blood and uterine
           flushing.

        5. HLA-G (WP5) (12-24mth) HLA-G molecules are expressed as both membrane (HLA-G1) and
           soluble (HLA-G5, from mRNA alternative splicing; sHLA-G1, from membrane shedding)
           molecules. The expression of the membrane and soluble HLA-G will be evaluated in
           peripheral blood and endometrium. HLA-G expression is controlled by a polymorphism of
           insertion/deletion (ins/del) of 14 base pairs (rs66554220), where the deletion of 14bp
           stabilizes the mRNA producing higher levels of HLA-G (15). We will genotype the women
           for rs66554220 polymorphism, to evaluate the implication in HLA-G levels of expression
           in infertile condition.

        6. HLA-E (WP6) (12-24mth) HLA-E molecules are expressed as both membrane and soluble
           molecules. The expression of the membrane and soluble HLA-E will be evaluated in
           peripheral blood and endometrium. Two non-synonymous alleles of HLA-E have been
           identified, HLA-ER (E*0101) and HLA-EG (E*0103) (16), where HLA-E expression of the EG
           protein was higher than ER. We will genotype the women for HLA-E polymorphisms, to
           evaluate the implication in infertility.
    
  