
    
      The project is a descriptive cohort study with a retrospective and a prospective group where
      pregnancy and childbirth data will be studied. 93 mothers with DM1, DM2, GDM will hand-milk 2
      times/day from v.36+0, freeze the colostrum they receive and bring it to delivery ward. The
      colostrum will then be given instead of milk substitutes for their children postpartum.

      Population: 93 women with DM1, DM2 and medically treated GDM who are patients in specialist
      maternity care at Soderhospital in Stockholm, and who plan to hand milk, are the prospective
      group. A retrospective group of 93 diabetic women is then selected from 1 April 2021 and back
      from the medical database used in the clinic and they represent the retrospective group where
      milk substitutes has been given.

      The primary question of the study is whether there is any statistical difference between a
      group of diabetic newborn that provides only colostrum compared to an equal retrospective
      group, which has only given milk substitutes, in the case of neonatal hypoglycemia in the
      first 24 hours postpartum.

      Second question in the study is to study the difference in developing sun-treatment-demanding
      icterus between the children who received colostrum or milk substitutes first 24h and
      possible transfer of them to neonatal care.

      Maternal outcome and background data will be retrieved from the maternal medical files.

      The woman's diabetes status will also be retrieved: what type of diabetes, duration of
      diabetes, blood sugar levels + Hba1c values and possibly treatment (insulin and/or
      metformin).

      Delivery data such as: Labor onset ( spontaneous, induction, cesarean sectio). Progress and
      outcome (normal delivery, VE, sectio). Oxytocin stimulation. Pain relief.

      Information about the newborn like: - Gestational age at birth. Gender, Height and weight.
      Apgar scores at 1', 5' and 10' min. - The child's blood sugar levels during the first 24
      hours (at least three occasions). Number of occasions of hypoglycemia in the child in the
      first 24 hours (limit value <2.6 mmol/L).

        -  Bilirubin values and possible sun treatment of the child.

        -  Possible transfer of the child to the neonatal ward, and its cause,

        -  If the child has been fed with milk substitute and if so with what.

      As the second part of the project, breast milk from 10 of the pregnant women with DM1,
      included in the prospective group, as well as 10 pregnant women who do not have diabetes will
      be asked for participation in that part of the study aimed to analyzing the content of
      colostrum.

      The study participants will hand-milk at least 10ml of colostrum at pregnancy weeks 36, 37,
      38, 39, 40, 41, 42 and freeze it and she will take all the milk in a freezer-clad cooler when
      she goes into childbirth. At postpartum days 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, breast milk will also be
      collected. After that, the raw milk contains are analyzed on:

        -  Fats

        -  Proteins

        -  Calories

        -  Carbohydrates

        -  Total Solids Any differences between the two groups will be presented in logistical
           regressions.
    
  