
    
      Identification of the molecular regulatory points of exercise benefits is of high national
      priority because of the opportunity to develop targeted novel therapeutics benefiting
      populations suffering from inactivity-related health problems, including T2DM and
      pre-diabetes, characterized by insulin resistance (IR). IR is most prevalent in the older
      population associated with sarcopenia. The investigators propose a novel metabolic regulatory
      role of PGC-1α4 (α4), a hypertrophy gene, enhanced by resistance exercise (RE). Based on
      substantial preliminary data, the investigators hypothesize that α4, in cooperation with
      PPARβ (Rβ), promotes muscle glycolysis and insulin sensitivity (IS) as well as increasing
      muscle mass and performance. Based on their novel preliminary data, they will also
      investigate whether by deacetylation of glycolytic proteins, RE enhances muscle glycolytic
      capacity. Rβ also reduces oxidative stress that not only enhances IS but also contributes to
      other health benefits. New mRNA based data indicates that RE reduces protein degradation
      which will be investigated in the current proposal. The investigators will determine whether
      3 months of RE training enhances insulin sensitivity and muscle performance and mass in IR
      people through pathways of enhanced glycolysis, deacetylation of glycolytic proteins reducing
      protein degradation and enhancing synthesis and ameliorating oxidative stress. They will
      study 48 IR people 50-75 yrs before and after 3 months of either 4-times/week resistance
      training or sedentary life and compare them with lean IS people. They will collect vastus
      lateralis muscle biopsy samples before and after an acute exercise bout and following a mixed
      meal to measure markers of glycolysis, energy metabolites, glycogen synthase, glycogen
      content, α4, Rβ, insulin signaling proteins and proteome analysis. They will also measure
      markers of oxidative stress including 8-OXO-dg (measure of DNA damage), oxidative damage to
      proteins and subsequent muscle protein degradation, which they hypothesize is reduced by
      increased anti-oxidant effect of Rβ with RE training. They also will use in vivo labeling of
      specific muscle proteins utilizing stable isotope labeled tracers to determine whether α4
      induced muscle hypertrophy occurs not only by reducing degradation but also by enhancing
      contractile protein synthesis. These studies will render the necessary mechanistic
      explanation on how RE enhances IS, glycolysis, reduces oxidative stress and promote muscle
      performance and mass in IR people, thus substantially contributing to health and life span.
    
  