
    
      In this protocol, a repeated measure design is used to examine microbial and molecular
      results in subjects with a diagnosis of pulmonary nontuberculous mycobacterial infection.
      Patients often experience difficulties in the spontaneous expectoration of sputum free from
      contamination with oral flora which contributes to the poor quality of some respiratory
      specimens sent to the laboratory. At present, it is not known how induced sputum,
      expectorated sputum, and pharyngeal swabs compare for acid fast bacilli (AFB) smear and
      culture results. Appropriate specimens are needed in the clinical setting for optimum
      diagnosis. In this study, procedures for the non-invasive collection of respiratory
      secretions will be used to decrease risk of specimen contamination.

      Subjects who cannot produce respiratory secretions will be compared to patients who are
      successful. It is not known which factors prevent production of respiratory secretions for
      testing. Airway inflammation may contribute to difficulty in producing sputum along with
      dyspnea, phase of illness (newly diagnosed or chronic infection), treatment status, and
      respiratory condition severity.

      Subjects will be characterized by phase of illness determined by health history and
      inflammation using common laboratory tests of inflammation. Respiratory specimens and blood
      will be collected for microbial testing and a portion will be stored then tested for analysis
      of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha, & IFN-gamma). Clinical,
      demographic, laboratory, and patient subjective variables will be tested using regression
      statistical methods to determine predictors for specimen production success. Clinical
      variables to be tested include forced expiratory volume at one minute (FEV1) from a pulmonary
      function test (PFT), phase of illness and treatment, and age. The laboratory tests indicating
      inflammation include erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), and
      Beta-2-Microglobulin (Beta-2M). Patient assessments for dyspnea will be evaluated using the
      Borg questionnaire.
    
  