
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Establish MTD for R115777 in combination with Temozolomide with radiation in patients not
      on EIAEDs.

      II. To define the safety of R115777 in combination with Temozolomide with radiation in this
      patient population.

      III. To assess for evidence of antitumor activity in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of tipifarnib. Patients are stratified
      according to concurrent use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (yes [closed to accrual as
      of 3/15/05] vs no).

      COMBINATION THERAPY: Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-21. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within
      5-9 days after beginning tipifarnib, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily for 6
      weeks and concurrently undergo partial brain radiotherapy daily 5 days a week for 6 weeks.
      After completion of radiotherapy, patients proceed to adjuvant therapy.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 10 patients are
      treated at the MTD.

      ADJUVANT THERAPY: Patients continue to receive tipifarnib as above. With the initiation of
      the next planned course of tipifarnib, patients receive oral temozolomide on days 1-5.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses OR 1 year (whichever is longer) in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients with progressive disease are followed at 10 weeks
      and then every 4 months. Patients who complete therapy are followed every 2 months for 1
      year, every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months
      thereafter until disease progression.
    
  