
    
      Lyme and other tick-borne diseases pose a significant health threat to outdoor workers. In a
      double-blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) in North Carolina outdoor workers, the
      investigators previously showed that long-lasting permethrin-impregnated (LLPI) clothing
      provided >80% protection for one year against Lone Star tick bites among outdoor workers in
      North Carolina. But there are three issues that need to be addressed before this finding can
      be translated into policy: 1) Do LLPI clothing protect against black legged ticks, the vector
      for Lyme disease, babesiosis and anaplasmosis? 2) What levels of permethrin and its
      metabolites are absorbed, and are they potentially toxic? 3) Why did the LLPI clothing in our
      previous study lose efficacy after a year?

      Participants: The investigators will recruit 250 outdoor workers. The investigators
      anticipate recruiting 80, 80, 40,30, and 20 participants from NationalGrid, the RI Department
      of Environmental Management, the Massachusetts Department of Conservation & Recreation, the
      National Park Service, and the US Fish & Wildlife Service.

      Procedures (methods): This will be a randomized controlled trial. All study subjects will
      fill out weekly tick logs, collect attached ticks for later speciation and pathogen
      detection, and submit annual serum samples to test for exposure to tick-borne pathogens. A
      randomly selected subset of 60 subjects also will be asked to submit urine samples for
      permethrin metabolite analysis at several time points during follow-up. An additional
      randomly selected subset (n=30) will be asked to submit worn items of clothing for tick
      knockdown testing and permethrin content analysis at the end of the first and second years of
      field testing.

      The results of this study could help protect hundreds of thousands of outdoor workers with
      exposure to ticks and tick-borne pathogens.
    
  