
    
      Among the most notable cancer genome-wide sequencing discoveries in recent years was the
      finding of mutation hot-spots in the isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) genes in grade II/III
      astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas and in secondary glioblastomas. This was rapidly followed
      by identification of recurrent IDH1/2 mutations in myeloid neoplasms (MN), including acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and myeloproliferative neoplasms
      (MPN).

      Mutant IDH is now a therapeutic target of great interest in cancer research, especially in
      AML, given the limitations of current approved therapies and the encouraging early clinical
      data demonstrating proof of concept for investigational mutant IDH1/2 inhibitors.

      There is evidence to suggest that IDH mutations may cooperate with other mutations to
      initiate and drive oncogenesis in myeloid malignancies. High levels of 2-hydroxyglutarate
      (2-HG, as a result of gene mutation) have been shown to inhibit αKG-dependent dioxygenases
      including histone and DNA demethylases, proteins that regulate cellular epigenetic status.
      Consistent with 2-HG promoting cancer via an effect on chromatin structure, tumors harboring
      IDH mutations display a CpG island methylator phenotype. More recent studies have shown that
      overexpression of mutant IDH enzymes can induce histone and DNA hypermethylation, as well as
      block cellular differentiation. Together, these data suggest that cancer-associated IDH
      mutations can induce a block in cellular differentiation through epigenetic modifications,
      which contributes to tumor initiation and progression, and thus support the clinical
      evaluation of agents targeted to mutant IDH

      The origin of mutations in AML was explored by investigating the clonal evolution of genomes
      sequenced from patients with M1- or M3-AML and comparing them with hematopoietic
      stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) from healthy volunteers. Six genes were found to have
      statistically higher mutation frequencies in M1 versus M3 genomes (NPM1, DNMT3A, IDH1, IDH2,
      TET2 and ASXL1), suggesting they are initiating rather than cooperating events. Furthermore,
      all of these genes have been shown to play a role in chromatin modification, suggesting that
      epigenetic alterations may function to initiate tumorigenesis.

      Prospective evaluation of serial 2-HG levels during treatment of newly diagnosed AML treated
      with standard chemotherapy revealed that both 2-HG level and mutated IDH allele burden
      decreased with response to treatment but began to rise again as therapy failed.

      The prognostic impact of IDH mutations in AML is under continued investigation and varies
      across studies

      In this research project, the authors aim:

        1. To define the prevalence and type of IDH1/2 mutations in acute myeloid leukemias.

        2. To define genotype-phenotype relationship in IDH1/2 mutated patients.

        3. To define relationships between IDH1/2 mutations and other oncogenic mutations in AML,
           as well as to describe clonal evolution of the disease (including the evaluation of
           genotype at disease relapse).

        4. To describe the clinical outcome of IDH1/2 mutated patients with AML treated with
           currently available treatments.
    
  