
    
      Rationale:

      There are currently no data on maintenance therapy with PD1/PDL1 inhibitors in NSCLC. After
      an initial response / stable disease to first line chemotherapy, non progressors / candidates
      for maintenance treatment, represent an ideal setting / patient group to test the efficacy of
      Pembrolizumab given that chemotherapy results in antigen release, hence it has the potential
      to augment immune checkpoint blockade, and following disease cytoreduction, this represents a
      lower disease burden setting, that may suit checkpoint inhibition better given the recent
      studies in Prostate cancer with Ipilimumab and Melanoma with Pembrolizumab(suggesting better
      outcomes for patients with less extensive disease).

      Primary endpoint: percentage of patients that have not progressed at 1 year using immune
      related radiological criteria.

      All patients to be treated with fixed dose 200mg iv Pembrolizumab until unacceptable
      toxicity, disease progression or completion of 2 years therapy.

      Statistical Analysis Plan Summary The study employs a one stage phase II Fleming's design
      using irPFS at 1 year as primary endpoint. Using response hypotheses of H0 < 12 % and Ha> 25%
      i.e. that the irPFS at 1 year for the maintenance Pembrolizumab arm is 25%, compared to 12%
      in the normal chemotherapy maintenance arm, with a significance level (i.e., the probability
      of rejecting H0 when it is true) α=0.05 and the power (i.e. the probability of deciding the
      regimen is active) is 0.8 when true response rate is 25%, 48 patients are required to be
      entered into this study.

      Entry Criteria Diagnosis/Condition for Entry into the Trial In order to be eligible for trial
      entry, patients must have a diagnosis of metastatic Non Small Cell Lung Cancer, and should
      not have progressed after first line palliative chemotherapy with a platinum doublet. They
      should have received no more than six (6) cycles of a platinum doublet chemotherapy, and
      should be able to receive treatment within three (3) to six (6) weeks from the last
      chemotherapy administration.
    
  