
    
      Primary aldosteronism (PA), characterized by an inappropriate production of aldosterone,
      affects 5-13% of patients with hypertension(1, 2). The use of aldosterone-renin ratio (ARR)
      as screening test contributes to the increased diagnostic rate of this disease(2), but it is
      not standardized among laboratories. As the incidence of PA has increased since ARR has been
      used as a screening test (3, 4), the difficulty in establishing a diagnosis of PA may be
      encountered because of atypical manifestations. Administration of captopril to differentiate
      the normal renin-angiotensin- aldosterone axis from autonomous secretion of aldosterone has
      been proved to be a safe and effective test in confirmation of the diagnosis (5-8). Several
      studies have demonstrated that the ARR after a single dose of captopril is diagnostic (5-8)
      and as sensitive as the saline loading test for the identification of aldosterone- producing
      adenoma (APA)(8).

      Active rennin concentration (ARC) is considerably easier to perform; being a single
      immunoradiometric assay as opposed to the initial generation of angiotensin I generated from
      angiotensinogen followed by radioimmunoassay of PRA(9). It was demonstrated as a reliable and
      convenient screening tool for ambulatory conditions, independent of body posture (10).
      Decreased angiotensinogen level is noted in pathological status ( e.g. liver cirrhosis, sever
      cardiac failure) (11, 12) that results in dissociate of PRA measurement. PAC when used in
      conjunction with aldosterone to produce an ARRARC , has been reported to classify
      aldosteronism correctly(13). Although PRA is highly sensitive, the measurement is
      time-consuming and measured values can vary considerably between laboratories(14). In
      aldosteronism with suppressed renin, the ratio of ARR is clearly dependent on the variants
      lower detection limit(15). Though determination of ARC in contrast to PRA offers advantage
      with regard to processing and standardization, knowing the postcaptopril sensitivity and
      specificity as well as the optimum cut off value of ARC is paramount (16) help to the
      diagnosis PA (15, 17, 18) and might serve better performance than ARRPRA.
    
  