
    
      Pre-oxygenation with high-flow nasal cannula with 100% oxygen has been evaluated in a limited
      number of studies and seems to be equal or better than traditional preoxygenation with tight
      fitting mask. Apneic oxygenation with high-flow nasal cannula in apnea demonstrates that this
      could safely be don up to 25 minutes. Based on this, we can to evaluate whether this novel
      concept of preoxygenation can prolong the time before desaturation in emergency anesthesia
      and a difficult airway situation. This could ultimately reduce the number of damage to the
      airway and hypoxic injuries. This novel concept is already tested in clinical practice in
      certain cases and we strongly believe that a scientific evaluation of this approach is needed
      before a broad implementation.

      The patients will undergo regular pre-anesthetic evaluation and will be then be asked to
      participate in the study. Oral and written information will be given. A consent form will be
      signed.

      The patients will be randomized to either traditional preoxygenation or preoxygenation with
      high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen.

      On arrival in the operating room standard patient monitoring will be applied (ECG, pulse
      oximetry, non-invasive blood pressure) and preparation for anesthesia induction will be done
      with the patients placed with a slightly elevated head, approximately 25º. Peripheral oxygen
      saturation (SpO2) will be noted when breathing room air. If an arterial line is planned this
      will be put in place before pre-oxygenation and a blood sample will be drawn when breathing
      room air Preoxygenation will hereafter take place either the traditional way or with a HFNC.
      The traditional preoxygenation consists of breathing 100% oxygen via a tight-fitting
      non-rebreathing facial mask with a fresh gas flow of ≥10 L/min of for ≥ 3 minutes. HFNC
      pre-oxygenation consists of application of nasal cannulae (Optiflow TM, Fisher & Paykel
      Healthcare, Auckland, New Zealand) in the nostrils and the patients will receive 40L/min of
      heated and humidified 100% oxygen for ≥ 3 minutes.

      After induction of anesthesia with RSI the airways will be kept open by manual adjustment by
      the anesthesiologist until intubation regardless of pre-oxygenation technique. During the
      laryngoscopy and intubation 70L/min of humidified 100% oxygen will be administered
      continuously by the nasal cannula left in place if HFNC oxygen is used.

      Endtidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2) will be noted before the start of pre-oxygenation and on the
      first breath after intubation. If an arterial line is in place blood gas samples will be
      taken before the start of pre-oxygenation (breathing room air) and when the endotracheal tube
      is in place.

      Output data:

        -  SpO2 breathing room air, at end of pre-oxygenation and one minute after intubation

        -  ETCO2 before pre-oxygenation and at first breath after intubation

        -  Time to intubation (measured from start of laryngoscopy to when ET tube correctly in
           place)

        -  Total time of high flow nasal cannula oxygen /traditional pre-oxygenation delivered

        -  Blood pressure

        -  Heart rate

        -  ASA classification level

        -  Smoker/non-smoker

        -  BMI

        -  Preoperative presence of lung condition (eg. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
           (COPD), asthma) yes/no

        -  Preoperative oxygen therapy

        -  Known/treated obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) yes/no

        -  Type of surgery: abdominal yes/no

        -  Duration of surgery, hours

        -  Mallampati grade, thyromental distance, mouth opening and neck movement.

        -  Cormack & Lehane grade

        -  Number of attempts to intubate

        -  Use of bougie during intubation yes/no

        -  Cricoid pressure used yes/no

        -  Clinical suspicion of aspiration on intubation

        -  Subjective experience of the pre oxygenation measured on a Visual Analogue Scale

      Disruption criteria The patient doesn´t tolerate pre-oxygenation the way it is planned
      according to randomization.

      Statistics This is a randomized controlled study evaluating a novel concept and comparing it
      to a traditional technique. Continuous data will be presented as mean ± SD or 95% CI and
      categorical data as median and range. We will analyze the data using Prism 6.0 (GraphPad) or
      SPSS 24 (IBM). We do not know the primary outcome parameters (lowest saturation within 1 min
      after intubation), but with an estimation based partly on a previous study (Wimasalena et al.
      Ann Emerg Med 2015) we assume that the lowest saturation in the control group will be 93% and
      95% in the treatment group with a SD of 3%. Using a type I error of 5% and type II error of
      20% (power 80%) a sample size of 70 patients in each group was calculated. To allow for
      missed data and drop-outs we plan to include 100+100 patients (total of 200 patients). After
      inclusion of 80 patients an interim analysis will be performed for the primary outcome. A
      non-paired t-test will be performed to analyse the primary outcome.
    
  