
    
      A rising PSA following treatment with definitive prostatectomy or radiation therapy for
      localised prostate cancer represents biochemical relapse (BCR), a disease state for which
      there is no consensus on optimal management. A proportion of men with BCR will go on to
      develop metastatic disease but there may be a prolonged period of time between biochemical
      recurrence and overt clinic progression. Though androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) may
      prolong metastasis-free survival, it comes at a cost of significant morbidity. Thus
      substantial efforts are underway to find treatments that may delay the need for ADT while
      maintaining quality of life in men with BCR prostate cancer.

      Autophagy inhibitors given in combination with cytotoxic agents have been found to suppress
      tumour growth and trigger cell death to a greater extent than chemotherapy alone, both in
      vitro and in vivo. Such inhibitors include the anti-malarial drug chloroquine (CQ) and its
      derivative, hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). Taken together, autophagy may represent a major
      mechanism for treatment resistance and thus, represents a potential novel therapeutic target.
      Moreover, hydroxychloroquine has shown modest activity as a single agent in men with BCR
      prostate cancer.

      The antifungal drug itraconazole has shown some activity in prostate cancer. These effects
      are attributed to inhibitory effects on endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis, mTOR
      inhibition through effects on intracellular cholesterol trafficking, hedgehog pathway
      inhibition and induction of autophagy. With regards to cholesterol trafficking, itraconazole
      causes depletion of plasma membrane cholesterol and cholesterol trapping in the late
      endosomes and lysosomes in part through inhibition of the cholesterol transporter NPC1.

      Pre-clinical studies have shown enhanced death of prostate cancer cells with treatment of
      itraconazole combined with hydroxychloroquine. This treatment causes a dramatic increase in
      the accumulation of free cholesterol with a phenotype reminiscent of Niemann-Pick Syndrome, a
      neurodegenerative disease characterised by accumulation of free cholesterol in late
      endosomes/lysosomes due to mutations in NPC1 and NPC2. The investigators hypothesise that
      itraconazole synergises with hydroxychloroquine to induce sequestration of cholesterol in the
      lysosomes while inhibiting autophagy thereby inducing cell death through oxidation of the
      excess cholesterol and cell dysfunction as a result of the inaccessibility of the
      cholesterol. This mechanism may be particularly potent in androgen sensitive prostate cancer
      where cholesterol use is destined for androgen synthesis.

      Non-castrating treatments for BCR and metastatic prostate cancer are an area of unmet need.
      The aim of this study is to assess the tolerability, safety and efficacy of
      hydroxychloroquine in combination with itraconazole as a strategy to delay time to ADT
      commencement in men with BCR prostate cancer.
    
  