
    
      Fractures associated with osteoporosis are expected to rise to 3 million by 2025 with a cost
      of $25 billion in medical costs. Many of these fractures could be avoided through preventive
      measures, such as improved implementation of fall reduction strategies and use of effective
      medications. While medications can significantly reduce the chance of fractures among adults
      with osteoporosis, alarmingly few at-risk adults use osteoporosis treatments regularly. Only
      10% to 30% of at-risk adults ever initiate osteoporosis medications, and of those, only 40%
      to 50% continue to fill their prescriptions after 1 year. There is a clear need to develop
      ways for improving adherence with osteoporosis medication regimens. The purpose of this study
      is to evaluate a telephone coaching program, with or without helpful adherence notifications
      to doctors, in improving treatment adherence in older adults who are starting an osteoporosis
      medication.

      Participation in this study will last 1 year. Through random assignment of doctor practices,
      participants will fall into one of three groups.

        -  Group A participants will receive mailed education materials on osteoporosis and
           medication use throughout the 1-year study.

        -  Group B participants will receive monthly 5- to 10-minute phone calls from a health
           educator who is specially trained in osteoporosis. The phone calls will involve coaching
           participants on behavioral reinforcement strategies that will help them to continue
           taking their medications on schedule. Participants will also receive specially tailored
           education on osteoporosis and fracture prevention during the phone calls. A close family
           member or friend of the participant will be contacted via phone two times during the
           study year. During these phone calls, the family member or friend will learn how to
           support the participant in such a way that medication adherence is more likely.

        -  Group C participants will receive the same treatment as Group B. Doctors assigned to
           Group C will receive written educational information on the rates of medication
           adherence, implications of nonadherence, and methods for improving adherence among
           patients. Doctors will also receive alerts about any of their participating patients who
           are not filling medication prescriptions. The alert message will be provided in both
           paper and electronic format. The electronic format can be easily formatted, allowing the
           doctor to send a personalized letter to their patients.

      At the end of the study, all participants will complete a mailed questionnaire on their
      behaviors and demographics. Doctors will complete a mailed questionnaire aimed at determining
      what parts of the interventions were well received. The occurrence of hip, forearm, and/or
      upper arm fractures will be evaluated using Medicare claims data.
    
  