
    
      Clinical manifestations of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) indicate the involvement of motor,
      sensory, visual, and autonomic systems as well as brain circuits implicated in cognition and
      emotion.

      Due to the complexity and the heterogeneity of the disease course and the clinical symptoms,
      the search for the appropriate personalized treatment and the disease management remains a
      challenging issue. Nowadays, it is increasingly recognized that MS treatment and care demand
      a multi-disciplinary approach, including non-pharmacological interventions, aimed to improve
      quality of life (QoL) and engagement in daily-life activities. Active-rehabilitation or
      exercise is currently considered as the form of non-medical interventions that best meets
      these requirements.

      In the context of MS, there is now general agreement on the positive effects of exercise for
      both relapsing remitting (RR) and progressive (P) MS patients. Significant effects have been
      described for cardiovascular functions, aerobic capacity, muscular strength and ambulatory
      performance. Even if clear conclusions cannot be drawn, other outcomes, like balance and
      depression seem to be positively influenced by exercise. Symptoms linked to autonomic
      dysfunction caused by sympathovagal imbalance, like altered heart rate variability (HRV) and
      correlating with the load of inflammation in MS may benefit from exercise, being the physical
      activity an important modulator of the peripheral nervous system. However, the DMT potential
      of exercise is still overlooked, since only few studies have investigated the influence of
      exercise on inflammation and neurodegeneration, the main pathogenic events in MS with unclear
      and, to some extent, contrasting data.

      This longitudinal study aims is designed to enrol at least 35 MS patients to perform a
      conventional 4 weeks rehabilitation program. Physical therapy will be performed for 6
      days/week for 4 weeks and will consist of 3 hours of treatment. The rehabilitation program
      will be planned by a physician specialized in physical and rehabilitation medicine and will
      consist of both passive and active therapeutic exercises specifically aimed at restoring or
      maintaining muscular flexibility, range of motion, balance, coordination of movements,
      postural passages and transfers, and ambulation. According to the patient's disability
      status, different therapeutic exercises will be performed by qualified physiotherapists.
      Moreover, intensity of exercise will be tailored to the level of patient's disability. To
      avoid fatigue and to increase patient's tolerance to the exercises, compensative pauses will
      be included. Moreover, genotype analysis from peripheral blood cells will be performed to
      identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in coding regions and/or gene regulators
      (microRNA or proteins) involved in MS synaptic transmission alterations, like NGF, PDGF,
      which might correlate to clinical parameters described as both primary and secondary
      outcomes.

      Statistical analysis will be performed by IBM SPSS Statistics 15.0. Data will be tested for
      normality distribution through the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Differences between pre- and
      post-values will be analyzed using parametric Student's t-test for matched pairs, or if
      necessary, nonparametric Wilcoxon signed-rank test for matched pairs. Changes in categorical
      variables will be assessed by McNemar test. Correlation analysis will be performed by
      calculating Pearson or Spearman coefficients as appropriate. Data will be presented as the
      mean (standard deviation, sd) or median (25th- 75th percentile). The significance level is
      established at p<0.05.

      Sample size calculation was performed according to the following criteria. Supposing that in
      MS patients the cytokine values in particular the TNF levels after exercise therapy decrease
      in a manner similar to that showed in the study by Hedegaard et al (2008), the investigators
      can estimate that the therapy will have a medium effect on TNF values, d=0.59, calculating a
      pre-mean value equal to 2611.2 (standard deviation, sd=1586.96) and post-exercise equal to
      1249.1 (sd=1261.89), a correlation between pre-post values equals to -0.326. To detect as
      significant a moderate effect with a power of 95%, assuming a two-sided a=0.05 and applying a
      Wilcoxon signed-rank test for matched pairs, the investigators estimate a total number of 35
      patients. The analysis was performed by G*POWER v3.1.9.2.
    
  