
    
      Due to inadequate efficiency of existing medical and psychotherapeutic treatments for
      depression there is a need for investigating the efficacy of adjunctive treatments. Light
      therapy has proven efficient as an add-on treatment for depression, but some patients might
      prefer being outdoors rather than sitting in front of a light therapy screen. However, no
      high-quality studies, have so far investigated the antidepressant and other potential
      positive effects of regular exposure to morning daylight for patients with unipolar
      depression.

      The aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of morning daylight as add-on to treatment
      as usual in patients with depression. Efficacy is measured as reduction of depressive
      symptoms, improvement of sleep quality, and improvement of well-being.

      Methods and material: A randomized controlled trial comprising 150 patients diagnosed with
      unipolar depression aged 18-50 years will be conducted. Patients are included after giving
      informed consent and the study period is 6 weeks. A wearable Personal Light Tracker,
      measuring the amount off light received, will be provided for all participants. Participants
      will be randomized into the following groups:

      Group 1: Daylight (outdoor daylight exposed stay for minimum 30 minutes per day before 1 pm).
      To motivate patients to go outside they will receive psychoeducation on the connection
      between exposure to morning daylight and a possible antidepressant effect, and they are
      introduced to potential options for outdoor activities. A detailed instruction to the
      personal light tracker and the matching app, for monitoring the amount of light received
      throughout the day, is provided.

      Group 2: Control group receiving treatment as usual. Patients will wear a personal light
      tracker but they are not introduced to the light-monitoring-app.
    
  