
    
      Chronic hepatitis B affects at least 1.5 million Americans and is a major cause of cirrhosis,
      end-stage liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma. Five oral antiviral agents have been
      licensed for use in chronic hepatitis B in the United States. These agents are effective at
      suppressing viral replication, improving liver disease and reversing cirrhosis. The standard
      indications for starting antiviral therapy have been developed and widely accepted. Less
      clear is how long therapy should continue and when and under what conditions should therapy
      be stopped. Withdrawal after one year of therapy is commonly followed by relapse that in rare
      instances is severe and can be fatal. With longer courses of therapy, withdrawal of antiviral
      therapy has been associated with fewer and less severe relapses, but the criteria for
      stopping treatment are still unclear.

      In this study, we propose to withdraw therapy in up to 50 patients with both HBeAg positive
      and negative chronic hepatitis B who have received a minimum of 4 years of oral nucleoside
      therapy with a serum HBV DNA level less than 500 IU/ml in the 6 months prior to withdrawal.
      After an outpatient evaluation, consenting patients will be withdrawn from therapy and
      followed carefully for presence of symptoms, abnormal liver tests and HBV DNA levels monthly
      for 6 months and every 3 months thereafter. Patients who relapse will be offered retreatment.
      Patients without relapse will be followed for at least four years after stopping therapy. The
      primary endpoint of the study will be the proportion of patients who maintain an HBV DNA <
      1,000 IU/ml, and a serum ALT or AST<1.5 times the upper limit of normal one year off therapy.
      Secondary endpoints will be the proportion of patients who maintain HBeAg loss and clear
      HBsAg one year off therapy, the number of ALT or AST flares, predictors of maintained
      virological suppression and HBeAg negativity and the proportion of subjects who require
      re-initiation of therapy.
    
  