
    
      Objective of the study:

      To compare the effectiveness of CPAP and NIPPV in neonates with mild to moderate respiratory
      distress.

      Specific objectives To determine the effectiveness of CPAP and NIPPV in neonates with mild to
      moderate respiratory distress To describe neonatal factors associated with CPAP and NIPPV
      support. To compare the length of hospital stay in neonates who received CPAP and NIPPV To
      compare the time taken to achieve full enteral nutrition in neonates who received CPAP and
      NIPPV.

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled trial

      Study setting:

      Study carried out in NICU of the Sri Jayawardanapura General Hospital There are 06
      ventilators in NICU of Sri Jayawardanapura Hospital. (Three SLE 2000 infant ventilators and
      three Bear CUB 750 psv infant ventilators.) Respiratory support (conventional ventilation,
      CPAP and NIPPV) gave through these ventilators. The neonatal soft tip curved nasal canula
      with tubing will be use for non invasive respiratory support. The nasal canula connected to
      the ventilator via an endotracheal tube connector. Systems were regularly monitored. Canula
      size was chosen to comfortably fit the infant's nostrils.

      CPAP started with Positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) 05 and increased up to PEEP 09
      according to the severity of baby's condition.

      NIPPV started with intermittent Mandatory ventilation (IMV) rate 30, peak inspiratory
      pressure (PIP) 20 and PEEP 5.Increased the settings according to the severity of baby's
      condition.

      Sampling Method. All neonates fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria registered in the
      study. And a serial number issued. They were allocated to the two arms of study randomly
      based on a previously generated random allocation schedule.

      They were managed according to hospital management protocol and outcome data were collected
      from the bed head ticket.

      The ethical approval taken from the Ethical Review Committee of Sri Jayawardenepura General
      Hospital kotte.

      Approval taken from Medical Technology and supplies sub committee on clinical trials Written
      informed consent obtained from parents or guardians of eligible infants before randomization
      The data sheets did not contain the name and be anonymous. Data stored under lock and key
      with restricted access only to the principal investigators. The computerized data were
      password protected and is only available to the investigators.
    
  