
    
      Peginterferon alfa-2 with ribavirin is the current standard of care for the treatment of HCV
      infection; however, severe hematologic effects, including anemia, leukopenia, and
      thrombocytopenia, may make this treatment less than ideal for patients with HCV. Medications
      to prevent or treat serious neutropenia and anemia have been established and are commonly
      used. However, thrombocytopenia remains a barrier to the effective treatment of HCV infection
      in some patients. Developing a more effective treatment for thrombocytopenia for these
      patients would decrease the risk of serious bleeding events. It may also improve HCV
      treatment outcomes by preventing dose modifications or discontinuations of peginterferon
      alfa-2 and ribavirin due to thrombocytopenia.

      Anti-D is an antibody to the Rh (D) antigen on red blood cells. When anti-D attaches to the
      Rh (D) antigen, immune-mediated destruction of platelets is prevented, helping to alleviate
      low platelet levels in people with thrombocytopenia. This study will investigate the safety
      and efficacy of anti-D for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in HCV patients currently on or
      starting standard HCV treatment. Both HIV infected and uninfected participants will be
      recruited for this study.

      This study will last 12 weeks. Participants in this study must be either currently on
      peginterferon alfa-2 and ribavirin treatment or initiating such treatment at the start of the
      study; these two medications will not be provided by the study. At study entry, participants
      will be given anti-D over a 30-minute infusion in an outpatient setting. Participants will be
      observed for any adverse effects for 1 hour postinfusion. Some participants may require
      additional doses of anti-D later in the study, depending on individual response to the drug;
      participants may receive 1 to 6 doses of anti-D. Efficacy of anti-D treatment will be
      assessed by absolute change in platelet count and the ability to sustain plaletet counts
      greater than 50,000 cells/microL during the study. Cytokine levels will also be monitored to
      gain insight on how anti-D may work with cytokines in platelet survival and clearance.

      Generally, study visits will occur at study entry and Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12. In patients
      who require additional infusions of anti-D, there will be additional visits scheduled for
      each additional infusion and a postinfusion visit occurring 1 week after each infusion. All
      study visits will include medication history and blood collection. A clinical assessment and
      a targeted physical exam will occur at study entry, Weeks 1 and 12, and at additional
      infusion and postinfusion visits, if applicable.
    
  