
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Metformin has demonstrable efficacy in slowing or reversing the progression of various
      insulin-resistant disease states - most notably type 2 diabetes and pre-diabetes. In seeking
      to establish proof-of-concept that insulin resistance is a suitable pathophysiological target
      in the treatment of PAD-related intermittent claudication (pain in the leg muscles during
      walking, which resolves on exercise cessation), this study will determine whether the known
      insulin-sensitizing effects of metformin translate to alleviation of the functional
      limitations imposed by claudication.

      Study Design:

      A total of 80 individuals with PAD-related intermittent claudication will be randomised (1:1)
      to either metformin or matching placebo for 16-18 weeks (double-blind, parallel group
      design). The maximum daily dose of metformin will be 2000mg (up-titrated from half this dose
      at 2 weeks if tolerated).

      Primary Hypothesis:

      Improvement in functional capacity follows metformin therapy in individuals with PAD-related
      intermittent claudication. Change in functional capacity will be assessed by the co-primary
      endpoints of pain-free and maximum walking times during a standard graded treadmill exercise
      test.

      Secondary Aims:

      Exercise testing for functional performance will be complemented by assessments of perceived
      physical functioning / quality of life in the daily life setting (using standard
      questionnaires). As previous studies have indicated cardiovascular effects of metformin
      incremental to blood glucose-lowering, this study will also investigate potential mechanisms
      of efficacy relating to the primary endpoints, including changes in endothelial function,
      blood flow responses to various stimuli (including insulin and acute exercise), insulin
      sensitivity, and physical activity / sedentary behaviours. Changes in relevant clinical data
      (including ankle-brachial index and limb hemodynamics by duplex scanning) will also be
      determined.

      Outcomes and Significance:

      The unmet clinical need of efficacious medical therapies for intermittent claudication is a
      growing problem given the increasing prevalence of PAD worldwide. If positive, this study
      will identify a new potential treatment that is already widely available. The study will also
      inform on novel mechanistic targets with relevance to existing and future therapeutic
      strategies.
    
  