
    
      Sudden cardiac death remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality and has public
      health importance. In recent decades, the pathophysiology became better known, however
      despite the development of medical devices and therapies, significant improvement in outcome
      was not observed, survival of patients remained low REF1-4.

      The resuscitation protocols are based on universal algorithms REF5-6, are valid for all
      health care practitioners regardless of qualifications, skills. This reanimation paradigm
      focuses on the basic skills (chest compression, respiration) REF7-8. On the basis of
      investigations, the most important factors would be: continuous, high-quality chest
      compressions with the possibly of shortest interruptions REF9, however, the performance of
      this practice has significant difficulties to meet the expectations REF10.

      Without relevant data, the meaningful assessment, follow-up and analysis of resuscitation are
      difficult, so a substantive case-based training is not feasible.

      A reanimation training program on the basis of continuous audio-visual feedback, data and
      case report would be needed to improve the poor outcome.

      A study proved that audio-visual cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) feedback, case analysis
      and scenario-based training can improve significantly the parameters of basic life support
      (BLS) and can increase the odds of a better neurological survival status after sudden cardiac
      arrest outside a hospital - adjusted odds ratio (AOR) 2.7 REF11.

      Another study REF12 demonstrated that this method in a hospital environment can improve CPR
      quality indicators. The so-called Advanced Resuscitation the framework program has also
      achieved a significant leap from the hospital survival (AOR 2.2, good neurological status AOR
      3.0) with similar methods and technology REF13. These results show that an increase in the
      survival can be achieved with the improvement of resuscitation method and training.

      Advanced life support (ALS) service in the Gottsegen György Hungarian Institute of Cardiology
      is provided by the medical staff of the Cardiology Intensive Care Unit (emergency medical
      team - EMT).

      Our aim is to evolve a continuous quality improvement program with the usage of ZOLL R Series
      defibrillator device and defibrillator pads with a real-time CPR feedback option and
      CodeReview case analysis software, and to provide further execution of the program
      thereafter.

      In a prospective, non-randomized study, all of the basic and advanced cardiopulmonary
      resuscitations would be analyzed. All resuscitation are planned to be performed by the above
      mentioned devices according to the recent protocols. The continuous audio-visual feedback and
      all the data obtained during the resuscitation are intended to develop a better CPR training
      program in the future.

      The downloading of data is planned to occur on the same day of CPR to a data card. After
      approximately one week all the participant medical persons would receive a detailed case
      analysis. Elimination of the typical errors is targeted.

      Monitored quality indicators

      Follow-up of CPR protocol:

      elapsed time between turning on device and first chest compression elapsed time between
      turning on device and first delivered shock elapsed time between turning on device and first
      delivered shock in case of shockable rhythm compliance with 2 minutes long CPR period
      recognition of rhythm, recognition of adequate therapy, follow-up of the protocol concernig
      DC-shock recording the exact moment of the following procedures (with the use of Code Marker
      button on the defibrillatior device) endotracheal intubation drug therapy obtaining
      intravenous access oxygen therapy

      Quality of chest compressions:

      depth frequency release compression fraction

      Discontinuance of chest compression - cause anf time interval (Code Marker) endotracheal
      intubation ventilation rhythm analysis and defibrillation obtaining intravenous access

      Other data (obtaining with manual recording):

      cause of sudden cardiac death initial rhythm exact time of sudden death eyewitness records
      data of the patient monitoring system (only optional) description of place participant of CPR
      first detection medical documentation

      Participant of the study:

      Péter ANDRÉKA Prof. MD, Head of Department, Principal Investigator of study Gábor UZONYI MD,
      Head of Intensive Care Unit Krisztina SZÜTS MD András CSEPREGI MD Attila KOVÁCS MD Péter
      TAKÁCS MD András BECK MD Csaba SÁRI MD, Coordinator of study Adrienn MANDZÁK MD Judit
      POLANECZKY Anna NAGYNÉ LŐKE
    
  