
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the response rate and toxicity of lenalidomide (CC-5013) plus dexamethasone
      (standard dose) versus CC-5013 plus low dose dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed
      myeloma at any time in the first 4 cycles of treatment and to determine if CC-5013 plus low
      dose dexamethasone will have similar response rate with lower toxicity (First Phase).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate of thalidomide plus dexamethasone (Thal/Dex) in patients
      with newly diagnosed myeloma who do not achieve a complete or partial response at any time in
      the first 4 cycles with the CC-5013 and dexamethasone combination in either of the two arms
      (First Phase).

      II. To study the effect of CC-5013 on bone marrow microvessel density and angiogenesis grade,
      on plasma cell labeling index (PCLI), and on the expression of vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in the marrow (First Phase).

      III. To study the effect of CC-5013 and dexamethasone on bone marrow mesenchymal progenitor
      cells (MPCs) (First Phase).

      IV. To evaluate in a separate expansion phase the efficacy of aspirin (325 mg/day) versus
      Coumadin (dose adjusted to maintain a target international normalized ratio [INR] of 2-3) in
      preventing deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma receiving
      CC-5013 plus standard dose dexamethasone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and
      standard-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20.

      Arm II: Patients receive lenalidomide as in Arm I and low-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1,
      8, 15, and 22.

      In both arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression. Patients not responding at any point during the first 4 cycles of lenalidomide
      and dexamethasone are assigned to 1 of 2 salvage therapy arms. Patients who progress during
      treatment on Arms I or II have the option to register on salvage therapy Arms III or IV
      respectively.

      Arm III (patients with no response after treatment on Arm I): Patients receive thalidomide PO
      QD on days 1-28 and standard-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20.

      Arm IV (patients with no response after treatment on Arm II): Patients receive thalidomide as
      in Arm III and low-dose dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

      In both salvage therapy arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable
      toxicity or disease progression. After completion of 4 cycles of therapy, patients may
      undergo stem cell harvest (using growth factors only) for cryopreservation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  