
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival rate of patients with newly diagnosed chronic lymphocytic leukemia
           treated with chlorambucil alone vs fludarabine with or without cyclophosphamide.

        -  Compare the response rate and duration of remission in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the impact of the drug response information provided by the DiSC assay on
           response rate and survival in relapsed or nonresponding patients.

        -  Assess the prognostic value of five genetic markers: trisomy 12 and deletions at 11q23,
           13q14, p53, and 6q21 in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients enter one of three treatment arms in the first
      randomization. Depending on response, some patients may also participate in a second
      randomization to one of two treatment arms.

        -  First randomization:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral chlorambucil daily for 7 days. Treatment repeats every
                4 weeks until maximum response or up to 1 year.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive fludarabine IV or orally daily for 5 days. Treatment
                repeats every 4 weeks for 3-8 courses.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and fludarabine IV for 3 days or
                orally daily for 5 days. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3-8 courses.

      Patients who relapse after being in remission for at least 1 year may repeat the initial
      therapy or may participate in a second randomization. Patients who experience progressive
      disease or relapse within 1 year after treatment proceed to a second randomization.

        -  Second randomization:

             -  Arm I: Treatment is guided by the results of the DiSC assay. Treatment may be one
                of the first-line treatments with fludarabine or standard CHOP chemotherapy
                repeated every 4 weeks (cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, vincristine IV, and
                oral prednisolone on days 1-5) or any other therapy guided by the results of the
                DiSC assay.

             -  Arm II: Treatment is physician's choice, which may include any of the options in
                arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed prior to initial therapy; at 3, 6, and 12 months; and then
      annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed annually for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 750 patients will be accrued for this study within 6-7 years.
    
  