
    
      The present study is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm phase III clinical trial to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of NOVOCART® Inject plus in the treatment of patients with
      focal cartilage defects of the knee (medial or lateral femoral condyle or tibial plateau,
      trochlea or patella). The study will include adult patients between 18 and 65 years of age
      and pediatric patients (14 to 17 years) with closed epiphysis.

      A total of 96 patients will be enrolled in the NOVOCART® Inject plus trial at about 20
      clinical study sites in Europe. It is expected that each study site will enroll 3 to 9
      patients.

      The trial will consist of three phases (including screening, treatment and follow-up phase)
      with a maximum duration of 5 years and 4 months.

      The treatment with NOVOCART® Inject plus requires 2 surgeries. During the first surgery
      autologous chondrocytes for transplant production will be harvested arthroscopically, then
      NOVOCART® Inject plus will be transplanted during a second surgery about 3 to 4 weeks later.
      In general, NOVOCART® Inject plus transplantation can be performed arthroscopically. However,
      depending on the defect localization, mini-arthrotomy may be indicated.

      Eligibility will be assessed preoperatively at visit 1 (screening) and (up to a maximum of 3
      months later) intraoperatively during the first arthroscopy (visit 2). During visit 2,
      cartilage biopsy samples will be taken from eligible patients and sent to TETEC AG for
      NOVOCART® Inject plus manufacturing. Transplantation will then be performed during a second
      arthroscopy 3 to 4 weeks later (visit 3).

      All patients will be followed up for 5 years post NOVOCART® Inject plus transplantation with
      assessments at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months as outlined in the schedule of events
      and treatment at the end of this synopsis.

      NOVOCART® Inject plus will be applied in conjunction with a rehabilitation program according
      to the rehabilitation regimen defined in the clinical study protocol.

      The primary and secondary endpoints will be assessed after a follow-up of 24 month post
      NOVOCART® Inject plus transplantation (primary analysis). Long-term data will be assessed
      after an additional 3 years follow-up (follow-up analysis).

      An interim analysis of efficacy and safety data will be performed when 63 patients (66% of
      the planned number of patients) are evaluable for the primary endpoint.
    
  