
    
      Participants are recruited consecutively through referral from provider clinics or through
      self referral to physical therapy in the outpatient rehabilitation clinic at Indiana
      University Health West Hospital in Avon Indiana. After obtaining informed consent and meeting
      study criteria, participants will be randomized into either first receiving atlanto-axial
      joint mobilizations in a bio-mechanically correct or incorrect direction with respect to
      their loss of cervical rotation. Outcome measures will be completed both pre and post
      treatment. The participants will then be given self stretches at home to mimic the same
      intervention performed in the clinic three times per day. The participants will then return
      to the clinic in two or three days to receive the opposite treatment and opposite home
      program. Outcome data will again be collected both pre and post treatment. Participants will
      return for a final visit in two or three days and final outcome data will be collected and
      the participant will be offered continuation of physical therapy if neck symptoms still
      persist.

      Planned Statistical Analysis:

        -  Descriptive statistics of subjects: age, gender, date of onset, Neck Disability Index,
           cervical active range of motion rotation, initial numeric pain rating at rest and
           rotating to the limited side

        -  Repeated measures ANOVA effect sizes for comparing differences between:

             1. Pre and post treatment comparing with-in treatment change for cervical range of
                motion rotation and numeric pain ratings on 1st and 2nd visits. Also comparing post
                treatment in cervical range of motion rotation and numeric pain ratings between 2nd
                and 3rd visits.

             2. Neck disability index change between 1st and 2nd visits and 2nd and 3rd visits

        -  Power calculation (actual achieved power)
    
  