
    
      -  Alcohol consumption represents the second main modifiable risk factor for cancer and the
           second preventable mortality cause in France, after tobacco use. It is mainly during
           adolescence, which corresponds to a period of integration with peers and a period of
           detachment from parents, that alcohol use starts. In France, alcohol remains the
           substance that adolescents most experiment with. A 2014 report shows that nearly half
           (49.4%) of first-year secondary school pupils have already tried an alcoholic drink and
           about one in seven secondary school pupils' reports having been drunk. The impact of
           cannabis consumption is wide as it can affect the social environment, the brain and the
           psychology of the consumers. Adolescence is a period during which the brain undergoes
           profound remodelling in areas that are high in cannabinoid receptors and that mediate
           cognitive control and emotion regulation. Therefore, childhood and adolescence are
           important stages of life on which preventive efforts may be focused, also because events
           occurring in the earliest stages of human development (before birth and during
           childhood) are known to be related to further risk for cancer, other chronic diseases
           and adult conditions.

        -  Among addiction prevention programmes, those that focus on life skills have been
           mentioned in the literature as being effective. In this context, the French organization
           "Association Ressources et Initiatives Addictions" (ARIA) has developed Expériences
           Animées programme (animated experiences) based on the above features, with the aim to
           help adolescents to change their representations and strengthen their life skills. This
           is a grassroots innovation. It has to be evaluated.

        -  The Expériences Animées programme involves supervised short movies and talks with
           secondary and high school pupils about the use of psychoactive substances. The movies
           are made specifically for the programme. The sessions are facilitated by two
           professionals including at least a clinical psychologist. In a given secondary/high
           school, one session per term is delivered for each class (40 classes). Three to five
           films are shown at each session. Each film aims to work on 2 to 3 life skills allowing
           to build protective behaviors against addictions. This programme is implemented since
           2015.

        -  The investigators will collect quantitative and qualitative data to appraise the
           outcomes (O), mechanisms (M) and contextual elements (C), including the interventional
           elements) in order to verify the initial theories (hypothesis of causal pathways) by i)
           Questionnaires to collect outcomes in terms of consumption and health care, and some
           mechanisms: 2/ Non-directive interviews to collect mechanisms and contextual factors 3/
           Observations to collect contextual elements during the sessions. The investigators will
           design the survey instruments in line with the initial middle-range theories identified.
    
  