
    
      3D image reconstruction and printing Magnetic model images data were firstly produced by
      Siemens Trio Tim 3. 0 T MRI. The relative scanning parameters were adjusted as follows: layer
      thickness 0.9mm; pixel pitch 0.625 mm. In general, the thicker the layer thickness and pixel
      pitch, the better resolution and the more similar reconstructed model the investigators will
      get. The MRI data were then imported into Mimics 17.0® [Materialise, Leuven, Belgium] for 3D
      reconstruction of the targeted area. In this software, the investigators can adjust threshold
      value to acclimatize to segment tumor area. After that, 3D models were calculated and output
      as .stl files. According to the requirements of surgical planning, the scope of tumor
      resection was created after 2 cm expansion of the tumor area, that is, the filling scope of
      the implant. Next, the investigators designed the personalized porous degradable scaffold. In
      order to guarantee no significant differences and deformation of the implanted scaffold, the
      investigators used the contour of tumor resection as the boundary of the scaffold, with
      flexible porous structure as the units of the scaffold. Boolean operation can help to achieve
      this target. Finally, the printing of the personalized porous biodegradable scaffold was
      carried out. Biologically active material PCL was selected and the deformation and
      degradation time were set for 2 years by adjusting the molecular weight of PCL.
      Theoretically, PCL with the molecular weight above 65,000 can stably exist for 2 years in
      vivo, and then it will gradually degrade into H2O and CO2.The PCL material was put into the
      3D printer, which was developed by the State key laboratory for mechanical manufacturing
      systems engineering of Xi'an Jiaotong university. The personalized porous biodegradable
      scaffold was completed after printing and removing supports.

      Procedure In this study,the investigators produced the bio-implant at least 10 days before
      surgery. Before surgery, the printed bio-implant has been prepared and obtained full
      sterilization. Simply, under general anaesthesia, lumpectomy and sentinel-lymph-node biopsy
      was performed firstly, followed by 3D-printing scaffold transplantation.
    
  