
    
      Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a malignancy arising from the biliary epithelium characterized by
      poor prognosis and poor response to current treatments. Emerging at any portion of the
      biliary tree, it includes a group of tumours with epidemiologic, morphologic, biologic, and
      clinical heterogeneity. Despite recent medical advances, the long-term outcomes and
      recurrence rates for CCA are poor. The 5-year survival rate following surgical resection is
      11-40%. Tumour recurrence rates are as high as 50-65%, with a median time to recurrence
      between 12-43 months.

      In the United States, the incidence and mortality of CCA have increased over the last 30
      years without clear underlying etiological reasons. The only curative therapy is surgical;
      however this is not an option for many patients given the stage of the disease at
      presentation and metastasis. While improvements in diagnostic modalities and neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy have allowed for detection at earlier stages and greater survival rates, the
      prognosis is still unfavorable. Therapies that can decrease tumour growth, improve resection
      outcomes, increase survival rates, and decrease recurrence would make a great impact on the
      quality of life of CCA patients and are urgently needed.

      Currently, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved agents used in unresectable CCA
      include gemcitabine, capecitabine, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, fluoropyrimidines (including
      5-fluorouracil), or a combination of these. However, none are FDA-approved primarily for use
      in CCA specifically. Gemcitabine and cisplatin combination therapy, along with
      fluoropyrimidine-based or other gemcitabine-based regimens are part of the guidelines for
      unresectable cancer per the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. To date, the most
      effective chemotherapy regimen is administration of gemcitabine with cisplatin or
      oxaliplatin, which have now become the standard of care for systemic therapy. Even this most
      efficacious treatment has been found to only modestly increase overall survival (11.7 months
      vs 8.3 months for patients receiving gemcitabine alone) and progression-free survival (8.4 vs
      6.5 months). Standard treatment as second-line chemotherapy for CCA is unclear as there is no
      significant evidence for specific therapy which indicates that further chemotherapy beyond
      progression on first-line chemotherapy improves survival.

      CCA involves mutations in members of the ErbB family, including EGFR and HER2 mutations. EGFR
      is overexpressed in both intrahepatic and extrahepatic CCA (30.8% and 20.9%, respectively)
      and is an independent prognostic factor in intrahepatic cases, per Yang et al 2014. While
      this study found overexpression of HER2 exclusively in extrahepatic samples (and only in 4.5%
      of these), previous studies have implicated this protein in both extra- and intrahepatic
      tumours. Settakorn et al (2005) showed HER2 expression is correlated with high histological
      grade in intrahepatic CCA. Kim et al. (2007) found HER2 (gene and protein levels) are
      overexpressed in approximately 30% of extrahepatic CCA patients and is a prognostic factor
      for survival in those with lymph node metastasis.

      EGFR, HER2, and HER4 are single-pass transmembrane glycoprotein receptors, members of the
      type I receptor tyrosine kinase family. Upon ligand binding, their activation induces the
      homo- or heterodimerization and subsequent phosphorylation of intracellular tyrosines, which
      lead to both cell proliferation and survival and therefore cancer development and
      progression. EGFR and HER2 inhibitors have both demonstrated clinical efficacy in cancer
      treatment. The simultaneous inhibition of both represents a new therapeutic approach for
      broadly targeting different tumour types that may be more effective than selective inhibition
      of each receptor.

      Varlitinib, also known as ASLAN001 is a potent, orally active inhibitor of the receptor
      tyrosine kinases epidermal growth factor (EGFR) and human epidermal growth factor receptors 2
      and 4 (HER2, HER4). In cell-based assays, varlitinib has been shown to potently inhibit the
      phosphorylation of EGFR, HER2, and HER4 in a dose-dependent manner. In cell lines
      overexpressing HER2, varlitinib also inhibited the phosphorylation of the HER2 downstream
      effector AKT.

      ASLAN hypothesises that varlitinib will inhibit EGFR, HER2, HER4 as their mutations results
      in CCA, thus in turn inhibiting the growth of cancerous cells and development/progression.
      ASLAN believes that varlitinib is a compound that may be beneficial to patients with cancer
      by simultaneous inhibition of these receptors.
    
  