
    
      Acute primary HIV-1 infection (PHI) follows exposure to the HIV-1 virus and results in a
      rapid rise in plasma viremia within days to 1 to 3 weeks. Individuals with acute PHI or early
      HIV-1 infection represent a potentially unique patient population in which to evaluate potent
      antiretroviral therapies because of the degree of viral heterogeneity and the fact that
      immunologic disruption is likely to be lower than in later stages of HIV-1 disease. The
      optimal treatment for acute PHI is unknown. This study evaluates a regimen consisting of
      enteric-coated didanosine (ddI-EC), stavudine (d4T), and the HIV-1 protease inhibitor,
      BMS-232632.

      Patients are enrolled into Group I or Group II and may participate in substudies. Patients in
      Group I receive ddI-EC, d4T, and BMS-232632 daily for 52 weeks. Clinical, virologic, and
      immunologic evaluations are performed on Days 2, 7, 14, 21, and 28, then every 4 weeks
      through Week 24, and then every 8 weeks thereafter through Week 48. Based on laboratory
      results from the Week 48 visit, a decision is made by Week 52 whether or not to continue
      study medications for an additional 52 weeks. Evaluation schedules for those patients
      enrolled in substudies may be different. Group II patients elect not to receive
      antiretroviral treatment and are followed as a natural history disease group to be compared
      with patients in Group I. They are followed according to the same schedule of evaluations as
      those enrolled in Group I, unless otherwise specified as part of their participation in
      substudies. All patients are followed in this study at 8-week intervals for a total duration
      of 104 weeks (2 years). HIV will be measured in plasma and tissues to determine reduction in
      replication for a duration of at least 48 weeks.

      The 3 substudies in which patients may participate are AI-03-006, Lymphoid Tissue Substudy;
      AI-03-007, Immunology Substudy of cytolytic and co-stimulatory markers, T-cell repertoire,
      and cytokine and chemokine elaboration; and AI-03-008, Viral Dynamics and Diversity Substudy.
    
  