
    
      BACKGROUND:

      AI/AN children have overweight rates that are 18 to 30 percent higher than the general
      American population of children. Adult obesity has early antecedents, and data show that
      eating and physical activity behaviors are formed and set as early as 3 years of age, through
      primary socialization within families. Yet there are few, if any, obesity prevention programs
      that target children younger than 3 years of age.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a community-partnered randomized study to prevent early childhood overweight in AI/AN
      children. A birth cohort of about 780 children from six Indian communities born over a period
      18 months will be randomized by community to either a control (3 communities) or intervention
      condition (3 communities). The intervention comprises a community-wide intervention coupled
      with individualized family counseling to improve nutrition and physical activity in infants
      and toddlers. Nutrition goals are to increase breastfeeding initiation and sustainability,
      limit sugared beverages for infants and toddlers, and make healthful choices during weaning
      and solid food introduction. Physical activity goals include promoting motor development,
      limiting video/TV viewing, and creating play opportunities for infants and toddlers.
      Intervention approaches and methods used in the pilot study on which this project is based
      will be combined with new formative data collected at the beginning of the project to enhance
      the intervention's feeding and physical activity components. Each component in the
      community-wide interventions will be collaboratively designed with the tribes, and tailored
      to each community's needs. Trained peer counselors will deliver the family interventions,
      during a series of 12 cluster visits, each covering a different developmental stage of the
      infant/toddler.
    
  