
    
      This study will include 3 dose cohorts using a 3+3 cohort dose escalation design followed by
      a 4th cohort (the dose expansion phase) at the maximum tolerated dose. Unless a dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT), defined any grade 3 or 4 toxicity, is observed requiring expansion of a
      cohort or a subject withdraws, 3 subjects will be enrolled into each cohort in the dose
      escalation phase. Subjects, upon diagnosis with high risk DCIS, will be offered 2 doses of
      pembrolizumab injected intralesionally (IL) 3 weeks apart (+/- 1 week) with surgery 3 weeks
      (+/- 2 weeks) after the 2nd dose. The subject will then undergo the surgical treatment as
      determined by the surgeon and the subject (partial mastectomy or mastectomy). The primary
      objective of this phase of the study will be safety and feasibility of intralesional
      injection of pembrolizumab.

      The maximum tolerated dose will be used in the expansion phase. The expansion cohort will
      have a target enrollment of 30 subjects enrolled to either the control group or the treatment
      group. The treatment group will consist of 20 subjects who agree to receive the treatment.
      The control group will consist of 10 eligible subjects who decline treatment and agree to
      tissue collection and to the use of tissue for research purposes. The control group will
      proceed to surgery alone within a 4 month timeframe following the diagnosis of high risk
      DCIS. The treatment group will receive 4 doses of intralesional pembrolizumab monotherapy 3
      weeks apart (+/- 1 week) prior to surgery (first 5 patients enrolled) but will now receive 2
      doses of intralesional pembrolizumab and intralesional mRNA 2752 3 weeks apart (+/- 1 week)
      prior to surgery. All subjects in the expansion cohort will also undergo a baseline MRI at
      diagnosis and undergo a 2nd MRI prior to surgery. Baseline and pre-surgical MRI images will
      be evaluated for changes in tumor volume.

      Note: The last patient finished the escalation phase on 08/14/2018, and the study is
      currently in the expansion phase.
    
  