
    
      Our previous research has shown that increases in physical activity can improve the health
      and well-being of breast cancer survivors. The current study will determine whether the
      physical activity increases are adequate for improved health by measuring physical activity
      (accelerometer and self-report), muscle strength, fatigue, and sleep. Moreover, few studies
      have examined cytokine changes in cancer survivors after participation in a physical activity
      behavior change intervention with a mechanistic focus on cytokines which may influence the
      muscle strength, fatigue, and sleep response to the intervention.

      Seventy-four female, breast cancer survivors are being recruited within a 50-miles radius of
      Springfield, IL. Participants will be in the study for approximately 5 months. Participants
      will be asked to complete a questionnaire at the beginning of the study and 3 months later. A
      blood sample will be drawn to determine serum cytokine levels.

      Volunteers will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 study groups. The intervention group will
      participate in a 3 month physical activity intervention involving moderate intensity walking
      and strength training with resistance bands.

      This randomized controlled trial includes the following study aims:

      Study aim 1: The intervention group will be compared with the control group to examine the
      change in physical activity, muscle strength, fatigue, and sleep dysfunction before and after
      participation in a physical activity intervention.

      Study aim 2: To investigate mechanisms that may underlie the effects of the physical activity
      intervention on muscle strength, fatigue, and sleep, we will compare the intervention group
      with the control group in terms of changes in cytokine markers of inflammation and evaluate
      whether such changes are consistent with and may mediate changes in muscle strength, fatigue,
      and sleep dysfunction.
    
  