
    
      Background:

        -  Primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma

        -  The outcome for patients with this diagnosis is significantly worse than for that of
           systemic DLBCL.

      Most treatment approaches in the past have included high dose methotrexate and radiation
      treatment.

        -  Most PCNSLs appear to be of activated B-cell (ABC) origin

        -  Ibrutinib is an inhibitor of Bruton s tyrosine kinase (BTK) and effective for systemic
           DLBCL of ABC origin.

        -  We propose doing a study in which ibrutinib is combined with a novel chemotherapy
           platform called temozolomide, etoposide, doxil, dexamethasone, ibrutinib, rituximab
           (TEDDI-R).

      Objective:

        -  To identify the dose of ibrutinib (not to exceed 840 mg per dose) with voriconazole
           anti-fungal prophylaxis that can be safely administered to achieve an ibrutinib median
           CSF CMAX of 1.98 nM (Range 0.69 to 11.1)

        -  Revised in Amendment M: To assess the safety, feasibility, and complete response (CR)
           rate of the TEDDI-R in untreated PCNSL (DLBCL type) patients.

      Eligibility:

        -  Relapsed/refractory PCNSL

        -  Age (Bullet) 18 years.

        -  No pregnant or breast-feeding women.

        -  Adequate organ function (defined in protocol).

      Study Design:

        -  This is a phase 1 study of 52 patients.

        -  The study will have three components.

             -  Phase 1: MTD of ibrutinib will be identified or the dose at which ibrutinib
                achieves a concentration of (Bullet) 100 nM in the CSF, when given in combination
                with TEDDI-R immunochemotherapy, whichever comes first.

             -  Expansion cohort: Safety and tolerability of the regimen in relapsed/refractory
                PCNSL (DLBCL type) will be assessed at the final ibrutinib dose with TEDDI-R in 10
                patients. Secondary objectives will be PFS and OS.

             -  Cohorts Revised Study DesignA, B and C: Effective with Amendment G (version date:
                7/31/2017), 3 new cohorts ibrutinib dose levels (A, B and C) are being added to
                provide together with anti-fungal prophylaxis and to determine the dose of
                ibrutinib that will be given with voriconazole at steady-state concentrationsmay be
                safely given with the chemotherapy platform.

             -  Effective with Amendment M, a second expansion cohort of untreated PCNSL (DLBCL
                type) will be added: Safety, feasibility, and complete response rate of the regimen
                in untreated PCNSL (DLBCL type) will be assessed at the final ibrutinib dose with
                TEDDI-R in 15 patients. Secondary objectives will be PFS and OS.
    
  