
    
      Carcinogenesis is an immensely complex process such that even within a histologic cancer
      subtype - for example adenocarcinoma of the lung or breast - there is significant variability
      in cancer behaviour and response to therapy. Analyses of individual patients demonstrate
      unique molecular signatures for every cancer examined. Frequently, multiple different
      pathways are involved in disease growth and progression and the dominant process varies from
      person to person and perhaps even within different sites of disease within one person. As
      well these variations evolve in response to treatment.

      Recognizing genetic aberrations that promote disease facilitates targeted treatment; this has
      been demonstrated in several small subgroups of cancers in which specific genetic mutations
      or translocations have been successfully treated with targeted chemotherapy agents. With many
      recognized mutations and aberrations, personalized evaluation of the genetic signature
      encoded in DNA and RNA may provide important diagnostic information and potentially enable
      directed therapy to the appropriate oncologic pathway thereby providing information to help
      guide chemotherapy choices

      Our initial pilot project demonstrated the feasibility of this approach at our institution
      (with 100 patients). We now know it is possible to identify and consent patients, sequence
      the genome and transcriptome, analyze and report abnormalities, and identify potential
      actionable targets in a clinically relevant time frame.

      The Personalized OncoGenomics (POG) program has been operational across the province of BC
      since 2012. The initial two-year phase established the infrastructure and workflow by which
      patients with metastatic or incurable cancers could be identified, consented, and biopsied
      for genomic sequencing in a clinically accredited lab (Laskin et al., 2015). The next phase
      of the POG program (2014 - 2017) included a strong educational and engagement process such
      that 83 (80%) of the medical oncologists at BC Cancer were trained to consent and enroll
      patients onto POG. This means that the oncology community in BC has a broad education in
      cancer genomics and how these data may be applied to individual patients. Since 2017, the
      program has been integrated into the Vancouver Cancer Centre's phase 1 clinical trials unit
      and the focus has shifted to use the study patients and data to address more focused clinical
      therapeutic trials such as the CCTG CAPTUR study (Skamene et al., 2018). POG-like WGTA has
      been the driving force behind the creation of the Terry Fox Marathon of Hope Cancer Centre
      Network (MOHCCN) which is a national program for cancer genomic data sharing across Canada.

      The overarching theme of this POG Program is to create a comprehensive cataloguing of somatic
      cancer mutations and cellular pathway abnormalities that could generate profound insights
      into genetic patterns that underlie particular cancer phenotypes, and provide valuable
      prognostic and predictive information.

      Eligible subjects will have several samples analyzed: a fresh tumour biopsy (typically 5
      cores are required), a blood sample for normal comparison and archival tumours when
      available. Also, technology has improved such that we may consider using paraffin embedded
      materials. Comprehensive DNA and RNA sequencing is performed followed by an in-depth
      bioinformatic analysis to identify somatic mutations, gene expression changes or other
      abnormalities that might be cancer "drivers" or provide actionable (diagnostic) or druggable
      targets. The POG team meets every week to discuss the detailed genomic reports for patients,
      consider additional validation tests when necessary, and debate research questions. The
      clinicians (typically 5 - 10) come to a consensus on what systemic therapies might be
      appropriate based on these results. Whenever possible subjects are matched to clinical
      trials.
    
  