
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is a gastrointestinal autoimmune disease thought to result from exposure
      to luminal antigen. This exposure then results in a robust Th1 mediated immune response which
      is not downregulated, resulting in intestinal tissue injury. Crohn's disease most commonly
      involves the distal small intestine, a site that can be difficult to visualize given its
      central location within the gastrointestinal tract.

      A substantial proportion of patients do not respond to any of the standard therapies. Over
      40% of patients do not respond to an initial anti-TNF (biologic) agent and approximately 10%
      per year lose their response to these drugs. There is no standard definition of what
      constitutes a patient who has primary biologic failure.

      Disease activity is measured by indices such as the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI).
      The CDAI includes a combination of clinical criteria and lab values. However, the CDAI is
      limited by reliance on subjective criteria, limiting the score's use as a valid measure of
      studying response to medical therapy. Clinically, reliance on CDAI can result in
      inappropriate continuation of an ineffective therapy resulting in worsening of underlying
      disease, and increasing risk of adverse reactions.

      Small studies have demonstrated that PET scans may accurately quantify disease activity in
      Crohn's. We propose to study CD patients with active flares to assess for a correlation
      between PET activity and CDAI. Additionally, we will determine whether PET signal intensity
      is predictive of clinical response to therapy with biologic agents.

      The study proposes to test the hypothesis that PET can be used to determine which CD patients
      with small bowel disease will be true responders (or nonresponders) to biologic therapy at
      week 12. The use of PET to determine response to biologic therapy in small bowel Crohn's
      disease would be novel.
    
  