
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free survival and overall survival in patients with node-positive or
           high-risk node-negative operable stage II or IIIA breast cancer treated with docetaxel
           or paclitaxel after doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide.

        -  Determine whether the weekly administration of paclitaxel or docetaxel for 12 weeks
           improves disease-free survival and overall survival when compared with the conventional
           schedule of every 3 weeks for 4 courses after doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide in this
           patient population.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of docetaxel and paclitaxel when administered weekly for 12
           weeks versus every 3 weeks for 4 courses in these patients.

        -  Compare the toxicity of paclitaxel administered every 3 weeks for 4 courses or weekly
           for 12 weeks to that of docetaxel administered on the same schedules in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      estrogen receptor status (positive vs negative vs unknown), nodal status (0 positive nodes vs
      1-3 positive nodes vs 4-9 positive nodes vs at least 10 positive nodes), tumor size (no more
      than 5 cm vs more than 5 cm vs unknown), and type of prior surgery (mastectomy vs breast
      conservation surgery). Patients are randomized to one of four treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV every 3 weeks for 4
           courses (weeks 1-12). Beginning at week 13, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours
           every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as in arm I. Beginning at week
           13, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour weekly for 12 weeks.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as in arm I. Beginning at
           week 13, patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as in arm I. Beginning at week
           13, patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour weekly for 12 weeks.

      Within 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients with estrogen and/or progesterone
      receptor positive tumors receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years.

      After completion of all chemotherapy, patients with prior segmental mastectomy receive
      radiotherapy once daily 5 days per week for 5-6 weeks. Patients with prior modified radical
      mastectomy may receive radiotherapy after chemotherapy completion at the investigator's
      discretion.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 5,000 patients will be accrued for this study within 1.27
      years.
    
  