
    
      Background:

      Sex hormones such as estradiol and testosterone modulate human brain structure and function
      and are tightly connected to neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety
      disorders. Using molecular imaging in humans in vivo, the investigators showed strong
      influences of sex hormones on serotonergic neurotransmission via modulation of serotonergic
      receptors and transporters. Although, animal studies also indicate strong modulatory
      influences on serotonin synthesis and degradation, human data on this potential effect are
      absent.

      Objectives of the study:

      The aim of this study is to prove the modulatory influence of sex hormones on serotonergic
      neurotransmission by determining the enzymatic processes involved in serotonin synthesis and
      degradation using positron emission tomography (PET) in humans in vivo with the radiotracers
      [11C]AMT and [11C]harmine.

      Study design:

      Single-blind, longitudinal study. Transsexuals will undergo four PET and two magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) measurements: 1. One [11C]AMT PET, one [11C]harmine PET and one MRI
      measurement before start of treatment, 2. One [11C]AMT PET, one [11C]harmine PET and one MRI
      measurement after 4 months of treatment. The investigators propose an overall study duration
      of 36 months.

      Materials and Methods:

      PET measurements will be performed on a GE Advance PET scanner. To examine the
      interdependence between serotonin activity and brain structure and function, four MRI
      sequences will be performed in order to assess gray matter volume and cortical thickness,
      gray and white matter microstructure, as well as resting state functional connectivity and
      cerebral blood flow. MRI measurements will be done on a 3 Tesla scanner with high spatial and
      temporal resolution.

      Study population:

      20 healthy female-to-male (FtM), 20 healthy male-to-female (MtF) transsexuals (aged 18-50)
      who are free of hormone-medication at baseline; 40 healthy controls, matched for sex, age and
      education level.

      Pilot Study:

      A pilot study without pharmacologic intervention consisting of one optional [11C]AMT PET and
      two [11C]harmine PET will be performed in 12 healthy controls in order to optimise PET
      measurement procedures.

      Relevance and implications of the study:

      This will be the first imaging study to investigate the effects of high-dose, long-term
      opposite-sex steroid hormones on serotonin synthesis and degradation in the living human
      brain using PET. The study will lead to the establishment of a comprehensive theory of
      serotonergic modulation by sex steroids and will increase knowledge on the serotonergic role
      in shaping brain morphology, microstructure and structural/functional connectivity. Results
      will provide essential data for a better understanding of neural sex differences associated
      with differences in hormonal states in humans and will elucidate neurobiological correlates
      of the known gender difference in the prevalence of neuropsychiatric disorders, thus
      contributing to the development of personalized treatment, the reduction of personal
      suffering and the reduction of costs and occupational disability.
    
  