
    
      Participants must be scheduled for a CT scan prior to enrollment in this study. Informed
      consent will be obtained from patients acceptable to be included in the study. It will be
      noted if there is a history of gastrointestinal surgery and if the patient is nauseated
      before the contrast is administered.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either a standardized dilution of Gastroview or
      Omnipaque orally. The two agents will be prepared to have nearly equivalent iodine
      concentration. No flavoring agent (ie Crystal Light) will be added. The plan is to mix the
      agents per manufacturer recommendation as follows:

      Omnipaque 350 26cc in 974 cc of water (9.0g iodine) Gastroview 25cc in 1000cc of water (9.17g
      iodine)

      The time the patients start and stop consuming the contrast as well as the volume taken and
      time from first drink to start of the scan will be recorded by a blinded investigator.
      Patients will be asked to drink 900cc. Technical staff will report any side effects or
      complications observed.

      After completion of the CT scan, patients will fill in a survey rating the taste of the agent
      on a 5 point scale, and will be asked to report any side effects. Planned rating scale is as
      follows:

        -  2=Dislike very much

        -  1=Dislike moderately 0=Neither like nor dislike

             -  1=Like moderately

             -  2=Like very much

      A taste test between the two agents will then be administered by a blinded investigator.
      Patients will be given 30 cc of each agent. The order in which the agents are administered
      will be randomized. Patients will be asked to rate preference, if any, for either agent on a
      3 point scale. Potential bias related to which agent was administered for the CT will
      analyzed from the data.

      Planned rating scale is as follows:

        -  1- A is better 0 -no difference

             -  1- B is better

      Patients will be contacted by telephone the day after the CT to assess for any delayed side
      effects such as diarrhea, constipation, and abdominal cramping experienced in the 24 hours
      following.

      Bowel opacification will be rated by 2 body imagers blinded to the agent the patient
      received. Degree of opacification of the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, and ileum will be rated
      on a 4 point scale. If contrast has reached the colon, ascending, transverse, descending and
      sigmoid will be similarly evaluated. Four point rating scale is as follows:

      0= absent opacification

        1. minimal (<25% of analyzed segments opacified)

        2. good (>25 % and < 75% of analyzed segments opacified)

        3. excellent (> 75% of analyzed segments opacified)

      Description of tests/procedures to be performed. Patients will undergo contrast enhanced
      abdominal pelvis CT as ordered by the referring clinician. Patients will be randomized to
      either dilute Omnipaque or dilute Gastroview for oral contrast. Both agents will be in a
      concentration of 9 mg of iodine/ml, and a volume of 900 cc.
    
  