
    
      "Let's Talk about Sex" was designed to help parents talk to their 10- to 14-year old children
      about sex and relationships. The goal of the program for the parent was to build skills to
      communicate effectively with their children about parental values and about issues relating
      to sexuality, specifically by: a) increasing communication with their child about sexuality;
      b) increasing behavioral intentions to communicate; c) decreasing perceived barriers to
      communicating about sexuality; (d) increasing perceived sense of importance/motivation for
      communicating about sexuality; and e) increasing knowledge about risks of adolescent
      pregnancy and sexually transmitting infections (STIs). The goal of the intervention for the
      child was to increase child-parent communication about sexuality issues.

      Program content was derived from the research literature; focus group findings, and input
      from professional consultants, experts in the field with extensive experience working with
      communication about sexuality. Modifications to content and program format were made based on
      iterative usability testing.

      The parents' program was structured around five sessions, which guided the user through a
      topic-oriented experience of the content. The program used text, video narration, and video
      testimonials to present the intervention material. Emails were sent to users weekly for 8
      weeks, with a link to a recommended session. Users could also browse the content freely as
      desired. Topics for parents included (1) Influencing your child's decisions about sex; (2)
      Understanding your own sexual values and beliefs; (3) Helping your child prepare for
      adolescence; (4) Preventing pregnancy and disease; and (5) Healthy relationships. Parents who
      responded to a values and beliefs quiz within the "Understanding your own sexual values and
      beliefs" section were presented with recommended articles tailored to their responses.

      The child's intervention was structured as one session with four brief topics: (1) a
      whiteboard animation titled "How to talk to your parents about sex and not die of
      embarrassment"; (2) an article about bodily changes related to puberty; (3) a "What's most
      important to me" quiz; and (4) an article about healthy relationships.
    
  