
    
      OBJECTIVE: Obesity and chronic sleep deprivation have both become increasingly pervasive
      medical problems in recent years. The prevalence of adult obesity has doubled over the past
      30 years and continues to increase. In addition, industrial societies attach an economic
      value to maximizing the waking period to the longest tolerable limit by sleeping as little as
      possible. Average sleep time has decreased over the last century by 2 hours. Chronically
      sleeping less has been associated with increased weight, endocrine and metabolic health risks
      including glucose intolerance, cardiovascular disease, and mortality. The possibility that
      the current epidemic of obesity and metabolic health risks may be partially related to
      insufficient sleep is now being recognized. The objective of this proof-of-concept controlled
      trial is to investigate the impact of increasing sleep time in chronically sleep-deprived,
      obese subjects.

      STUDY POPULATION: 18-50 year old, obese (BMI 29-55) men and premenopausal women, chronically
      sleep deprived, recruited from the Baltimore-Washington metropolitan area. Chronic sleep
      deprivation will be verified by the use of sleep logs and the use of actigraphy before entry
      into the study. Secondary causes of sleep deprivation such as insomnia, psychological
      (depression), and medical conditions associated with poor sleep quality (including
      obstructive sleep apnea) will be exclusionary criteria.

      DESIGN: This is a randomized, 12-month duration, comparison-controlled clinical trial of an
      extension of sleep up to approximately 7 hours and 30 minutes (Intervention Group) or
      continuation of habitual short sleep schedule (Comparison Group). The proposed treatment is
      an educational and behavioral intervention aimed at increasing sleep in a non-pharmacological
      fashion. The main analysis of the study will be to determine if additional sleep will result
      in a significant difference in body weight at the end of 12 months between the Intervention
      Group and the Comparison Group. In addition, we would like to establish whether 12 months of
      additional sleep will result in: a) a decreased prevalence of metabolic syndrome; and b)
      changes in the endocrine profile (i.e. inducing changes in leptin [increase] and ghrelin
      [decrease] opposite to the changes associated with chronic sleep deprivation). At the end of
      the 12-month intervention study (Phase 1, Efficacy [Randomized Phase] Study), all
      participants will be given information about the potential benefit of more sleep and
      encouraged to increase sleep time. Health teaching about proper nutrition and adequate
      exercise will also be provided at that time to the Intervention and Comparison Groups. All
      participants will be evaluated 6 months later to assess the effects of this intervention in a
      real-life situation, and offered participation in a three-year extension with semi-annual
      visits (Phase 2, Effectiveness [3 Year Follow-Up Phase] Study), for which matched external
      comparison subjects will also be recruited ad hoc.

      OUTCOME PARAMETERS: body weight, average number of hours of sleep/night, fasting glucose and
      insulin, oral glucose tolerance test, leptin, ghrelin, adiponectin, other relevant endocrine
      and anthropometric measures, body composition, various metabolic parameters, food intake,
      energy expenditure, and quality of life measures.

      The study was terminated early for reasons of apparent futility of continuing accrual of
      participants according to the original study plan. The decision was based on independent
      analysis of data acquired during the initial feasibility phase and from interim analysis of
      early results that failed to document objectively the achievement of substantive and
      meaningful differences between experimental and control groups with respect to amounts of
      sleep extension, changes in metabolic parameters, or changes in weight. Feasibilities of
      achieving objective and substantive differences in these parameters were integral to the
      methodology of the original study plan and required to meet the statistical power
      calculations for the controlled trial.
    
  