
    
      Comparison of O2 administration using bronchoscope versus nasal cannulae in normal
      volunteers.

      This study will compare partial pressure of oxygen measured in capillary blood (PcO2) at
      various O2 flow from 0 to 2 and 4 l/min administered using nasal cannulae or bronchoscope.
      During bronchoscopy, oxygen will be administered throughout the aspirating channel of the
      scope which extremity will be positioned at mid-tracheal level. After local anesthesia of the
      airways using lignocaine spray 10% and solution 1%, the bronchoscope will be introduced in
      seated position using a mouthpiece and placed at mid-tracheal level. Arterial O2-pressure
      sampled at the earlobe will be measured after incremental O2-supplementation from 0 to 2 and
      then 4 l/min using a nasal cannula or the aspirating channel of the bronchoscope. At each
      flow rate, capillary O2-pressure will be measured after 2 minutes. Between each condition of
      O2-supplementation there will be a pause of 5 minutes of room air breathing. The order of
      O2-supplementation condition will be selected at random. The whole bronchoscopic procedure
      should then last about 15 minutes. Additional doses of lignocaine 1% will be instilled in the
      trachea as requested and O2 saturation and heart rhythm will be monitored continuously during
      the procedure. Since the subjects are probably able to perceive additional flows in the nose
      and/or trachea and this may affect the pattern of breathing and the results, air at similar
      flow rate will be added in the nasal cannulae when O2 is administered using the bronchoscope
      channel and vice versa such that the subject will be blinded to the way O2 is administered.

      This study should allow to demonstrate higher values of capillary O2-pressure during
      bronchoscopic administration of O2 than when using nasal cannulae. As shown by a recent
      meta-analysis, partial pressure of O2 measured in capillary blood from the arterialized
      earlobe (PcO2) is lower than the arterial value but this factor is not important in the
      present study since it will concentrate on differences in PO2 between the two conditions at
      similar O2 flow rates that are not affected by this limitation.
    
  