
    
      Septic pathology is an extremely frequent reason for consultation in our emergency services,
      with an annual incidence of severe forms between 50 to 95 cases per 100,000 inhabitants and a
      constant increase estimated at 9% per year. Diagnosing these patients early and precisely is
      a major challenge for the clinician, as this diagnosis will lead to more or less aggressive
      medical management with direct repercussions on the patient's morbidity and mortality.

      The latest publications of March 2017 have completely changed the definition of the septic
      patient, in particular by eliminating the concept of "severe sepsis". Today the patient can
      be classified as either an "infected" or "sepsis" patient when there is associated organ
      failure, or as "septic shock" when it is necessary to use a cathecholaminergic support to
      maintain a sufficient blood pressure. There is a real nosological continuum between these
      three diagnostic entities and each of them is tainted by a growing intra-hospital mortality.
      One in ten patients will progress from infection to sepsis during their hospitalization and
      3% of sepsis will progress to septic shock, making it easy to understand the value of
      screening these patients quickly in order to stop the progression of the infection. The
      triage of these patients, as soon as they arrive in an emergency service is therefore
      essential.

      The criteria of S.I.R.S, used to define and to sort patients in sepsis according to the old
      definition, were completely abandoned in the last recommendations for lack of specificity but
      also of sensitivity. Indeed, a large number of non-septic patients presenting to the
      emergency department, has at least two SIRS criteria from the initial phase of their care,
      making it difficult to use this score as a reliable diagnostic tool.

      The latest recommendations suggest using another score, the "Quick Sepsis Related Organ
      Failure Assesment (qSOFA) score", in order to early detect septic patients at risk of poor
      progress. This score is easily usable because it takes into account only three criteria that
      are: (i) the respiratory rate ≥ 22 / min, (ii) the systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg, (iii)
      and the level of vigilance of the patient to evaluate by the Glasgow score <15. Each
      criterion is weighted by 1 point if it is present. A score of qSOFA ≥2 is considered
      positive, and in this case the patient must be managed quickly with optimization of its
      volemia and implementation of a suitable antibiotic treatment within one hour.

      However, the recent literature highlights a very low sensitivity of the qSOFA score for the
      screening of septic patients, ranging from 30 to 60% according to the studies. Such
      sensitivity values seem insufficient to properly screen septic patients in an emergency
      department. Some authors even report similar AUCs for qSOFA and SIRS at 0.72 and 0.73,
      respectively, to screen for the severe septic patient, concluding that the decision to
      abandon SIRS for qSOFA may be a little premature.

      In addition to qSOFA, other scores are described in the literature with apparently higher
      sensitivity, and thus seem more suitable for our daily practice. Among them is the NEWS score
      or the RETTS score.

      Each of these scores is again based upon the values of vital signs recorded as soon as the
      patient arrives in the emergency department, such as the respiratory rate, the heart rate,
      the oxygen saturation, the temperature, the blood pressure or the level of patient's
      vigilance.

      A prospective cohort study of 1535 patients in emergency departments have compared the RETTS
      score to the qSOFA score showing a much better sensitivity of the RETTS score with a value of
      85% against only 32% for qSOFA, for the screening of patients with severe sepsis according to
      the "SEPSIS-2" definition.

      A recent study published in April 2017, compared qSOFA, SIRS, and NEWS to predict mortality
      or hospitalizations into intensive care units for septic patients in emergencies. Once again
      the qSOFA score showed a low sensitivity at 54% versus 67% for a NEWS score ≥ 8.

      To date, several studies have compared the prognostic contribution of these different scores
      and their ability to predict mortality or even hospitalization in intensive care units, but
      very few studies have been interested, in a prospective way, in the sensitivity and the
      specificity of these different scores to diagnose the "infected" patients in the emergency
      departments. Whereas this first step seems essential in order to implement the most
      appropriate therapeutic strategy, today, if we stick to the recommendations, the diagnosis of
      the infected patient is based solely on the physician clinical feeling.

      Therefore it seemed interesting to carry out a prospective, multicenter cohort study, in
      order to be able to compare, on the same cohort of patients admitted into emergency services,
      the diagnostic performance of these different scores (qSOFA, SIRS, NEWS, and RETTS ) with
      respect to the presence or absence of an infection.
    
  