
    
      It has been estimated that 4 to 5 million men in the United States are testosterone
      deficient, but fewer than 10% currently receive testosterone replacement therapy. There are
      many reasons for the low number of men receiving testosterone replacement therapy, one of
      which is the route of administration. The currently approved androgen therapies are oral
      products, injectables, patches, buccal systems, and gels, and each has disadvantages. Oral
      preparations may be associated with hepatotoxicity and produce unfavorable effects on serum
      lipid profiles and carbohydrate metabolism. Injectables are associated with uneven levels of
      serum testosterone leading to fluctuations in mood, libido, and energy levels. Patches may
      require intrusive preparation, cause skin irritation or not adhere properly. A testosterone
      gel has overcome some of the above problems and has gained acceptance, but there are
      indications that men do not apply the gel correctly.

      Previous studies showed that Androxal significantly increases total testosterone levels in
      men with low values at baseline. Additional studies found not only was Androxal non inferior
      to a topical gel, it was found to maintain sperm counts in the normal range.

      Subjects will be randomized into one of the two treatment arms, using a block size of 4. The
      order in which the treatments are assigned in each block is randomized and this process is
      repeated for consecutive blocks of subjects until all subjects are randomized. This process
      ensures that after every fourth randomized subject, the number of subjects in each treatment
      group is equal.

      To allow subjects in screening once the target 50 subjects have been enrolled and to account
      for dropouts, 75 randomization codes will be generated. As subjects are enrolled in the
      study, they will be assigned unique consecutive numbers starting at 001. At least 50 subjects
      who meet all the entry criteria will be randomized 1:1 such that approximately 25 subjects
      are assigned to the Androxal treatment arm and approximately 25 subjects are assigned to the
      placebo arm.

      Placebo controlled studies are the gold standard of clinical trials and should be attempted
      whenever the indication and current medical practice will allow. This study is investigating
      a product to increase sperm concentration in subjects with idiopathic male infertility and
      secondary hypogonadism, low testosterone. Subjects with idiopathic male infertility do not
      require treatment to be healthy and approximately 18 weeks on a placebo is unlikely to harm
      the subjects in any way. Standard of care for idiopathic male infertility today allows
      subjects and physicians the option to not medically treat the disease. Therefore, the use of
      a placebo control in this study is well justified and will provide the best mechanism to
      assess treatment effect.
    
  