
    
      Restoration of circulation is undoubtedly the base of success in cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (CPR). Current guidelines on CPR require that hyperventilation be avoided
      during CPR. Blood gas analysis results from the "BABICA trial" demonstrate that more than 90%
      of patients have highly elevated levels of pCO2 and are acidotic, mainly due to hypercapnia.
      No hyperventilated or alkalotic patients were found during CPR. Furthermore, higher pO2
      values were found to be associated with improved outcomes. Current recommendations to limit
      ventilation frequency to 10/min was also critically questioned in a recent study from
      Belgium, which did not show any positive effect of low respiration rate compared to higher
      ones, cut-off 10/min. There are currently no clinical trials addressing optimal tidal volumes
      or minute volumes during CPR.

      A major obstacle to continuous measurement of respiratory minute volumes during CPR is
      ongoing cardiac massage. In a retrospective study in which respiratory volumes were derived
      from bioimpedance curves, better outcomes were found in the group of more frequent
      ventilations. Common machine ventilators display set values, while expiratory volumes are
      averaged and may be overlaid by volume shifts of cardiac massage. In a recent study,
      investigators analyzed flow curves, where each breath can be evaluated individually and
      volumes can be derived correctly using dedicated software. We were able to test this method
      on a comparative study of three ventilators study on anatomical cadavers.

      This study aims to detect whether a higher rate of ventilation using a turbine driven
      ventilator is able to provide higher breathing volumes during ongoing chest compressions in
      individuals suffering from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). Higher ventilation and
      oxygenation parameters as well as optimized acid-base-balance and increased rates of ROSC are
      expected.

      Patient care (chest compressions, venous access, endotracheal intubation, application of
      drugs, defibrillation if necessary) is conducted according to current recommendation for
      Advanced Life Support (ALS) as issued by the European Resuscitation Council (ERC).
      Ventilation is performed at one of two patterns: the control group is ventilated at 10
      breaths per minute, the intervention group is ventilated at 20 breaths per minute. Patterns
      are selected randomly by opening a sealed envelope which is fixed on the ventilator. After
      successful endotracheal intubation mechanical ventilation is carried out using a
      turbine-driven ventilator (Monnal T60, AirLiquide, France). Ventilator settings are pre-set:
      respiratory frequency is set at 10/min or 20/min (see above), other ventilator parameters
      remain identical: Positive End-Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) 5 mmHg, FiO2 1,0, tidal volume
      6ml/kg ideal body weight [men: 50+(0.91x(body length-152.4)), women: 45+(0.91y(body
      length-152.4))]. These calculations can be performed on the ventilator itself by entering
      patients' age, height and gender. Chest compressions are carried out without interruptions
      and without considerations regarding the respiratory cycle. After initiation of ventilation
      arterial cannulization and arterial blood gas analysis - if possible- is performed after 5
      and 10 minutes of CPR. If these analyses yield critically abnormal results (pCO2<35mmHg or
      >75mmHg) changes in ventilation may be made by the prehospital care physician. Study
      measurements end after disconnecting the ventilator.
    
  