
    
      This is a comparative, prospective, non randomized, controled, mono-centric study.

      Eligible patients: patients planned to undergo an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or a
      rectosigmoidoscopy with biopsy in the digestive endoscopy unit of Hôpital Ambroise Paré. For
      patients accept participating to the study and sign the informed consent, they will be
      enrolled in the study and the recorded imaging of stomach or rectum will be obtained.

      Patient management will not be modified in this study as compared to usual endoscopy
      procedure. Multispectral endoscopy will only prolong the examination 1 minute in order to
      obtain the imaging. The study consists of video records of endoscopy with white light and the
      reflected light projected by the fibre introduced 60 seconds in examined channel. This
      reflected light will be redirected to a multispectral camera.

      The endoscopy examinations will be performed in gastric antrum and cardia when theses sites
      present abnormal position or contour. The biopsies samples of gastric mucosa will be
      performed in the antrum or the cardia according to the Guideline of the Société Française
      d'Endoscopie Digestive.

      6 groups of patients will be constituted (included 2 groups of control) as described below
      and compared posteriorly:

        -  The control group of rectum: 20 patients with negative result of endoscopy examination
           (-) and negative result of anatomopathological analysis (-);

        -  The group of 20 patients with positive result of endoscopy examination (+) and positive
           result of anatomopathological analysis (+) in rectum;

        -  The group of 20 patients with negative result of endoscopy examination (-) and positive
           result of anatomopathological analysis (+) in rectum;

        -  The control group of stomach: 60 patients with negative result of endoscopy examination
           (-) and negative result in anatomopathological analysis (-);

        -  The group of 45 patients with positive result of endoscopy examination (+) and positive
           result of anatomopathological analysis (+) in stomach;

        -  The group of 30 patients with negative result of endoscopy examination (-) and positive
           result of anatomopathological analysis (+) in stomach.
    
  