
    
      It is known that the glucose metabolic pathway (glycolysis) is the primary fuel generator in
      the brain and nerve tissue, the heart and vascular tissue, the eye, the kidney and the liver
      Deficient metabolic states such as seen in the glucose metabolism of diabetics can lead to
      sequelae. These damaging effects are exacerbated by altered cellular metabolites,
      specifically the increase in catabolic and decrease in anabolic factors. It has been shown
      over the past twenty years that normalization of metabolism in diabetic patients can be
      accomplished by mimicking the normal endogenous insulin pattern (ie., in pulses). Pulsatile
      insulin infusion has been demonstrated to reverse the diabetic metabolic state from primary
      fat utilization to carbohydrate utilization. This has been correlated with a stabilization of
      kidney function in patients with overt diabetic nephropathy, stabilization of blood glucoses,
      stabilization of blood pressure patterns, and reversal of hypoglycemic unawareness.

      In patients with cognitive disorders (Alzheimer's type), infusion of intravenous insulin over
      a short interval (hours) improves cognitive function. Patients with this type of disorder
      have fewer insulin receptors in the affected areas of brain and insulin resistance by
      measurement of insulin and glucose levels in spinal fluid. This study is designed to study
      the effects of Pulsatile insulin on patients with diabetes mellitus and impaired cognitive
      function.

      Diabetic individuals without other primary causes of cognitive impairment (brain tumor,
      previous neurosurgery, medications impairing memory) and able to swallow without difficulty
      will undergo pulsatile insulin treatments weekly over a period of 6-12 months with renewals
      for successive six month periods. Serial cognitive studies using Mindstream testing, Wechsler
      Memory Scale II and other localizing cognitive function tests will be done before the start
      of of treatment and every 3 months thereafter.This study began in 2002 and is continuing.

      The respiratory quotient (RQ) is a measurement of CO2 exhaled and O2 inhaled and is
      proportionate to the fuel sources being used by the body, primarily the liver over short
      periods of time. The higher the RQ, the more glucose and less alternative fuel sources are
      being utilized. Following the RQ change helps determine the effectiveness of physiological
      insulin administration in increasing anabolic functions in diabetic individuals. By improving
      the body's glucose metabolism and thereby causing beneficial effects of anabolic factors, the
      possibility of serious complications can be decreased. In addition the use of oral
      carbohydrate at the same time along with the physiologic insulin administration stimulates
      the appropriate gut hormones which augment this effect, a response which cannot be duplicated
      with intravenous glucose. The purpose of our studies is to induce the physiologic
      administration of insulin along with the augmenting effect of oral carbohydrates, and by
      returning the normal fuel and organ metabolism as noted by RQ changes, evaluate its
      effectiveness in altering the deleterious effects on bodily functions in diabetic
      individuals.

      The RQ is determined by the use of a metabolic cart. Individuals breathe into a mask for 3-5
      minutes after a rest period of 30 or more minutes. The ratio of exhaled volume of CO2 to the
      inhaled volume of O2 is determined as the RQ. The physiologic range is 0.7 to1.3. Individuals
      using fat as a primary fuel have a ratio of 0.7, protein or mixed fuels is 0.8-0.9 and
      carbohydrate is 0.9-1.0. Those taking excessive calories will have RQ's higher than 1.05. The
      RQ can be followed serially and this is before and after each treatment. Three treatments are
      given during each visit to the center. The amount of intravenous insulin and oral glucose
      given is determined by the RQ changes during the previous treatment.

      The treatment encourages the glucose metabolism in diabetics to normalize in multiple organs,
      especially muscle, retina, liver, kidney and nerve endings. The process fundamentally
      requires the administration of high dose insulin pulses similar to those found in non
      diabetic humans by their pancreas into the surrounding portal circulation. Oral carbohydrates
      are given simultaneously to augment the process and prevent hypoglycemia. The process is
      monitored by frequent glucose levels and respiratory quotients (RQ). RQ is measured by a
      metabolic cart which determines the ratio VCO2/ VO2. This ratio is specific for the fuel used
      at any one time by the body. The glucose levels are monitored to keep glucose levels
      appropriate and the RQ determines the need to readjust the infusion protocol in each patient
      for subsequent insulin infusion sessions.
    
  