
    
      Aim 1 - Pilot: To identify the contextual factors, facilitators and barriers that may impact
      the implementation of a lifestyle intervention program for adults in Harlem, using
      qualitative research methods: 1) focus group discussions among a representative cohort of
      adults; 2) focus group discussions among community leaders; and 3) Pilot studies of
      feasibility of interventions in the representative cohort of adults.

      Subsidiary Aim 1.1: To use identified facilitators and barriers to develop a contextually and
      culturally appropriate model for an adult lifestyle intervention program.

      Subsidiary Aim 1.2: To implement a pilot intervention of the contextually and culturally
      adapted program among a sample of parents/caregivers of children in preschools in Harlem.

      The investigators will assess for acceptability and feasibility, and make any necessary
      modifications prior to the implementation of the cluster-randomized trial. This aim will be
      carried out at 2 preschools in Harlem, NY by including the parents and caregivers of
      pre-school children. The final intervention program that results from this
      intervention-mapping program will be piloted in parent groups of 8-10.

      Aim 2 - Randomization: To determine (i) the impact of two intensive lifestyle interventions
      on promoting and improving healthy behaviors (increased physical activity, smoking cessation
      etc.) and biological parameters (lipids, sugar) to lower cardiovascular risk, (ii) the impact
      of the presence of atherosclerosis on health behaviors and (iii) the impact of the lifestyle
      interventions on atherosclerosis among approximately 600 asymptomatic at-risk adults.

      Hypothesis: Adults receiving the lifestyle intervention programs will demonstrate a greater
      improvement in healthy behaviors and biological parameters compared to controls.

      Hypothesis: Knowledge of presence of atherosclerosis as defined by three-dimensional vascular
      ultrasound will lead to greater improvement in healthy behaviors.

      Hypothesis: Adults receiving the lifestyle intervention programs will demonstrate a lesser
      progression or regression of three-dimensional vascular ultrasound quantified atherosclerosis
      compared to controls.

      For this aim, the investigators will recruit parents and caregivers of pre-school children
      from up to twenty schools in Harlem, NY and perform a 3:2 (3 intervention, 2 control) cluster
      randomization of the schools. Those schools in the "intensive intervention" group will be
      randomly assigned to one of two interventions- an Intensive Individual Intervention Program"
      (IIIP) developed through the intervention mapping program described in aim 1 or 'Peer-To-Peer
      Program - Intervention" (PPPI), refined during that same pilot phase. The primary outcome
      will be a composite score consisting of a 0-3 scale for behaviors/outcomes related to Blood
      pressure, Exercise, Weight, Alimentation (diet) and Tobacco (smoking) [Fuster-BEWAT score].
      Primary assessments will be performed at baseline, at the end of the intervention
      (approximately 12 months, peak effect), and at approximately 24 months (sustainability). The
      12 month assessment will be used to calculate the between group difference for the change in
      the Fuster-BEWAT score and will be the primary outcome measure for the adults. To evaluate
      the sustainability of the impact of the two intensive lifestyle interventions on healthy
      behaviors and biological parameters 12 months after the intervention program ends. For the
      assessment of secondary outcome measures, participants will undergo point of care testing for
      a lipid panel and blood sugar assessment, and a three-dimensional vascular ultrasound
      (carotid, ileo-femoral) to assess for presence and extent of atherosclerosis at baseline and
      after the intervention period.

      Blood will be collected from all adults who provide consent at enrollment and at the end of
      the intervention period. Blood from adults will be used to isolate DNA and plasma. In
      addition, by in vitro culture of blood-derived mononuclear cells, we will derive macrophages,
      which will then be driven to become foam cells. RNA will be isolated from pre- and
      post-intervention blood samples. Genomic data obtained from adult blood samples will be
      integrated with data obtained from saliva in children to identify network models and
      predictors of primary prevention outcomes. Also, RNA data will be integrated to identify the
      genetic, genomic and molecular signature of favorable vs. poor responders to lifestyle
      intervention; and to identify novel therapeutic and diagnostic targets in network models of
      early atherothrombotic disease.

      Aim 3 - Sustainability: To evaluate the sustainability of the impact of the two intensive
      lifestyle interventions on healthy behaviors and biological parameters approximately 12
      months after the intervention program ends.

      Hypothesis: Adult caregivers receiving the intensive lifestyle approaches program, will
      maintain sustainability with an advantage of the two "Intensive Interventional groups" over
      the control "Traditional Health Education" group. All participants will be followed for
      approximately 12 months after the end of the intervention period and reassess their
      Fuster-BEWAT Score.
    
  