
    
      Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is a disorder of retinal vascular development of the low
      birthweight preterm infant that may lead to blindness if untreated. The long term visual
      acuity of infants with ROP detected by screening examination can be improved by peripheral
      retinal ablation therapy or injection of anti-VEGF agents.

      The screening examination for retinopathy of prematurity involves dilation with mydriatic eye
      drops, insertion of a lid speculum to retract the eyelids, and depression of the sclera to
      visualize the retina. These exams are routinely performed in Neonatal Intensive Care Units
      (NICUs) to facilitate early detection of ROP and guide treatment to prevent retinal
      detachment and blindness. However, infants undergoing this examination have shown elevations
      in heart rate, blood pressure, and desaturations at the time of the examination, and in the
      hours following. The frequency of apneic events experienced by these infants is increased in
      the 24-48 hour period after an examination.

      Several studies have looked at the pain response to mydriatic drops and speculum insertion as
      well as the systemic effects of the mydriatic drops. However, the cause of apneic events in
      the later post-examination period is unknown. The investigators postulate that
      photosensitivity related to mydriasis is distressing for infants in the period before and
      after the ROP exam, potentially contributing to stressful events, including apnea.

      The investigators propose to test this hypothesis by conducting a dual-centre, prospective
      parallel group trial with balanced randomization (1:1), applying a phototherapy mask
      (Biliband, Natus, Pleasanton, California, USA) to cover the eyes of the infant after the
      instillation of mydriatic drops, leaving the mask on for 4 hours, the typical duration of
      mydriasis following a drop of cyclopentolate. The investigators expect that this intervention
      will result in a significant reduction in the number of stressful events following an
      examination, and may reduce the amount of distress experienced by infants. Infants requiring
      ROP screening will be automatically identified as part of routine hospital protocols.
      Participants will be recruited from the NICUs at St. Michael's Hospital and Sunnybrook Health
      Sciences Hospital in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

      The investigators predict that infants that have had their eyes shielded from environmental
      light while dilated are less likely to experience distressful events in the 12 hour period
      following ROP screening. If this study shows decreased rates of distress using this therapy,
      it would be a very simple addition to current practice and be of benefit for premature
      infants undergoing an uncomfortable exam.
    
  