
    
      In a close interplay of sensory and motor functions, the brain constantly evaluates intrinsic
      and extrinsic movements, creating an inner - always subjective - representation of the
      stability. If there is an acute or chronic imbalance ("mismatch"), a multisensory
      misperception can occur. This is perceived subjectively as dizziness. Dizziness is the third
      most common neurological cause of an emergency with 11-13% after headache and stroke.

      The central vestibular system is often involved in dizziness. The organ is part of the inner
      ear and is located in the petrous bone. It consist of macula organs, which are responsible
      for the detection of linear accelerations, and semicircular canals, which perceive the head
      velocity. Furthermore, the central vestibular system provides ocular muscles and the spinal
      cord with output, in order to control three reflexes. The vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) is
      responsible for a clear vision while the head is rotating, whereas the vestibulo-collic
      reflex (VCR) innervates the neck musculature in order to fix the head. The purpose of the
      vestibulo-spinal reflex (VSR) is the stabilization of the body by compensatory movements. In
      terms of restoring vestibular functioning, compensation can be classified into adaptation,
      substitution and habituation. Adaptation enhances the VOR, which is equivalent to
      restoration. Substitution is distinguished in literature between sensory and behavioral, in
      which the sensorial substitution transfers the importance given to proprioceptive and visual
      inputs and the behavioral substitution refers to avoidance strategies e.g. immobilization,
      increased blink reflex and prevention of head rotations. Habituation on the other hand,
      accustoms the affected person to a conflicting situation, in order that the response of the
      VOR is avoided.

      So far, it is known that previous conventional vestibular rehabilitation is effective for
      age-related vestibular loss. By improving vestibular function, the vestibular rehabilitation
      therapy aims to improve balance and neuromuscular coordination, minimize falls and decrease
      the feeling of dizziness.

      However, new advances in technology have been made which generate additional methods for an
      effective therapy; exercise and videogaming, in short, exergaming. Successful use of virtual
      reality in rehabilitation of vestibular patients has previously been implemented. Further,
      recent evidence has examined the effects of exergaming in healthy dwellers on vestibular
      function. There was a significant reduction found in the dynamic visual acuity (DVA) after an
      eight-session exergame training (in total 160 minutes).

      To date, the effects on vestibulo-ocular reflex of exergames in patients with chronic
      peripheral vestibular hypofunction have not been systematically explored. Moreover, very
      little is known about the effects of exergaming includes exercises requiring head turns on
      vestibular function in this patients. Furthermore, exergaming could become a new tool to
      improve DVA and dizziness and increase the training intensity without requiring many
      therapists, which in turn reduces health costs. In addition, patients with dizziness are
      severely affected by their disease. They will welcome new, efficient and motivating forms of
      therapy.Finally, the main aim is to assess the effects of virtual reality-based intervention
      with dividat "senso" on vestibular functions in patients with chronic peripheral unilateral
      vestibular hypofunction.
    
  