
    
      Currently, the most important outcome variables in Acute Pancreatitis (AP) are persistent
      organ failure (POF) and mortality, according to the physician point of view. These variables
      occur infrequently (<10 and <5% respectively) (Sternby et all, see "References"), therefore,
      studies designed to assess the effectiveness of new treatments for AP to decrease POF or
      mortality require a very large sample of patients, which is unfeasible. Currently, clinical
      trials addressing the management of AP do not take into account Patient Reported Outcome
      Measures.

      PROMS (Patient Reported Outcome Measures) have been defined as any report of the status of a
      patient's health condition that comes directly from the patient, without interpretation of
      the patient's response by a clinician or anyone else (first link in "References"). PROMS are
      gaining importance as a tool to design outcome variables. This kind of measurement has been
      recently included in the quality assesment approaches (Crossing the Quality Chasm: A New
      Health System for the 21st Century, see "References"), being PROMS a useful tool to improve
      the triple aim framework of better quality, appropriate utilization, and enhanced patient
      experience (second link in "References"). The aim of PAN-PROMISE is to incorporate an outcome
      variable in AP based in the patient´s experience. For this purpose the investigators involved
      in this project have developed a new instrument based on symptoms found to be important for
      the patient. This new instrument is intended to be a simple quantitative variable, relevant
      for the patient, that can be useful to test new treatments for AP without the need for a very
      large sample size, fulfilling the requirements of the triple aim framework by incorporating
      an outcome measurement defined by the patient.

      Hypothesis:

        -  PROMS must be incorporated to patient care and research in AP to improve the triple aim
           framework of better quality, appropriate utilization, and enhanced patient experience

        -  A PROMS scale is a useful outcome variable to investigate new treatments in AP

        -  The different severity categories of the revision of the Atlanta Classification (RAC)
           have different scores on the PROMS scale in acute pancreatitis: severe greater than
           moderate and mild, moderate greater than mild.

        -  Increasing scores on the PROMS scale are associated to increased morbidity

      Aims:

        -  Main aim 1: to measure patient´s symptoms during an episode of AP and to correlate the
           intensity of these symptoms to clinical outcomes

        -  Main aim 2: to design and validate a PROMS scale in AP intended to be an suitable
           outcome variable in future trials addressing the management of AP

      Methods

      Part 1: development of the PAN-PROMISE instrument The PAN-PROMISE research team developed a
      qualitative study in which three nominal groups were conducted, two with patients who had
      suffered an acute pancreatitis (AP) in hospitals in Alicante (Universitarian General
      Hospital)), and Valencia (Clinic Hospital), Spain and another with clinicians from the
      Alicante region with experience in treating patients with AP. Participants were asked about
      the symptoms that cause the most discomfort and concern to patients at three specific times:
      before receiving treatment for AP, during hospital admission and after discharge. The
      perspectives of patients and professionals were compared. From the information gathered in
      the nominal groups, a first version of a PROMS questionnaire was elaborated and shared with
      an international group of gastroenterologists, experienced in the management of pancreatitis,
      from 4 countries (Germany, Spain, USA, India and Turkey) through an online application to
      determine to what extent these experiences were shared in frequency and intensity by patients
      in these different countries. With all this information, a PROMS instrument was generated.

      Part 2: measurement of patient´s symptoms in an international cohort study

      2.1 Design. The PAN-PROMISE instrument is being measured in patients participating in a
      multicenter international prospective cohort study. Consecutive adult patients with AP are
      eligible after signed informed consent.

      2.2 Center recruitment The PAN-PROMISE study has been endorsed by the Spanish Association of
      Pancreatology (AESPANC), the Spanish Association of Gastroenterology (AEG) and the
      International Association of Pancreatology (IAP); these associations shared the project with
      their members and through their social networks, calling for researchers and centers to join
      this initiative. PAN-PROMISE has also a webpage www.promisepancreatitis.com to promote center
      recruitment.

      2.3 Patient registry PAN-PROMISE measurement will rely on a patient registry hosted in the
      Spanish Association of Gastroenterology (AEG) REDCap node. AEG offered this REDCap web-based
      online patient registry tool at no cost. Claudia Sánchez-Marin, a gastroenterologist, is on
      charge of quality control (data validation, data checks, contact with researchers to solve
      issues). The REDCap online registry was designed with logical rules to ensure good quality
      data entry, including mandatory fields to enter, logical ranges for quantitative variables,
      alarms if logical rules are not coherent (for example to have persistent organ failure but to
      classify the episode as mild or moderate), expanding fields only available in the presence of
      certain circumstances (for example, detailed organ failure description is only available if
      the patient had organ failure).
    
  