
    
      The first year of the project has been devoted to the design of the study, the creation of
      the curriculum content for the courses (see attached document), all the administrative
      procedures aimed at formally introducing a course of this type into the Bachelor's Degree in
      Translation and Interpreting, and applying and receiving approval from the UGR Ethics
      Committee on Human Research (CEIH), the UGR Human Subjects Protection Review Board (see
      attached document).

      All 1st and 4th year students are informed and invited to participate both in the course and
      in the study; they can choose to participate either in the study alone, in the course alone
      or in both.

      So that the 4 ECTS credits of the mindfulness-based course can be validated for the
      completion of the Degree in Translation and Interpreting as prescribed by the European Higher
      Education Area, a petition was filed to the governing body of the Faculty of Translation and
      Interpreting of the UGR. In this petition, the content of the course, design and aim of the
      study, potential participants, duration and other issues related with the project were
      included and explained. The Faculty grants some facilities (lecture rooms and Administrative
      and Support Staff's help) and allows the validation of 4 ECTS credits in exchange for
      participation in the course.

      In order to encourage participation in the study besides the 4 European Credit Transfer and
      Accumulation System (ECTS) credits obtained as a result of attending the course, they could
      receive a discount on the original price for the ECTS credit in case they also opt for
      participating in the study. If they are grant holders, they get a further discount.

      All participants are asked to fill in an informed consent, a demographic questionnaire to
      determine eligibility and a battery of tests. Eligible participants are randomly assigned to
      either the MBSR group or the CRAFT group. To ensure a balanced proportion of 1st and 4th year
      students in each group, the course year variable is blocked. Also, excluded students who
      follow the course, are assigned to both groups proportionally with the criterion of "being
      1st or 4th year students".

      All questionnaires are uploaded to the UGR LimeSuvey platform, an open source online survey
      tool specially designed to develop, publish and collect survey responses. This software is
      the one recommended by the University of Granada to present and collect online data for
      research purposes as it complies with all current legislation and ensures that all protection
      data requirements are being effectively met.

      For specific security guarantees, an institutional email account is created through which all
      communication related to the project is carried out. In the same line, all the documentation
      generated within the project is uploaded and shared on a virtual cloud owned by the UGR
      (www.ugrdrive.ugr.es).

      Both program instructors are fully qualified. Carmen Verdejo-Lucas (MA) is a certified MBSR
      instructor with more than 30 year experience. She is a clinical psychologist specialized in
      mindfulness and compassion based interventions. She is also a certified Cultivating Emotional
      Balance (CEB) instructor by Santa Barbara Institute for Consciousness Studies and has
      received training from some of the most outstanding figures in mindfulness and compassion:
      Jon Kabat-Zinn, Alan Wallace, Eve Eckman, Ronald Siegel, Paul Gilbert, Jonh Picock, Margaret
      Cullen and Gonzalo Brito. Pilar Posadas de Julián (PhD) is specialized in mindfulness in
      educational contexts. She did her degree in Translation and Interpreting, and her PhD in
      Linguistics and Language Learning. As a musician, she works as a full professor at the
      Department of Pedagogy and Singing of the Conservatoire for Music and Dance combining this
      job with university postgraduate lecturing at different universities and institutions in and
      outside Spain. With more than 30 year experience in yoga, meditation and relaxation
      techniques, she is an accredited practitioner in a variety of mindfulness and yoga based
      techniques. She has been IP in several teaching innovation projects and has been awarded
      different prizes.

      Due to the health emergency crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, following instructions by
      our university (https://covid19.ugr.es/), the original study design has been changed from
      crossover to parallel. Contents of the programs and teaching methodology have also changed
      accordingly to adapt to online classes. Both programs are adapted and extended due to the
      circumstances.

      Data collection is done at two different points in time: 1, before initiating the
      intervention, and 2, at the end of the intervention. Both data gathering phases lasts for
      approximately 15 days.

      At the baseline, the only face-to-face measure is administered as such by another member who
      is blind to hypothesis. Due to the exigencies of health emergency situation and the
      impossibility to administer this measure face to face at the end of the intervention, it is
      also uploaded to the LimeSurvey platform and administered online at the end of the
      intervention.

      The University of Granada General Foundation was the entity appointed to carry out all the
      administrative procedures (participants' enrollment, payment of fees, participants' medical
      insurance, certificate issuing at the end of the course and the like). The Chair in
      Conscience and Development of the University of Granada (Spain) is responsible of co-funding
      and the study members from the Cognitive Neuroscience Group (HUM-379,
      https://www.ugr.es/~jcarlosresina/Home.html) at the Mind, Brain and Behavior Research Centre
      (CIMCYC) of the University of Granada (Spain) are responsible of randomization and data
      analysis.

      It is expected to find improvements in all measures (psychological and academic) in both
      groups after completing the course compared to pre-training and compared to a passive control
      group (students from the same degree that didn't chose to receive the course during the
      present academic year). In order to measure potential specific effects of each mindfulness
      program, pre-training to post-training psychological measures will be compared once completed
      the first program. Altogether, this applied study might help to elucidate whether these
      important transversal competences and soft skills in Translation and Interpreting can improve
      with mindfulness-based techniques and ultimately could be recommended as part of the official
      curricula of the Translating and Interpreting degree.
    
  