
    
      This is a single-centre prospective observational study performed in operating rooms of the
      university hospital of Caen.

      Inclusion criteria were adult patients aged 18 year and above, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists physical status II to IV, scheduled for intermediate and high risk
      abdominal and vascular surgery (as defined by the european guidelines on non-cardiac surgery:
      cardiovascular assessment and management), and equipped with a radial arterial catheter and
      transoesophageal doppler monitor Patients less than 18 year-old, adults under protection,
      pregnant women, patients with atrial fibrillation, history of right ventricular dysfunction,
      known left ventricular ejection fraction < 30%, or preoperative pulmonary disease were
      excluded.

      After intravenous line placement and monitoring (IntelliVue MP70 Philips HealthCare,
      Amsterdam, The Netherlands) with continuous 5-lead electrocardiography, pulse oximetry, and
      bispectral index, after local anaesthesia a radial intra-arterial catheter was inserted and
      connected to a pressure transducer zeroed at the intersection of the mid axillary line and
      the fifth intercostal space. Arterial pressure and pulse pressure variation (PPV) were
      continuously displayed on the IntelliVue MP70 monitor. After a 3 to 5 min preoxygenation,
      anaesthesia was induced and maintained using target-controlled total intravenous anaesthesia
      with propofol and remifentanil. If a neuromuscular blocking agent was administered its effect
      was monitored by accelerometry at the thumb following Train-of-Four stimulations of the ulnar
      nerve repeated every 30 seconds. Following orotracheal intubation; patients were ventilated
      with controlled ventilation mode (inspired Oxygen fraction 40%, tidal volume: 8ml.kg-1, PEEP
      at +5 to +8 cmH2O, inspiratory to expiratory ratio of ½, respiratory rate between 10 and 15
      min-1 to maintain an end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure of 30 to 35 mmHg). An
      oesophageal Doppler probe connected to its monitor was inserted after tracheal intubation
      (CardioQ-ODM, Deltex Medical, UK). Then, a fluid challenge was performed with 250 ml of
      colloid or crystalloid at the discretion of anaesthesiologist and repeated if the SV
      increased by more than 10%.

      The first ARM was performed after orotracheal intubation and SV optimisation. Two preset ARM
      were available on the anaesthesia respirator: CPAP at 30 cmH2O for 30 seconds (CPAP30) and a
      stepwise increase and decrease in PEEP (PEEPsteps). The choice of the ARM was left at the
      discretion of the attending anaesthesiologist.

      Heart rate, arterial pressure (systolic, diastolic, mean), PPV, pulse oximetry, cardiac index
      (CI), SV, peak velocity (PV), corrected flow time (FTc, averaged across 10 successive
      measurements), and bispectral index were recorded by an independent observer before the ARM,
      during the ARM at the nadir of SV variation, and 1 (after1) and 3 (after3) min after the end
      of the ARM.

      Definitions of outcomes The primary outcome was the absolute variation of SV during ARM. The
      secondary outcomes were: variation of arterial blood pressure (mean, systolic and diastolic),
      PPV, CI, PV, FTc, and pulse oximetry
    
  