
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the prevalence of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the anus in women with
      high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma of the cervix, vagina or vulva.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the prevalence of anal dysplasia in women with high-grade dysplasia or
      carcinoma of the cervix, vagina or vulva.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the clinical performance (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values, and positive and negative likelihood ratios) of anal pap testing to
      diagnose anal dysplasia in women with high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma of the cervix, vagina
      or vulva.

      II. To estimate the clinical performance (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values, and positive and negative likelihood ratios) of anal high-risk human
      papillomavirus (HPV) testing to diagnose anal dysplasia in women with high-grade dysplasia or
      carcinoma of the cervix, vagina or vulva.

      III. To estimate the clinical performance (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values, and positive and negative likelihood ratios) of anal pap testing and HPV
      testing (anal "cotesting") to diagnose anal dysplasia in women with high-grade dysplasia or
      carcinoma of the cervix, vagina or vulva.

      IV. To determine associations between gut and cervical microbiomes and anal
      dysplasia/carcinoma in women with high-grade dysplasia or carcinoma of the cervix, vagina, or
      vulva.

      V. To estimate the prevalence of oral HPV infection in women with high-grade dysplasia or
      carcinoma of the cervix, vagina or vulva.

      VI. To compare a new HPV point of care test developed by Rice University with current
      standard HPV testing.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo collection of anal, cervical, vaginal, and oral samples during their
      scheduled pelvic exam.
    
  