
    
      Clinical evaluation of topo II a as a predictive marker: Preliminary results from a clinical
      study suggest that complete remission after treatment with anthracyclines for advanced breast
      cancer is observed only in case of topo II a gene amplification (7 complete remissions, all
      in patients with topo II a gene amplified tumors, no complete remissions in patients with a
      normal or deleted topo II a gene).

      Moreover, our group has analyzed the predictive value of topo II a in a population of
      node-positive breast cancer patients randomly treated either with anthracyclines or with CMF
      (Belgian cooperative trial). In a first study, topo II a was evaluated by
      immunohistochemistry, which allows the detection of topo II a protein expression. The results
      of this study suggested that patients deriving the highest benefit from anthracyclines were
      those in which topo II a protein is immunostained in more than 10% of tumor cells. The main
      findings of this study should be seen as hypothesis-generating because of the limited number
      of patients evaluated (about fifty in each study arm) and because topo II a protein levels
      depend on gene amplification as well as on tumor proliferation rate. Therefore, topo II a
      protein expression does not necessarily reflect topo II a gene status.

      The second study run by our group was based on the same series of patients evaluated in the
      first study, but, this time, both HER-2 and topo II a genes were evaluated by fluorescence
      in-situ hybridization (FISH), which allows the detection of gene aberrations. The main
      findings of the second study were quite consistent with the pre-clinical data suggesting that
      only HER-2 amplified/topo II a amplified tumours show great sensitivity to anthracyclines
      while the efficacy of these same agents in HER-2 amplified/topo II a non-amplified tumors is
      comparable to the efficacy of other drugs or regimens like CMF.

      Nevertheless, although the results reported in this study bring some additional support to
      the hypothesis of topo II a as a marker predicting the efficacy of anthracyclines, no
      definitive conclusions can be drawn because of the fairly limited number of patients
      evaluated, and the retrospective nature of the analyses.

      The present study protocol: Supported by "in-vitro" and preliminary "in-vivo" data, briefly
      summarized above, this study is designed to test prospectively the value of topo II alpha
      gene amplification and protein overexpression in predicting the efficacy of anthracyclines.
      To our knowledge this is the only prospective trial worldwide which is attempting to
      prospectively clarify the predictive value of this interesting biological marker. This study
      could have important practical implications in the daily clinical management of early breast
      cancer patients because, if the trial confirms that topo II a gene amplification and/or
      protein overexpression are associated with high efficacy of anthracyclines, while topo II a
      normal/deleted gene and low protein content are associated with modest efficacy, an important
      step forward in the direction of anthracycline "tailoring" would be accomplished.

      The practical advantage of this approach would be to use anthracyclines primarily in patients
      who are supposed to derive the largest benefit, thus sparing the long-term
      anthracycline-related toxicity (i.e. secondary acute myeloid leukemia, cardiac dysfunction,
      and amenorrhea/sterility in case of fertile women) to those patients for whom no significant
      gain in antitumor activity is anticipated.

      To reach this ambitious aim, early breast cancer patients with tumors of at least 2 cm
      (defined by breast ultrasound) will be evaluated for topo II a gene and protein expression.
      For this purpose, a pre-treatment biopsy (tru-cut) will be performed and topo II a gene will
      be evaluated on fixed samples by FISH. The use of a triple probe will allow the concomitant
      evaluation of the HER-2 gene status. Topo II a protein will be evaluated by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC). Afterwards, all patients, independently of the topo II a gene and
      protein status, will be treated with single-agent epirubicin Eligibility criteria will allow
      the participation of patients for whom the use of an anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy
      would have been most probably proposed after breast cancer surgery, mainly because of
      estrogen receptor (ER) negativity. Therefore, no overtreatment with anthracyclines will occur
      in this group of patients. Pathological complete response (pCR) to epirubicin will be
      correlated with the topo II a gene and protein status. The study has two biological
      hypotheses, one for the subgroup of patients with ER negative/HER-2 amplified tumors, the
      other one for the subgroup of patients with ER negative/HER-2 non amplified tumors.

        1. st hypothesis: Patients with ER negative/HER-2 amplified tumors: In this subgroup of
           patients, topo II a gene will be amplified in about 40% of cases. We hypothesize that in
           topo II a amplified tumors a three-fold increase in pCR rate will be observed, as
           opposed to the pCR rate in tumors with topo II a normal or deleted gene.

        2. nd hypothesis : Patients with ER negative/HER-2 non amplified tumors: In this subset of
           patients, almost no topo II a gene aberrations will be found based on previous data
           discussed above. However, recent data reported by C. Sotiriou et al using cDNA
           microarrays, suggest that in this subset of ER-negative HER-2 negative tumors, also
           defined as the basal-like subset, two distinct subgroups can be identified (i.e.
           basal-like 1 and 2). While basal-like 1 tumors show a high proliferation rate and high
           levels of topo II a RNA, basal-like 2 tumors have a moderate-low proliferation rate and
           normal levels of topo II a RNA. We hypothesize that the topo II a RNA overexpression in
           basal-like 1 tumors is not related to topo II a gene amplification because no
           concomitant HER-2 gene amplification is reported in this subset of tumors. The second
           study hypothesis is that in ER negative/HER-2 non amplified tumors with topo II a
           protein overexpression, a 2.5 fold increase in pCR rate will be observed, as opposed to
           the pCR rate in tumors with low topo II a protein content.

      A tumor sample drawn at the time of pre-treatment biopsy will be frozen and used to perform
      oligonucleotide based microarrays (Affymetrix). This technique allows the evaluation of
      thousands of genes and ultimately provides us with the tumor genetic profile. Homogeneous
      genetic profiles (genetic clusters) that might be identified, will be correlated with the
      efficacy of single-agent epirubicin. This correlation will allow us to address the secondary
      end-point of this study, which is the identification of other genes or eventually a genetic
      profile playing a role in the determination of sensitivity to anthracyclines. Among the genes
      that could interfere with sensitivity to anthracyclines, p-53 seems to deserve special
      attention. Indeed, "in-vitro" data suggest that at least some p-53 mutated tumors are poorly
      sensitive to anthracyclines, primarily because anthracycline-induced apoptosis is prevented.
      Interestingly, p-53 mutated tumors display frequently HER-2 gene amplification and therefore
      topo II a gene amplification (23). Accordingly, p-53 mutations could hamper response to
      anthracyclines even in tumors carrying topo II a gene amplification. This hypothesis will
      also be explored in the present study, because p-53 mutations will be evaluated by DNA
      sequencing, and the efficacy of epirubicin in topo II a amplified and non-amplified tumors
      will be correlated with p-53 status.

      Additionally, patients with inflammatory breast cancer will be treated with dense
      administration of epirubicin (100 mg/m2/2 weeks). We keep the same drug as for early breast
      cancer but we use a slightly more aggressive regimen with a higher dose-density. The
      feasibility of the administration of epirubicin 100 mg/m2 every two weeks with
      granulocyte-growth factor support has been shown in the neoadjuvant, metastatic and adjuvant
      settings with acceptable toxicity. This neoadjuvant epirubicin regimen may be completed by
      adjuvant chemotherapy, such as taxane-based regimens, since the sequential approach
      (anthracyclines and taxanes) has been suggested superior to anthracyclines regimen in LABC.
    
  