
    
      Under physiological conditions, bile is sterile. Major factors maintaining sterility of bile
      are a competent sphincter of Oddi and antegrade flow of bile. Other factors are bile salts in
      the bile duct, Kupffer cells and tight junctions between the hepatocytes that guard against
      bacteria getting in from the portal circulation. Any break in these physiological barriers
      leads to infection of the bile. The main source of infection in most cases is the duodenum.
      Hematogenous spread through the portal venous flow is another route. In addition, bile duct
      obstruction e.g., stone, is associated with bacterial colonization within the stagnant bile
      and with increasing biliary pressure, bacteria may translocate into the circulation causing a
      systemic infection .

      In patients without stone disease, previous biliary intervention is associated with high
      rates of infection. Bacteremia as a complication of biliary intervention tends to occur in
      patients with obstructed bile flow, especially those who have previously undergone orthotopic
      liver transplantation (OLT), surgery to the biliary tree, sphincterotomy, or placement of a
      biliary stent. The risk of systemic infection is high when adequate biliary drainage has not
      been achieved after intervention, which typically involves endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) or percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography (PTC).

      Acute cholangitis is acute inflammation and infection in the bile duct. It is diagnosed in
      6-9% of patients with gallstone disease and 1-3% after ERCP. It can progress from a local
      biliary infection to advanced systemic disease with sepsis and multiple organ dysfunctions
      with significant mortality rates (10%).

      Microbial infection causing acute cholangitis is mainly bacteria and fungi. Despite blood
      cultures provide an opportunity to detect the causative organism, they remain negative in
      more than half of the cases with cholangitis. The growth is often mono-microbial organism,
      predominantly Gram-negative organisms. However, bile cultures often have a poly-microbial
      growth especially in patients with an indwelling biliary stent where, Gram-negative bacteria,
      in particular Escherichia coli, are the most common pathogens isolated from infected bile.

      The fungal infection of the biliary tract increase in the last years and can lead to biliary
      obstruction. The most common fungal infection in biliary tract is candidiasis.

      Because of the rapid development of multi-drug resistant organisms, the choice of appropriate
      empiric antimicrobial therapy has become more complicated. Thus, knowledge of the common
      etiologic agents and their local susceptibility profile is essential to ensure the
      appropriate choice and timely administration of empiric antimicrobial therapy.
    
  