
    
      Treatment will consist of 4 main phases: Remission Induction, Consolidation, Reinduction, and
      Maintenance. High risk patients will receive a reintensification phase prior to transplant in
      first remission.

      REMISSION INDUCTION: Chemotherapy will be given in an attempt to induce the participant's
      leukemia into remission. Drugs given are intrathecal triple drug treatment with methotrexate,
      hydrocortisone and Ara-C (ITMHA); dexamethasone; vorinostat; bortezomib; PEG-asparaginase;
      mitoxantrone; cyclophosphamide; cytarabine; and 6-mercaptopurine.

      CONSOLIDATION PHASE: After the participant's blood counts have recovered from Remission
      Induction, he/she will move to the consolidation phase. This therapy is given to kill any
      remaining leukemia cells. Drugs given are ITMHA, high-dose methotrexate, and
      6-mercaptopurine.

      RE-INDUCTION: This phase aims to improve the participant's overall response to therapy by
      again seeking to bring his/her leukemia into remission. Drugs given are ITMHA, mitoxantrone,
      peg-asparaginase, dexamethasone, bortezomib, and vorinostat.Participants that achieve MRD
      negative status following Re-Induction may proceed directly to stem cell transplant (SCT)
      (SCT not part of this study).

      RE-INTENSIFICATION: Participants that remain MRD positive following Consolidation or
      Reinduction may receive Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell therapy (CART), if available (CART
      is not part of this study), or proceed to a Reintensification phase then go on to stem cell
      transplant (SCT).

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Participants with negative MRD after consolidation will skip the
      re-intensification phase and proceed to receive maintenance therapy to keep the leukemia from
      returning. Drugs given are ITMHA, dexamethasone, vincristine, 6-mercaptopurine and
      methotrexate. Each cycle of these drugs lasts 28 days and will be repeated up to 20 times as
      long as there are no serious side effects.
    
  