
    
      Background. Reducing incidence of pneumothorax, PIE and the combined outcome of death or BPD
      has been achieved since the development of Surfactant therapy. It is also approved that
      initial stabilization with CPAP and rescue surfactant administration, if necessary, resulted
      in less ventilator days and a trend towards lower risk of CLD. However, the number of infants
      who are started on CPAP but ultimately require intubation for the administration of
      surfactant within the first 72 hours remains high in the very preterm infants. Usually CPAP
      failure is due to unremitting RDS requiring surfactant therapy. Outcomes in the infants with
      CPAP as a whole could be improved further if the subgroup of infants showing early signs of
      surfactant deficiency was to receive an early dose of surfactant.

      Objective. This study intents to develop a method of minimally invasive surfactant therapy
      followed by early CPAP (MISTCPAP) in preterm Infants with high risk of RDS for improving the
      outcomes and reducing the incidence of BPD. We propose a prospective randomized controlled
      trial to compare the MISTCPAP technique with the INSURE technique of surfactant
      administration, which involves intubation solely for the purpose of surfactant administration
      followed by immediate extubation to CPAP. The outcome of this trial could declare the effect
      of the intubation and positive pressure ventilation on the effectiveness of surfactant
      therapy.

      Methods. This study will be approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of CMUH.Very
      preterm infants (GA < 32 wks) admitted to NICU at CMUH from 1 February 2012 to 31 January
      2013 are enrolled for the study. Infants who stayed in the hospital for less than 10 days or
      those admitted after 24 hours of birth or with major congenital malformations will be
      excluded. Eligible infants will be randomized to allocate to the 2 groups after birth using
      simple randomization with sealed nontransparent envelopes after parental consent has been
      obtained. MISTCPAP group: The 16Gz 13 cm length Angio-Cath is used and marked at a point
      comparable to the level of infant's lip (weight in Kg + 6 cm as the routine ETT intubation)
      to give the operator mark to secure the Angio-Cath during the procedure and prevent it from
      going too far in or out of the trachea. The infant will be kept supine with upper part of
      body raised about 30 degree, an oro-gastric (OG) tube should be inserted,and the infant
      should not receive sedation. The CPAP may be removed transiently and the oxygen cannula or O2
      flow over face may be given as indicated by saturation monitoring during the procedure. After
      inserting the Angio-Cath, the laryngoscope should be removed after stabilizing the Catheter
      with 2 fingers. Surfactant (Survanta©, Abbott, USA) 100 mg/kgBW, equivalent to 4 ml/kgBW per
      dose will be drawn to a 10 ml syringe and should be instillated via the Angio-Cath. Prior to
      the beginning of the clinical trial, every neonatal fellows should be trained to familiar the
      procedure under the supervision of the PI (BH Su), and the average duration of procedure has
      been achieved in the range of 1-3 minutes. All the vital signs, including Heart Rate,
      Respiratory Rate,Oxygen Saturation (SpO2) and FiO2 (Fraction of Inspired Oxygen) requirements
      should be monitored. After the procedure of surfactant instillation, the Angio-Cath should be
      removed and the nCPAP should be resumed with CPAP level keep constant at 5 cmH2O. The
      oro-gastric (OG) tube should be draw to check if any surfactant was instillated or reflexed
      back to the stomach. As to the INSURE group, the procedure should be according to the
      conventional surfactant treatment which involves intubation, surfactant(Survanta©, Abbott,
      USA) 100 mg/kgBW, equivalent to 4 ml/kgBW divided to 4 liquors to inject into 4 positions
      followed by amubagging and then extubation to CPAP. The clinical course in NICU of all
      studied infants, including intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), retinopathy of prematurity
      (ROP), duration of ventilation, duration of hospital stay, infection, duration of oxygen
      requirement and BPD should be recorded.
    
  