
    
      Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) remains a major barrier to the success of allogeneic blood
      and marrow transplant (BMT) therapy. Acute GVHD is seen in 30-80% of patients and once
      established, often responds poorly to therapy and is associated with chronic disease and
      increased risk of death. Although combination of methotrexate (MTX) and a calcineurin
      inhibitor has been the "standard of care" for more than a quarter of a century, there is
      little consensus on the most effective and least toxic approach to GVHD prevention. MTX use
      is associated with painful mucositis, delay in engraftment and potential pulmonary toxicity.
      For cord blood transplants, commonly, a calcineurin inhibitor is used with corticosteroids
      and antithymocyte globulin. Steroid therapy is frequently complicated by high rates of
      infection, hyperglycemia and hypertension.

      Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), whose metabolite mycophenolic acid (MPA) inhibits proliferation
      of lymphocytes, is approved for prevention of organ transplant rejection. MMF in combination
      with CsA is widely used for GVHD prevention in patients receiving reduced-intensity
      conditioning BMT. It has also been successfully used in primary and salvage therapy of acute
      GVHD. In myeloablative transplants, while the GVHD outcomes appear comparable, this regimen
      appears to have superior toxicity profile in comparison to CsA and MTX with faster
      hematopoietic engraftment and reduced severity and duration of mucositis.

      One challenge with MMF use in BMT recipients is a significantly lower MPA exposure in the
      immediate post-conditioning period when compared to organ transplant recipients. This has
      been shown in a number of pharmacokinetics studies including our preliminary data on
      pediatric myeloablative transplants. Low total and unbound MPA trough concentrations are
      associated with higher rates of acute GVHD and graft rejection, and lower response rates in
      treatment of acute GVHD. There is also poor correlation between MPA trough concentration and
      area under the concentration curve (AUC). While most previous studies have used fixed MMF
      dosing, one recent study in adults has shown feasibility of AUC-based individualized MMF
      dosing.

      This protocol is based on the premise that optimization of MPA exposure in the immediate
      post-transplant phase will lead to better acute GVHD prevention. It will study an AUC-based
      targeting of MMF in pediatric patients undergoing myeloablative allogeneic BMT. We propose a
      novel continuous infusion method for MMF administration to achieve total MPA steady state
      concentration. Salient findings emerging from this study will be examined and in replicate
      cohorts of pediatric and adult patients undergoing allo-BMT.
    
  