
    
      Study patients will be randomized to one of two groups. One group will receive saline
      solution (salt water) and the other group will receive the pentastarch solution. Neither the
      patient, the anesthesiologist, the obstetrician nor nurses will know which group the patient
      is in.

      All women who participate in the study will have an intravenous. Once the tube is in the
      vein, a blood sample will be taken from it before an intravenous solution is started. The
      amount of blood taken will be approximately 1 tablespoon (15mL). This is not part of routine
      care but is part of the study. This blood will be checked to see how well it forms a clot.
      The study solution (15 ml/kg of either saline or starch solution, approximately 1 litre) will
      then be attached to the intravenous. Once the patient is in the operating room and the spinal
      anesthetic has been given the remainder of the study solution will be given very rapidly over
      10 minutes into the vein. Once the study solution has been given, the patient will receive a
      saline solution through their intravenous at a rate determined by the anesthesiologist
      according to their normal practice.

      Five minutes after the study solution is given, a further blood sample (15 mL) will be taken
      from the intravenous and it will be tested the same as for the first blood sample. A third
      blood sample will be taken approximately 85 minutes later. As these blood samples will be
      taken from the intravenous, the patient will not have to have a needle inserted to take them.
      Approximately 10% of the time it may not be possible to take the blood sample from the
      intravenous. If this should happen the investigator or the anesthesiologist will want to take
      the blood sample from the opposite arm to the intravenous. The patient will be told that this
      is going to happen and can withdraw from the study at that time. This will not affect any
      further care that the patient receives. To minimize discomfort if blood is taken from the
      opposite arm the skin will be made numb with local anesthetic.

      You will be treated the same as any woman having a cesarean section under spinal anesthesia
      with the exception that

      1. the patient and the anesthesiologist will not know which study solution is being given and
      2 three blood samples will be taken - to total 3 tablespoons (total: 3x1 tablespoon).

      For the purposes of the study we will be using the information collected about the patient in
      the normal course of the anesthetic, including the total amount of fluid that received during
      cesarean section, the need for, type and amount of any medication during the cesarean
      section, and an estimate of the total amount of blood lost during the operation. These are in
      addition to the results of the laboratory tests of clotting.

      There is no extra time or cost involved for the patient.
    
  