
    
      Due to advances in surgical and anaesthetic techniques, increasing numbers of elderly
      patients are undergoing cardiac surgery. Elderly patients with multiple comorbidities
      undergoing cardiac surgery may have prolonged recovery following cardiac surgery when
      compared to other groups of patients, and are at higher risk of postoperative delirium,
      postoperative neurocognitive decline and reduced quality of life following hospital
      discharge.

      Traditionally, outcomes following cardiac surgery were measured in terms of complication
      rates or mortality rates1. More recently however, quality of life (QoL) measures are
      increasingly being recognized as important outcome measurements following cardiac surgery2.
      Factors related to cardiac surgery and perioperative care which could potentially influence
      later QoL include quality of recovery following surgery, postoperative delirium, and
      postoperative neurocognitive decline.

      Quality of recovery (QoR) is a newer concept, which aims to measure a patient's health status
      after surgery and anaesthesia. The use of dexmedetomidine during spinal surgery has been
      associated with improved quality of recovery in the early postoperative period3. There are
      suggestions that dexmedetomidine attenuates the increase in inflammatory mediators during a
      stress response4 which could have a role in the post-surgical stress response. There are no
      studies that have attempted to correlate dexmedetomidine use with quality of recovery
      following cardiac surgery.

      The prevalence of delirium following cardiac surgery in patients over 60 years has been
      reported in the range 30-52% (5, 6). Delirium is a condition characterized by consciousness
      disturbances, concentration disorders, memory disturbances and hallucinations. There have
      been associations made between the choice of sedative and the prevalence of delirium in ICU
      patients. In a multicenter randomized trial predominantly involving medical patients in the
      ICU, those assigned to receive dexmedetomidine had a reduced risk of delirium and spent less
      time undergoing mechanical ventilation7. It is not known if the choice of sedation agent in
      this population impacts on the incidence of delirium following cardiac surgery. Delirium is
      associated with increased morbidity, prolonged hospital stay, increased mortality8

      Cognitive decline refers to a condition in which intellectual abilities and memory seem
      impaired when the patient appears to have otherwise recovered from the surgery. It is a
      condition distinct from delirium or encephalopathy. Cognitive decline is common, and can be
      persist for months and years, following cardiac surgery. The reported incidence of cognitive
      decline after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) has been reported as 53% at hospital
      discharge, 36% at 6 weeks and 42% at 5 years9. Elderly patient undergoing cardiac surgery are
      at increased risk for postoperative cognitive decline10. A strong relationship has been
      reported between cognitive decline and reduced quality of life following cardiac surgery11.

      The goals of sedation and analgesia for patients following cardiac surgery are multifold and
      include postoperative pain relief, the facilitation of ventilation, resolution of hypothermia
      and normalization of electrolyte balances. The choice of sedative agent however can impact
      postoperative outcomes. Dexmedetomidine has been associated with improved quality of recovery
      in patients undergoing major spine surgery and with a reduced incidence of delirium, both of
      which can impact a patient's quality of life following surgery. We hypothesized that the use
      of dexmedetomidine as a sedative agent immediately following cardiac surgery in elderly
      patients would result in improved quality of recovery and a reduced incidence of delirium in
      the postoperative period, when compared to propofol. We were also interested as to whether
      there was an associated improvement in neurocognitive outcomes in this population.
    
  