
    
      1. Consent patients that have been referred to the Noninvasive Brain Stimulation Clinic at
           the University of Iowa.

        2. Patients will complete the following before any treatments occur: Tinnitus Intake
           Questionnaire, Tinnitus Functional Index, Tinnitus Questionnaires, Iowa Tinnitus Primary
           Function, Clinical Global Improvement Scale.

        3. Patients may undergo audiological assessment if they have not already been tested prior
           to the study.

        4. Patients will be required to obtain an MRI prior to treatment to aid in neuronavigated
           stimulation unless there is have access to a previous clinical MRI for this purpose.

        5. MRI images will be loaded into BrainSight or Localite, which are both frameless
           stereotactic systems for MRI-guided TMS localization. If no MRI is acquired, the
           subject's head will be transformed to MNI standard space within the software.
           Neuronavigation allows us to place specific stimulation targets onto each subjects's
           MRI. For this study, the investigators will be targeting left dorsolateral prefrontal
           cortex, auditory cortices, and auditory association cortices; all targets are placed
           anatomically by a neurologist. Infrared trackers on the subject's head and TMS coil
           allow for neuronavigated stimulation of anatomical targets on the cortex with millimeter
           precision.

        6. The motor threshold of the subject will be assessed, which is the intensity of TMS
           required to elicit motor evoked potentials from the hand 50% of the time.

        7. Subjects will be fitted with an EEG cap to record neural activity before, during, and
           after the initial test session.

        8. Single TMS pulses or brief trains of repetitive TMS lasting a few seconds will be
           administered at 80 - 120% of motor threshold to targeted regions of the cerebral cortex
           and cerebellum. A typical experiment will last 30 minutes to 2 hours. The patients are
           told they can stop the experiment at any time.

        9. After each stimulation, patients will be asked to rate any changes in symptom severity
           and whether any side effects were experienced (Tinnitus Questionnaires, Clinical Global
           Improvement Scale).

       10. After the treatment session, the TMS pulse locations will be related to changes in
           symptom severity as measured by self-report. If any stimulation treatments were
           successful in reducing symptom severity, a treatment plan for that target will be
           discussed and follow-up treatments may be scheduled.

       11. Follow up treatments will vary between patients but will typically consist of daily
           treatments for up to 4 weeks or until treatment response is sustained. The patient can
           withdraw from follow treatments at any time. Patients will be asked to complete the
           following at these visits: Tinnitus Functional Index, Tinnitus Questionnaires, Iowa
           Tinnitus Primary Function, Clinical Global Improvement Scale.
    
  