
    
      Recruitment procedure: The department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine (DOE) at OUH
      have developed a screening procedure to recruit patients diagnosed according to the ICD10
      F43.2x, and exposed to predominant psychosocial work stressors. The patients are recruited
      among women and men aged 18-64. At the DOE subjects undergo a clinical diagnostic interview
      based on the ICD 10 criteria including screening for stressors in the psychosocial work
      environment and their relationship to disease development, private life strains, personal
      back-ground, mental vulnerability, and competing somatic disease, as well as tests for
      depression and anxiety symptoms, respectively the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Major
      Depression Inventory (MDI). The psychosocial work environ-ment stressors being screened for
      are: quantitative demands, emotional demands, role conflict, role ambiguity, sup-port and
      encouragement, organizational justice, adequate education and training (skill level). The
      experience of stressors is assessed in relation to the most dominant stress models,
      "demand-control-support" (Karasek), "effort and reward imbalance at work" (Siegrist), "Stress
      as Offense two self" (Semmer), and classical stress theory focusing on appraisal / coping
      (Lazarus or Ursin).

      The procedure is onward going to be performed automatically in an online environment. Due to
      the nature of neurobiology the scans must be conducted within a fairly short time period
      after the initial diagnosis. Hence a declaration of consent will be presented and signed at
      the day of the first scan, also ensuring that all additional questions can be answered by the
      main investigator. The scans will be conducted within a fortnight after the fists contact. In
      connection with the scans, the main investigator will conduct an SCAN-PSE interview for the
      assessment of mental symptoms to determine if the participant's condition has changed since
      they decided to participate in the trial. Healthy controls are recruited and matched with
      regard to gender, age, educational and occupational background. Further, controls are
      screened for confounding factors in a similar manner as the patient group.
    
  