
    
      The appearance of ventral incisional hernia (VIH) following an open abdominal operation is an
      important postoperative problem. While advances in anesthesia techniques, better methods to
      prevent surgical infections, and improved treatment of infection, and the use of new suture
      materials have reduced the incidence of incisional hernias, incisional hernias still occurs
      in 0.5-11% of all open abdominal surgical procedures performed.

      Overview of study design: We are conducting a 4 center randomized clinical trial to compare
      the outcomes of two methods of surgical management of ventral incisional hernia. Patients
      presenting to a physician with a ventral incisional hernia will be considered for the trial.
      The study is designed to compare the rate of complications, pain, time to return to normal
      activities, Health related quality of life (HRQoL) and patient satisfaction between
      laparoscopic and open mesh repair for ventral incisional hernia. The rate of recurrence of
      the hernia at 1-2 years will be evaluated as a secondary outcome. Four VA medical centers
      with the capability of enrolling 40-50 patients a year have been selected based on volume,
      experience with open and laparoscopic ventral herniorrhaphy and experience in the conduct of
      clinical trials. Patients are recruited by physicians at each site and referred to the site
      coordinator who screens them for eligibility. The trial is randomized but not blinded. The
      randomization scheme takes into consideration that random allocation of patients to each
      study group is made within each center. In addition to the participating center, the other
      baseline variables that serve as stratification factors are first time or recurrent ventral
      incisional hernia and patient with a body mass index greater or less than 35arm.

      Timeline: The trial consists of 3 phases: Implementation, Patient intake and follow-up,
      closeout and final analysis. 1-Implementation (2 months): The implementation which will
      include funding, recruitment of the nurse coordinators and review of the study protocol and
      techniques of operation was 2 months in duration. 2-Patient intake and follow up (32 months):
      All study patients are recruited during that period of time. Follow-up will occur
      simultaneously and will end at close out. The range of follow-up is expected to range from 8
      weeks to 34 months. 4-Final analysis and closeout: The participating centers will be given 2
      months of funding to close out the data collection. During this period, all final follow-up
      visits and data collection will be completed. Final analysis will run concurrently with
      closeout.
    
  