
    
      Anemia is commonly present in patients with end-stage renal failure (ESRF) due to
      insufficient endogenous erythropoietin production, absolute and functional iron deficiency.
      With the introduction of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) and the accessibility of
      rHuEPO to dialysis patients in the Hospital Authority Drug Formulary, blood transfusion
      requirement for the treatment of renal related anemia has been much reduced. However, iron
      store must also be adequately maintained for effective erythropoiesis. The latest KDIGO
      guideline for anemia in chronic kidney disease recommends iron therapy either in oral or
      intravenous form if TSAT is ≤30% and ferritin is ≤500µg/L. Oral iron supplement is the most
      convenient, but it is less effective compared to intravenous forms, especially in the
      treatment of functional iron deficiency, and has unfavorable patient tolerability and
      gastro-intestinal side-effect profiles. Iron sucrose (Venofer®) is the most widely used
      intravenous iron preparation with good safety profile. An initial course of intravenous iron
      (e.g. Venofer® 200mg weekly for 5 weeks) is commonly given to iron-deplete patients before
      consideration of maintenance iron therapy. The absence of a vascular access and the need to
      return to hospital facilities for regular intravenous infusions made intravenous forms less
      preferred by patients on peritoneal dialysis (PD). Isomaltoside 1000 (Monofer®) consists of
      iron with a tighter binding to its carbohydrate moiety with less free iron to cause
      immunologic reactions, and thus allowing for a larger single-dose administration. This may
      facilitate better acceptance of intravenous iron by patients on PD. The current literature on
      the efficacy and safety profile of Monofer® in the treatment of renal-related anemia focus
      mainly on patients on hemodialysis and patients with non-dialysis dependent chronic kidney
      disease. There is also a lack of information on patient-reported satisfaction on the use of
      Monofer®. The objective of the current study is to investigate patient-reported satisfaction,
      efficacy and short-term safety profile of a single bolus of Monofer® compared to Venofer® in
      the treatment of both absolute and functional iron deficiency anemia in patients on PD. In
      the second part of the study, patients with recurrent iron deficiency will be crossed-over to
      receive treatment of the alternative arm. Similar to the first part of the study,
      patient-reported satisfaction and treatment efficacy will be compared following the same
      study protocol.
    
  