
    
      There are two educational Interventions where residents will be trained in how to improve on
      sonographic imaging techniques performed during resuscitation following cardiac arrest. The
      two techniques are 1) Sonographic Pre-Imaging and 2) Sonographic Pulse Checks.

      Sonographic pre-imaging Sonographic pre-Imaging involves identification of minimal cardiac
      details when CPR is ongoing. It involves placing the ultrasound transducer on the epigastric
      region during CPR to identify the general location of the heart and to center the heart in
      the screen prior to the point when CPR is halted. Pre-imaging produces images of the heart
      that insufficient for diagnostic evaluation, but allows the clinician to be in place once CPR
      is halted to obtain higher quality images rapidly.

      Residents will be filmed during the resuscitation using two digital video cameras mounted in
      the resuscitation bay in the Emergency Department. One camera will be isolated to the cardiac
      monitor display. The other camera will be focused on the area of the room where CPR is
      performed. The view of this camera will focus on the torso of the patient where CPR and
      ultrasound imaging occurs. The camera is located in an area of the emergency department where
      only the patient undergoing resuscitation will be imaged. Filming will be reviewed the
      following day to record timing measurements of CPR and information on cardiac rhythm during
      CPR. All video images will be deleted within 3 days of recording to allow for recording over
      the weekends. No images will be saved.

      The study will have three Phases.

      Phase 1 - Baseline measurements of CPR activity Residents overseeing resuscitation efforts
      post-cardiac arrest will be eligible for inclusion in the study when providing care for
      patients experiencing an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest requiring resuscitation at the
      University Campus Emergency Department. Education on advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) is
      standardized through participation in an ACLS training program. A review of ACLS protocols
      and additional education on the importance of limiting pauses during CPR will be provided to
      all residents in the residency prior to initialing the study.

      Medical records and video recordings will provide information on 1) Patient demographics 2)
      Resuscitation Interventions 3) Ultrasound Imaging 3) Timing of CPR 4) Cardiac Rhythm.
      Information on the actions during pauses in CPR will be used to categorize each pause. Pulse
      Check Pauses are occurrences when CPR is halted to feel for the presence of any pulse. Rhythm
      Check Pauses are occurrences when CPR is halted to determine the underlying cardiac rhythm.
      Defibrillation Pauses are occurrences when CPR is halted to deliver defibrillation. Vascular
      Access Pauses are occurrences when CPR is halted to facility the placement of central or
      peripheral vascular access. Airway Pauses are occurrences when CPR is halted to facilitate
      placement of an airway device or check the location of an airway device. Ultrasound Pauses
      are occurrences when CPR is halted to facilitate ultrasound imaging of the heart. Medication
      Pauses occur when CPR is halted to deliver intravenous or intra-osseous medications. Rhythm
      Change Pauses occur when CPR is halted due to a change in rhythm that does not require CPR.
      Patients may have pauses that involve more than one category, or no pauses at all. Summarized
      in Table below

      Categories of Pauses in CPR Action Occurring During Pause

        1. - Pulse Check Pauses Palpation for pulse in groin or neck

        2. - Rhythm Check Pauses Interpret rhythm on monitor

        3. - Defibrillation Pauses Defibrillate patient

        4. - Vascular Access Pauses Insert peripheral or central vascular access

        5. - Airway Pauses Insert of check location of airway device

        6. - Ultrasound Pauses Obtain ultrasound images of heart

        7. - Medication Pauses Administer medication

        8. - Rhythm Change Pauses Change in rhythm resulting in no need for CPR

      Primary outcome will be the length and number of pauses in CPR during resuscitation.
      Measurements will be standardized by length of resuscitation (time patient arrives in
      emergency department to time resuscitation efforts halted) and multivariate logistic
      regression will be used to control for variability between patients.

      Phase 2 - Ultrasound Education Phase - Pre-imaging Education Similar to phase one, Residents
      overseeing resuscitation efforts post-cardiac arrest will be eligible for inclusion in the
      study when providing care for patients experiencing an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
      requiring resuscitation at the University Campus Emergency Department. Residents will undergo
      standardized training on sonographic pre-imaging prior to participation in the study. They
      will be instructed on how to obtain pre-images and how to record images as quickly as
      possible during pauses in CPR. All measurements and recordings during phase 2 will be
      identical to phase 1. All other methodologies will remain unchanged. Primary outcome will be
      the length and number of pauses in CPR during resuscitation.

      All measurements and recordings during phase 1 and 2 and all other study methodology will be
      identical to phases 1 and 2. All other methodologies will remain unchanged.

      b. Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria - As appropriate, explain what steps will be taken to insure
      that subjects meet the criteria (e.g. healthy, not pregnant, etc).

      Inclusion Residents who have consented to the study will be included during episodes when a
      patient presents to the Emergency Department in Cardiac Arrest receiving ACLS in the
      Emergency Department

      Exclusion

        -  Residents who do not consent to the study

        -  Residents episodes where resuscitation efforts are terminated due to end of life
           decisions

        -  Residents episodes involving the resuscitation of a trauma patient

        -  Residents episodes involving patient who are not imaged with ultrasound during the
           resuscitation

           c. Discuss the number of experimental and control subjects, and explain the statistical
           basis for the numbers.

      There is limited data on pauses during CPR in the emergency department. We assumed that
      pauses in CPR average 15 seconds based on clinical experience. For the purpose of a power
      calculation, we assumed that education on pre-imaging will decrease pauses during ultrasound
      imaging by 5 seconds and imaging in the groin will decrease pauses by 10 seconds. Assuming an
      80% power and an alpha of 0.05 we need 79 patients in phase one and 63 patients in phase two
      and 16 patients in phase three. Because of clustering around individual providers we will
      need to enroll two times that amount be account for clustering by provider. This means we
      need to enroll a total of 300 patients.
    
  