
    
      Two thirds of the adult US population is overweight or obese and the prevention and treatment
      of obesity is a key priority due to the strain on societal health, well-being and economic
      prosperity. Obesity is associated with insulin resistance characterized by a reduced ability
      of insulin to stimulate glucose uptake into skeletal muscle and by hyperglycaemia. Obesity
      and insulin resistance are major risk factors for cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
      Weight loss through caloric restriction and increasing physical activity levels are the
      mainstay of non-surgical/pharmacological treatment for obesity. Weight loss can reduce
      insulin resistance although sustainable weight loss is difficult to achieve. Physical
      activity can help with weight maintenance but perhaps surprisingly, carefully controlled
      longitudinal studies in obese patients indicate aerobic exercise training in the absence of
      weight loss has no or at best modest impact on peripheral insulin resistance.

      One mechanism by which regular aerobic exercise training ensures high peripheral insulin
      sensitivity in endurance trained individuals is via stimulation of intramyocellular
      triglyceride turnover and muscle fat oxidation, which maintains low muscle levels of fatty
      acid metabolites known to interfere with insulin-stimulated muscle glucose uptake (e.g.,
      fatty acyl CoA, diacyglycerols, ceramides). Indirect evidence suggests intramyocellular
      triglyceride can be utilized as fuel during aerobic exercise in obese individuals, at least
      in the overnight-fasted state. However, the influence of overnight-fasted vs. fed-state
      exercise on intramyocellular triglyceride utilization and muscle oxidative adaptation has not
      been studied in obesity. This is important to study as fed-state exercise, as compared to
      overnight-fasted exercise, blunts exercise-associated increases in intramyocellular
      triglyceride utilization, oxidative gene expression, long-term adaptation of muscle oxidative
      capacity and resistance to high fat diet induced impairments in oral glucose tolerance in
      lean individuals.

      Thus, the presence or timing of recent nutrition with respect to exercise could be a critical
      factor explaining the inability of aerobic exercise training per se to improve peripheral
      insulin sensitivity in longitudinal studies in obese populations. Exercising in the
      overnight-fasted state could optimize metabolic adaptation to training in obese individuals
      with long-term benefits for reduced insulin resistance and cardio-metabolic disease risk.
    
  