
    
      Prasugrel is a potent thienopyridine antiplatelet agent that selectively and irreversibly
      inhibits ADP-induced platelet aggregation mediated by the P2Y12 receptor. Prasugrel is a
      prodrug that must first undergo biotransformation to its active metabolite via cytochrome
      P450-mediated hepatic metabolism (CYP1A2). Clopidogrel is currently administered to several
      million patients especially after coronary stenting. Clopidogrel has been shown to reduce
      cardiovascular complications in patients with acute coronary syndromes and patients who have
      undergone coronary stenting. The mechanism of action of clopidogrel's active metabolite
      involves inhibition of the purinergic adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor P2Y12 on the
      platelet membrane. Blockade of this receptor prevents uncoupling of the associated Gi2
      protein which ultimately leads to increased platelet cyclic AMP (cAMP) formation.3 Cyclic AMP
      is a key signaling molecule in inhibiting platelet aggregation, but its intracellular levels
      are affected by several other commonly used compounds. For instance, methylxanthines, such as
      caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine (an ingredient of chocolate), all cause elevation of
      intracellular cAMP levels by inhibiting adenosine receptors (types A1 and A2) on the platelet
      membrane. The effect of caffeine consumption on platelet reactivity depends on the caffeine
      dose and duration of administration. Chronic caffeine consumption (≥7 days) appears to be
      associated with inhibition of platelet aggregation, probably through upregulation of
      adenosine receptors. The effect of acute caffeine administration on platelet function is less
      clear. Different studies have shown either an increase, decrease, or no change in platelet
      reactivity after acute caffeine administration. The aim of this study was to examine the
      effect of acute caffeine consumption, at a dose equivalent to commercial coffee drinks, on
      the antiplatelet effect of clopidogrel and prasugrel, in patients with coronary artery
      disease (CAD).

      Platelet function will be evaluated using a validated method: the VerifyNow System
      (Accumetrics Inc., San Diego, CA), which is a point-of-care turbidimetry-based optical
      detection system that measures platelet-induced aggregation. Platelet function will be
      measured with the VerifyNow P2Y12 test at baseline, (after 5 day wash-out period to avoid any
      carryover effect ) and after 10 days of taking caffeine.
    
  