
    
      Protocol Title: Forxiga (dapagliflozin) Regulatory Postmarketing Surveillance

      Department: Korea Medical

      Objective(s): The primary objective of this study is to examine the safety profiles of
      Forxiga in Korean patients with T2DM.

      The secondary objective of this study is to examine the effectiveness profiles of Forxiga in
      Korean patient with T2DM.

      The exploratory objective of this study is to identify factors that might be associated with
      the safety and effectiveness profiles of Forxiga in Korean patient with T2DM.

      Study Design: This is a local, prospective, noninterventional, regulatory postmarketing
      surveillance study. Adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are initiating Forxiga
      as indicated by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS) will be included. Patients will
      be followed for a minimum of 12 weeks or a minimum 24 weeks. Patients will be treated as part
      of routine practice at Korean healthcare centers by accredited physicians. In this study,
      patients will receive 10 mg or 5 mg of Forxiga in conjunction with diet and exercise
      modifications for the treatment of T2DM.

      Study Population: Physicians should enroll adult patients who are diagnosed with T2DM and who
      initiate treatment with 10 mg of Forxiga, or 5 mg of Forxiga in patients with severe hepatic
      impairment as a starting dose, for the first time.

      Data Collection Methods: and Astra-Zeneca will select medical institutions including relevant
      departments, such as internal medicine and family medicine, of university hospitals, general
      hospitals and clinics where the surveillance drug is mainly prescribed and where staff can
      sufficiently fulfill the objectives of the surveillance and request for surveillance after
      signing a written contract. Patients' medical records will be data sources in this study.
      Only if the laboratory test is done as part of standard of care practice and the data are
      available will the data be collected for this study.

      Data Analyses: Statistical analyses will be of explorative and descriptive nature. All
      analyses will be performed for the total study population who will consist of all patients
      taking at least one dose of Forxiga. For the safety assessment, occurrences of adverse events
      (AEs), serious adverse events, adverse drug reactions (ADR), and unexpected adverse drug
      reactions will be calculated. Severity, actions taken to the surveillance drug, outcome, and
      causal relationship of AE to the study drug will be analyzed. At the time of the regular
      reporting and the final reporting, the event count, incidence proportion (that is, the number
      of patients with any events divided by the number of patients) and incidence rate (number of
      patients with any events divided by the duration of time patients are followed up in the
      study) of all the adverse events surveyed during the re-examination period will be
      summarized, and 95% confidence interval will be presented. Changes in Hemoglobin A1c(HbA1c),
      Fasting plasma glucose(FPG), and Post-prandial glucose-2 hour(2-hr PPG) before and after
      administration of Forxiga will be analyzed. At the time of the regular reporting and the
      final reporting, the event count and effectiveness rate of improvement of lab result (HbA1c,
      FPG, and PPG), surveyed during the re-examination period will be summarized, and 95%
      confidence interval will be presented. In order to explore the factors that might influence
      safety and effectiveness profiles, the cumulative incidence proportion of adverse events and
      effectiveness rate will be analyzed by patients' background characteristics Sample
      Size/Power: In accordance with the guidelines provided by the MFDS, at least 3,000 patients
      will be enrolled. For the overall study population of approximately 3000 patients, the
      incidence proportion of infrequent adverse events(for example, an incidence proportion of
      0.1%) can be estimated with a 95% CI of (0.02, 0.29) (n=3 patients with events).

      Limitations/Strengths: The surveillance, with characteristics of a noninterventional,
      observation study, has no control group and will follow patients in usual clinical practice.
      Given these conditions, the types of safety and effectiveness data available for collection
      may be limited compared with other noninterventional clinical trials. This surveillance study
      will generate results from a wider range of data than those previously derived from the more
      limited clinical trial setting and will allow for longer follow up among a more varied
      patient population.
    
  