
    
      Delivery of cholesterol to extra-hepatic tissues by LDL has a profound impact on different
      host cell types, many of which themselves have been implicated in BCa metastasis and
      chemoresistance.

      Despite accumulating data, it is still unknown how host-cells help breast tumours metastasise
      or evade chemotherapy. The molecular link between cholesterol and metastasis may involve the
      enzymatic hydroxylation (an intermediate step in bile acid synthesis) of cholesterol. The
      synthesis and secretion of oxysterols into the tumour microenvironment and this is
      exacerbated in individuals with elevated LDL-cholesterol. This process, occurring largely in
      macrophages, adipocytes and fibroblasts, leads to biosynthesis and cellular export of
      oxysterols , which drive DNA mutations through oxidative stress, confer resistance to
      chemotherapy, enhance BCa growth and metastasis, and are elevated in serum of BCa patients at
      metastatic relapse. Our pilot data show non-cancer host-cells activate oxysterols signalling
      and drug resistance protein expression and confer chemotherapy resistance in adjacent cancer
      cells.

      The investigators therefore propose to test the hypothesis that the reason epidemiological
      and clinical studies find elevated LDL-C and its co-morbidities associate with worse survival
      in BCa patients, is because the host-cells of these patients have enhanced cholesterol
      metabolic flux leading to increased oxysterols production and improved tolerance of
      chemotherapy and promotion of cancer metastatic pathways.

      This trial is a multicentre cross-over double blind clinical trial in which volunteers with
      LDL-C ≥160mg/dL (4.1 mmol/L), recruited at the University of Leeds and/or identified through
      Horizon 2020 project PATHWAY-27, will be randomised into two arms of intervention, Group A
      (experimental arm) will be given an yoghurt drink enriched with PSS and Group B (placebo
      comparator) will be given yoghurt drink non-enriched with PSS. Each dietary intervention will
      last for 8 weeks, alternated with a 4 weeks of wash out period. This trial wants to highlight
      the superiority of the PSS (yoghurt drink enriched) to placebo (yoghurt drink non-enriched)
      intervention on the improvement of the serum/plasma and host cells (adipocytes and
      macrophages) LDL-C, oxysterols , PSS levels in high LDL-C levels volunteers and in respective
      conditioned media from the host cells/BCa cell lines co-culture, and superiority of the PSS
      to placebo intervention on the improvement of the cholesterol panel levels involved in BCa
      tolerance of chemotherapy and metastatic progression, according also to the molecular and
      genetical pathways.

      Because of the unknown effect of PSS on the oxysterols metabolism and of its consequent
      chemotherapy and anti-metastatic proprieties, the trial will be divided in two phases (I and
      II):

      I. In this pilot phase the investigators will explore the effects of PSS intervention in 10
      volunteers, evaluate feasibility of study protocol (participant recruitment and retention),
      and changes in mean and SD in oxysterols /PSS concentrations making changes to dose and power
      calculations if necessary. If the intervention causes any noteworthy effect in oxysterols
      serum/blood levels and/or on host cell co-culture with BCa cells the study will continue to
      Phase II:

      II. In this phase a further 40 volunteers will be enrolled in the study satisfying our power
      calculation prediction to observe an effect.

      This randomized cross-over double blind clinical trial will be run mainly at the School of
      Food Science and Nutrition, of the University of Leeds (FS&N). Each site will have a
      nominated principle investigator. This will be in collaboration with the NHS - Leeds Teaching
      Hospitals Trust (LTHT), the Leeds Institute of Biomedical & Clinical Sciences of the Faculty
      of Medicine and Health of the University of Leeds (LIBACS) and the Department of Chemistry of
      the University of Oslo (DC).

      At each step point (Day 56, day 84 and day 140), the following trial assessments and
      procedures will be taken:

        -  Weight measurement;

        -  Participants diary card checking;

        -  Adverse effects and safety;

        -  Blood Pressure;

        -  Food intervention compliance checking by asking participants to return yoghurt packages
           back to trial team and relative recordings;

        -  24h dietary recall questionnaire interview;

        -  LDL-C, HDL-C, Total Cholesterol, Triglycerides, non-HDL-C blood concentration and
           HDL-C/LDL-C ratio measurement;

        -  Serum/plasma OHCs concentration measurement;

        -  Serum/plasma PSS concentration measurement;

        -  Medium LDL-C concentration measurement after host cells co-culture with breast cancer
           cell lines;

        -  Medium OHCs concentration measurement after host cells co-culture with breast cancer
           cell lines;

        -  Medium PSS concentration measurement after host cells co-culture with breast cancer cell
           lines;

        -  Adipocytes, macrophages and breast cancer cell lines cell lines OHCs content
           measurement;

        -  Migratory and chemoresistance properties of the breast cancer cell lines cell lines
           after host cells co-culture.
    
  