
    
      The subjects with CLBP were randomly assigned to two groups: the high intensity resistance
      training (HIRT) group and the low intensity resistance training (LIRT) groups.

      All of the participants were informed of the purposes and procedures involved in the study
      and signed an informed consent form before participation. The experimental protocol was
      approved by the Institutional Review Board.

      The intervention for both groups consisted of 12 weeks of two weekly training sessions, with
      at least 48 hours of interval between sessions. The HIRT performed the squat, deadlift and
      lunge exercises, as these exercises induce high core muscles activity. HIRT started with two
      weeks of low intensity exercises emphasizing the activation of core muscles (pelvic elevation
      with feet on the floor, "superman", static supine bridge on bosu), and the technique of the
      selected resistance exercises (e.g. squat, deadlift, and lunges). Participants performed 3
      sets of 10 repetitions per exercise. In the third and forth weeks, participants performed the
      exercises from the previous weeks and also static unipedal forward flexion on bosu and
      dynamic unipedal forward flexion and the main exercises with a load corresponding to (50% of
      the 1 RM load (Brzycki, 1993).This formula is applied in a test that the subject is
      encouraged to perform the maximal number of repetitions possible with a predetermined load.
      The chosen load must allow the subject to achieve a maximum of ten repetitions, which
      guarantee a good RM prediction. The weight lifted and repetitions performed are applied in
      the equation to calculate the 1 RM estimation.

      From the 5th to the 12th week, participants performed only the selected resistance exercises
      (squat, deadlift and lundge) with progressive higher intensities (from 12RM to 8RM). A 3-min
      rest interval was allowed between sets and exercises.

      The LIRT group performed very low intensity and volume exercises (i.e. 1 set per exercise).
      Exercises started with participants lying on a firm surface, with the back supported, knees
      bent and feet flat on the floor. Then, participants performed the following exercises: 1)
      inhaling and exhaling and then isometrically contract in gluteal and abdominal muscles for 20
      seconds and relax; 2) raising the head, lifting the chin and shoulders toward the chest for
      20 seconds and relax; 3) raising one knee towards the chest and raising the head and
      shoulders likewise in the second exercise for 20s, relaxing, and changing the leg.; 4)
      raising both knees towards the chest in the same time that raise the head and shoulder off
      the floor during 20 seconds and relax.
    
  