
    
      This study will evaluate the acceptability and tolerability of acupuncture in patients with
      SCD admitted for management of acute pain. SCD patients admitted for pain control will be
      approached for the study. The participants agreeing to receive acupuncture will receive
      acupuncture once daily for upto 5 days or the day of discharge.

      For the primary endpoint of the study, the investigators will determine the proportions of
      eligible patients/families that are willing to accept acupuncture with their standard of care
      management of pain. The investigators anticipate ≥60% of patients will agree to accept
      acupuncture as part of their inpatient pain management.

      The investigators also aim to explore whether the use of acupuncture affects opioid use
      during hospitalization. This secondary endpoint will evaluate opioid use in morphine
      milligram equivalent (MME) while hospitalized and other outcomes (side effects, pain control
      and function) which will be compared between the following two groups of patients

        1. Treatment group: Participants with SCD hospitalized for acute pain who agree to receive
           acupuncture (standard of care treatment plus acupuncture)

        2. Control group: Participants with SCD hospitalized for acute pain who decline to receive
           acupuncture (standard of care treatment alone) but agree to serve as controls to allow
           the study team to collect data on pain-related outcomes (secondary end-points above).

      This study will also explore if acupuncture modifies the concentration of circulating
      cytokines and neuropeptides in the study participants. The study team will draw blood at
      baseline before acupuncture treatment and on the day of discharge or when the decision to
      discharge to home will be made by the inpatient team. Concentrations of circulating cytokines
      and neuropeptides will be compared between the groups. .
    
  