
    
      Background:

        -  Accurate imaging of prostate cancer is important for developing targeted minimally
           invasive therapies

        -  GE-148 (18F) Injection is a drug product formulation known as [18F]FACBC which is a
           synthetic leucine amino acid analogue. Preliminary studies demonstrated efficacy in
           primary prostate cancer and metastatic/recurrent prostate cancers. We propose to
           evaluate GE-148 (18F) Injection as a PET radiopharmaceutical for the detection of
           prostate cancer.

      Objectives: Primary Objective:

        -  To differentiate the magnitude of uptake and retention of GE-148 (18F) Injection between
           malignant prostate tumors, non-malignant prostate pathology, and regions of normal
           prostate tissue in subjects with prostate cancer.

        -  To assess the safety of a single dose of GE-148 (18F) Injection in subjects with
           prostate cancer.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess the relationship between the magnitude of uptake of GE-148 (18F) Injection
           with quantitative assessment of AAT expression in malignant prostate tumors,
           non-malignant prostate pathology, and regions of normal prostate tissue.

        -  To assess the relationship between the magnitude of uptake of GE-148 (18F) Injection
           with quantitative assessment of Ki-67 expression in malignant prostate tumors,
           non-malignant prostate pathology, and regions of normal prostate tissue.

        -  To assess the relationship between the magnitude of uptake of GE-148 (18F) Injection in
           malignant prostate tumors and their Gleason Score.

        -  To assess the ability of GE-148 (18F) Injection to detect the number of discrete
           malignant prostate tumors confirmed by histopathology.

        -  To assess the relationship between the magnitude of uptake of GE-148 (18F) Injection
           with quantitative measurement of AAT and Ki-67 expression in pelvic lymph nodes showing
           uptake of GE-148 (18F) Injection, where available.

        -  To compare the ability of PET/CT imaging with GE-148 (18F) Injection to predict prostate
           malignancy and distinguish it from other pathologies (inflammation, hyperplasia,
           atrophy, hemorrhage) with that of T2W MRI, DCE MRI, MR DWI, and MRSI performed at 3T.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subject is 18 years old, ECOG 0-2, with documented prostate cancer (minimum 1 core).

        -  Subject must be scheduled to undergo standard of care prostatectomy at NIH CC

      Serum creatinine within 2 weeks prior to MRI less than or equal to1.8mg/dl, estimated
      GFR(eGFR) must be greater than 30 ml/min/1.73m2.

      -Chemistry parameters: Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), Alanine transferase (ALT)2 x of the
      upper limits of normal; total bilirubin, of less than 2 x the upper limits of normal or less
      than 3.0 mg/dl in patients with Gilbert's syndrome.

      Design:

      Thirty subjects with localized prostate cancer scheduled for prostatectomy will undergo
      dynamic GE-148 (18F) Injection PET/CT imaging, and undergo a standard-of-care endorectal
      coil/pelvic multiparametric MRI . Results will be compared with pathology.
    
  