
    
      Interventional study with minimal risk and constraints, prospective, multicentre, randomised
      and controlled.

      Population of interest:

        -  Older people at least 70 years, malnourished or at risk of malnutrition, on discharge
           from hospital

        -  Informal caregivers of patients included in study

      Intervention at home of professionals:

      Mixed intervention: nutritional support, carried out by the dieticians of " Saveurs et Vie ",
      in seven sessions over three months, combined with an adapted physical activity intervention
      (APA), carried out by " Siel Bleu " professionals, also at a frequency of seven sessions over
      three months, for a total of fourteen sessions.

      Control arm will benefit from usual support (depending on practices of the department,
      prescription or not of oral nutritional supplements and physiotherapy at home, but without
      home intervention of adapted physical activity professionals or dieticians).

      In addition to screening/inclusion visits (D0), three follow-up home visits are scheduled at
      D7, D45 and D90 for both study groups.

      Inclusion visit (D0), performed in hospital in geriatric ward prior to hospital discharge.
      Verification of inclusion criteria, collection of consent by investigator, randomization,
      collection of inclusion data (socio-educational level, family status, assessment of autonomy
      (ADL, IADL, AGGIR) number of drugs, comorbidity (CIRS-G), cognitive status, biology performed
      during hospitalization (albumin, CRP, Vitamin D) and discharge prescription (NOC, nutritional
      advice, physiotherapy) are programmed to D7, D45 and D90 for both study arms.

      Follow-up visits to D7, D45 and D90, carried out at home by a clinal research technician
      mandated by sponsor (Gérond'if). Assessment of autonomy (ADL, IADL, AGGIR scale), nutritional
      status (weight, height, self-evaluation of appetite, MNA), functional status (Grinding
      strength, 4-metre walking speed, SPPB), quality of life (EQ-5D), frequency and transit time
      of home help workers, whether family or professional. Acceptability of interventions for the
      home intervention arm.

      2 patient/arms, a total of 372 patients divided as follows:

        -  Interventional arm : Nutrition intervention with appropriate physical activity for 186
           patients

        -  Control arm: standard care for 186 other patients And up to 160 informal caregivers
           (family members) in both groups, or 80 caregivers per group (one caregiver per patient).

      Inclusion period: 15 months. Follow-up period: 3 months/subject (patients and caregivers)
      Total length of study: 18 months
    
  