
    
      Geriatric patients have a significantly higher incidence of morbidity and morality during
      surgery compared with younger age group as they commonly have respiratory, circulatory and
      renal problems [1]. Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) is the gold standard
      treatment for elderly patients with bladder outlet obstruction. TURP procedure has been
      associated with high morbidity rate including bleeding, TURP syndrome, bladder perforation,
      hypothermia and disseminated intravascular coagulation during intraoperative and early
      postoperative period. Therefore, it becomes very important to keep a stable anesthesia that
      minimizes these side effects. Detection of such complications is quite difficult under
      general anesthesia as compared to regional anesthesia. Thus Regional techniques may be better
      tolerated in the elderly patients undergoing TURP having the advantages of minimizing blood
      loss and thromboembolic events [2].

      Subarachnoid single dose injection provides a potent blockade of fast onset while its
      extension and duration are difficult to predict [3]. Continuous epidural anesthesia with a
      catheter placement offers flexibility to extend, intensify, and maintain the block as well as
      providing postoperative analgesia [4]. Continuous spinal anesthesia consists of introducing a
      catheter in the subarachnoid space and maintaining blockade by repeated anesthetic
      injections. The possibility of fractionating local anesthetics dosage along time allows a
      fast onset with better blockade quality and less hemodynamic changes [5]. Recent study [6]
      reported that pain scores in patients received continuous spinal anesthesia were
      significantly lower than those received continuous femoral nerve block.

      Advantages of continuous spinal anesthesia include the following: (a) Prior placement of the
      catheter in the induction area facilitates the surgical schedule. (b) Spinal anesthesia may
      be induced through the catheter after the patient has been positioned for surgery, thereby
      lessening the potential for hypotension. (c) The low doses of local anesthetic intermittently
      injected eliminate the possibility of systemic toxic reactions. (d) Repeated injection of
      small doses of local anesthetic solution facilitates obtaining the right level of anesthesia
      and decreases the cardiovascular instability during induction. (e) Employing a low dose of
      local anesthetic shortens the recovery period. (f) Anesthesia can be prolonged when the
      duration of surgery is uncertain. (g) A definite end point (aspiration of cerebrospinal
      fluid) assures that the catheter is in the right place and so enhances the likelihood of
      successful anesthesia. (h) Subarachnoid narcotics may be administered during a surgical
      procedure or continued into the recovery period to provide long-lasting postoperative
      analgesia [7].

      The disadvantages of continuous spinal anesthesia are as follows: (a) Additional time is
      required to place the catheter in the right place, which may occasionally prove difficult.
      (b) Spinal headache is possible. (c) There is a potential for catheter breakage, infection,
      nerve trauma, and hemorrhage (these potential complications have, however, rarely been
      documented in previous clinical settings). The primary factor that has limited use of
      continuous spinal anesthesia is the belief that the large size of available spinal catheters
      requiring insertion through large spinal needles will result in an incidence of post dural
      puncture headache (PDPH) in young patients that is unacceptable [7].

      The Wiley Spinal™ (Epimed; Johnstown, NY) catheter is an innovative flexible cannula over
      needle designed for convenient intrathecal access that reduces PDPH [8]. We hypothesized that
      using less anesthetics during continuous spinal anesthesia with the Wiley spinal catheter
      would offer more hemodynamic stability with less side effects when compared with continuous
      epidural anesthesia in patients undergoing TURP. The primary outcome of this study is the
      hemodynamic variability between both techniques. Secondary outcomes of interest are detection
      of adverse events including early and late neurological complications. Thus the aim of this
      prospective randomized study is to compare the efficacy of the continuous spinal anesthesia
      using the Wiley spinal catheter and continuous epidural anesthesia in geriatric patients
      undergoing TURP.
    
  