
    
      Bladder cancer is one of the most common malignancies worldwide. The rate of occurrence of
      these tumors is highest in the developed countries, ranking as the sixth most frequent
      neoplasm. Approximately 90% of malignant tumors arising in the bladder are of epithelial
      origin, the majority being transitional cell carcinomas. Early stage bladder tumors have been
      classified into two groups with distinct behaviors and different molecular profiles:
      Low-grade tumors (always papillary and usually superficial), and high-grade tumors (either
      papillary or non-papillary and often invasive). Clinically, superficial bladder tumors
      (stages Ta, Tis and T1) account for 75-80% of bladder neoplasms, while the remaining 15-20%
      are invasive (T2, T3, T4) or metastatic lesions at the time of presentation. Over 70% of
      patients affected with superficial tumors will have one or more recurrences after initial
      treatment, and about one-third of those patients will progress and eventually succumb to
      their disease.

      Previous publications from this Urology Department have introduced the idea of a
      non-invasive, molecular-based assay for the detection and monitoring of bladder cancer
      (Levesque et al. 1993; Fitzgerald et al. 1995). At the time of publication there was limited
      knowledge of molecular changes underlying the different clinical pathways outlined above and
      our assay was based on one gene (c-H-ras-1). In the last few years, it has become clear that
      activation events associated with FGFR-3 can be found associated with 40%-60% of low-grade,
      low-stage bladder tumors whilst p53 mutations are linked to a more aggressive phenotype
      progressing via the CIS pathway. Mutations found in the c-H-ras-1 gene can straddle both of
      these groups. We propose to assess the use of a multiple mutation-based assay, using DNA from
      exfoliated cells in the urine of patients, to establish the sensitivity and specificity in
      tumor detection compared to cystoscopy and cytology. In addition, we propose to isolate
      free-DNA for use in molecular assays. The remaining urine will be stored to evaluate
      biomarkers for the detection of tumor presence or progression using protein-based analyses.

      Cancer Patient Group:

      All patients harboring tumors and scheduled to have a cystectomy, cystoscopy,or
      nephroureterectomy will be eligible for this study. This will include patients at first
      presentation and those who are in follow-up. Urine samples collected at the time of a
      procedure will be obtained from catheterized urine in the operating room. Urine obtained in
      the clinic setting will be obtained via voiding, as with standard urine sample collection. We
      propose to collect urine from study participants who have a cystoscopy on each occasion that
      they visit the Urology Department regarding the treatment and follow-up of their disease. The
      urine will be collected at intervals over a two-year period.

      Control Patient Group:

      The cancer assays to be tested use DNA analysis and antibodies to specific proteins as well
      as functional assays for proteins to attempt to identify bladder tumor presence. It is
      important to know whether other changes, including kidney stones, cystitis etc. cause the
      release of the same DNA or proteins into the urine as was found in cancer patients. The
      frequency of false positive results will determine the utility of the assay in the cancer
      detection arena. A patient group of age-matched controls will be recruited from the
      aforementioned patient populations requiring a single urine donation at the time of their
      scheduled clinic visit.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the utility of emerging technologies in
      the detection of bladder tumor cells using non-invasive approaches utilizing voided urine
      samples. This will include methodologies than can establish the sensitivity of detection of
      specific mutations associated with bladder cancer progression and the utility of this
      approach in complementing cystoscopy and cytology. The mutation status of amplified DNA
      fragments will be established using multiple molecular techniques. We will also isolate
      free-DNA from urine and perform extended-PCR to ascertain the proportional representation of
      large DNA fragments i.e. >1,500bp as an indicator of apoptotic activity and evaluate microRNA
      profiles from the urine samples.

      Urine-borne exfoliated cells will be pelleted from urine collections using centrifugation and
      DNA/RNA will be extracted. The urine supernatant will be run over a DNA affinity column to
      capture free-DNA for analysis. Nucleic acids isolated from these procedures will be analyzed
      using PCR and various molecular technologies to establish the mutation status at different
      gene loci. The remaining urine will be frozen and used in protein detection assays using a
      panel of biomarkers with putative prognostic significance.

      Detection of tumor presence will be compared in urine specimens undergoing mutational
      analysis and the current standard of treatment (cytology and cystoscopy together). As
      cytology is not performed on all patients, fewer urine specimens are expected in the cytology
      and cystoscopy group than in the mutational analysis group. Therefore a comparative analysis
      between these two groups will be performed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) test where
      significance will be set at p<0.05.
    
  