
    
      Use and misuse of opioids is now recognized as a major U.S. public health problem, leading to
      significant morbidity and mortality. Prescribing of both opioids and concurrent
      sedative-hypnotics for acute and chronic musculoskeletal pain increased dramatically from
      2001 to 2010. The clearest path to preventing transition to chronic opioid use and associated
      morbidity or addiction is to reduce unnecessary prescribing during the acute (0-6 weeks) and
      subacute (6-12 weeks) phases of pain.

      Both prior authorization (PA) and other insurer-based drug utilization programs are
      increasingly being used in an attempt to stem the tide of the opioid epidemic and to reduce
      unsafe opioid prescribing. Review programs have proven effective in decreasing use and
      overall costs of more expensive medications. Washington and Ohio offer a unique opportunity
      to study opioid prescribing interventions because both states have regulatory authority over
      health care delivery to all injured workers, and are the two largest states with a
      population-based exclusive State Fund. Further, both states have initiated distinct
      prescribing guideline-concordant opioid review programs (ORPs), allowing for a unique natural
      experiment to compare the effectiveness of two substantially different approaches to reducing
      unsafe opioid prescribing.

      This is an observational cohort study, with prospective and retrospective components. Aims 1
      and 2 rely primarily on administrative data for a prospective cohort, with longitudinal
      surveys conducted among a subset of the cohort. Aim 1 also includes a retrospective time
      series analysis. Aim 3 relies on qualitative research, including individual in-depth
      interviews and key informant interviews.

      Specific aim 1. Examine the comparative effectiveness of prospective prior authorization (PA)
      with hard stops in WA versus retrospective review (RR) with prescriber notification in OH in
      reducing unsafe opioid prescribing.

      Specific aim 2. Examine the comparative effectiveness of WA's PA program versus OH's RR
      program with regard to patient reported outcomes (pain, function, quality of life, return to
      work), harms (presence of opioid use disorder, opioid poisoning events) and work disability
      outcomes at 6 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months from date of injury.

      Specific aim 2A. For injured workers in WA, examine unsafe opioid prescribing and
      patient-reported outcomes and work disability at 6 and 12 months for patients receiving an
      established, coordinated, stepped care management program during the first 12 weeks following
      injury plus prospective PA versus patients receiving usual care subject to PA only.

      Specific aim 3. Using qualitative methods, identify key environmental, programmatic and
      policy factors that influenced the design, implementation and impact of the PA program in WA
      and the RR program in OH. This information will lead to the development of an Opioid Review
      Tool educational module for dissemination to both public and private payers.
    
  