
    
      Viral pneumonia is an acute respiratory infectious disease caused by respiratory viruses. It
      is mainly caused by the invasion of respiratory viruses such as influenza virus and
      adenovirus into the lower respiratory tract. Every winter and spring is the epidemic season.
      Influenza virus and adenovirus have high infectivity and pathogenicity. The rapid progress of
      some patients may be caused by acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) or multiple organ
      dysfunction And died of complications. The fatality rate of severe patients is 9.8% - 60%.
      Most of the dead cases were the elderly and the patients with basic diseases. In addition to
      the complications, the main cause of death is ARDS caused by virus infection, on the other
      hand, the basic immune function of the elderly is poor, so it is difficult to form an
      effective antiviral response in response to virus infection. The direct destruction of the
      alveolar epithelial barrier and the systemic inflammatory response induced by the infection,
      namely, the destruction of the alveolar capillary barrier by the inflammatory waterfall, are
      the important pathogenesis of ARDS. How to effectively regulate the inflammatory response,
      prevent the inflammatory exudation and edema of the lungs, improve oxygenation, and reduce
      organ damage; at the same time, how to effectively improve the basic immune function and
      enhance the anti-virus immune response of such patients, has become the key to the success of
      the treatment of patients with severe viral pneumonia.

      Umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs) can differentiate into the different germ
      layers and play an important role in immune regulation and damage repair regulation. Clinical
      trials have shown that MSC is safe and effective in the treatment of acute lung injury and
      pulmonary fibrosis, and it can improve the immune function of patients with viral infectious
      diseases. Hence, intravenous infusion of HUC-MSCs is attractive therapy against severe viral
      pneumonia.

      This is a randomized, singlecenter, open lable, intervention controlled clinical trial. The
      participants (n = 40) will be randomly distributed into two groups. The routine treatment
      group (n = 20) will receive the treatment according to "Influenza diagnosis and treatment
      plan (2019 version)", the HUC-MSCs adjuvant Group (n = 20) will receive intravenous infusion
      of definitive HUC-MSCs (1×10^6 cells/Kg × body weight(kg), which was selected by
      immunomodulatory assay through coculture with BV2 cell) on the basis of the routine treatment
      once at day 1 after joining. Follow-up duration is 90 days. The difference of 90 day
      mortality and average length of stay between the two groups will be observed and recorded.
      The changes of inflammatory index, viral load, oxygenation index and pulmonary imaging will
      be monitored at different time points after treatment in the two groups. The serious adverse
      events (SAEs) and adverse events (AEs) will be observed during the period.

      The intent of this study is to explore the efficacy of HUC-MSCs in the treatment of severe
      viral pneumonia through improving the antiviral immune response of patients, reduce the lung
      inflammatory damage caused by the virus and the pulmonary interstitial fibrosis after the
      injury, and finally achieve the goal of reducing the mortality and improving the prognosis of
      severe patients, and to evaluate the safety.
    
  