
    
      At present, there is evidence that structured care within healthcare (CGA and ERAS) increases
      the conditions for good care and better recoveries after acute conditions, planned and
      unplanned surgery. However, there are gaps in knowledge regarding elderly patients who are
      cared for within the surgical context. In this project we want to investigate whether a new
      care concept that combines CGA and ERAS can improve care and recovery for elderly patients
      who have suffered a physical trauma. We call care concepts for Geriatric Enhanced Recovery
      After Trauma (gero-ERAT). The project will be implemented as a PhD project for a maximum of 8
      years. In the doctoral project, a qualitative interview study is planned during the spring
      and autumn of 2019. The purpose is to investigate experiences of care and recovery in elderly
      patients who have been cared for physical trauma. The findings from that study can contribute
      with new knowledge to the gero-ERAT concept.

      The overall purpose of the project is to develop, implement and evaluate a structured care
      with the aim of improving care and recovery in elderly patients affected by physical trauma.

      Specific purposes

        1. Investigate patients experience of the recovery process after trauma

        2. Establish, implement and evaluate the gero-ERAT concept (ie the effect of the
           intervention during the care period) at the trauma care unit at the university hospital.

        3. Examine health economics when introducing and using gero-ERAT in the continuum care at
           the university hospital

        4. Investigate in hospital time and recovery based on age and harvest estimation when using
           gero-ERAT

      The first study will be a qualitative interview study, 20-25 (depending on when saturation of
      data occurs) patients will be deeply interviewed at approximately one hour.

      The interviews will be semi-structured, and the questions are designed so that patients are
      given the opportunity to tell about their own perception and experience of care and recovery
      in connection with trauma. Transcribed coded data will be analyzed with the Constructive
      Grounded Theory methodology of Charmaz.

      Potential participants will be asked by researchers who are involved in the project upon
      discharge from the hospital, patients receive both oral and written information. The patients
      will be interviewed approximately six weeks after discharge from the hospital and the
      interview session is expected to take between 1-3 hours.

      The second study which is a Prospective cohort of two groups; conventional care and gero-ERAT
      will generate three studies.

      Data will be collected from the patients journal and by surveys that the patient replies to
      The measurement variables will be collected in connection with the care period when the
      patient is included in the study (baseline value), as well as at six and 12 months after the
      patients have been written out from the hospital. The items 1-5 below will be collected via
      the patients' records and items 6-11 will be filled in by the patients.

        -  Demographic data (age, gender, type of trauma, other morbidity, social status, housing
           type)

        -  Length of stay

        -  Complications

        -  Re-admissions

        -  Mortality

        -  RAND-SF36 (Short Form Health Survey); is a validated generic questionnaire on
           health-related quality of life and consists of 36 questions that can be divided into two
           domains; physical and mental health.

        -  EQ-5D-5L (EuroQol); is a validated generic questionnaire consisting of five questions
           (health domains) and a VAS scale. In addition to health outcomes, data can be used as a
           basis for health economic calculations

        -  ADL (Activities in daily life) The staircase describes the degree of dependence /
           independence with three scale steps for five basic physical activities and a function
           (food intake, continence, movement, toilet visits, dressing and undressing and bathing).

        -  ESAS (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale); are validated symptom estimation scales
           consisting of ten symptoms (eg, pain, indigestion, nausea).

        -  PREM (Patient Reported Experienced Measures) is a measure for measuring the patient's
           experience and satisfaction of care.

        -  The PRP Questionnaire (Post Operational Recovery Profile) is a validated form consisting
           of 19 questions regarding symptoms such as appetite, insomnia and concentration ability
           that can be answered with four options.

      Descriptive data will be used to describe the groups. The differences between the groups will
      be calculated with Fisher's exact test for nominal data, Chi two test (X2) test for ordinal
      distribution, and normal distributed continuous variables will be calculated with Student t
      test or if continuous data is not normally distributed with Mann-Whitney U- Test.'

      3. The third study will be a health-economic analysis that is based on data from the EQ-5D,
      which can be used to obtain quality-of-life weights to calculate quality-adjusted life years
      (QALY). Length of hospital stay, complications and re-admissions will also be collected and
      reported systematically. While working on this sub study, in addition to statistics, a person
      within the clinic with expertise in health-economic calculations will also be involved.

      4. The fourth study will be Examining length of hospital stay and recovery based on age and
      frailty estimation when using gero-ERAT. These sub-group analyzes will take place on all
      collected data described in sub-study II. Before the statistical analyzes begin, consultation
      with statisticians will take into account the problem of the mass significance's ability to
      adjust for this.
    
  