
    
      In this Phase 1b open-label prospective clinical trial, patients with relapsing- remitting MS
      will undergo FMT of FMP30 (donor stool) via colonoscopy and immunological efficacy endpoints
      will be assessed at various time points. The active phase of the study will continue for 12
      weeks post-FMT with safety and biomarker (engraftment) follow-up for 48 weeks. A parallel
      observational control arm of MS patients who otherwise satisfy study inclusion criteria based
      on their MS phenotype, demographics, disease duration and prior use of allowable MS
      therapies, will be recruited as a comparison observational group to measure stability of
      stool and serum immunological measures.

      The primary hypotheses are that:

        1. FMT will be safe and tolerable in patients with MS.

        2. FMT preceded by antibiotic preconditioning will lead to a change in fecal microbiota
           community structure

      Secondary hypotheses are that:

        1. FMT preceded by antibiotic preconditioning will induce a favorable shift from
           pro-inflammatory to immunomodulatory T cell profiles in patients with
           relapsing-remitting MS

        2. That engraftment will not appreciably decay over time

        3. That FMT will favorably change humoral function

        4. That FMT will favorably influence short-term clinical and radiological endpoints.

      FMP30 donor stool will be obtained from OpenBiome (Somerville, MA; OpenBiome.org), an
      established nonprofit stool bank with stringent safety protocols and quality control. Donor
      stool will be obtained from donors without MS and without other known autoimmune diseases and
      will be screened for transmissible pathogens. In collaboration with OpenBiome, UCSF will
      additionally screen donor stool on in vitro assays for immunological properties thought to be
      favorable in MS, including decreasing TH17 and increasing T regulatory cells, in order to
      select the final donor stool for to be used in this study for FMT. UCSF will obtain an IND
      from the FDA for FMT of FMP30 donor stool in MS.

      After providing written informed consent and reviewing inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      subjects will participate in either the FMT Treatment Arm or the Observational Control Arm.

      Subjects in the FMT Treatment Arm will first undergo screening assessments according to the
      study schedule of activities and provide blood samples for eligibility and research, and
      stool samples for research. Subjects who pass screening will have their pre-treatment
      baseline visit with 21 days of their screening visit where they will have an MRI, safety and
      biomarker research blood sample collection, stool sample collection for research, complete
      study activities according to the study visit schedule, be given antibiotics, bowel
      preparation, a medication compliance diary and directions on when and how to start the
      antibiotics and bowel preparation before their scheduled FMT colonoscopy procedure.

      The week before their Baseline FMT visit, subjects will be contacted by study staff to
      initiate an oral antibiotic regimen for 5 days to precondition the gut for FMT and optimize
      engraftment of the donor microbiome. Study staff will ensure that the subjects understand how
      to complete their oral antibiotic regimen, compliance diary, and bowel preparation correctly.

      At the study Baseline Visit, following standard bowel preparation for colonoscopy, subjects
      will then undergo colonoscopy with FMT of FMP30 by an experienced gastroenterologist.
      Subjects will return for scheduled assessments of stool and blood sampling, questionnaires,
      physical examination and MS rating scales, and follow-up MRI for 12 weeks, with additional
      safety and biomarker blood sample collection, and followed at weeks 24, 36 and 48. The active
      study time of 12 weeks was designed to be short to minimize time off MS disease modifying
      therapies (should the subject wish to go on a MS disease modifying therapy).

      Subjects participating in the Observational Control Arm will not undergo the interventional
      FMT treatment. Participants in this arm will have a total of 5 visits over the course of 12
      weeks. At the Screening/Baseline visit, subjects will provide blood and stool samples for
      research along with other study activities according to the study visit schedule. Subjects
      will mail in a stool sample at week 2 and come in for follow-up visits at weeks 4, 8 and 12.
    
  