
    
      90 patients will be randomly assigned as control groups, paraffin group, and coconut group in
      a 1:1:1 ratio (30 patients in each group).

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with symptomatic acute aluminum phosphide poisoning

        -  Age is more than 12 years of both gender

        -  Patients presenting within 6 hours post-ingestion of aluminum phosphide (Papade and
           Vanjari, 2019).

      The diagnosis is made on the basis of:

        1. The suggestive clinical manifestations due to and following shortly after a single
           exposure to aluminum phosphide.

        2. Reliable identification of the compound based on the container brought by patient
           attendants.

        3. Biochemical detection of phosphine gas in gastric aspirate (silver nitrate test).

             -  Group (I): Gastric lavage with saline and sodium bicarbonate 8.4% then aspiration
                will be done after 3-5 min through nasogastric tube (Control group)

             -  Group (II): Gastric lavage will be initiated with 50 mL of Paraffin oil and 50 mL
                of sodium bicarbonate solution 8.4%, then aspiration will be done after 3-5 min
                through nasogastric tube (Paraffin group).

             -  Group (III): Gastric lavage will be initiated with 50 ml coconut oil and 50 ml
                sodium bicarbonate 8.4 % then aspiration will be done after 3-5 min through
                nasogastric tube (Coconut group).

             -  All patients will continue to receive the standard supportive treatment according
                to Tanta University Poison Control Center protocol, which is determined by the
                attending physician who maintains clinical responsibility for all patients.
                Conventional standard treatment included using inotropes, fluids and electrolytes
                resuscitation, intubation, mechanical ventilation and antiarrhythmic agents if
                indicated.
    
  