
    
      Substance use disorders (SUDs), anxiety and depression are common among HIV-positive patients
      and lead to poor HIV treatment outcomes and increased mortality. Yet these disorders often go
      unrecognized and untreated, despite the availability of effective interventions. To enhance
      HIV care, this study examines the impact of self-administered tablet-based screening for SUD
      risk, anxiety and depression using validated measures, with results integrated into the
      electronic health record and reviewed by behavioral health specialists (BHSs) embedded in
      primary care HIV clinics. Based on screening results, BHSs will initiate motivational
      interviewing (MI)- and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)-based clinical interventions. Using
      a hybrid study approach, the investigators will evaluate both implementation and
      effectiveness of screening and intervention. Specifically, the investigators will employ a
      stepped-wedge trial design, with a 12-month intervention phase implemented sequentially in
      the 3 largest HIV primary care clinics serving 5000 HIV-positive patients in Kaiser
      Permanente Northern California (KPNC), with a 12-month usual care period prior to
      implementation in each clinic functioning as an observational phase for comparison. This
      design, a variation of a cross-over RCT, allows for intervention refinement at each clinic
      and provides the opportunity to compare outcomes among patients before and after
      implementation. The investigators will evaluate patient-level (e.g., demographics, HIV, SUD,
      anxiety and depression severity) and provider-level (e.g., provider attitudes) factors
      affecting implementation and effectiveness, and will analyze cost effectiveness. The results
      of the study will provide insights regarding the implementation of evidence-based treatments
      for SUD, anxiety and depression, such as: 1) How self-administered computerized SUD, anxiety
      and depression screening and corresponding behavioral interventions can be effectively and
      efficiently implemented in HIV primary care clinics and sustained over time; 2) What patient
      and clinic characteristics influence screening and intervention rates; 3) To what extent
      implementation of screening and treatment impacts SUD and depression outcomes, as well as HIV
      outcomes, including retention in care, viral suppression and Veterans Aging Cohort Study
      index score, and 4) What are the barriers, facilitators and costs of implementation. The
      study setting is generalizable to other HIV clinics and health systems and will provide key
      data regarding the effective delivery of treatment options within primary care settings, and
      in coordination with SUD and psychiatry specialty care. Furthermore, the study addresses
      NIH-identified high priority HIV research topics since effective treatment of SUDs and/or
      depression anxiety would alleviate HIV treatment disparities for these individuals and reduce
      SUD-, anxiety and depression-related medical comorbidity and mortality.
    
  