
    
      Severe aplastic anemia is characterized by severe deficiencies in peripheral-blood platelets,
      white cells, and red cells. These defects in mature cells occur because aplastic bone marrow
      contains severely reduced numbers of hematopoietic stem cells. To date, Hematopoietic stem
      cell (HSC) transplants are routinely used to treat patients with many different diseases,
      including various cancers and blood disorders, such as aplastic anemia. The main sources of
      HSCs are bone marrow, cord blood and peripheral blood. However, challenges include obtaining
      enough functional HSCs to ensure optimal engraftment, and avoiding immune rejection and other
      complications associated with allogeneic transplantations. Novel abundant sources of
      clinical-grade HSCs are therefore being sought.

      Our novel studies have demonstrated that adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (AD-MSCs) can
      be converted rapidly (in 4 days) into AD-HSCs on a large scale (2X108-9 cluster of
      differentiation 34（CD34）positive cells) by transfection of small RNAs to the the early region
      1A (E1A)-like inhibitor of differentiation 1 (EID1) in the presence of specific cytokines. In
      vitro, AD-HSCs expanded efficiently and resembled cord-blood HSCs in phenotype, genotype, and
      colony-forming ability. In a mouse model, primary and secondary transplantation analysis and
      repopulating assays showed that AD-HSCs homed to the bone marrow, differentiated into
      functional blood cells, and showed a long-term ability to self-renew. we show that
      adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (AD-MSCs) can be converted into AD-HSCs by
      transfection of small RNAs to the E1A-like inhibitor of differentiation 1 (EID1) in the
      presence of specific cytokines. In vitro, AD-HSCs expanded efficiently and resembled
      cord-blood HSCs in phenotype, genotype, and colony-forming ability. In a mouse model, primary
      and secondary transplantation analysis and repopulating assays showed that AD-HSCs homed to
      the bone marrow, differentiated into functional blood cells, and showed a long-term ability
      to self-renew. In the safety aspect, we saw no evidence of leukemia, teratoma and other
      cancers in the blood, testes and subcutaneous tissues of transplanted mice. More importantly,
      our preliminary data have shown that AD-HSCs can reconstitute hematopoietic function in five
      patients with severe aplastic anemia. Based on these premilitary studies,, we have determined
      to conduct a further clinical investigation in multiple medical centers. In this study we
      plan to enroll up to 90 patients, to make a comprehensive assessment for this new treatment
      regimen and to show it is equal or superior to the current immunosuppressive regimen.
      Patients will be in the study for one years for treatment and active monitoring. All patients
      will be followed until death.
    
  