
    
      Nivolumab is FDA-approved for the treatment of patients with recurrent/metastatic Head and
      Neck Squamous Carcinoma (HNSCC) whose disease has progressed within 6 months after
      platinum-based chemotherapy. The development of predictive biomarkers is needed to optimize
      patient benefit, minimize risk of toxicities and guide combination strategies. The greatest
      focus has been on tumor-cell programmed death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression. Although PD-L1
      positivity enriches for populations with clinical benefit, PD-L1 testing alone is
      insufficient for patient selection in most malignancies. PD-L1 expression can be transient,
      and intrapatient and even intratumor heterogeneity in PD- L1 tumor expression can exist.
      Therefore, tumor sampling at one timepoint might not accurately reflect the state of PD1 axis
      in a patient. Another important aspect is that PD-L1 immunohistochemistry alone does not take
      into account factors that could impede the anti-PD1 therapy response such as whether or not
      active immune cell engagement of the PD1 axis occurs in the tumor microenvironment or other
      concurrent immune suppressive pathways are present.

      Assessment of biomarkers at baseline may not predict benefit from immunotherapy. In a phase
      II study of ipilimumab in patients with metastatic melanoma baseline tumor infiltrating
      lymphocyte status was not associated with clinical activity. However, increase in tumor
      infiltrating lymphocyte density in tumor biopsy samples collected after the second dose of
      ipilimumab was associated with significantly greater clinical activity with ipilimumab
      compared to samples without increase in lymphocyte density. For a better understanding of the
      mechanisms of resistance to nivolumab in HNSCC, the investigators propose to study a cohort
      of longitudinal HNSCC samples from recurrent/metastatic HNSCC patients treated with nivolumab
      and identify biomarkers of response and resistance. The investigators will specifically focus
      on modulation of immune phenotype (ImmR) following two cycles of nivolumab as surrogate
      biomarker for response to nivolumab.

      The primary endpoint will be the change in the percentage of immune cells that is caused by
      nivolumab treatment. Secondary endpoint will be safety of performing a biopsy after second
      nivolumab dose. Translational correlates will be tested in tumour tissue, plasma and germline
      DNA.

      Investigator assessment of best overall response (BOR), determined between the date of first
      dose and the last tumor assessment (TA), will be image-based and scored using the RECIST 1.1.
      criteria. BOR will be defined as categorical variable with 3 levels { Benefit (complete
      response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) lasting 6 months from the first
      nivolumab dose), no benefit (PD, progressive disease or SD lasting less than 6 months from
      the first nivolumab dose), and unknown} Longitudinal tissue biopsies will be collected from
      HNSCC patients treated with nivolumab . Biopsies will be taken at baseline, 24-72 hours after
      the second cycle of nivolumab and at progression.
    
  