
    
      Currently 4.1 million Canadians are employed in shiftwork. Shiftwork, defined as the
      organization of working time to cover more than the usual 8-hour workday and up to a 24-hour
      period, is prevalent in health care, emergency services, manufacturing, retail and
      hospitality. Given the growing demand for goods and services at all hours in today's society,
      the number of shift workers is unlikely to decrease. There is emerging evidence that
      shiftwork has many negative health implications, including a higher risk of cancer and other
      chronic diseases. A recent systematic review by members of the investigators study team
      reported preliminary evidence that changes in shift scheduling, timed exposure to bright
      light during a night shift, and pharmacological therapy for sleep, help to improve sleep and
      markers of circadian rhythm dysfunction in shift workers. However changes in shift schedules,
      and exposure to bright light may be difficult to implement in certain workplaces (i.e.,
      specific hospital environments, police patrol cars) and long-term effects of pharmacological
      therapy are unknown. To date there is very limited research on effective health promotion
      strategies in this occupational group, who face unique challenges to engaging in health
      behaviour change. There is an urgent need to develop and evaluate interventions to improve
      health and reduce cancer risk in this high-risk population. Participation in regular physical
      activity is known to decrease risk of cancer and other chronic diseases, and may be a simple
      and cost-effective intervention that could be implemented in workplaces and by individual
      workers to mitigate this increased risk. Shift workers have unique barriers to participating
      in physical activity; therefore the feasibility of implementing such interventions must first
      be investigated.

      Objective 1: To assess the feasibility of a 12-week telephone and web-based physical activity
      intervention in female shift workers, including recruitment, retention, adherence and
      acceptability of the intervention.

      Objective 2: To explore changes in physical activity (min/week), health behaviours (i.e.,
      sedentary time, sleep), and quality of life that may occur during the intervention in
      preparation for a full randomized controlled trial (RCT) if the intervention is found to be
      feasible.

      Research Methods:

      As the aim of the study is to evaluate feasibility, the investigators will use a single-group
      pre-post intervention design.

      The behaviour change intervention to promote an increase in min/week of moderate-vigorous
      physical activity will be guided by the Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) model. This
      model aims to promote behaviour change through increasing self-efficacy for intention,
      planning and maintenance of physical activity. The goal is for participants to meet Canada's
      Physical Activity Guidelines for adults of 150 min/week of moderate-vigorous physical
      activity.

      As a compliment to the behavioural counseling sessions, participants will be asked to track
      their physical activity. All participants will be given a FitBit wrist-worn activity monitor
      (www.fitbit.com) which monitors step counts, distance covered, and active minutes and also
      tracks sleep. The FitBit synchronizes wirelessly to the participants' computer and/or
      smartphones, thus minimizing the need for daily data entry tracking by participants.
    
  