
    
      The goal of the present study is to assess feasibility (primary) and cognitive training and
      transfer effects of a home-based multi-session cognitive training combined with transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS). tDCS, particularly in combination with cognitive training,
      represents a promising approach to counteract cognitive decline and restore impaired
      functions. However, combined interventions of cognitive training and tDCS involve frequent
      visits to the facility, which leads to the need of space, time and personnel, and imposes
      strains on the participants. This study will elucidate the feasibility of tDCS and cognitive
      training in a home-based context. Healthy older adults will participate in a two-week
      cognitive training with concurrent online tDCS application in their own homes. Feasibility,
      as well as cognitive performance will be examined before, during and after the intervention.
      In order to draw conclusions about the effect of tDCS in addition to cognitive training, a
      control group, receiving sham stimulation during training, will be assessed. A Follow-up
      session to assess long-term effects is planned four weeks after the post assessment. We
      hypothesize that with appropriate training of the participants and close supervision the use
      of combined tDCS and cognitive training in an ecologically valid environment by the
      participants themselves is feasible. In addition, we hypothesize this protocol will lead to
      improved performance on the trained tasks in both experimental groups. We expect increased
      performance on transfer tasks and long-term maintenance of the effects after anodal compared
      to sham stimulation. A successful implementation of the intervention in the home-based
      setting will contribute to the development of home-based tDCS as a widely available therapy
      option in clinical populations.
    
  