
    
      Patients with Sjogren's syndrome (1-2 million in the U.S.), and patients exposed to ionizing
      radiation during therapy for head and neck cancer (~40,000 new patients/year in the U.S.),
      experience severe salivary gland hypofunction. In both patient groups, via different
      pathogenic mechanisms, acinar cells in the glands are lost. These cells are the sole site of
      fluid production in salivary glands, and such patients cannot produce adequate levels of
      saliva, leading to considerable morbidity (xerostomia, dysphagia, dental caries,
      oro-pharyngeal infections, and mucositis). In many patients, all parenchymal tissue may be
      lost. For this latter group, there is no available therapy as they are not candidates for
      either pharmacological or gene therapy if little to no epithelial tissue remains. Recent
      reports suggest that organ-specific stem cells can differentiate into cells of other organs.
      These findings carry significant implications for possible clinical use. This protocol will
      investigate if adult human hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) can transdifferentiate into
      salivary gland and oral mucosal epithelial cells. We will recruit female bone marrow
      transplant recipients (from existing NHLBI protocols) who have received HSC from a male
      donor. This gender-mismatched strategy will allow us to detect cells of donor origin by using
      an RNA probe specific to the human Y chromosome. A biopsy of labial minor salivary glands and
      a cheek scraping will be obtained from female transplant patients. The biopsy causes minimal
      discomfort and the cheek scraping is a non-invasive technique. Both procedures are used
      routinely for clinical diagnosis. The samples will be co-stained for specific genetic and
      protein markers for salivary gland or oral mucosal epithelial cells, respectively. Cells
      positive for these markers (Y chromosome, cytokeratins, mucin 1, and NKCC1) would indicate
      that the donor's HSC became functionally competent salivary gland epithelial cells. This
      protocol will also examine bone marrow transplant recipients with chronic Graft-versus-Host
      Disease (GVHD). These patients show similar complications (xerostomia and oral mucositis) as
      those encountered in patients with Sjogren's Syndrome. We hypothesize that GVHD may provide a
      positive recruitment signal for HSC to home to salivary and oral mucosal sites. This protocol
      will recruit 5 female bone marrow transplant recipients without GVHD and 5 with GVHD. The
      primary potential benefit of this study is that if HSC can turn into salivary gland cells,
      they could be used to regenerate lost salivary gland tissues or to seed an artificial
      salivary gland for patients with irreversible salivary gland damage.
    
  