
    
      This is a randomised, multicentre, double-blind, active controlled study to compare the
      efficacy and safety of two different anagrelide formulations in patients with high-risk
      essential thrombocythemia (ET).

      100 patients, either Anagrelide-treated or Anagrelide-naïve, with an indication to receive
      Thromboreductin® treatment, will be randomized into one of the two investigational medicinal
      product (IMP) groups (Anagrelide Retard or Thromboreductin®). Treatment allocation will be
      balanced within stratum (treated/naive) and age classes by central randomization. Naive
      patients will start with dose level 2 of the IMPs (i.e., 1 mg Thromboreductin® or 2 mg
      Anagrelide Retard). Anagrelide-treated patients will be switched to the dose level which is
      closest to the pre-study anagrelide dose at study start. Dose modifications in the titration
      phase will be done on a weekly basis (up to a maximum of 12 weeks) until "stable platelet
      counts" on two consecutive visits is achieved.

      The periods of the study participation per patient are as follows:

        -  Screening (up to 7 days prior to randomization), ending with randomization/first IMP
           dose (Baseline Visit)

        -  Titration period (weekly visits for up to 12 weeks): to achieve "stable platelet counts"
           on two consecutive measurements (i.e. weekly visits)

        -  Maintenance period (weekly visits for 4 weeks): primary endpoint relevant period. The
           maintenance period for a patient starts at the visit with the second successive platelet
           count ≤400 G/L (or <600 G/L, if the dose cannot be increased any more due to intolerance
           or because the maximal dose allowed has already been reached) if the second platelet
           value measured lies in the range within ± 30% of the value measured at the previous
           visit.

        -  End of study (EoS) safety follow-up visit (28 days after the last maintenance visit/EoT
           for early termination).
    
  