
    
      While hypotension - low blood pressure (BP) - is commonly diagnosed and treated in the very
      preterm infant there is enormous variation in clinical practice.Hypotension is statistically
      associated with adverse short-term and long-term outcomes however a systematic review of the
      literature was unable to find clear criteria to define hypotension. In addition the evidence
      to support current management strategies is minimal and mostly dependent on small studies
      that have measured short-term physiologic endpoints. Preterm infants who are diagnosed with
      and treated for low BP often have no biochemical or clinical signs of shock, they may have
      normal systemic blood flow, low systemic vascular resistance, and adequate tissue oxygen
      delivery and probably do not require treatment. Careful observation of such infants without
      intervention approach previously coined "permissive hypotension" may well be appropriate.

      Excessive intervention in preterm infants may be unnecessary or even harmful. Analysis of a
      large neonatal database (Canadian Neonatal Network, CNN) demonstrated that treatment of
      hypotension was associated with an increase in serious brain injury. This remained true even
      after mean BP was included in the regression model suggesting that it may be the treatment of
      hypotension rather than the presence of hypotension which is harmful. The most common
      approach to treatment is to give one or more fluid boluses followed by dopamine. However,
      observational data have shown an association of fluid bolus administration with intracranial
      bleeding and in animal models correction of hypotension by rapid volume infusion can result
      in intraventricular haemorrhage; a complication which is associated with increased rates of
      death and neurosensory impairment in preterm human infants. Fluctuations in BP following
      commencement of inotropes are well recognised and could also trigger intraventricular
      haemorrhage. Furthermore dopamine the most commonly used inotrope has effects on many
      physiologic functions including pituitary effects which lead to secondary hypothyroidism a
      known risk factor for poor long-term neurodevelopmental outcome in the preterm infant. In
      addition dopamine elevates BP in the newborn predominantly due to vasoconstriction, which may
      be associated with a reduction in systemic perfusion.

      There is no consensus on definitions of hypotension in the preterm infant. Many clinicians
      rely on absolute BP values alone to guide intervention. BP reference ranges are often based
      on birth weight, gestational age and postnatal age criteria. These statistically determined
      values vary considerably being based on observations of BP made in small cohorts of infants
      the majority of whom were born before the widespread implementation of important perinatal
      interventions (e.g antenatal glucocorticoid therapy) which are known to improve outcome and
      reduce the incidence of intraventricular haemorrhage in preterm infants. The Joint Working
      Group of the British Association of Perinatal Medicine has recommended that the mean arterial
      BP in mmHg should be maintained above the gestational age in weeks (e.g. an infant born at 25
      weeks gestation should have a mean BP > 25mmHg). Despite little published evidence to support
      this 'rule', it remains the most common criterion used to define hypotension and it has been
      used in a number of recent randomised therapeutic intervention trials where it was the sole
      entry criteria. However, Cunningham et al have shown a poor relationship between this
      criterion and the incidence of intraventricular haemorrhage in preterm infants. In a separate
      study, the CNN report that 52% of preterm infants with birth weight < 1500g have a mean
      arterial BP less than their gestational age on the first day of life and thus may be
      diagnosed with and treated for hypotension.

      It is uncertain whether hypotension (however defined) results in adverse clinical outcomes
      including adverse short-term outcomes (increased incidence of intraventricular haemorrhage)
      and adverse long-term neurodevelopmental outcome. Furthermore it is unclear whether
      intervention to treat hypotension results in improved outcomes. Dopamine is the most commonly
      used agent, an endogenous catecholamine that causes vasoconstriction and elevates BP, but has
      not been shown to improve clinical outcomes. Epinephrine is another endogenous catecholamine,
      which at low to moderate doses causes vasodilatation and stimulates cardiac function. It may
      increase perfusion when used in hypotensive neonates but the data are limited.

      Current standard approaches to evaluation and treatment of transitional circulatory problems
      in the preterm infant are not evidence based. It is essential that these approaches be
      adequately investigated in this at risk group of infants.
    
  