
    
      Study Setting: Assuit university hospital - Chest department. endoscopy unit . the subjects
      will under go the following :

        1. Thorough medical history .

        2. Routine hematologic investigations .

        3. Pleural fluid aspiration and analyses .

           .

        4. Radiological investigation & Chest X ray and CT scan to localize pleural fluid
           collection and assess the echogenicity of the effusion. & Chest ultrasound. Loculated
           empyema defined as ultrasonographic presence of empyema loculations with presence of
           intrapleural septa.

        5. Medical thoracoscopy (MT):

      Medical thoracoscopy with single-port-of-entry technique will be performed in the
      bronchoscopy unit under local anesthesia and conscious sedation using midazolam (2 mg) or
      bethdein.

        -  To define the point of entry into the pleural cavity, an ultrasound will be carried out.

        -  vertical incision will be made with the scalpel (usually near the midaxillary line),
           through the skin and subcutaneous tissue, appropriate to the size of the trocar to be
           used, usually of approximately 10 mm, parallel with and in the middle of the selected
           intercostal space.

        -  Then the trocar will be inserted in a corkscrew motion until the sudden release of
           resistance (after passing the costal pleura) is felt, while holding the handle of the
           trocar firmly in the palm of the hand, as index finger is extended.

        -  Under direct vision with the thoracoscope, introduction of pneumothorax will be
           performed, and all pleural fluid will be removed, and the pleural cavity will be
           inspected.

        -  With the closed biopsy forceps, step by step, fibrinous septae were perforated, the
           pleural space was irrigated with saline and fluid and fibrinopurulent material were
           aspirated and removed from the pleural cavity, the entire pleural cavity was inspected
           and biopsies were obtained from suspicious areas carefully by the biopsy forceps under
           vision. Multiple lesions were encountered, multiple biopsies were taken & If no lesion,
           biopsy from parietal pleura was obtained from any sites.

        -  & Following thoracoscopy, a chest tube (gauge 26-28) was introduced and connected to
           underwater seal. The wound was then closed around the tube by stitches to fix it in
           position.

        -  & After the procedure, chest X- ray PA view was done to show if any complications had
           happened and to insure inflation of the lung, to determine the size of the residual
           pneumothorax.

        -  Vital signs were recorded at appropriate intervals for 24 h. & The rigid thoracoscope
           and its accessories were sterilized by cold immersion in 2% gultraldhyde (cidex) for at
           least 30 min.

        -  An intercostal drain will be placed with underwater seal drainage to drain residual air
           and fluid from the pleural cavity, allowing the lung to re expand.

        -  The indications for removal of chest tubes will be absence of air leakage and cessation
           of fluid flow (100-150 mL daily).

             -  The patients who would be diagnosed will be blindly randomized to the two study
                arms :

      medical thoracoscopy or tube thoracostomy .
    
  