
    
      The EMPOWER Intervention is composed of five components:

        1. Noting daily positive event, capitalizing on and savoring positive events, and
           gratitude.

        2. Mindfulness

        3. Positive Reappraisal

        4. Focusing on personal strengths, setting and working toward attainable goals

        5. Small of Kindness

      For subjects who do not receive EMPOWER components or only receive some of the EMPOWER
      components, they will be given inert content. The inert content will cover Cognitive changes
      during Cancer, Diet, Weight Management, Financial Literacy and Sun Protection. The trial is a
      composed of a full factorial design with 32 (2X2X2X2X2) experimental conditions. Adolescents
      and Young Adults will receive 0, 1,2,3,4 or 5 Empower components.

      Primary Objective

      • Identify which of five components in the EMPOWER web based curriculum, contribute
      meaningfully to positive affect among post-treatment adolescent and young adult cancer
      survivors.

      Secondary Objective

        -  Identify which of five components in the EMPOWER web based curriculum, contribute
           meaningfully to depression and anxiety among post-treatment adolescent and young adult
           cancer survivors.

        -  Identify which of five components in the EMPOWER web based curriculum, contribute
           meaningfully to life satisfaction and general self-efficacy among post-treatment
           adolescent and young adult cancer survivors.

      Exploratory Objectives

        -  Summarize adherence and retention by participants over the course of the EMPOWER
           intervention.

        -  Identify which of five components in the EMPOWER web based curriculum, contribute
           meaningfully to physical functioning, fatigue, satisfaction with social roles and
           responsibilities.

        -  Identify which of five components in the EMPOWER web based curriculum, contribute
           meaningfully to health behaviors (diet, exercise, sedentary behavior, alcohol
           consumption, cigarette smoking).

        -  Examine the trajectory of change in positive affect, life satisfaction, general
           self-efficacy, depression, and anxiety among post-treatment adolescent and young adult
           cancer survivors post intervention by intervention component.

        -  Examine coping self-efficacy as a mediator of the relationship between EMPOWER
           intervention components and positive affect, life satisfaction, depression, and anxiety.

        -  Examine potential moderators (age, gender, social support, general self-efficacy,
           stressors, and positive events) of the relationship between EMPOWER intervention
           components and positive affect, life satisfaction, depression, and anxiety.
    
  