
    
      This trial is a single centre, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled parallel-group,
      dose ranging study in adult participants with uncomplicated dengue fever. The study will be
      conducted in two parts:

      In Part 1, 72 otherwise healthy participants (18 participants per group, assuming up to 2
      dropouts per group) with uncomplicated dengue fever meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      will be randomised to receive treatment with placebo, celgosivir or modipafant. Participants
      will be randomised in parallel to one of Cohorts 1 to 4:

        -  Cohort 1: Placebo Q6Hours for 5 days

        -  Cohort 2: Modipafant 50 mg Q12Hours alternating with placebo Q12Hours for 5 days (total
           of 10 modipafant doses = 500 mg);

        -  Cohort 3: Modipafant 100 mg Q12Hours alternating with placebo Q12Hours 5 days (total of
           10 modipafant doses = 1000 mg);

        -  Cohort 4: Celgosivir 150 mg Q6H for 5 days (total of 20 doses = 3000 mg total).

      As modipafant is untested in uncomplicated dengue fever patients, a double-blinded sentinel
      group consisting of 4 participants randomised in a 1:1:1:1 ratio of Cohort 1: Cohort 2:
      Cohort 3: Cohort 4 will complete treatment to Study Day 5 prior to continuing enrolment of
      the remaining participants. Remaining 68 participants will be enrolled in parallel in a
      double-blinded fashion.

      Participants will be evaluated during screening (< 24 hours before Study Day 1) and on Study
      Days 1-5, 14 and 28. Participants will be confined in the SingHealth Investigational Medicine
      Unit (IMU) from screening until end of study assessments on Study Day 5 and return to the
      clinic at Day 14 and 28 as outpatients. All patients will receive capsules Q6H for 5 days
      prepared by an open-label pharmacist according to the randomisation plan.

      Interim Analysis: The treatment regimen chosen for Part 2 will be based on the analysis of
      Part 1 data. A detailed Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) will be prepared for approval by the
      Sponsor prior to performing any unblinded analysis for presentation to personnel designated
      as being blinded to the randomization. A data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will conduct a
      blinded review of source verified safety data. If there are no safety concerns, an
      independent statistician will perform an unblinded futility analysis of preliminary efficacy
      data from the four cohorts; blinding to treatment group (celgosivir or modipafant) will be
      maintained, however placebo will be unblinded. If futility is concluded, the Sponsor may
      elect to discontinue the study. If a signal is detected, a sample size calculation will be
      undertaken for Part 2. The Sponsor will convene a Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) who will
      then review unblinded log10 serum viral load AUC for viraemia and platelet count data to
      recommend which dosing monotherapy dosing regimen to advance to Part 2. If the recommended
      sample size for Part 2 exceeds the maximum specified for Part 1 and 2 (a total combined
      sample size of N = 132 participants) for a monotherapy, the Sponsor will submit a major
      amendment for Institutional Review Board/ Health Science Authority (IRB/HSA) consideration
      prior to initiating Part 2.

      For Part 2, up to 60 otherwise healthy participants with uncomplicated dengue fever meeting
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be assigned in a randomised double-blind fashion to:

        -  Cohort 5: (i) celgosivir monotherapy 150 mg Q6H, OR (ii) modipafant monotherapy (either
           50 mg Q12H or 100 mg Q12H)

        -  Cohort 6: Placebo extension for 5 days of treatment.
    
  