
    
      Despite the mortality rates among cancer patients have been greatly reduced as a result of
      medical advances in cancer screening and treatment in recent decades, cancer itself and the
      adverse effects of treatment are still threatening to young cancer patients, with vast
      destruction in both physical and psychological aspects. In particular, cancer-related fatigue
      is the most commonly reported symptom among children with cancer and its effect is
      long-lasting, remaining for years after treatment. Childhood cancer patients undergo
      chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy that impairs their normal body tissue and fitness.
      Consequently, cardiorespiratory function and muscle strength decrease, and fatigue is
      inevitable. More importantly, these complications do not disappear, but continue for months
      or even years after completion of therapy. All these adverse effects clearly exert both
      short-term and long-term effects on children and adolescents, severely decreasing their
      quality of life.

      Increasing concern has been placed on the benefits of regular physical activity among young
      cancer patients to improve cardiovascular fitness, ameliorate fatigue, and reduce some of the
      adverse effects of cancer and its treatment, including obesity, and osteoporosis. Various
      studies have shown improvements in quality of life among young patients undergoing cancer
      treatment by performing regular physical activity. However, the literature review found that
      most young cancer patients maintain a lower level of physical activity than before their
      diagnosis.

      In a cross-sectional study to examine the physical activity levels and factors that affect
      their regular physical activity of Hong Kong Chinese childhood cancer survivors, the results
      revealed a significant decline in physical activity levels in childhood cancer survivors
      compared with their premorbid situation. In particular, an increasing number of cancer
      survivors took part in light-intensity activities, whereas a decreasing number of them
      participated in moderate to vigorous activity.

      Another recent study revealed that the current physical activity levels of Hong Kong young
      cancer patients were markedly reduced when compared with their pre-morbid situation.The
      amount of time spent in high-intensity activity declined dramatically from 30.3% before
      diagnosis to only 1.3% during treatment. Moreover, they were significantly less active in
      performing physical exercise, and reported lower levels of quality of life than their healthy
      counterparts. These findings reveal a crucial obligation of health care professionals to
      advocate the significance of regular physical activity among young cancer patients.

      There are some reasons to explain why Hong Kong Chinese children undergoing cancer treatment
      and childhood cancer survivors reported low physical activity levels. Similar to reports in
      the Western literature, to avoid cancer- or treatment-related fatigue, children are often
      advised by their parents or even healthcare professionals to take more rest and to reduce
      their amount of physical activity. In particular, the philosophy of Confucianism focuses on
      restoring harmony in our bodies to attain health, and this is strongly ingrained in the Hong
      Kong Chinese population. In this cultural context, cancer and other diseases are regarded as
      destroying harmony, whereas physical inactivity or rest restore harmony. As a result,
      childhood cancer patients and survivors are always resting, and they reduce vigorous
      activities as advised by their parents.

      Nevertheless, such recommendation can accelerate fatigue as physical inactivity induces
      muscle catabolism and atrophy, which in turn may lead to a further decrease in functional
      capacity. Besides, because of the relatively low body resistance and high susceptibility to
      infection of children with cancer, many Chinese parents do not allow them near crowded public
      places, in particular during the seasonal outbreak of influenza, consequently affecting their
      level of physical activity. Moreover, academic achievement has traditionally been valued
      above all other forms in Chinese society. This may be due to the attitude commonly held by
      parents, and most schoolchildren, that academic achievement is related to a better career and
      brighter future. With this issue in mind, many children with cancer and survivors reported
      that they were anxious about their academic performance. As a result of suspension from
      school during the course of treatment and a decreased attention span, coupled with excessive
      tiredness after remission, they had to make extra efforts to catch up with their studies.
      Consequently, many did not have time to engage in regular physical activity. In addition,
      most children with cancer and survivors reported that they lacked encouragement by their
      parents and role models to follow and learn the physical activities that were appropriate for
      them to perform. Indeed, parents are influential in affecting the activities that the
      children performed. In particular, because of sociocultural emphasis on obedience and social
      conformity, Hong Kong Chinese children are more submissive when compared with Western
      children. A longitudinal study to examine the relationships between perceived parental
      psychological control and psychological well-being in Hong Kong Chinese children revealed
      that parental psychological control may inhibit the development of positive mental well-being
      and affect emotional life in children.

      In sum, the decline in physical activity levels can be attributed to the fact that most Hong
      Kong Chinese parents overlook the significance of regular physical exercise for their
      children and misunderstand the effects of physical activity on recovery from cancer and
      treatment. It is crucial therefore for healthcare to correct misconceptions about physical
      activity among parents cancer and treatment. It is crucial therefore for healthcare to
      correct misconceptions about physical activity among parents of children with cancer and
      advocate the principle of regular physical activity for their children, with the aim of
      enhancing their physical and psychological well-being and promoting their quality of life.
      Nevertheless, a large body of evidence has shown that education alone is insufficient or
      unlikely to change behavior, and healthcare professionals must therefore explore strategies
      that can actually be effective in helping parents realize the importance of regular physical
      activities for their children with cancer.

      Most importantly, healthcare professionals should motivate parents, as the primary
      caregivers, especially during children's cancer treatment, to take an important role in
      encouraging their children with cancer to adopt regular physical activity. There has been an
      increase in the use of motivational interviewing in lifestyle modifications. In particular, a
      growing body of evidence support the effectiveness of conducting motivational interviewing
      with parents to promote different behavioral changes for their children, including weight
      loss and eating habits. However, there is so far no study to examine whether using
      motivational interviewing with parents can help promote physical activity among children with
      cancer.This study aims at testing the effectiveness of using motivational interviewing with
      parents in encouraging their children with cancer to adopt and maintain regular physical
      activity.
    
  