
    
      The Aging Mastery Program® (AMP) offers community-based organizations a clear path to engage
      older adults and address the physical, financial, and emotional wellness of older adults.
      First piloted nationally in five senior centers, AMP incorporates evidence-based materials,
      expert speakers, group discussion, and peer support to give participants the skills and tools
      they need to achieve measurable improvements in managing their health and remaining
      economically secure. The program aims to empower seniors to make and maintain small,
      impactful changes to their behaviors to live a healthier, happier, and more secure life. AMP
      has been field-tested in various rural and urban setting, senior centers, and across an
      ethnically diverse middle-aged and older adult population, reaching almost 6,000 since 2013.
      Currently, the program is being evaluated through a quasi-experimental study in New York
      State and under consideration as an evidence-based program.

      The National Council on Aging study team will train six program leads from the City of Los
      Angeles Department of Aging and Los Angeles Area on Aging to implement Aging Mastery Program®
      (AMP). The intervention will consist of a 10-week series held once-a-week for an hour and
      half (90 minutes). It will be group-based and led by trained facilitators and designated
      expert speakers in a community-based setting (senior centers). The program reviews 10 central
      areas of aging (1) navigating longer lives, (2) physical activity, (3) sleep, (4) healthy
      eating and hydration, (5) financial security, (6) medication management, (7) advance care
      planning, (8) healthy relationships, (9) falls prevention, and (10) community engagement. The
      intervention is based in social cognitive theory and attribution retraining and incorporates
      elements such as verbal persuasion, goal setting, problem solving, and attribution retraining
      techniques that encourage students to adopt controllable and unstable explanations.

      Study Participants (N=200 or n=40/site) will be recruited from 5 study sites to participate
      in the Aging Mastery Program. UCLA study personnel will be on-site to consent older adults to
      participate in the evaluation of intervention and take part of baseline and post-intervention
      assessments. Upon signing the consent, study staff will collect self-administered baseline
      data (measures and measurement tools --i.e. Patient Information Survey, PROMIS and Patient
      Activation Survey (PAM) from all participants (n=200). After baseline data has been
      collected, participants will be randomized and assigned to either the immediate intervention
      groups (n=100 intervention) or the wait-list control (n=100). At each site, forty
      participants will be in the intervention group and 40 will be in wait-list control. Following
      the 10-week Aging Mastery Program®, post-intervention assessment (measures and measurement
      tools --i.e. Patient Information Survey, Patient Satisfaction, PROMIS and PAM) will be
      administered. During the data collection sessions, study staff will go to community sites and
      collect post-treatment self-reported assessment
    
  