
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common lethal genetic multisystem disease in Germany.
      Although life expectancy increased over the last decades, most of the CF patients die in
      young adulthood due to chronic CF lung disease with respiratory failure. CF lung disease is
      caused by a disturbed transport of salt and water by airway epithelia and dehydration of
      airway surfaces as a result of the underlying genetic defect in the Cystic Fibrosis
      Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (CFTR) gen. Up to now, no causal therapies for the
      majority of patients with CF are available. Little is known about onset and natural course as
      well as influencing factors of CF lung disease. Therefore, the first aim of this prospective,
      multicenter, uncontrolled, non-randomized, explorative longitudinal study is characterization
      of the onset and early course of CF lung disease. For this reason we will primarily include
      patients diagnosed by CF newborn screening (CF-NBS) or for any other reason in the first four
      months of life (early diagnosed, ED). In a second step we will compare data from these
      patients to those diagnosed clinically later in life (late diagnosed, LD). This will allow us
      to investigate the effect of early diagnosis and start of therapy. Starting at diagnosis, we
      will use data from annual routine check-ups (imaging like chest MRI, pulmonary function
      tests, microbiology from swabs and sputum, laboratory values, anthropometry) as well as data
      from a facultative, study-related bronchoscopy with lavage (microbiology, inflammation and
      immunology) for correlation with the course of CF lung disease (generation of hypotheses).
      Further study-related investigations are monthly telephone interviews on bronchopulmonary
      symptoms by a study nurse on the basis of a questionnaire and quarterly assessment of
      health-related quality of life on the basis of a validated questionnaire.

      We expect to gain a deeper insight into onset and early course of CF lung disease from the
      results of this study. So far, there is no trial that investigated the different aspects of
      CF lung disease (function, morphology, infectiology, inflammation) complementary in a
      longitudinal setting. We assume that knowledge on the natural history of CF lung disease in
      the vulnerable phase of early childhood has a great impact on the future development of new
      therapies (from symptomatic to causal). This shall lead to a further improvement in life
      expectancy and quality of life of patients with CF.
    
  