
    
      Fight against the pain caused by the disease or by the diagnostic and therapeutic procedures
      is a daily and essential concern for the caregiver neonatologist. The quantification of pain
      is needed to effectively adjust analgesic therapy and by the way, to limit side effects.
      Several pain scales are now validated for newborns but they are based on one-off measures and
      hetero assessments often dependent on many factors including the operator.

      Recent developments in the real time analysis of the cardiac signal under the influence of
      autonomic control, have led to the development of a new painful stress index. A monitor has
      recently been developed by Mdoloris® company and provides an Analgesia and Nociception Index
      (ANI index in children and adults and NIPE index - for Newborn Infant Parasympathetic
      Evaluation - in newborns). It is based on the study of the heart rate variability and the
      variations of the sympathetic and parasympathetic indices to stimuli. Clinical correlations
      have been completed for adult patients during or after general anesthesia. The validation of
      this nociception index has not been validated in a neonatal unit where special attention is
      paid to pain control.

      The main purpose of our study is to show the consistency of this NIPE index (adapted to
      newborns) from 2 validated pain scales routinely used in neonatology in non-sedated children,
      hospitalized in intensive unit and neonatal intensive care unit from the University Hospital
      of Saint-Etienne (France).

      The study will involve 40 preterm or term newborn (i.e. with a gestational age between 26 and
      42 weeks and less than 3 months of life), hospitalized in neonatal intensive care units of
      our university hospital (Saint-Etienne - France), who have to acute painful stimuli related
      to their care.

      Concurrent analysis of autonomic markers (orthosympathetic and parasympathetic indices from
      time or frequency domain analysis of heart rate variability) will be correlated with the NIPE
      index in order to study confounding factors that can induce a sympathetic stress without pain
      sensation and can thus change the indices of nociception.

      This study based on a real-time analysis of the perception of pain for newborns is a step for
      the validation of this new tool that could facilitate the real-time newborn pain management.
      Furthermore, it will allow caregivers the opportunity to adjust therapeutics in
      non-communicative patients.
    
  