
    
      SARS-Cov-2 infection is characterized by a varied clinical course, from asymptomatic to
      severe respiratory failure in the course of pneumonia, which can be fatal. There are reports
      in the literature regarding the relationship between the course of an acute respiratory
      disease syndrome caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus infection (Coronavirus 2019, COVID-19) and the
      history of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), including hypertension. It is postulated that the
      shared element of the pathogenesis of CVD, hypertension and COVID-19 is the renin-angiotensin
      system and one of its elements, the angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). It has been
      postulated by some authors that in the course of hypertension and antihypertensive treatment
      with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors, there may be an upregulation of ACE2, which in turn
      may be related to a higher risk of more severe course of COVID-19. On the other hand there is
      also data the renin-angiotensin system inhibitors by increasing ACE2 concentration may be
      protective in the course of severe pneumonia.

      The study undertaken by the National Institute of Cardiology aims to assess the safety of the
      cardiovascular drugs in relation to the occurrence of complications during hospitalization in
      patients with CVD and COVID-19 infection. The study is being conducted by Polish-German
      collaboration and was initiated by prof Reinhold Kreutz from Institute of Clinical
      Pharmacology and Toxicology, Charite, Berlin, Germany and team from National Institute of
      Cardiology lead by prof. Andrzej Januszewicz and prof. Tomasz Hryniewiecki, Director of the
      National Institute of Cardiology.

      Hospitalized patients with COVID-19 will be included in the study in centers around Poland.
      After the hospitalization, a short questionnaire will be completed, including
      pre-hospitalization diagnoses, pre-hospitalization medications, clinical status on admission,
      the course, complication and the duration of hospitalization. The questionnaire will be
      available in paper form and on-line.

      It will also be planned to include control groups from the official databases: 1) patients
      with SARS-CoV-2 infection not requiring hospitalization, and 2) structure-matched and
      co-existing disease matched control group from the general population.
    
  