
    
      Objective:

      Considerable clinical and experimental evidence in humans and animal models links nicotine
      use with heavy alcohol consumption. Varenicline, an alpha4beta2 (nicotinic) acetylcholine
      receptor (nAchR) partial agonist, is an oral medication approved by the FDA (2006) for
      smoking cessation. Recently, it has been shown to reduce alcohol consumption in a rodent
      model of alcohol dependence. In the present short-term experimental study, it will be
      assessed primarily for its ability to reduce alcohol self-administration in heavy drinkers.
      Secondarily, its effects on alcohol urges (cravings), as well as smoking parameters will be
      measured. In addition, effects of varenicline on incentive motivation for alcohol and the
      underlying brain reward system activation, as well as on activation of brain reward systems
      in response to intravenously administered alcohol will be measured.

      Study Population:

      Fifty healthy, adults (smokers and non-smokers), age 21 to 60 years, will be studied.
      Individuals must drink alcohol regularly at a heavy level, on average greater than 20 drinks
      per week for men, and greater than 15 drinks per week for women, and not be seeking help for
      alcohol-related problems.

      Design:

      Following protocol screening and medical evaluation, qualified subjects will undergo an
      initial ( pre-study drug ) intravenous alcohol self-administration session (hereafter, called
      computer-assisted self-infusion of ethanol, or CASE). Following this, subjects will be
      randomized to varenicline or placebo. Subjects will be clinically evaluated on three
      occasions while on study drug: once after one week of study medication; again, prior to the
      fMRI; and again, at the end of treatment, when they undergo the second ( on-study drug ) CASE
      session. Between days 13 and 21, all subjects will be scheduled to undergo functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the brain while performing a task designed to evaluate
      the incentive salience for alcohol cues as well as the pharmacological effects of alcohol.
      Thereafter, all subjects will receive two courses of counseling for heavy drinking, using
      motivational enhancement techniques, aimed at enhancing their readiness for behavioral change
      and seeking treatment, if needed.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome will be the peak breath alcohol exposure achieved during the on-study
      drug CASE session. Secondary outcomes during the study drug phase will include measures of
      alcohol consumption, and urges to drink, as well as alcohol cravings and effects during the
      on-study drug CASE session. Additionally, fMRI BOLD responses in the ventral striatum, an
      area involved in brain reward circuitry and shown to be activated by acute IV alcohol
      administration as well as anticipation of working for reward will be measured. In smokers,
      cigarette use and quite rates as well as urges to smoke and nicotine withdrawal will also be
      measured. Safety and tolerability will be followed during the course of taking study drug
      with symptom checklists, profiles of mood and anxiety and by clinical interview. Serum
      varenicline concentrations will also be measured to assess compliance and control for
      potential pharmacokinetic variation.
    
  