
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pre- and post-induction correlation between soluble folate receptor and
      tumor-based receptor levels as a marker of malignancy in patients with newly diagnosed
      adnexal masses. (Arm I) II. To evaluate the ability to induce serum folate receptor (FR) with
      dexamethasone (Dex) and valproic acid (VPA) treatment in patients with newly diagnosed
      adnexal masses. (Arm I) III. To evaluate the use of the serum soluble FR as a marker for
      earlier detection of recurrent disease. (Arm II) IV. To evaluate the ability to induce FR
      with Dex and VPA in the setting of recurrent disease. (Arm II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the expression of FR in primary versus (vs.) metastatic tumor sites in
      patients with ovarian malignancy undergoing Dex and VPA induction and correlate expression
      with other markers associated with malignancy (marker of proliferation Ki-67 [Ki67], cancer
      antigen [CA]-125, etc.).

      II. To analyze the correlation between gluco-corticoid receptor (GR) levels and serum FR
      induction efficacy.

      III. To examine global, downstream targets of GR and FR induction in patient samples
      undergoing treatment with Dex and VPA.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (INDUCTION): Patients receive valproic acid orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -7 to
      -3 and once daily (QD) on day -2 and dexamethasone PO QD on days -5 and -2 and BID on days -4
      and -3. Patients undergo collection of serum and tissue samples for analysis via polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) at baseline, time of surgery, and 7-14
      days after surgery.

      ARM II (SURVEILLANCE AND RECURRENCE): Patients receive valproic acid PO BID on days -7 to -3
      and QD on day -2 and dexamethasone PO QD on days -5 and -2 and BID on days -4 and -3.
      Patients undergo collection of serum and tissue samples for analysis via PCR and IHC at the
      time of clinically suspected recurrence, 2 days after completion of induction, and 7-14 days
      after induction.
    
  