
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In middle-age, level of blood pressure (BP) is a strong and independent predictor of both
      total and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. However, among the elderly, recent
      short-term observational studies, including the East Boston Established Populations for
      Epidemiologic Studies in the Elderly (EPESE), have raised the possibility of a J-shaped
      curve. In a study of short-term mortality, low blood pressures were positively associated
      with total and cardiovascular disease mortality. However, a further analysis confined to the
      2079 (68 percent) of this cohort who were also screened nine years previously for the
      Hypertension Detection and Follow-Up Program showed the more conventional positive linear
      relationship between systolic blood pressure, and no association between diastolic blood
      pressure and mortality. The observations of higher short-term total and cardiovascular
      disease mortality at lower blood pressure levels among the elderly could have reflected a
      particular susceptibility to deleterious consequences of drug therapy for high blood
      pressure. Alternatively, such a finding might have been artifactual, due to survival bias or
      confounding by co-morbid conditions.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Linking data from the HDFP and the EPESE studies, the investigators examined change in blood
      pressure, antihypertensive medication use, and mortality over a 15-year period. With regard
      to the association between lower blood pressure and increased mortality, they determined
      whether the relationship previously observed reflected a fall from normotensive levels as
      opposed to a consistently low blood pressure. With regard to the upper end of the mortality
      curve, they assessed the effect of antihypertensive drug treatment on mortality as compared
      to those with untreated hypertension. The latter question had particular public health
      significance because questions remained about the risk-to-benefit ratio of antihypertensive
      drug treatment in this age group. Furthermore, they also described changes in blood pressure
      in this population and medication usage patterns over time and correlated type of medication
      and mortality.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  