
    
      This randomized clinical trial (RCT) will test the effectiveness of a customized employment
      (CE) intervention, Achieving Competitive Customized Employment through Specialized Services
      (ACCESS-Vets), to complement clinical services for Veterans with spinal cord injury (SCI) and
      improve their employment outcomes.

      Background: Restoring employment is an important rehabilitation goal for Veterans with SCI
      because employment impacts both quality of life (QOL) and longevity. Due to the medical
      complexity of SCI, however, these Veterans face unique employment barriers that are not
      adequately addressed by current Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) vocational services.
      Vocational services for Veterans with SCI need to address these employment barriers, which
      relate to physical health, finances, time for job search, and caregiver issues. Customized
      employment, an innovative strategy for tailoring vocational services to meet individual needs
      of people with complex disabilities, could be adapted for use in SCI rehabilitation. This
      research will evaluate a CE intervention to help Veterans with SCI discover their strengths,
      customize employment plans, and find competitive integrated employment in their communities.
      The proposed intervention, ACCESS, is a user-driven, standardized CE program delivered by a
      trained employment specialist and is effective for a non-clinical, community-based population
      of adults with disabilities. This research is needed to test ACCESS as a complement to
      clinical services for a clinically defined population and to assess the potential of CE for
      subsequent implementation in the VA.

      Research Plan: The effectiveness of ACCESS-Vets will be tested with an RCT of 100 Veterans
      with SCI. The study will have a rolling enrollment period with an intervention period of 26
      months. ACCESS-Vets is typically completed in 8 months and includes the following elements:
      discovery, CE planning, job development, CE negotiation, and accommodations and job retention
      supports. Individual Placement and Support (IPS), otherwise known as evidence-based supported
      employment, will serve as an active control group consistent with treatment as usual.
      ACCESS-Vets and IPS will be compared on changes in employment attainment. The investigators
      predict Veterans who participate in ACCESS-Vets will have a higher employment rate than
      Veterans who receiving IPS. Among Veterans who attain employment, the investigators predict
      those who received ACCESS-Vets will report higher job satisfaction, wages, and retention. The
      investigators predict, Veterans who attain employment will demonstrate statistically
      significant improvements in self-sufficiency, QOL, and participation in life roles compared
      with those who do not attain employment. Finally, qualitative interviews with Veterans and
      their providers will identify strategies used in IPS and ACCESS-Vets for addressing barriers
      to employment and how practitioners adapt the ACCESS-Vets intervention for use in a VA
      clinical setting.

      Significance: This study is responsive to Veterans' reported desire for individualized
      vocational rehabilitation services and to the Modernization Plan and the MISSION Act, which
      emphasize Veteran-centered, community-based approaches to care. The proposal goals align with
      the Transformation Plan of the Office of Mental Health and Suicide Prevention, which
      prioritizes evidence-informed, community-based employment services. Recognizing the rapid
      adoption of CE in state and federal agencies, VA is partnering with the Office of Disability
      and Employment Policy (U.S. Department of Labor) to introduce and train VA vocational staff
      on CE as a promising practice; however, integration of CE into standard VA clinical services
      has not yet been implemented. In support of VA efforts to assist Veterans to achieve
      competitive employment and reintegration into civilian life, this proposal will evaluate CE
      within the context of existing VA vocational services.
    
  