
    
      Fixed Dental Prosthesis (FDPs) are the treatment of choice for the rehabilitation of
      partial-edentulism, especially in posterior (free-end) sites. Compared to classical
      tooth-bourne removable prostheses, the implant-based treatment approach is a more biological
      approach protecting the neighboring teeth including surrounding tissues. In addition, it is a
      more comfortable solution for the patient but often represents a time- and cost-intensive
      treatment modality.

      Therefore, it is of great interest to offer the advantages of Implant-supported Fixed Dental
      Prosthesis (iFDP) to a broader patient population. Thus, this is only possible if new
      technologies are affordable, which can shorten the overall clinical treatment time and the
      technical production process to achieve a reasonable cost-benefit ratio in combination with a
      high quality outcome of the final prosthodontic reconstruction.

      At this time, the classical impression technique with implant transfer posts and elastomeric
      materials for the manufacturing of master casts out of gypsum still represents the gold
      standard for implant prosthodontic reconstructions. The conventional approach involves
      biological, technical, patient-related and economic compromises such as complex and costly
      technical manufacturing steps.

      An alternative to this established method is the digital implant workflow. In contrast to the
      conventional approach, the digital process can virtually detect the 3D implant position in a
      contact-free way with an Intraoral Scanner (IOS) device including further technical
      processing with Computer-Aided-Design (CAD)/ Computer-Aided-Manufacturing (CAM) technology.

      Recently, the entire production process of monolithic iFDPs is introduced starting with IOS
      and following a virtual construction without any physical model situations. In addition, the
      production of the iFDP itself is simplified by the option to connect a full-contour
      monolithic Zirconium dioxide (ZrO2) reconstruction to pre-fabricated bonding base abutments
      in a complete digital workflow without any physical master casts.

      This study is to assess socio-economic factors, clinical and virtual precision,
      patient-centered outcomes, and esthetics during the treatment with monolithic multi-unit
      iFDPs in a complete digital workflow without any physical model situation.
    
  