
    
      The Task Analysis study of the DECIDE program is phase I (part 1) of a three-part study. Part
      2 is usability testing and Part 3 is the pilot clinical trial. For part 1, a single group
      will receive the DECIDE intervention program as investigators conduct a task analysis of
      DECIDE in preparation for building the web-based version (eDECIDE). This web-based version
      will be used for part 3 of the study, which will be the pilot clinical trial (eDECIDE).

      Self-management is important for persons with type 2 diabetes for glycemic control. When
      diabetes is uncontrolled, it is important to get back in control in order to decrease further
      health complications. New ways of delivering self-management that improve access to treatment
      are needed. This study will help provide background information on any potential problems and
      or benefit of using web-based and mobile phone applications (mHealth) for diabetes
      self-management. In addition, this study will help researchers at University of Kansas School
      of Medicine create a web-based version of the in-person DECIDE program, known as eDECIDE.
      Data gathered from the in-person DECIDE group sessions will be used to create a series of
      events for designing a web-based copy based on several task (current study). Therefore, this
      study is known as a task analysis.

      Task Analysis: This entails documenting observations of an existing system, sequence of
      tasks, and information flows. High-level tasks are divided into subtasks and operations.
      Informational sources required in each subtask are also recorded. This technique is a
      critical step in any software development process to ensure a basic understanding of user
      needs and requirements necessary for optimal learning. It also provides a perspective on
      individual differences across patients. Understanding this workflow is critical and will
      serve as the basis for developing eDECIDE.

      For the task analysis up to 8 individuals will be recruited to take part in the in-person
      DECIDE problem-solving curriculum (task analysis), the information learned in the task
      analysis will help build and test (usability testing) the eDECIDE website, which are both
      integral to the pilot clinical trial (part 3) which will take place last.

      PROCEDURES The current study will administer the DECIDE curriculum to a single group, examine
      responses, build the website, and then prepare for implementing the pilot clinical trial. The
      information gathered from this study will provide information about barriers to problem
      solving for diabetes self-management and perceptions of using a web-based diabetes
      problem-solving format.

      Participants who meet eligibility criteria will take part in 9-weekly sessions on diabetes
      self-management and problem-solving techniques. The sessions will be recorded by audio and
      video tape. All audio and video taped recordings will be used to help create the web-based
      version of DECIDE, known as eDECIDE. All and any personal information that is recorded by
      audio tape will be removed when transcribing the audio recordings. All personal information
      such as name and face will be removed and blurred if video recording clips are used in an
      academic or conference meeting setting. Other personal identifiable information such as date
      of birth, address, or telephone number will be removed when transcribing and you will be
      identified by participant id number. The researcher will ask participants questions about
      their diabetes self-management behaviors; go over problem-solving techniques, and
      self-management skills. The recordings of the focus group sessions will be destroyed 12
      months after publication of the research results.

      Task Analysis and usability testing Procedures:

      Using information gathered from the task analysis, the research team will develop a wire
      frame prototype of eDECIDE. A benefit of the prototype is to have a layout of the interface
      without the distraction of color or visual elements that would normally be a part of the
      actual webpages.

      Once the prototype of the website design is complete, investigators will conduct usability
      testing (part 2) to assess the efficiency, ease-of-use, and user satisfaction based on
      participant feedback. Participant feedback is collected via web camera and online
      questionnaires. Objective data are collected via logging software designed for usability
      testing. Usability testing is a step-by-step process conducted several times throughout the
      design and development process. Results from each test are used to make design
      recommendations for the eDECIDE website. Once usability testing is complete, the pilot
      clinical trial (part 3) of eDECIDE will begin.

      Our long-term goal is to understand how problem-solving skills training (PSST), delivered
      using web-based and mobile phone technology, can improve diabetes self-management in
      community populations.
    
  