
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. to examine the relationship between peripheral mRNA expression levels of dopamine
           markers (DAT1, DRD1, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, and DRD5) and symptomatology of ADHD;

        2. to examine the relationship between peripheral mRNA expression levels of dopamine
           markers and neurocognitive endophenotypes of ADHD;

        3. to identify the specific dopamine markers of methylphenidate effects on the
           symptomatology of ADHD;

        4. to identify the specific dopamine markers of methylphenidate effects on the
           neurocognitive endophenotypes of ADHD.

      Subjects and Methods: We will recruit 120 drug-naïve ADHD patients, aged 7-18 in this 3-year
      project. The patients will receive methylphenidate, and the medication response will be
      assessed regularly within 12-week treatment period (Week 0, 2, 4, 8, and 12). The primary
      efficacy measure is the ADHDRS and CGI-ADHD-S. The secondary measures include the SNAP-IV,
      CBCL, CGI-ADHD-I, SAICA, and Family APGAR. Neuropsychological testing, including WISC-III,
      CPT, and CANTAB, will be performed. The blood sample will be collected, and the mRNA
      expression levels of dopamine markers (DAT1, DRD1, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, and DRD5) hypothesized
      to influence medication effects risks for ADHD will be analyzed.

      Anticipated Results: Our study will identify peripheral dopamine biomarkers that can predict
      individual variability in symptomatology and neurocognitive functions following treatment
      with methylphenidate. The ability of peripheral biomarkers to predict response to
      methylphenidate administration can have important implications for personalizing the
      treatment for ADHD, allowing clinicians to predict which patients will receive greatest
      benefit from dopaminergic medications. The use of mRNA screening in dosing will provide a
      model for future drug development, in which outcome variability is assessed in subgroups of
      peripheral dopamine markers and not merely on the basis of treatment assignment. In addition,
      the findings of such approaches to identify the peripheral biomarkers on the drug response in
      this study should help us to extend our understanding of the pathophysiological mechanism of
      ADHD.
    
  