
    
      The prevalence of patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) is 1-2%,
      and the lifetime risk of heart failure at age 55 years is approximately 30%. Despite advances
      in treatment, hospitalization rate and mortality remains high. It is well known that
      myocardial metabolism changes during development of HFrEF, and may contribute to contractile
      dysfunction. However, the myocardium can be considered an omnivore regarding substrate
      utilization, conferring an important adaptive property. Hence, it metabolizes either glucose,
      lipids, lactate, amino acids or ketones (3-hydroxybutyrate) depending on substrate
      availability, hormonal status and cardiac demands. These substrates differ with regard to
      myocardial energy efficiency (MEE) (cardiac work related to oxygen consumption). Since high
      MEE is associated with a better prognosis in HFrEF, manipulating substrate uptake could be a
      new treatment modality in heart failure patients.

      Recently, it was shown that the human myocardium increases 3-hydroxybutyrate (3-OHB)
      metabolism during development of HFrEF. These changes may be beneficial as 3-OHB could
      increase myocardial efficiency and lower oxidative stress by scavenging free radicals.
      However, until now this has not been investigated in clinical trials, and the effect of 3-OHB
      on cardiac function, oxygen consumption and perfusion remains undetermined in HFrEF patients.

      In the present study the investigators will evaluate whether elevated circulating 3-OHB
      affect myocardial oxygen consumption, MEE and perfusion in healthy subjects and patients with
      HFrEF, and whether 3-OHB affect hemodynamics and contractile function.

      10 healthy test subjects and 20 HFrEF patients will be subjected to placebo and 3-OHB
      infusion in a randomized cross-over design. Acetate-PET, echocardiography and right sided
      heart catheterization will be applied.
    
  