
    
      Venous thromboembolism is the major cause of maternal mortality in the United States and
      there are emerging data that the thrombotic risk is higher in peripartum black women as
      compared to white women. The reasons are unclear: indeed, the few genetic risk factors for
      venous thrombosis that have been identified are more common in whites than blacks. This
      raises the possibility of yet undescribed mutations. To bolster this theory, some intriguing
      studies have noted a similar frequency of 'familial' thrombosis in blacks and whites,
      supporting the existence of yet unidentified hereditary component(s). Sickle cell anemia is a
      genetic disease more prevalent in the black population. Whereas sickle cell anemia has been
      associated with a prothrombotic state, there are limited data to support a prothrombotic
      state in sickle cell trait. We plan to examine whether sickle cell trait might play a role in
      increasing the incidence of thrombosis in the black population.

      Peripartum women are 4-5 times more likely to develop venous thrombosis. Scant literature
      exists on the thrombotic risk in women from different races in the peripartum period and
      there are no studies evaluating venous thrombosis risk in sickle cell trait women during this
      time of increased thrombogenicity. In a retrospective analysis of deliveries of 12,000 women
      at Einstein/Montefiore, a higher incidence of venous thrombosis in black peripartum women was
      observed and, among the black population, a trend for sickle cell trait women to be at higher
      risk compared to black women with the normal hemoglobin (Hb) AA.

      Given the medical importance and financial/sociological impact of venous thrombosis, it is
      important to determine whether black women, and specifically black women with sickle cell
      trait, are really at increased risk for thromboembolic disease during the peripartum period
      and, if so, what intervention(s) might mitigate this risk. We propose to perform a
      prospective study investigating peripartum white Hb AA, black Hb AA, and black sickle cell
      trait women by assessing D-Dimer levels. The D-Dimer levels will be assayed at defined times
      during the peripartum and correlated with pregnancy complications, as well as neonatal and
      birth data, thrombosis and, in selected cases, lower extremity duplex ultrasonography. If,
      after analysis, there is evidence confirming an increased thrombotic risk, we will design and
      institute an interventional trial. The purpose of this application is to fill in the gaps of
      current knowledge regarding the role of race in venous thromboembolism, to test different
      methodologies for studying this significant health problem, and to lay the groundwork for
      clinical trial development to determine whether therapeutic intervention with prophylactic
      anticoagulation is beneficial during the peripartum period for patients with sickle cell
      trait.
    
  