
    
      The HIV epidemic in China is now concentrated among men who have sex with men (MSM), who
      account for a third of new HIV infections. Despite strengthened prevention efforts and
      increased availability of HIV testing in the country, testing rates are low and condomless
      sex is common among Chinese MSM. Globally, condomless sex among MSM, particularly with
      primary partners, is also ubiquitous. To reduce HIV transmission risks in the context of
      condomless sex, MSM communities have adopted a range of sexual harm reduction strategies
      (i.e., seroadaptive behaviors). Essential to the effectiveness of these strategies is
      accurate knowledge of HIV status within the partnership. This necessitates frequent HIV
      testing and mutual HIV status disclosure. However, significant proportions of MSM have never
      tested or not recently tested and are unaware of their own and their partner's HIV status,
      especially in settings where sexual minorities are stigmatized. Among Chinese MSM, their
      ability to successfully use these harm reduction strategies is severely limited by low levels
      of HIV testing and disclosure efficacy. As a result, many Chinese MSM make unreliable
      assumptions about their own and their partners' serostatus (i.e., seroguessing), resulting in
      risky condomless sex. As many of these men do not access facility-based testing, new and
      emerging HIV testing options must be expanded to help these men make informed decisions about
      sexual risk and harm reduction. HIV self-testing (HIVST) offers a promising prevention
      strategy to reach more untested Chinese MSM, increase testing frequency, and serve as a
      valuable prevention tool to assist harm reduction. The investigators propose to determine the
      feasibility and preliminary efficacy of an HIVST intervention in facilitating sexual harm
      reduction and reducing HIV transmission among MSM in Nanjing, China. The investigators will:
      1) conduct participant observation (N = 20) and cognitive interviews (N=10) to determine what
      information and support is needed for MSM to use HIVST safely and practice sexual harm
      reduction responsibly; and 2) recruit and enroll 400 high-risk HIV-negative MSM into a RCT
      where the intervention group will be offered HIVST kits plus harm reduction education and
      followed over a 9-month period to determine whether the intervention increases uptake and
      frequency of testing in partnership, improves disclosure and awareness of partners' HIV
      status, and therefore facilitates sexual harm reduction and reduces HIV transmission.
      Expanding HIV testing among key populations is a priority for HIV prevention worldwide.
      Innovative strategies are needed to encourage MSM to seek HIV testing while taking into
      consideration existing paradigms of community-originated and driven harm reduction
      strategies. As HIVST is being introduced to different settings and becoming more accessible,
      findings from this proposed study will provide vital information on current patterns of
      seroadaptation and HIVST use; identify what is needed to promote HIVST's proper use for harm
      reduction and linkage to HIV/STI care, and whether HIVST can improve the accuracy of harm
      reduction strategies.
    
  