
    
      All visits will take place at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Nursing
      Clinical Diabetes and Exercise Laboratory. At time 1 (T1), participants will complete
      baseline assessments. Participants will complete health and biological assessments, including
      measures of glucose control (A1C), body mass index (BMI) and a diabetes health history,
      including, diabetes knowledge, and current DSM behaviors. The investigators will collect
      assessments of autonomous motivation, diabetes distress, depression, self-efficacy for
      diabetes self-care, and neighborhood related stress at baseline (T1) and upon completion of
      the 6-week intervention at time 2 (T2).

      Intervention Week 1. Education and Fitbit set-up/instructions. The women will begin the
      intervention as soon as five women are enrolled and T1 assessments are completed. The
      investigators chose the group setting for the education to encourage social interaction and
      support, which has been associated with DSM in a similar population to ours. The education
      will consist of two 2-3-hour blocks of interactive diabetes education that will be
      personalized in response to the cluster members' DM knowledge, health, and self-care history.
      Education will follow the 2017 National Standards for Diabetes Self-Management and Support.
      Education sessions will be culturally adapted to reflect needs of AA participants, including
      feelings of powerlessness, access to care and family roles. Dr. Fritschi (PI) is a certified
      diabetes educator (CDE) and has worked with low-income, urban diabetes patients since 1994.
      She will adapt and deliver the education.

      Session 1 (2-3 hours): Diabetes self-management education (DSME) will include target glucose
      ranges, medications, foot care, and dietary and exercise effects on glucose levels.

      Session 2 (2-3 hours): At the start of the session, subjects will be given a wrist-worn
      activity tracker (Fitbit Charge 3 accelerometer) that will be able to assess real-time steps
      and heart rate. The Fitbit will also be able to track specific activities (e.g., cycling,
      yoga) that the participant may choose to track. Participants will be taught how to download
      the Fitbit app into their smart phones and set up personal accounts. The Fitbit Charge 3 was
      chosen because it has a larger screen and easier app than other devices, and Co-investigator
      Dr. Ulf Bronas has used the Fitbit extensively in his prior research. Group education will
      include interactive, hands-on learning about performing foot checks prior to walking;
      stretching exercises; and creative methods for accumulating steps when the weather or
      environment doesn't permit walking outside. Participants will individually meet with the
      exercise physiologist (Dr. Bronas) for a practical educational session using a
      treadmill-walking bout to determine heart rate goals for moderate and brisk walking. They
      will be given a written, personalized exercise plan for steps and target heart rate. The
      group will be coached in setting SMART (specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and
      time-bound) goals for the following week. The goals may include Fitbit data, such as goals
      for step counts, stairs climbed, or minutes of activity.

      The Fitbit is a cost-effective wrist-worn activity tracker that is commercially available.
      Fitbit data provide information on daily level of physical activities and heart rate.
      Measures include number of steps taken, four levels of activity (sedentary, light, moderate,
      and moderate-vigorous), distance traveled, and an activity score. Fitbits have been shown to
      be reliable and valid for step counts and total daily energy expenditure in free-living
      conditions. The advantages of using a Fitbit tracker are its cost-effectiveness and its
      ability to measure walking unobtrusively. The investigators are using it as a motivator and
      an option for individuals to set activity goals. Because patients are more likely to wear the
      Fitbit continuously, There will be fewer missing data, and activity bouts can be tracked.

      Week 2. The women will return to the laboratory for review of their goals and problem-solving
      sessions with a team member. They will be given a personal-use Freestyle Libre (Abbott Labs,
      Alameda, CA) Personal CGM (FDA approved). The Libre CGM differs from similar systems in that
      it is affordable and does not require fingerstick glucose samples for calibration so is not
      dependent on the user. A small, discrete, water-resistant glucose sensor will be placed on
      the upper arm by a trained study staff member. The sensor is accurate and stable for up to 14
      days. Participants will use a small hand-held "reader" to scan glucose readings whenever they
      want to, or when prompted. While wearing the CGM, the women will never need to perform a
      finger stick blood glucose test. Participants will be taught how to use the CGM and how to
      interpret the graphs that will appear on the reader. Glucose data will be downloaded by our
      team for analysis of patterns in response to use of the cue cards and Fitbit activity data.
      Data will also be analyzed for averages of glucose levels by time of day and day; and glucose
      variability (Standard Deviation). Dr. Fritschi has extensive experience with use of CGM and
      its data. At the end of the session the women will review their prior goals and may choose to
      set new goals. The women will work with a member of the team to create a personalized "cue
      card" that they can carry with them in their pocket or purse. The cue card will be a living
      document. It will be developed by the study team and the participants and may be revised as
      necessary.

      The cue cards will be approximately the size of a small index card and laminated for
      durability. One side of the card will have the participants' medications and personal goals.
      The reverse side of the card will contain a reminder of their target glucose range (80-130
      mg/dL), and a list of strategies for activities or eating behaviors they can accomplish
      within the context of their daily lives. These behavior options will be developed with help
      from a research team member and other women in their group. At any time during the study,
      participants may meet with a team member to revise the cue cards. The women will wear their
      Fitbit and personal CGM continuously for 14-days while using their cue cards. The women will
      be encouraged to contact the research team for additional problem-solving or questions during
      this time.

      Week 4. The women will return to the laboratory for goal review and problem solving as a
      group. Data from the Fitbits and CGMs will be downloaded to assess frequency of use, and any
      device-related problems. Since the CGM sensor is approved for 14-day use only, a new sensor
      will be attached. At this meeting, the investigators will review and revise the goals based
      on personal preferences and abilities to meet goals by the women. The goals will be revised
      as needed. The behaviors may also change. As the women gain experience with the behavior
      choices, they may decide that the options are too difficult or too easy and thus want to
      change them. They may have new behavior options they want to try from suggestions made by
      other women in the group. At the conclusion of the session, new laminated cards will be given
      to the women.

      Weeks 4-6. The women will wear the CGM and Fitbit devices while maintaining their normal
      routines. Data from each device will be downloaded to assess frequency of use, and any
      device-related problems.

      Week 6. At the end of Week 6, the women will complete T2 assessments and final interviews.
      The women will be allowed to keep the personal CGM and the Fitbit.

      Final Assessments (T2) will include all of the surveys from T1 (excluding health history and
      eligibility screening). Additionally, the investigators will conduct structured interviews.
      about the acceptability of the study procedures and suggestions for changes in the
      intervention for future, larger trials. The interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed
      by an outside agency. Content analysis will be performed for common themes.
    
  