
    
      Laparoscopic surgeries form an essence of today's surgical practice because of its
      magnification, less cosmetic scar, less postoperative pain, and decreased hospital stay along
      with less morbidity and mortality.

      According to the American Heart Association (AHA), approximately 86 million adults (34%) in
      the United States are affected by hypertension, which is defined as a systolic blood pressure
      (SBP) of 140 mm Hg or more or a diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 90 mm Hg or more, taking
      anti-hypertensive medication of those with high blood pressure (BP), 78% were aware they were
      hypertensive, 68% were being treated with anti-hypertensive agents, and only 64% of treated
      individuals had controlled hypertension.

      Anaesthetic management in these patients has become complicated due to cardiopulmonary
      changes occurring during creation of pneumoperitoneum with CO2 and patient position required
      for different laparoscopy surgeries. Effects of pneumoperitoneum for laparoscopic surgeries
      on heart rate and blood pressure was recognized more than 50years ago and the magnitude of
      the changes was observed to depend on the depth of anesthesia. The cardiovascular,
      neuroendocrine, and renal changes induced by the CO2 pneumoperitoneum produce a complex
      pathophysiological state remarkably similar to that in patients with chronic heart failure,
      though the initiating event is clearly very different. In normotensive subjects these
      hemodynamic changes are short lived5and probably of little significance. However, these
      haemodynamic alterations are hazardous to the patients with hypertension, myocardial
      insufficiency or cerebrovascular disease.

      Various pharmacologic and nonpharmacological methods have been tried to limit the pressor
      response following the creation of pneumoperitoneum. The success rate is variable with
      different methods because each method has its own merits and demerits. In several clinical
      trials drugs like opioids, β-blockers, lidocaine, nitrate calcium channel blockers or
      magnesium have already been used orally or parenterally to obtund this sympathoadrenal
      response. Recently, there is considerable interest in the use of α2-adrenergic agonists to
      provide hemodynamic stability during pneumoperitoneum.

      Dexmedetomidine famous for its awake sedation is eight times more selective than clonidine
      for the α2-adrenergic receptors. The ratio of α2:α1 activity of dexmedetomidine is 1620:1. It
      activates pro-survival kinases and attenuates ischemia and hypoxic injury, including cardio
      protection. Concurrent infusion during surgery reduces anesthetic consumption by 20-50% , and
      produces a decrease in heart rate and blood pressure that may be advantageous for
      hypertensives. Hypertension associated to pneumoperitoneum in normotensive patients has been
      controlled with the loading dose of dexmedetomidine. So our rational is to see the
      hemodynamic stability of dexmedatomindine in hypertensive patients undergoing
      pneumoperitoneum.
    
  