
    
      Patients who have undergone dermatologic excision for any indication with or without Mohs
      micrographic surgical technique and surgically closed in linear fashion with scar length of
      greater than or equal to 4.5cm on any site but the scalp will be approached for enrollment in
      the study. Any closure in which one half of the linear scar appears grossly unequal to or
      worse than the other (due to any number of causes, such as suture technique, etc.) will be
      excluded from the study. Any patient whose surgical procedure was deemed as having high risk
      of post-surgical infection would also be excluded from the study as well as those with known
      history of topical zinc allergy. Consent will be obtained with one of the trained
      co-investigators. Included in this consent will be consent to collection of basic patient
      medical data pertinent to wound healing/scar formation will be obtained, such as history of
      keloids, smoking, history of diabetes mellitus, history of cancer and/or on chemotherapy,
      history of transplant, and immunosuppressive status, etc. for the purposes of this research.
      Risk to patients using zinc oxide ointment has been deemed by the FDA as minimal. Of note,
      zinc oxide ointment currently is the gold standard treatment for erosive diaper dermatitis on
      newborns and infants. It is generally deemed safe clinically and its application to other
      clinical settings outside of diaper rash has not been explored.

      Upon providing consent for the study, the patient's surgical closure will be demarcated with
      sterile inked pen and "V" will be drawn on one end and "Z" on the other. The control,
      standard of care petrolatum (i.e. Vaseline) will be applied to the side indicated by "V" and
      the experimental treatment zinc oxide will be applied to the "Z" side. As a general rule, if
      oriented longitudinally, "Z" will mark distal, "V" will mark proximal. If oriented
      horizontally (left to right), "V" will mark the left side, "Z" the right. The ointments and
      standard pressure dressing will be administered in clinic upon closure and
      consent/enrollment. Patients will be sent home with package containing standard wound
      dressing materials as well as both zinc oxide and petrolatum.

      Patients will be sent home with instructions and wound care materials to perform the
      following: (1) Keep post surgical pressure dressing in place for 48 hours (2) Gentle soap and
      water cleansing after 48 hours once daily (3) With daily dressing changes self apply zinc
      oxide ointment to side indicated by "Z" and petrolatum (vaseline) to side indicated by "V"
      (3b) Patient will be encouraged to re-mark site Z and V to serve as reminder to enhance
      compliance (4) Patient will sign off on daily log twice: once upon application of zinc oxide
      to Z side and upon application of petrolatum to V side. (5) Patient will perform daily
      dressing changes as above for one month. The application of daily ointment with or without
      dressing is also routine standard of care at the present time. Draft of patient instructions
      has been included with this submission.

      Patients will be seen at the routine standard of care visit 7 days post-op for suture
      removal. At this point in time, accompanying dressing will be taken down, cleansed with
      sterile saline, and patient wounds will be photographed under standardized conditions, with
      avoidance of any clue as to which ointment was applied to which side. In addition, patients
      will perform the patient portion of the POSAS (Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale
      v2.0, a validated measure of scar cosmesis, with 6 to 60 scale, with low numbers represent
      that scar appears most similar to normal skin, whereas 60 indicates that the scar is visually
      furthest from normal skin, i.e. worst possible scar). Patients will also follow-up at 4
      weeks, 8 weeks, and 6 months post-operatively for scar assessment. Patient parking will be
      validated. For patients requesting optimal close clinical follow-up for post-surgical scars,
      this appointment schedule represents the highest standard of care. At these visits,
      photographs will be obtained, and patients will again be asked to complete the patient
      portion of the POSAS scale. Upon completion of the six month follow-up visit for this pilot
      study, patients will be given a basic skin care product sample gift bag, containing a
      standardized collection of samples of hypoallergenic washes and moisturizers. Of note, if a
      patient is unable to return for the final six month follow-up visit, patients will be allowed
      to submit electronic photographs (non-standardized, self taken) with clear instructions to
      send via secure message via MyUPMC, a secure interface allowing for communication between
      patient's and doctors within the UPMC (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center) network. This
      option is to be reserved as a last resort. Patients will not receive the gift bag if unable
      to return for this final study visit. Please note that patient obtained and entered
      photographs are routinely used clinically for remote assessment of skin disorders for routine
      clinical follow-up.

      Board-certified dermatologists at the end of the study will evaluate the photographs obtained
      at a later point in the study. Through photographic and/or edited technique if necessary,
      they will be blinded to which side received zinc oxide and which side received petrolatum.
      Indeed, the POSAS has been validated with photographic use. In addition, an estimation of the
      linear proportion of epidermal seal will be evaluated visually based on clinical exam and/or
      photographs. Specifically, the length of the wound will be measured at this visit and
      distance of scar containing non grossly apposed skin edges will be measured. The sum of
      length of non-sealed areas within the V side and within the Z side will be calculated. In
      addition, clinical evidence of surgical site infection, wound disruption, and/or any other
      post-surgical complications will be documented.

      Upon completion of study visits, POSAS score, epidermal seal, and other clinical data will be
      statistically analyzed. Compliance rates will be calculated. Primary outcome of POSAS vs. %
      epidermal seal will be utilized. A total of 30 participants has been established as a goal
      for this pilot study with guidance from the Clinical and Translational Science Institute at
      the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

      The standardized post surgical scar assessment tool (SCAR, Scar Cosmesis Assessment and
      Rating) will be utilized to objectively record scar outcomes. In addition, photographs of the
      surgical sites will be taken at each visit. In exchange for their participation, all patient
      wound care materials will be provided by the clinic.

      These research procedures will take place in the surgical suites of the UPMC Falk Dermatology
      Office Building and the UPMC St. Margaret's Dermatology Office Building. These activities are
      to take place during the 2018-19 academic year.

      Clinical staff at both sites will be involved in the conduct of the study. Patients
      referred/scheduled to see faculty dermatologic surgeon Dr. Melissa Pugliano-Mauro will be the
      population pool.
    
  