
    
      Background:

        -  Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is an indolent CD22+ B-cell leukemia comprising 2% of all
           leukemias, or approximately 1200 of the 62,130 new cases of leukemia/year in the US. HCL
           variant (HCLv), also CD22+, is 10-20% as common as HCL, but more common in the
           relapsed/refractory population due to its poor prognosis and response to standard purine
           analog chemotherapy. HCLv cells are CD25-negative and wild type for BRAF, so HCLv
           patients are not candidates for BRAF inhibitors. CD25+ classic-appearing HCL-cells that
           express unmutated IGHV4-34 are wild-type for BRAF, remain brightly CD22 positive, and
           confer a poor prognosis when treated with chemotherapy.

        -  Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk is a recombinant immunotoxin containing a variable domain
           (Fv) fragment of an anti-CD22 monoclonal antibody and truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin,
           which kills CD22+ cells by binding to CD22 via the Fv fragment, and induction of
           apoptotic cell death catalytic inhibition of protein synthesis in the cytosol.

        -  Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk in phase 1 testing demonstrated a high complete response (CR)
           rate in patients with chemoresistant HCL, without dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), but with
           reversible grade 2 hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) not requiring plasmapheresis.

        -  Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk completed multicenter phase 3 testing in 80 patients, meeting
           its CR endpoint, with 8.8% incidence each of capillary leak syndrome (CLS, grade 3-4
           2.5%), and HUS (grade 3-4 6.3%), both reversible.

        -  Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk is the only known non-chemotherapy-containing regimen for HCL
           which can consistently eradicate minimal residual disease (MRD), and this is associated
           with prolonged CR durations. Recently, US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has
           accepted the Biologics License Application (BLA) for moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk as the
           treatment of adult patients with HCL.

        -  Patients who did not achieve CR, or CR with MRD, often made neutralizing antibodies to
           the bacterial-based toxin, and/or had collections of HCL cells not completely eradicated
           by moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk. Both issues may be addressed by the addition of anti-CD20
           monoclonal antibody (Mab) rituximab to Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk.

      Objective:

      -To determine the safety and toxicity of Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk and rituximab used at the
      planned dose level, in patients with HCL and HCLv.

      Eligibility:

        -  HCL or HCLv with at least 1 prior purine analog, and, for HCL patients with >=2-years 1
           month response, at least 1 other therapy.

        -  Need for treatment, either 1) ANC <1/nL, 2) Hgb <10g/dL, 3) Plt <100/nL, 4) symptomatic
           splenomegaly, or enlarging HCL mass > 2cm in short axis

        -  Serum creatinine < 1.5 mg/dL, or creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 60 mL/min
           by Cockcroft-Gault equation, where creatinine clearance = (140 age)(Kg weight)/(72 times
           Creatinine).

        -  No uncontrolled infection or cardiopulmonary dysfunction

      Design:

        -  Phase I trial, single arm, non-randomized, dose escalation

        -  Administration:

             -  Doses: Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk 30-40 mcg/kg intravenous (iv) over 30 min,
                rituximab 375 mg/m^2 iv, 50-400 mg/hr.

             -  Rituximab day 1 (begin day -2 on cycle 1), Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk days 1, 3,
                and 5.

             -  Patients will receive up 4 cycles past documentation of CR without MRD, maximum 8.

             -  To prevent renal toxicity and hypovolemia, patients will be encouraged to drink
                water gradually, approximately 1 cup/hour or 6L/day, not going >3 hours without
                drinking from days 1 to 8 and to keep a hydration diary to record daily fluid
                consumption.

             -  To prevent rituximab toxicity, patients will receive prophylactic dexamethasone
                orally 0.5- 2 hours before the 1st dose of rituximab, and before subsequent doses
                until rituximab infusion reactions are not seen. Patients will also receive
                diphenhydramine, famotidine, and acetaminophen.

             -  Dexamethasone 4 mg orally (maximum 2 doses/day) will be given as needed to treat
                nausea or fever associated with Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk, which might prevent
                adequate water intake

        -  Statistical design:

             -  Up to 10-16 patients are intended to be treated in the trial; if a higher dose of
                Moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk is used, total 16 evaluable subjects may be required.
    
  