
    
      There is a fundamental question nowadays about elderly cancer patients and how investigators
      can take care of them best. As the French National Institute for cancer stated, a third of
      all cancers are diagnosed for people over 70 years old. There are specificities for those
      patients: autonomy maintenance, treatments efficacy with minimum side effects.

      This is why the Alpine Unit for Geriatric Oncology (UCOGAlp) was opened, and answered to a
      national call to projects. It includes 15 hospitals upon the East side of the Rhone-Alpes
      state. Since 2012, this unit evaluates, according to geriatric oncology validated tests,
      cancer patients that are 70 years old and older, so they can benefit from an adequate care
      plan. The need for a geriatric evaluation is determined by the Oncodage test (G8), or on
      clinical data.

      The investigators wanted to see the impact of those initial evaluations, and so the centres
      developed follow-ups at day 30 and day 120. Investigators want to create a database that
      gathers the informations from the centres, to evaluate the care practices that were
      developed, and prove the benefit of such care for the patients, also on physical dependence
      and overall survival. This will allow new research paths in the field of geriatric oncology.

      This study is an observational descriptive one, multicenter, using prospective data for the
      geriatric oncology as defined by the UCOGAlp.

      It is asking the question of registering care practices in several centres of the Alpine
      valley that have a geriatric consultation, for elderly cancer patients.

      The main outcome is the number of follow-ups of patients at 4 months (D120). The secondary
      outcomes are the adequation between the treatment that is suggested by a committee, the
      geriatrician's opinion, and the given treatment, the risk factors associated with dependence,
      and the overall survival.

      The patients that are 70 years and older, recently diagnosed with cancer, are included in the
      study. They have an initial evaluation of their diseases, the autonomy level, a few
      biological data (hemoglobin, albumen, renal function), other diseases of the patient (and if
      they have any effect on his autonomy), the treatment that is chosen by specialists. Then
      there are the follow-ups with the same questions at D30 and D120. The investigators also want
      to collect data on overall survival after a 2-year follow-up.

      The investigators want the analyze from this data to be the start of many projects in
      geriatric oncology, whether it is for survival or decision of treatment.
    
  