
    
      -  There is no record of AIDS in Chinese medicine, modern clinicians hold that AIDS is
           linked to TCM theory according to its pathogenesis, character of onset and clinical
           manifestations. As early as more than 2000 years ago, there were records of immune
           function in TCM. 2 TCM books recorded that "keep vital Qi, the evil will not invade the
           body "and" the invasion of evil is caused by the deficiency of vital Qi. Vital Qi
           summarizes the normal immune system function. Vital Qi is the basic material and
           physiological function which can eliminate the evil, regulating yin and yang and protect
           the body.

        -  And this is in accordance with defense, homeostasis and surveillance of immune system in
           western medicine. The knowledge of immunology has guided medical practice in China for
           more than two thousand years. In response to a variety of immune diseases, there are
           various immunotherapy such as Yiqi Fuzheng immunotherapy, reinforce kidney therapy,
           huoxuehuayu therapy and heat-clearing and detoxifying therapy. Throughout the course of
           AIDS, the evil (HIV) exists and the vital Qi is turning weak gradually. If we adopted a
           number of intervention measures to assist the body's Vital Qi, Vital Qi will be
           strengthened and the evil will be weakened. Therefore, TCM will play an important role
           in improving immune function.

        -  Chinese prescriptions can inhibit viral replication according to the course of viral
           replication, and the effects is similar to the effect of HAART, and even better than the
           anti-viral and immune reconstitution of HAART due to its effect on improve immune system
           function. Over the past decades, many researchers have screened the effective Chinese
           medicines to treat AIDS.

      Researchers screened single Chinese herbs, some extract and the effective components of
      Chinese medicine and prescriptions. Some study the role of its anti-HIV, some study the role
      of its regulating immunization function. The former studies have shown that immunization 2
      (Fuzheng 2) has wide effect on immune system and it can activate the reticuloendothelial
      system, macrophage phagocytes and lymphocyte transformation. And it can relieve disorders,
      imbalance of the immune system caused by HIV infection.

        -  In addition, this prescription can inhibit HIV reverse transcription polymerase enzyme
           and virus-induced syncytium formation, protect virus-infected cells, and inhibit virus
           replication in HIV-1 infected cells.

        -  Through the clinical trials, we will evaluate the effect of immune 2 (Fuzheng 2) on
           immune reconstitution of adult HIV/AIDS patients who have received HAART.
    
  