
    
      The subjects is divided into early gastric cancer patients and gastric adenoma patients
      according to histologic biopsy result and white light endoscopic findings. Study 1 applies
      for early gastric cancer patients, Study 2 applies for gastric adenoma patients.

      A) Study 1 The NBI group performs ME-NBI first before EUS. The endoscopist evaluates NBI
      findings such as the invasion depth and describes ME-NBI impression. And then, EUS is
      performed likewise. The final treatment plan is determined by the EUS result, so group
      assignment does not affect the final treatment plan.

      The EUS group performs EUS first before NBI. The endoscopist evaluates EUS findings such as
      the invasion depth and describes EUS impression. And then, ME-NBI is performed likewise. The
      final treatment plan is determined by the EUS result, so group assignment does not affect the
      final treatment plan.

      According to clinical stage of early gastric cancer, endoscopic resection is performed in
      case of endoscopic resection indication or beyond indication but case of having the risk of
      surgery according to patient status. The surgical resection is performed if the patient wants
      surgery or does not meet the indications of endoscopic resection.

      The pathologist performs a histological evaluation of the resected gastric cancer lesion,
      including an invasive depth.

      B) Study 2 First, the endoscopist performs WLE and describes WLE findings and impression such
      as location, size, and gross morphology of lesion. The same examiner performs ME-NBI and
      describes ME-NBI findings and impression such as mucosal pattern, predicted degree of
      dysplasia.

      Endoscopic resection or surgical resection is performed according to the results of
      histologic result of gastric adenoma.

      The pathologist performs a histological evaluation of the resected dysplastic lesion.
    
  