
    
      The department of oral surgery in Ghent has a lot of patients for bilateral sinus lift
      procedures. The group of patients should have enough bone for installation of 4 dental
      implants in the area 14-24. In this region 4 implants will be installed and immediate loading
      with a provisional acrylic (metal reinforced) bridge will be provided. The survival and
      success of the implants immediate functional loading will be studied (interest point 1). Two
      different implant surfaces are used in the study to be compared (interest point 2) in
      relation to peri-implant parameters, radiographical healing, and success criteria at the same
      time bilateral sinus lifting is performed. One sinus is filled with a mixture of iliac crest
      bone and Bio-Oss (Geistlich Germany), and the second sinus is filled with calvarial skull
      bone and Bio-oss. The latter bone combination is appreciated clinically by the surgeons since
      it leads to a subjectively better implant stability. This, however, remains to be
      investigated. This study can compare both harvesting techniques and evaluate clinical
      treatment outcome (interest point 3). Normally, there is a certain waiting time after sinus
      lifting before dental implants are installed. Recently, however, some literature abstracts
      indicate that immediate placement of the implants in the sinus lifted bone can be successful.
      However, this is not done with immediate functional loading. We propose to install in total 6
      miniscrews, 2 in each sinus lift area. Four will be loaded immediately and connected rigidly
      to the other 4 normal sized implants. Actually the immediate loaded bridge will be supported,
      in total, by 4 normal and 4 miniscrew implants. Four months after loading, the 4 loaded
      miniscrews are removed with a trephine drill in order to examine soft-tissue healing,
      bone-implant contact, and bone healing by means of histomorphometry. Since the implants are
      in cortical bone + sinus lifted bone, it will be possible to examine the given implant
      surface under immediate loading in both bone conditions (interest point 4). Immediately after
      removing the miniscrews, they are replaced by the normal sized implants. One side will be
      randomly assigned for immediate non-functional loading, the other side will be assigned to a
      non-loaded condition. With this latter design we can mimic the partial sinus lift condition
      as it is often done 4 months after sinus lifting - the classical procedure. At the time of
      exposing the implants of the 2-stage procedure, the miniscrews are removed. This gives us an
      idea of bone healing of an implant installed 4 months after sinus lifting and kept
      additionally unloaded for 4 months. This gives us histology of immediately loaded implants in
      healed sinus lifted bone (interest point 5).
    
  