
    
      Study Aim Our aim is to perform a randomized controlled trial comparing air insufflation
      colonoscopy (conventional method ) vs. water infusion colonoscopy ( study method ) in non
      veteran female subjects presenting for colonoscopy . Subjects will be randomized 1:1 like the
      flip of coin.

      Study Design This is a prospective, single center, investigator initiated, randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) to compare the study method (water infusion colonoscopy) with
      conventional method (air insufflation colonoscopy "pump air to dilate the colon to visualize
      the colon mucosa) in female patients by experienced colonoscopist. Patients will be
      classified ASA 1 (No organic, physiologic, biomedical or psychiatric disturbance) and ASA 2
      (Mild to moderate systemic diseases which are well controlled including hypertension,
      diabetes mellitus, asthma, age 70 and over) before colonoscopy procedure.

      Research Methods and Procedures The air (conventional) method: Air is pumped gently
      (insufflation) into the colon will be used to open the inside space of the colon and aid in
      colonoscope insertion The water (study) method: Warm water (body temperature) will be pumped
      into the colon in place of air to open the inside of space of the colon and aid in
      colonoscope insertion After insertion, both methods may use any of the following procedures
      to advance the colonoscope in to the colon: colonoscope shortening maneuver, abdominal
      compression, by the assistant, and change of patient position. In both methods air
      insufflation will be used to distend the colon for inspection, biopsy and polypectomy.
      Washing of the stool covered mucosa and inspection behind the folds will be performed
      systematically. After turn around in the rectum, residual air and water will be removed by
      suction.

      Data gathering instruments used in the VA studies will be employed (subject interview
      questions are attached). Statistical analyses similar to those used in the previous VA
      studies (Student's t tests, Fischer's exact test, Mann-Whitney U test, etc) will be used to
      analyze the data.

      Biopsy and polypectomy will be performed as usual and all tissues will be submitted for
      routine histological assessment and the pathology will be recorded.
    
  