
    
      Ivermectin is currently used for mass drug distribution for the control of onchocerciasis and
      elimination of lymphatic filariasis in Africa. Due to the occurrence of severe neurologic
      adverse events in individuals with concomitant Loa loa infection and high levels of
      circulating microfilariae, drug distribution has been halted in many areas in Cameroon,
      Democratic Republic of Congo and other Loa-endemic countries. Diethylcarbamazine citrate
      (DEC) is the treatment of choice for Loa loa infection in the United States and other
      non-endemic countries, but can also be associated with the development of severe adverse
      reactions, including fatal encephalopathy, that are correlated with the number of circulating
      microfilariae in the blood. The cause of these reactions is unknown, and it is not known if
      post-treatment reactions to DEC and ivermectin both have the same underlying mechanism.
      Post-treatment reactions to both medications are accompanied by a dramatic interleukin-5
      (IL-5)-dependent increase in eosinophilia and evidence of eosinophil activation. Preliminary
      data suggests that, unlike post-treatment responses in Wolbachia-containing filariae,
      inflammatory mediators commonly seen in bacterial infections and malaria, including tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and IL-1-beta, are not increased post-treatment with DEC. The aim
      of this study is to characterize the immunologic mechanisms of ivermectin and DEC
      posttreatment reactions so that it can be established whether or not these posttreatment
      reactions have the same underlying mechanism. An understanding of the pathophysiology of
      these post-treatment reactions is necessary in order to develop strategies to prevent these
      reactions in the future. We plan to randomize 20 subjects with low- to- moderate numbers of
      circulating Loa loa microfilariae to receive a single oral dose of either ivermectin (200
      mcg/kg) or DEC (8 mg/kg) in an inpatient setting in Cameroon. Signs and symptoms, blood
      microfilarial levels, complete blood counts, intracellular and serum cytokine levels and
      markers of eosinophil activation will be assessed at baseline, 4 and 8 hours, and 1, 2, 3, 5,
      7, and 9 and 14 days post-treatment and compared between the two treatment groups. Subjects
      who received ivermectin will be treated with single dose DEC (8 mg/kg) on day 14. All
      subjects will then be followed at 6 and 12 months post-hospitalization to determine whether
      they have experienced Loa-specific symptoms (eyeworm or Calabar swellings). Mf count and
      complete blood count (CBC) with differential will be obtained at each follow-up visit.
      Subjects with Loa-specific symptoms or mf counts > 100 mf/mL at the 6 month time point will
      be offered a full treatment course. If > 50% of subjects meet criteria for full DEC treatment
      at the 6, month time point, all subjects will be treated and the study will enter a follow-up
      phase with a visit at 12 months (6 months after the full treatment course ).
    
  