
    
      Caring for people with mild and major neurocognitive disorder (NCD) is a major challenge for
      the current international health care systems. People with NCD lack care to meet their needs,
      which makes the development and implementation of specific interventions a priority. These
      should aim to increase the self-care potential of people with mild and major NCD, by
      promoting their autonomy and family support.

      "Making a Difference 3 (MD3) - Individual Cognitive Stimulation Therapy: A manual for carers"
      is an example of an individual cognitive stimulation program. This program is useful for a
      large number of elderly people who, for various reasons, can not participate in group
      cognitive stimulation program. This individual cognitive stimulation can be developed in
      several settings, including in people's homes and with use of inexpensive resources, but very
      little knowledge has been produced in this area. Studies carried out in the family
      environment and involving the caregiver showed gains for the people, such as improvement in
      cognitive performance including memory, verbal fluency, problem solving capacity, less
      institutionalization; and for their caregivers, improvement in their overall well-being
      including decreased feelings of hostility.

      However, the methodological fragility of these studies is emphasized in both the design,
      sample size and lack of uniformity in the type and time of the intervention. The individual
      cognitive stimulation that we intend to study by applying the MD3 program is considered a
      complex intervention because it followed in its construction the guidelines recommended by
      the Medical Research Council.

      The efficacy study of this individual cognitive stimulation program, developed at the
      National Health Service (NHS) in England, and which we intend to replicate in part, was a
      25-week randomized controlled trial of 273 dyads. In this study, there were no statistically
      significant differences between the experimental group and the control group in the outcomes
      evaluated as: cognition, self-report quality of life, psychological and behavioral
      symptomatology, and depressive symptomatology. Regarding the caregivers, the study revealed
      that there were no statistically significant differences in mental and physical health
      between groups, but the intervention group revealed a higher quality of life. However, some
      conditioning factors that may have compromised the final results of this study, namely the
      loss of participants and the low adherence to the program (22% of the participants did not
      complete any of the sessions and only 51% of the dyads completed more than 30 sessions).
      Dyads that completed more sessions showed improvement in the quality of the relationship,
      while the caregivers showed less depressive symptoms.

      The investigators understand that, in the context of these results, more studies are needed
      to evaluate the effects of this program, but mainly it is necessary to find strategies that
      limit the low adherence and understand the applicability of the MD3 program.

      In summary, there is no evidence base on the efficacy of individual cognitive stimulation in
      people with mild or major NCD in the home setting of the elderly, managed by the informal
      caregiver and supervised by health professionals (eg nurses). In addition, in Portugal, there
      are still no structured programs of cognitive stimulation with individual sessions for use in
      the home context. In this sense, the team of the present project proposes to produce national
      evidence on the efficacy of individual cognitive stimulation in people with mild and major
      NCD in the elderly domiciliary context, managed by the informal caregiver and supervised by
      health professionals. Simultaneously, to know the acceptability (by the adhesion - number of
      stimulation sessions performed - by the dyad) and the practicability of the program (evaluate
      to what extent the sessions are practical and practicable within the home context.
    
  