
    
      Background and Significance: The current prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorder is 1 in 68
      children, and 69% of these children do not have an intellectual disability (ASDwoID).
      Individuals with ASDwoID are at considerable risk for maladaptive adult outcomes (e.g., un-
      or underemployment), and executive functioning (EF) impairments significantly contribute to
      this risk. Unstuck and On Target (UOT) is the only empirically supported EF intervention
      specifically targeted to the needs of the ASDwoID population. It has improved both EF and
      social skills in children with ASDwoID in a randomized controlled trial. Despite its
      demonstrated success, there are significant geographical, scheduling, and financial barriers
      to parental adaptation of the Unstuck and On Target (UOT) curriculum.

      Goal and Innovation: The goal of this project is to develop and test e-Unstuck, an e-learning
      intervention that (1) provides advanced training to parents of children with ASDwoID on how
      to implement the evidence-based UOT curriculum at home and (2) is built on 3C's proprietary,
      state-of-the-art, Dynamic e-Learning Platform, an established platform with high ratings of
      quality, value, usability, and feasibility from end users. e-Unstuck will make UOT more
      accessible to parents with geographical, scheduling, and/or financial constraints and will
      provide parents with key tools (e.g., video modeling, virtual simulations, personalized
      reports) to increase efficacious adoption of UOT principles, above and beyond those provided
      in the UOT manual. e-Unstuck will be the first dynamically adaptive, personalized,
      interactive software product specifically designed to deploy an evidence-based EF
      intervention to parents of children with ASDwoID.

      Specific Aims: The investigators will accomplish five specific aims, two in Phase I, and
      three in Phase II: (1) develop a prototype of e-Unstuck, (2) conduct a feasibility test of
      e-Unstuck with parents of children with ASDwoID between the ages of 8-12, (3) fully develop
      the e-Unstuck software and conduct iterative usability testing with parents of children with
      ASDwoID, (4) conduct a pilot efficacy test in which 110 parents of children with ASDwoID are
      randomly assigned to the e-Unstuck intervention or to a control condition in which they
      receive in-person training on the UOT curriculum, and (5) prepare e-Unstuck for
      commercialization.

      Hypotheses: As a result of the pilot efficacy test, the investigators hypothesize that (1)
      parents who interact with the e-Unstuck software will report greater knowledge and use of UOT
      principles, less parenting stress and greater parenting sense of competence, and improved
      child EF and social skills compared to control parents, (2) parents who spend more time
      engaged with the intervention will show greater improvements in outcome variables, and (3)
      parents who interact with the e-Unstuck software will find the software to be of high
      quality, value, usability, and feasibility.

      Commercialization Plan: e-Unstuck will be a unique commercial offering within a large
      underserved niche market. Revenue will be generated through direct sales to parents of
      children with ASDwoID and volume sales to organizations (e.g., schools, clinics, parent
      support agencies) who work with children with ASDwoID and their parents.
    
  