
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To establish whether bevacizumab-induced changes in dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE)-MRI
           vascular parameters are significantly enhanced by recombinant interferon alpha-2a.

        -  To establish whether there is an interferon alpha-2a dose response in potentiating
           bevacizumab-induced changes in DCE-MRI vascular parameters.

      Secondary

        -  To correlate changes in DCE-MRI vascular parameters for each treatment group with
           progression-free survival.

        -  To correlate changes in DCE-MRI vascular parameters for each treatment group with tumor
           response and changes in tumor size.

        -  To correlate changes in DCE-MRI vascular parameters for each treatment group with other
           surrogate biomarkers.

        -  To assess the degree of change in baseline K^trans within each arm of treatment.

        -  To investigate changes in diffusion and blood oxygen-level dependent MRI and their
           correlation with other pharmacodynamic endpoints.

        -  To assess the efficacy and safety profile of bevacizumab monotherapy or in combination
           with low or standard doses of recombinant interferon alpha-2a.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm I and low-dose recombinant interferon
           alpha-2a subcutaneously (SC) 3 times weekly beginning on day 0.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm I and standard-dose recombinant
           interferon alpha-2a SC 3 times weekly beginning on day 0.

      After 8 weeks of treatment, recombinant interferon alpha-2a dosage may be modified or
      discontinued at the discretion of the investigator. Treatment continues in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced (gadopentetate dimeglumine) MRI scans at baseline
      and weeks 2 and 6. Peripheral blood and serum samples are collected at baseline and weeks 2,
      6, and 8 for analysis of surrogate biomarkers by flow cytometry and mRNA analysis by PCR.
      Archival histopathological specimens are analyzed by IHC, fluorescence resonance-energy
      transfer, and fluorescence lifetime-imaging. Urine samples are also collected at baseline for
      proteomic profiling by MALDI-TOF.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.
    
  