
    
      Patients recruited to the study will be randomised to one of 3 groups.

      Group 1 will receive standard care as per our current practice. This includes fasting from
      solids for 6 hours prior to surgery and clear fluids for up to 2 hours prior to surgery.

      Group 2 will receive a carbohydrate (CHO) drink preoperatively as well as adhering to
      standard care. Patients will be allowed to drink this CHO drink as required from admission to
      hospital on the morning of their surgery. They will also receive a further 400ml bolus at 2
      hours prior to surgery.

      Group 3 will receive an apple juice drink preoperatively as well as adhering to standard
      care. Patients will be allowed to drink this apple juice drink as required from admission to
      hospital on the morning of their surgery. They will also receive a further 400ml bolus at 2
      hours prior to surgery.

      Before the start of surgery, the patients non-dominant hand grip strength will be assessed
      using the dynamometer. Their subjective sense of thirst and hunger will be assessed. Their
      fasting times for food and fluids will be recorded. The patients' blood glucose will be
      measured from a blood sample as their intravenous cannula is inserted. The maternal urinary
      ketones will be measured from a urine sample upon insertion.

      The neonatal blood cord glucose will be measured from both an arterial and venous cord blood
      sample after delivery. This will be performed by the trained anaesthesia research fellow.
      Should hypoglycemia be identified, the hospital's neonatal hypoglycemia algorithm will be
      followed appropriately.

      The patients will be followed up at 24 hours by an outcome assessor blinded to the group
      allocation. Numerical rating scale (NRS) pain scores, postoperative nausea and vomiting and
      quality of recovery will be assessed at the patients beside. All neonates will be followed up
      to calculate admissions to neonatal unit and the number of glucose sachets required for
      hypoglycemia.
    
  