
    
      Today, bracing is used to prevent progression of idiopathic scoliosis in children.

      The evidence for bracing and physical activity for treatment of idiopathic scoliosis is poor.
      Only one low quality study has compared bracing with physical exercise, showing no
      statistical differences in the reduction or progression of scoliosis curves between the
      groups. To draw valid conclusions about the effectiveness of postural specific physical
      exercise and brace therapeutic interventions compared to a self mediated activity exercise
      group, a randomized controlled trial research design will be used.

      Preliminary data suggests that approximately 8 hours of night-time bracing with an
      over-corrective brace is as effective as bracing during 23 hours per day. Night-time bracing
      is attractive since you wear the brace a limited amount of time.

      Several theories propose that during the adolescent period of skeletal growth, bone
      deformation may occur due to a combination of asymetrical growth plate activity, vertebral
      body weakness or an imbalance of muscle forces and joint flexibility. An association between
      low bone mineral density and idiopathic scoliosis has been reported in the literature.
      Adequate physical activity levels is a requirement for normal growth and development during
      childhood and adolescents. It is well documented that physical exercise is associated with
      improvements in not only muscle strength, aerobic fitness and motor development but also bone
      density which may help decrease the risk of osteopenic related bone deformation.

      Patients included in the study will be randomized to one of three groups. Each of the three
      groups will receive a physical activity prescription according to World Health Organisation
      recommendations. One group will additionally wear a hyper-corrective night-time brace. One
      group will additionally perform postural scoliosis-specific exercises. Patients not wanting
      to be randomized to the alternative treatments in the clinical trial will receive bracing
      which is the current standard treatment offered.

      The purpose of the study is to compare the risk of curve progression in the different groups.
      Curve progression is measured on x-rays. Participation in the study will last until the curve
      has progressed, or until cessation of skeletal growth. Participants with braces will be
      instructed to wear the brace 8 hours per night. Participants receiving scoliosis specific
      training will receive 3x90 minute physiotherapist guided sessions with an additional session
      provided every 6 months for the entirety of the study. All participants will be recommended
      to be physically active at least 60 minutes per day.
    
  