
    
      Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA), a phenotypically heterogeneous disorder, is characterized by joint
      damage observed in over half of the patients with early disease. While anti-tumor necrosis
      factor (TNF) agents have greatly improved signs and symptoms and lessened joint damage, the
      fact that only a fraction of patients achieve complete remission underscores the tremendous
      unmet need for this population. To date, a biomarker that can stratify patients by severity
      and can serve as a leading indicator of treatment response has not been identified.

      Our laboratory demonstrated that circulating osteoclast precursors (OCP) are elevated in PsA
      patients. OCP decline rapidly following anti-TNF therapy and levels are higher in subjects
      with erosive arthritis compared to those with no x-ray changes. The OCP are derived from
      CD14+ monocytes and the assay entails culture techniques that are costly, expensive and labor
      intensive. We developed an antibody (1A2) to Dendritic Cell Specific Transmembrane Protein
      (DC-STAMP), a potential marker of the OCP population, for analysis by flow cytometry. We
      found that: 1) the level of monocyte DC-STAMP expression correlated with in vitro osteoclast
      formation; 2) DC-STAMP expression is significantly elevated in PBMC from PsA subjects
      compared to controls; 3) TNF dramatically upregulated the expression of DC-STAMP in vitro; 4)
      DC-STAMP surface expression declined following anti-TNF therapy; 5) subsets of CD3+ cells
      also express DC-STAMP on the cell membrane. Based on these preliminary data, three hypotheses
      are proposed:

        1. DC-STAMP+ CD3+ T cells belong to the Th17 subset which facilitates OC generation;

        2. DC-STAMP is a marker of disease severity in PsA;

        3. DC-STAMP is a biomarker of treatment response in PsA.

      We propose three Specific Aims to test these hypotheses.

      Aim 1 To examine whether DC-STAMP+CD3+ cells belong to the Th17 cell subset, PBMC will be
      stained with Th17-specific antibodies in PsA subjects with elevated DC-STAMP expression. We
      will also examine the role of T cells in osteoclastogenesis directly by co-culture
      experiments and we will use monocyte cultures without added lymphocytes as controls. The
      expression of DC-STAMP on circulating dendritic cells will be examined ex vivo with 11-color
      flow cytometry.

      Aim 2 To determine if increased DC-STAMP expression is associated with more severe features
      of PsA, DC-STAMP expression in 40 PsA subjects will be determined and correlated with
      clinical variables of arthritis and skin disease, CRP and x-ray damage.

      Aim 3 To examine if DC-STAMP is a response marker to anti-TNF treatment, we will recruit 20
      PsA patients in Aim 2 with elevated DC-STAMP expression and divide them into 2 groups. Ten
      subjects will receive methotrexate, and ten will receive anti-TNF therapy. The correlation
      between DC-STAMP variables (percentage of 1A2+ divided by 1A2 - cells X 100) and the
      variables detailed in Aim 2 will be analyzed in these 2 treatment groups at 2 different time
      points.
    
  