
    
      Rationale

      Bronchial asthma is a heterogeneous and highly prevalent disease; moreover, it represents one
      of the main cost of the Italian National Health Care System. According to international
      guidelines, asthma is characterized by the presence of symptoms such as wheezing, dyspnoea,
      chest tightness and / or cough, and limitation of expiratory air flow, that vary over time
      and of severity.

      The main therapy consists of the use of inhaled corticosteroids in order to reduce airway
      inflammation; however, in conditions characterized by frequent exacerbations, patients take
      oral corticosteroids (OCS) cyclically or chronically to control their symptoms. Asthma
      symptoms tend to worsen at night and in the early hours of the morning, and the presence of
      nocturnal symptoms is an important indicator of therapeutic intervention in order to control
      the severity of the disease.

      Several studies have shown that nocturnal symptoms, such as cough and dyspnoea, are
      associated with circadian oscillations of airway inflammation and physiological variables,
      with consequent air flow limitation of and bronchial hyperreactivity. Moreover, it is known
      that patients receiving OCS are subjected to significant alterations of the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenergic axis function, therefore the assumption of these drugs
      could cause a modification of the circadian rhythm.

      Since sleep fragmentation that accompanies the worsening of nocturnal asthmatic symptoms is
      probably caused by the degree of severity of nocturnal bronchoconstriction, it is possible
      that severe asthmatic patients have greater bronchoconstriction and therefore more disturbed
      sleep.

      Subjects with severe asthma, the 5-10% of the total asthmatic population, report symptoms
      that persist despite inhalation therapy, and have many exacerbations, Emergency Room access
      or hospitalizations.

      These patients use systemic steroids at least twice a year due to asthmatic exacerbations and
      / or continuous therapy with systemic steroids for at least 6 consecutive months, with the
      development of side effects such as high blood pressure, overweight, meta-steroid diabetes
      and osteoporosis.

      In the last ten years, the availability of alternative therapies such as monoclonal
      antibodies, which block the inflammatory cascade at different levels (Anti Immunoglobulin E,
      Anti interleukin-5 (II-5)e anti receptor Il-5) has allowed to reduce the dosage of steroid
      therapy up to its complete suspension.

      Obstructive Sleep Apnoea (OSA) is one of the most common asthma comorbidities, especially
      severe, affecting about 26% of patients. When evaluated with polysomnography, the prevalence
      of OSA is equal to 88% in patients with severe asthma and 58% in those with moderate asthma.

      It seems that OSA could contribute to asthma exacerbations, to diurnal and nocturnal symptoms
      and to the scarce quality of life; it also seems to modulate airway inflammation and
      remodeling. Asthmatic patients with OSA show a greater decline in Forced Expiratory Volume in
      the first second (FEV1) over time than non-OSA, and Continuous Positive Airways Pressure
      (CPAP) treatment seems to slow down this deterioration. Serrano Pariente et al. have
      demonstrated that 6 months CPAP treatment improves the outcomes of Asthma in patients with
      moderate OSA. Finally, a recent study has shown that patients with poorly controlled asthma
      tend to have worse sleep quality and greater diurnal sleepiness. The same study has
      demonstrated a higher prevalence of depressive symptoms in female patients with poorly
      controlled asthma.

      Aim of the study is to investigate sleep disorders and quality, as well as and depressive and
      anxiety symptoms in patients affected by severe asthma before and after 6 months of treatment
      with monoclonal therapy.

      Primary outcome is to evaluate subjective quality of sleep at baseline and post treatment.

      Secondary outcomes are: to verify pre and post treatment: the presence of insomnia,
      respiratory disorders, circadian rhythm disorders, diurnal sleepiness or anxiety and
      depression symptoms.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Diagnosis of severe persistent asthma

        -  Systemic steroids treatment for at least 6 months and/or ≥2 exacerbations in the last
           year

        -  Need to initiate monoclonal antibody therapy according to guidelines

        -  Age ≥18 years

        -  Signed Informed consent

        -  Patients able to collaborate in the required procedures

      Exclusion criteria:

      Diagnosis of cognitive impairment Study Design An observational, cohort, prospective,
      monocentric study will be conducted. Patients will be enrolled c/o the Pneumology Division of
      the Clinical and Scientific Institute Maugeri of Tradate.

      Data will be collected at baseline (T0) and after 6 months of therapy with one monoclonal
      antibody (omalizumab, mepolizumab or benralizumab) (T6).
    
  