
    
      Background and Significance:

      The primary indications for joint replacement surgery include severe lower extremity pain
      that prevents individuals from performing normal daily activities. The level of pain
      experienced by these patients cannot be managed successfully with oral medications, physical
      therapy, or joint injections of steroids or hyaluronic acid. The source of the pain most
      commonly is a result of arthritic changes in the joint; the arthritis may be due to
      osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or traumatic arthritis. Patients who are appropriate
      candidates for partial joint replacement surgery also may experience joint stiffness that
      interferes with their normal daily activities. In addition, there usually is radiographic
      evidence of changes in the joint caused by the arthritic process. Joint damage is evaluated
      radiographically in order to classify the severity of the joint disease. Partial joint
      replacement surgery is performed to replace the diseased parts of the joint with prosthesis.
      There are a variety of options that surgeons and patients can choose for their joint
      replacement surgery. There are many different joint replacement component systems
      manufactured by several different companies; some systems are recommended for particular
      types of patients while others can be used in a greater number of patients. Recently, new
      techniques have been introduced that are classified as minimally invasive because they
      require smaller surgical incisions to implant standard joint prostheses. Patients who are
      younger, thinner, and in better overall health are usually the best surgical candidates for
      minimally invasive procedures.

      Osteoarthritis affects 40 million Americans and 15 million people in the United States suffer
      from degenerative arthritis of the knee. Unicondylar knee arthroplasty (UKA) was introduced
      as a treatment option for degenerative arthritis of the knee in the early 1970's[1]. The
      procedure initially yielded variable results and this unpredictability resulted in broadly
      low levels of usage[1]. Recent improvements in the surgical techniques and technology used
      for UKA have increased the effectiveness of this surgery. As the average age of the United
      States population increases, this surgical procedure will become even more common. It is
      estimated by the Millennium Research Group that there will be 55,100 unicondylar knee
      procedures in 2010 and the compound annual growth rate from 2009 to 2014 will be 8.3%.

      UKA knee arthroplasty can be viewed as an attractive alternative to total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA) assuming the patient's osteoarthritis has remained isolated in a single compartment or
      two compartments. UKA knee arthroplasty are generally less invasive procedures than TKA.
      Since the procedure is less invasive there is usually less blood loss; more cartilage,
      tissue, and bone is sparred, which results in shorter recovery times than TKA. This procedure
      is attractive to adults who are interested in remaining active pain-free lifestyles as they
      age.

      The cost-effectiveness of healthcare interventions, especially new technology, is becoming
      essential. Comparing the procedural costs of robotic-assisted surgery and the outcomes of the
      patients versus TKA, the gold standard, will help substantiate whether robotic-assisted
      surgery from an economic viewpoint is a cost-effective treatment. In addition the
      rehabilitation after knee replacement surgery is critical to achieving proper functional
      outcomes. Information pertaining to knee replacement post discharge costs has been limited.
      Due to the lack of studies and the continued growth in the number of knee arthroplasty
      surgeries it is imperative to track post discharge costs of all variables. We will be
      documenting and comparing the procedural and postoperative costs, recovery time, and outcomes
      of three procedure types in robotic assisted unicompartmental knee arthroplasty, robotic
      assisted bicompartmental knee arthroplasty and manual total knee arthroplasty.
    
  