
    
      Earlier, the patient gave us blood to make 14g2a chimeric receptor-T cells and 14g2a chimeric
      receptor-EBV CTLs in the laboratory. These cells were grown and frozen for the patient. The
      patient received treatment with these cells. However, there are enough cells remaining that
      we are able to offer to treat the patient with an additional dose if they would like.

      As with the original treatment, the patient will be given an injection of cells into the vein
      through and IV. Before the injection is received, the patient will be given a dose of
      Benadryl and Tylenol. The injection will take about 2 minutes. We will follow the patient in
      the clinic after the injection for 3 hours. The treatment will be given by the Center for
      Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital.

      Medical tests before treatment--

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of tumor by scans and bone marrow studies if the bone marrow may show
           evidence of disease

      Medical tests during and after treatment:

      The patient will receive standard medical tests when they are getting the infusions and
      after:

        -  Physical exams

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of tumor by scans and bone marrow studies if the bone marrow had evidence
           of disease 6 weeks after each infusion

      Because the patient has received cells with a new gene in them the patient will be followed
      for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer. If
      they have a procedure related to their tumor (for example a biopsy or tumor resection), we
      will request permission to obtain a tissue sample. This will help investigators learn more
      about T cell and CTL treatment of neuroblastoma. In the event of death, we will request
      permission to perform an autopsy to learn more about the effects of these infusions on the
      disease.
    
  