
    
      Background:

        -  BAY 43-9006 is an inhibitor of wild-type and mutant B-Raf and c-Raf kinase isoforms in
           vitro, but it also inhibits p38, c-kit, VEGFR-2 and PDGFR-Beta affecting tumor growth as
           well as possibly promoting apoptosis by events downstream of c-Raf.

        -  Bevacizumab is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (MAb) that binds all biologically
           active isoforms of human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, or VEGF-A) with high
           affinity (k(d)= 1.1nM)

        -  The most common adverse events associated with bevacizumab of any severity include
           asthenia, pain, headache, hypertension, diarrhea, stomatitis, constipation, epistaxis,
           dyspnea, dermatitis and proteinuria.

        -  This Phase I trial is open to patients with all solid tumors.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of the combination of BAY 43-9006 (Sorafenib) and
           bevacizumab.

        -  Determine estimates of biochemical changes in the Ras-Raf-MAPK and VEGF signal
           transduction pathways in tumor and stromal cells in response to treatment at the MTD, at
           least in a pilot fashion, if those changes are statistically significant.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with histologically documented solid tumor malignancy that is metastatic or
           unresectable and for which standard curative therapies do not exist or are no longer
           effective.

        -  Patients must be off prior chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, or
           biological therapy for at least 4 weeks.

        -  All patients enrolling in cohort 2 must have at least one lesion amenable to biopsy.

        -  ECOG performance status 0 or 1 and adequate organ and marrow function.

      Design:

        -  Cohort I will receive BAY 43-9006 and bevacizumab together at the start of study in a
           dose escalation fashion.

        -  Cohort II will be randomized as to which agent they receive for cycle one. Cycles 2 and
           beyond are treated using both agents.

        -  Tumor biopsies will be obtained from patients in Cohort II before treatment, two weeks
           into mono-therapy, and two weeks into combinatorial therapy.

        -  DCE-MRI studies will be obtained on patients in Cohort II before treatment, two weeks
           into monotherapy, four weeks into monotherapy, and two weeks into combinatorial therapy.

        -  FDG-PET studies will be obtained on patients in Cohort II before treatment, two weeks
           into mono-therapy, and two weeks into combinatorial therapy.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for toxicity in clinic every 2 weeks for Cycles 1 and 2, and
           then every 4 weeks.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for response every 8 weeks using the RECIST criteria.

        -  Approximately 62 patients will be needed to achieve the objectives of the trial.
    
  