
    
      -  The goal of this study is to simplify the HCV testing process using combined rapid
           screening and confirmation in order to reduce early barriers and improve linkage to care
           among a vulnerable high-risk homeless population. The investigators are partnering with
           Albuquerque Health Care for the Homeless (AHCH) to conduct rapid testing and provide
           counseling, test results, and referrals directly on site.

        -  After Rapid HCV testing the investigators will randomize participants to 1) counseling
           and referral to a provider, or 2) Rapid RNA testing plus counseling and referrals to a
           provider.

      The study's primary is to to assess linkage to care, which is the percent of subjects who are
      evaluated by a provider specifically for HCV infection in both groups. Linkage to care will
      be determined via medical chart abstraction 30 days after testing. The investigators
      hypothesize that there will be a 30% absolute difference in linkage to care between study
      arms, with a higher percent of participants in the combined rapid testing group being linked
      to a provider for evaluation relative to the control group (rapid anti-HCV alone).

        -  The study's second aim is exploratory in nature and sequentially follows the first aim.
           The investigators will also assess HCV Cascade of care in both group, and by medical
           chart abstraction (up to 36 weeks after study entry) to determine the number and
           proportion of individuals who achieved sustained virologic response (SVR12), which is a
           marker for cure.

        -  The study's third aim is a qualitative inquiry into the use of supportive services by
           participants during treatment. Such services may include social work, case management,
           patient navigation, participation in support groups, etc. The investigators will review
           medical charts for this information. The investigators are interested to see if more
           individuals in one study arm will access one or more of these supportive services
           compared to the other study arm.
    
  