
    
      Background:

      The number of patients with End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) requiring renal replacement
      therapy (RRT) in the form of dialysis is on the rise. Hemodialysis (HD) remains the most
      prevalent form of RRT for patients with ESRD. Just in the United States there are more than
      350,000 patients with ESRD on hemodialysis (HD) and the number is expected to increase to
      500,000 by the year 2023. Recent data provided by Saudi Centre for Organ Transplantation
      shows that there are just over 13000 patients with ESRD on hemodialysis in the Kingdom of
      Saudi Arabia (KSA). This number is expected to rise at a rate of 7-8% annually reaching 18000
      by year 2018. Establishing a viable vascular access is crucial and is considered the
      'life-line' for such patients.

      HD vascular access dysfunction is a huge clinical problem which results in significant
      clinical morbidity in patients with ESRD, causing a severe economic burden on any health care
      system. In the United States <50% of all hemodialysis accesses remain patent at 3 years with
      the economic burden of maintaining vascular access patency calculated to exceed $1 billion
      annually. Arteriovenous (A-V) dialysis accesses are the preferred form of permanent dialysis
      access as compared to central venous catheters (CVC) due to less complications and better
      patient outcomes. Native arteriovenous fistulae (AVF) and synthetic arteriovenous grafts
      (AVG) are the two main types of A-V access used for HD. Despite the obvious benefits many
      patients on HD continue to dialyze with CVC as there dialysis access. One of the reasons for
      CVC use is poor long term patency rates of A-V access. AVG have a primary patency rates of
      just under 50% at 12 months and around 33% at 18 months. AVF are slightly better with primary
      patency rates of around 60 percent at one year and 51 percent at 2 years. The most common
      cause for AVF and AVG dysfunction is stenosis development due to neointimal hyperplasia (NIH)
      within the circuit leading to access thrombosis. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA)
      is the current standard of treatment for these lesions. Despite being the treatment of choice
      for these lesions patency rates after PTA continue to be dismal. Long-term success rates are
      generally listed as either primary/unassisted rates (patency without additional procedures))
      or secondary/assisted patency (patency with additional procedures). Unassisted patency rates
      for angioplasty generally range from 41 to 76 percent at six months and 31 to 45 percent at
      one year. To improve the primary patency after intervention many strategies have been looked
      at. Placement of covered stents at the time of intervention has been used, but patency rates
      after stent placements although better than PTA, are still not optimal. One of the problems
      with poor long term outcomes after successful intervention is how you assess immediate
      intervention success. Successful angioplasty is defined by Dialysis Outcome Quality
      Initiative (DOQI) guidelines as one where less than 30% residual stenosis remains at the end
      of intervention. It is suggested that if residual stenosis is >30% after angioplasty with
      adequately sized fully effaced angioplasty balloon than stent placement should be considered.
      Unfortunately angiographic images post angioplasty correlate poorly with improvement of
      access flows through the arteriovenous circuit. There are two main problems with these
      practice standards. First, this is based on a 2-dimensional angiographic view of the lesion
      which may be misleading. Secondly, this assessment of recoil is very subjective and not base
      on objective data.

      Surveillance of AV access with access flow monitoring is recommended to identify AV access
      with stenosis before they develop thrombosis. One of the methods most commonly used to assess
      access flows is ultrasound dilution technique. This can be performed at the time of dialysis
      by trained staff to assess access flows. Access flow measurements are usually done monthly in
      units who have access surveillance programs in place. It has been shown that improvement in
      access flows after intervention from baseline or pre intervention values can predict long
      term outcomes after intervention. Although helpful, but access flows are performed at HD unit
      on the following days after the patient had intervention. At that time it is impractical to
      bring the patient back for intervention and leads to additional cost and inconvenience. As
      such the clinical benefit of this approach is minimal. In addition many dialysis units do not
      have access flow measurement available and no surveillance programs implemented.
      Unfortunately this is true for most hemodialysis units in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA).
      Fortunately access flow monitoring can now be performed intra-procedurally with the same
      ultrasound dilution technique. Its benefit was shown in a small pilot study. To date there
      have not been any randomized controlled trials to assess the benefit of such an approach
      where intervention is based on improvements in access flow at the time of intervention. The
      researchers hypothesize that such an approach will improve outcomes after interventions
      related to access dysfunction. This may also identify the right scenarios in which stent
      placement may benefit thus improving outcomes after stent placement as well. This approach
      should also improve outcomes and reduce repeat hospital visits in areas where access flow
      monitoring at HD units is not readily available as is the case in most centers in the Kingdom
      of Saudi Arabia.

      Specific Aims In a randomized, controlled, blinded trial the researchers would like to assess
      the clinical utility of an access flow based intervention approach as compared to
      conventional approach for managing dialysis arteriovenous access dysfunction.

      Materials and Methods

      A. Study Design:

      Prospective, Randomized Controlled, single centre trial comparing access flow based
      intervention versus conventional standard approach for dialysis access dysfunction.

      B. Study Subjects ESRD patients on HD referred for access dysfunction to the interventional
      nephrology service at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center in Riyadh, KSA.

      Sample Size:

      116 patients are required to have an 80% chance of detecting, at significance level of 5%, an
      increase in the primary patency outcome measure from 45% in the control group to 70% in the
      experimental group at 6 months meaning 58 patients in each arm. The researchers plan to
      enroll a total of 140 patients with 70 in each group.

      Data Collection:

      Patient Demographics:

      Age Sex ESRD or Chronic Kidney Disease stage 5 needing HD Currently on Dialysis Y N

      If yes: currently used access type:

      Years on Dialysis:

      Diabetes Mellitus Hypertension Peripheral Vascular Disease Smoking Coronary artery disease
      Cerebrovascular accidents Antiplatelet medications

      Location of AVF:

      Location of AVG:

      Reason for procedure: Excessive bleeding post HD Low Access flows High venous or low arterial
      pressures Physical Examination abnormality Other

      Pre-procedure within 3 month baseline access flows known Y N

      If known, Value:

      Data on 1st Angiogram:

      Stenosis present: Y N If yes: Location of Stenosis: Arterial Juxta anastomosis Arterial 1/3rd
      Middle 1/3rd Venous 1/3rd or venous outflow

      Pre-intervention access flow in case of no thrombosis (A):

      Targeted access flow:

      Stenosis successfully treated radiologically Y N Targeted access flow successfully reached: Y
      N

      Post-intervention access flow (B):

      Percentage access flow reached of target (B/A x 100):

      Residual Stenosis in %:

      By Operator By Blinded Interpreter:

      Max diameter of balloon used:

      Max inflation pressure of balloon used:

      Stent used: Y N

      If used, size of stent: # of stent:

      Follow up:

      Access Flows:

      Within 1st three treatments post intervention 3rd month 6th month

      Physical Examination abnormalities if any:

      3rd month 6th month

      Time to first intervention after initial procedure:

      If intervention, reason for the need of intervention:

      Primary patency at 6 months: Y N

      If no, exact duration of primary patency:

      Secondary patency at 6 months: Y N

      Statistical Considerations:

      The researchers will use block-randomization for the recruited subjects into the two arms.
      Researchers will take the risk difference as an effect measure. The chi-square test will be
      used to assess the superiority of the new treatment as compared to the standard protocol.
      Researchers will set the type I error rate at 5%. Baseline comparisons between the two groups
      will be conducted using the two independent samples t-test for continuous data which will be
      summarized as means ± standard deviation, and using the chi-square test for categorical data.

      Ethical Considerations / Consent Documents The proposal of this study has been approved by
      the local review authority which is the Office of Research Affairs at King Faisal Specialist
      Hospital and Research Centre.

      All participants will be assigned serial numbers in order of data collection. Each medical
      record number will be assigned a specific serial number and this list will be kept in the
      PI's office. All investigators mentioned in the study will have access to them. Databases
      created will be password protected.

      The study will be managed by the PI in cooperation with other Co-Investigators
    
  