
    
      Many deficits in the spectrum of engagement in HIV care are still present and pose barriers
      to optimal treatment outcomes. These deficits include late diagnosis of HIV , insufficient
      linkage to and retention in care (RiC), poor usage of antiretroviral therapy (ART), and
      suboptimal adherence to ART. Based on data from the United States Center for Disease Control,
      where a cascade of care has been developed examining total numbers with HIV, numbers
      diagnosed, numbers linked to care, numbers on treatment and numbers on effective treatment;
      only about a quarter of persons living with HIV (PLWH) in the US are effectively in care,
      with undetectable HIV viral load.

      Current data available in an Australian population are based on a patient modelling analysis,
      highlighting the lack of real cohort data from clinical practices managing HIV patients in
      Australia.

      Appropriate continuum in care is relevant both for the prognosis of the single patient and
      for reducing the HIV transmission in the community. Substance use, high CD4 cell counts and
      young age seem to be risk factors for failure to establish care.

      Holdsworth House Medical Practice (HHMP) is a high HIV-caseload community medical practice in
      inner city Sydney that provides a Continuum of Care for HIV-infected patients, from
      counselling and testing to antiretroviral treatment.

      In this audit, we will examine retrospectively the case notes of >2000 HIV-infected patients
      who attended HHMP in Darlinghurst, Sydney, New South Wales with documented HIV infection from
      1st January 2009 to 31st March 2014.

      The primary objective of this audit is to determine linkage and retention in care in patients
      with HIV-1 infection and reasons for loss to follow up. Audit findings will be systematically
      evaluated, and where indicated, changes will be made with the aim of monitoring linkage and
      retention in care.

      The initial audit will include patients with documented HIV-1 infection, who have attended
      the practice over a 5-year period (2009 - 2014) for at least 2 visits that are separated by 3
      - 12 months, with specific laboratory tests (i.e. CD4 T lymphocyte count, plasma HIV RNA
      etc.) performed either on-site or at a co-management site.

      Retention in care will be assessed by the number of visits to either HHMP or co-management
      sites over a 5-year period (2009 - 2014) for each patient audited. Demographic data along
      with laboratory test results and antiretroviral therapy regime data will be collected to
      assess factors associated with retention in care.
    
  