
    
      Treatment for addiction disorders has shown efficacy, but compliance with treatment is often
      a problem. Monitoring compliance in treatment is a difficult endeavor that is currently
      reliant on urine drug screens, monitoring of automated state pharmacy reporting systems, and
      requiring signature documentation of attendance at twelve-step meetings. These three methods
      are far from fool-proof and urine monitoring and signature documentation of meeting
      attendance are notoriously falsified by patients through a wide array of strategies. There is
      opportunity is to develop a smartphone application-based intervention protocol that will
      monitor individual's compliance with recommended attendance at prescribed twelve-step
      meetings. Investigators have partnered with Open Health Network to develop this application
      and currently have a working prototype.

      Patients who are engaged in the twelve-step process have higher rates of continued sobriety
      as compared to patients who do not attend or are not engaged in the process. People with
      addiction have increased sobriety rates if they are accountable to someone outside of
      themselves. Therefore, investigators encourage patients to attend meetings frequently, have a
      sponsor, and actively work through the twelve steps. A sponsor is an individual who has been
      participating in a twelve-step facilitation program and has been sober for a minimum of one
      year. Leveraging technology to hold individuals accountable for participating in these
      meetings will improve their continued sobriety. A systematic review of available smartphone
      apps for alcohol and drug abuse, published in 2019, concluded that most did not incorporate
      evidence based addiction treatment. Furthermore, some apps promoted harmful drinking or
      substance abuse.

      Investigators are interested in developing an application for mobile devices that will
      document 12-step meeting attendance in a way that is more reliable than the typical sign in
      sheet. This research study is a small trial that is designed to prove our concept and gather
      information for future development of the application.

      Eligible patients will be asked to download the application to their smart phone. These
      patients will be asked to use the application for a period of 90 days. At each of patients'
      usual meetings investigators will ask patients to check in and check out of the meeting via
      the App. At the conclusion of this study patients may be invited to participate in a focus
      group.
    
  