
    
      Fear conditioning paradigms are used to investigate the learning process of the fear response
      in patients with psychiatric disorders and healthy subjects. Patients with post traumatic
      stress disorder have been shown to fail to retrieve the memory of fear extinction during the
      recall phase of the fear conditioning paradigm when compared to healthy subjects. In one
      previous trial, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients have demonstrated the same
      failure to recall extinction and the results from functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (fMRI) activation maps have shown different regions being recruited during recall when
      compared with healthy subjects. However, in that previous trial, some of the OCD patients
      included were already taking medication for OCD. In the current trial, we will evaluate 24
      unmedicated OCD patients with a two-day fear conditioning paradigm before and after 4-weeks
      of treatment initiation with sertraline up to 200mg/day or maximum tolerated dosage.
      Sertraline is a first-line treatment option for OCD. At baseline, OCD patients will be
      compared to 24 healthy subjects. At post treatment, fear conditioning and fMRI results wil be
      compared to baseline. OCD patients are expected to demonstrate worsened extinction retention
      compared to healthy subjects at baseline. Sertraline treatment is expected to improve
      extinction retention compared to baseline and to normalize the brain regions being recruited
      with the conditioned stimuli presented during the recall phase. By "normalize" we mean that
      after treatment the regions being recruited will be the same as the ones recruited by healthy
      subjects during baseline, in other words, differences found at baseline regarding brain
      activation by the conditioned stimuli are expected to disappear after treatment.

      Abbreviations: CS= conditioned stimuli, CS+= conditioned stimuli to shock, CS-=neutral
      conditioned stimuli, CS+E= extinguished conditioned stimuli to shock, CS+U=unextinguished
      conditioned stimuli to shock
    
  