
    
      Stroke is a common cause of neurological disability. Early diagnosis of ischemic stroke now
      enables treatment with thrombolysis and / or endovascular therapy (embolectomy). In order to
      implement this procedure, the duration of which varies from 2-6 hours, the patient has to
      remain immobilized. Two techniques are currently used routinely to achieve this.

      One technique is general anaesthesia, that will ensure that the patient is completely
      immobile throughout the procedure, which is an advantage from a neuroimaging perspective. A
      disadvantage is that preparation for, and the induction of anesthesia prolongs the time to
      embolectomy. Another disadvantage may be that the patient´s blood pressure drops during
      anesthesia, which could impair the brain blood supply and subsequently neurological outcome.
      The ability to evaluate the patient's neurological symptoms also disappears.

      The second technique consists of sedation during surgery. The advantages of this technique
      are that the time to the beginning of embolectomy is getting shorter and the blood pressure
      becomes more stable. One drawback is that it cannot guarantee that the patient remains
      immobile throughout the procedure, which increases the risk of motion artifacts and may lead
      to the duration of embolectomy becomes prolonged. There is also a risk of hypoventilation and
      the patient aspirates during surgery.

      Retrospective studies suggest that patients receiving general anesthesia have worse
      neurologic outcome three months after stroke. This could be explained by more or less
      pronounced anesthesia-induced episodes of hypotension, compared with lightly sedated patients
      with more stable blood pressure. In these retrospective analyzes, however, the patients who
      received general anesthesia were, neurologically speaking, more ill than patients who only
      received sedation. This may probably, at least in part, explain why anesthetized patients
      have a worse neurologic outcome. In these retrospective studies, many centers were involved,
      with various endovascular and anesthesia procedures.
    
  