
    
      Intervention(s): Endometrial sampling, either at LH+7 in a natural cycle or after 5 days of
      progesterone in a hormonal replacement cycle (HRT) and personalized embryo transfer (pET) on
      the designated day guided by the ERA prediction.

      Repeated implantation failure (RIF) is an unsolved not well characterized major cause of
      infertility in otherwise healthy women. Although various definitions of RIF exist, the
      clinical community agrees that after failure of three IVF cycles, in which one to two
      morphologically high-grade embryos have been transferred, special protocols must be enforced,
      although no hard data from RCTs demonstrates that any of the current approaches in RIF have a
      significant clinical value .

      Based on the large amount of information generated about the regulation and deregulation of
      the genes implicated in the endometrial window of receptivity (WOR), our group has developed
      a molecular diagnostic tool based on the specific transcriptomic signature that identifies
      the receptive endometrium at LH+7 in a natural cycle or on day 5 of progesterone impregnation
      (P+5) after proper estradiol priming in a hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) cycle. The
      endometrial receptivity array (ERA) consists of a customized array containing 238 genes
      differentially expressed that is coupled to a computational predictor able to diagnose the
      personalized endometrial WOI of a given patient, regardless of its histological appearance.
      The accuracy of the diagnostic tool ERA has been demonstrated to be superior to endometrial
      histology and results are completely reproducible 29 to 40 months later.

      Compelling evidence indicates the existence of an endometrial receptivity alteration in
      patients with RIF.

      The aim of this study is to demonstrate the diagnostic efficiency of the ERA test in RIF
      patients by identifying putative alterations related to the displacement of their
      personalized window of receptivity, and the therapeutic implications through personalization
      of the day of embryo transfer (pET), following the diagnosis obtained by this molecular
      diagnostic tool. An endometrial biopsy on day LH+7 in a natural cycle or on day P+5 in an HRT
      cycle and ERA diagnosis of receptive or non-receptive is informed. In receptive cases, embryo
      transfer (ET) will be performed in subsequent cycles on the indicated day. In non-receptive
      ERA, the test is to be repeated on the dayindicated by the predictor, and personalized ET
      guided in subsequent cycles according to ERA diagnosis.
    
  