
    
      Short stature is defined as height below 3rd centile or less than two standard deviations
      below the median height for that age and sex according to the population standard.

      Approximately 3% children in any population will be short, amongst which half will be
      physiological (familial or constitutional) and half will be pathological.

      It is estimated that approximately 60%-80% of all short children at or below 2standerd
      deviation fit the definition of idiopathic short stature.

      The growth and development of human require an adequate supply of many different nutritional
      factors. Nutritional deficiencies causing short stature include: those associated with
      stunting as: protein and zinc, nutrient associated with rickts as :vitamin D, and those with
      bone abnormalities as: cupper,zin,and vitamin c Insufficient nutrition tends to lead to short
      stature with a delayed pattern of growth. Under-nutrition can be isolated (eg, caused by
      inadequate food supply or self-imposed restriction, such as fear of obesity), or it may be a
      component of an underlying systemic disease that interferes with food intake or absorption,
      or increases energy needs. The hallmark of under-nutrition is low weight-for-height .

      Trace elements are dietary mineral that are present in very minute quantities (less than
      0.01%),they divided into three groups (WHO classification): Essential elements such as iodine
      and zinc ,Probably essential elements such as manganese and silicon , Potentially toxic
      elements such as fluoride,lead,cadmium, mercury, & Lithium.

      Trace elements play significant functions as growth,oregulation of gene expression,
      immunity,the endocrine system, brain development, and the cell protection system. An adequate
      micronutrient intake is crucial for health, particularly in infants, children and adolescents
      ,deficiency in micronutrients can affect growth and development, particularly during periods
      of rapid growth.
    
  