
    
      All women undergoing scheduled cesarean section at Brigham and Women's Hospital who meet
      eligibility for the study will be approached in the pre-operative area on the Labor and
      Delivery floor prior to her scheduled cesarean section. For eligible patients interested in
      participation, consent will be obtained, and the participant will be randomized to receive
      either an intervention script containing counseling about post-op narcotic use, or the
      control script containing information regarding post-partum depression. This script will then
      be read to the participant in the pre-operative area prior to her scheduled cesarean section.

      Two types of data will then be collected: inpatient data, and outpatient data. Regarding
      inpatient data, study investigators will collect information from the electronic medical
      record about the quantity of narcotics used in the hospital, pain scores while in the
      hospital, and demographic information. In terms of outpatient data, study investigators will
      contact participants at 2 weeks and 6 weeks post-partum with questions from the Edinburgh
      post-partum depression scale score and the WHOQOL-BREF scale score, along with questions
      regarding their narcotic use at home. Specifically, participants will be asked during the
      informed consent process whether they agree to 1) receive an email with a brief online survey
      at 2 weeks post-partum, and 2) receive a follow-up phone call within the week after the email
      survey was sent if survey responses are not received, 3) receive a second email with a brief
      online survey at 6 weeks post-partum, 4) receive a follow-up phone call within the week after
      the second email survey was sent if survey responses are not received. Surveys will be
      emailed to participants using the Partner's REDCap service that is located behind the
      Partner's firewall. Investigators will also mine information about each participant's
      narcotic use from the MassPAT prescription monitoring database.

      The endpoint of the study will be enrollment of our desired sample size.
    
  