
    
      Guided by the Common-Sense Model (CSM) of self-regulation and informed by prior evidence or
      knowledge about cancer beliefs and response to cancer risk, the investigators have now
      developed a complementary text and imagery based health communication called CSM--Be Well.
      During 2017, researchers completed three waves of data collection and pilot research that
      included: (a) cognitive interviews during Spring 2017, (b) manipulation check of initial
      health communication during Summer 2017, and (c) manipulation and quality check of final
      draft of health communication during Fall 2017. In this process and guided by the CSM, the
      investigators have developed a library of text and images (CSM--Be Well) based on information
      that increases understanding of colorectal cancer risk and promotes physical activity as a
      protective behavior against colorectal cancer. CSM--Be Well has been created as 36-slide
      presentation. In addition, each slide serves as a daily text message.

      The purpose of the present research is to evaluate the appropriateness of our final CSM--Be
      Well health communication and how it enhances the National Cancer Society's
      HealthyYouTXT--Get Active (HYT--GA) program. To examine how well it increases understanding
      colorectal cancer risk and promotes physical activity, it will be compared to usual care
      information based on the American Cancer Society's (ACS) usual messages promoting cancer
      prevention and protective behaviors (i.e., physical activity, diet, and alcohol intake).

      The research design is a 6-week, longitudinal, randomized control trial with two arms:
      experimental and control. All participants are asked to sign up for HYT--GA 6-week text
      messaging program. The experimental arm will view the CSM--Be Well program as a slide
      presentation on a website. Also, they will receive a daily drip campaign of the parsed slides
      that were seen at baseline activities. The control arm will view the ACS usual text as a
      slide presentation on a website.

      In addition, the investigators will conduct surveys to evaluate the appropriateness of the
      theoretical framework on which the CSM--Be Well program is based. Participants will be asked
      to complete surveys at 8 timepoints. At enrollment (Baseline; Timepoint 1), participants will
      be invited to view, 2 to 3 days later (Timepoint 2), an informational session on colorectal
      cancer prevention and physical activity (CSM--Be Well or ACS usual messages) and to sign-up
      for a 6-weeks daily text messages (HYT--GA). In addition, researcher will conduct surveys to
      evaluate responses and user engagement. After 1 week (Timepoint 3), participants will be
      invited to complete surveys with measures of their understanding of colorectal cancer risk,
      measures of coherent understanding of colorectal cancer, physical activity behavior in the
      past week and future plans, and risks, concerns, and worries about colorectal cancer risk.
      These survey responses will be used to compare how values and self-regulation factors
      distinctively predict physical activity motivations and behaviors. After 2 weeks (Timepoints
      3 to7), participants will be asked 5 times to a weekly brief surveys about their past and
      future physical activity levels. After 6 weeks (Timepoint 8), participants will be invited to
      complete final survey with measures of their understanding of colorectal cancer risk,
      measures of coherent understanding of colorectal cancer, physical activity behavior in the
      past week and future plans, and risks, concerns, and worries about colorectal cancer risk.
    
  