
    
      This is a phase 1, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation study that will examine the
      safety profile of SGN-2FF given orally to patients with advanced solid tumors. The primary
      goal of the study is to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), or optimal biological dose
      (OBD) that does not exceed the MTD. The pharmacokinetics (PK) and antitumor activity of
      SGN-2FF will also be evaluated. In this study, SGN-2FF will be evaluated as monotherapy and
      as combination therapy with the standard approved dose of pembrolizumab.

      The monotherapy portion of the study will be conducted in 2 sequential parts (Part A and Part
      B). Part A will enroll patients for dose escalation to estimate the MTD /OBD and help
      determine the dosing regimen that will be tested in Part B. The OBD will be evaluated by
      assessing the activity of SGN-2FF, including pharmacodynamics, PK, and other observations in
      dose escalation. Part B will explore the recommended dose/regimen in up to 3 focused
      expansion cohorts.

      The combination therapy portion of the study will be conducted in 2 sequential parts (Part C
      and Part D). SGN-2FF will be administered orally according to the dose and schedule assigned,
      with a lead-in period of 2 weeks prior to pembrolizumab administration. The lead-in period
      may be discontinued based on emerging nonclinical and/or clinical data. Part C will enroll
      patients for dose escalation to estimate the MTD /OBD and the dosing regimen that will be
      tested in Part D. Part D will explore the recommended dose/regimen in up to 3 focused
      expansion cohorts.

      Safety will be monitored throughout the trial by the safety monitoring committee which will
      meet frequently to review the emerging safety data and make dose-escalation and
      dosing-interval recommendations. Antitumor activity will be assessed by radiographic imaging.
      Patients may continue treatment until progression of their disease or intolerable side
      effects.

      Retreatment with SGN-2FF monotherapy or with SGN-2FF and pembrolizumab combination therapy is
      permitted with medical monitor approval for patients who achieve stable disease, a complete
      response, or partial response on study and then experience disease progression after
      discontinuing prior treatment with SGN 2FF.
    
  