
    
      Research question Does the modulation of gut microbiome with probiotics prevents the
      development of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis? The aim of this study is
      to evaluate the efficacy of probiotics in reducing the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma
      in patients with Child Pugh A-B cirrhosis with portal hypertension.

      Methods Study design. Phase III interventional, multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial.

      The following study will be carried out following CONSORT guidelines. Scenario and
      temporality. The study will be developed in Argentina including patient care centers with the
      following inclusion and exclusion criteria, from April 1/2019 (recruitment phase of 12
      months) until the last enrolled patient completes the follow-up of 3 years from
      randomization.

      Intervention. Test drug (s). Both probiotic and placebo will be presented in the same
      container, shape and color.

      Name of the active substance Each 50 ml bottle contains Lactobacillus casei 3.3 x 107 CFU /
      day, Lactobacillus plantarum 3.3 x 107 CFU / day, Streptococcus faecalis 3.3 x 107 CFU / day
      and Bifidobacterium brevis 1.0 x 106 CFU / day (BIOFLORA®, BIOSIDUS SA, Argentina) .

      Administration way: Oral 5 ml orally every 12 hours for 10 consecutive days per month.
      Duration of treatment: 2 cycles of continuous treatment per year during a 3-year period (6
      cycles). Each cycle includes three months of treatment, followed by an off period of three
      months.

      Reference intervention. Name of the active substance: Placebo. Administration way: Oral 5 ml
      orally every 12 hours for 10 consecutive days per month. Duration of treatment: 2 cycles of
      continuous treatment per year during a 3-year period (6 cycles). Each cycle includes three
      months of treatment, followed by an off period of three months.

      **Likewise, both arms will explicitly request the non-consumption of alcohol and the
      consumption of a non-hypercaloric Mediterranean diet throughout the study for all patients.

      Methodology. Patients who meet the aforementioned inclusion and exclusion criteria, and have
      successfully completed all screening tests, will be treated with the standard test or
      treatment medication according to clinical practice guidelines through a 1: 1 randomization
      scheme.

      The randomization will be in stratified in blocks according to previously identified
      prognostic variables and in order to avoid potential confounding variables and or effect
      modifiers distributed by chance in an unbalanced way: Child Pugh score B and platelet count
      <100,000/mm3. The randomization will be carried out according to the assignment by means of
      numbers previously made by a blinded researcher and independent from clinical characteristics
      and contact with the patients. All numbers of the randomization will be stored in closed
      opaque envelopes and will be assigned consecutively according to the order of inclusion in
      the protocol.

      *All the events developed, both primary and secondary throughout the study, will be evaluated
      by a blinded and independent committee from baseline variables and randomization allocation.
      Clinical events will be monitored and re-evaluated by this committee, which will consist of 3
      investigators.

      Exposure variables.

        -  Clinical Data

        -  Peripheral blood samples for the measurement of cytokines, LPS and expression of TLR 4.

             -  Cytokines: The measurement of cytokines will be made from plasma of peripheral
                blood samples. The levels of the following cytokines will be quantified in pg/ml:
                IL-6, TNF-α and endotoxemia or bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The operators of
                this measurement will be blinded to any clinical, microbiome and treatment
                allocation. Samples to be obtained from each individual: two 10ml tubes of whole
                blood, one with EDTA (sodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate) and another without
                anticoagulant, to be used in routine laboratory studies and in the measurement of
                cytokines (IL6 and TNF alpha) and endotoxins (LPS). Quantification of plasma
                cytokines: Commercial reagents of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) will be
                used to measure the levels of cytokines present in the plasmas of patients. The
                concentrations of TNF alpha and IL-6 will be measured with commercial reagents of
                eBioscience, affymetrix, or a similar commercial reagent available in the market,
                strictly following the instructions of the respective manufacturers. For the
                quantification of the cytokines, the curves will be made with the corresponding
                concentration standards.

             -  Quantification of endotoxins in plasma or serum: Measurement of bacterial LPS will
                be performed by Limulus Amebocyte Lysate Assay (LAL), Biosafe Srl chromogenic
                endpoint reagent or similar, in parallel with the concentration curve of the
                standards. The manufacturer's instructions will be followed.

             -  Expression of TLR 4 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells: the expression of TLR 4
                in mononuclear cells will be quantified by real-time PCR technique, using specific
                primers.

             -  Stool samples for gut microbiome evaluation.

                  1. Method of Collection: A sample of spontaneous fecal stool will be collected at
                     any time of the day in a supplied manifold avoiding contact with
                     lavatory/odorless materials. Once the sample is collected, the appropriately
                     capped collector will be placed inside a safety bag and inside a kit box.
                     These samples will be stored frozen at -70º. Each fecal sample must be
                     properly labeled. Later, samples will be aliquoted for final processing.

                  2. Analysis: Fecal stools will be collected to analyze the gut microbiome using
                     the PCR technique, Ilumina, analyzing the V3-V4 regions of 16sRNA at the
                     biotechnology Institute of Rosario (INDEAR, Rosario, Argentina). The 16S
                     ribosomal subunit of rRNA will be analyzed bacterial, amplifying using PCR
                     method (20 cycles) and then a second round of amplification to incorporate
                     multiplex adapters (Barcodes) (10 cycles). In each procedure, two measurements
                     will be made to avoid amplification information biases. The massive sequencing
                     will be carried out on an illumina MiSeq team from HERITAS institute (CIBIC +
                     INDEAR) in 2x300 mode to finally obtain a minimum of 40,000 sequences per
                     individual. The quality of the raw data will be evaluated by FastQC and the
                     information of pair-ends of Illumina will be combined using PEAR (v0.9.10).
                     The readings are then filtered by Q30 quality and the duplicates and PCR
                     chimeras are eliminated using UCHIME. The filtered sequences will be clustered
                     in Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) at 97% similarity with their own
                     strategy implemented in QIIME (v1.91). The operators of this measurement will
                     be blind to the clinical, microbiome, and primary event variables.

        -  The following measurements will be performed every 6 months in each subject enrolled
           until the end of the study or development of the primary event: weight and height,
           concomitant medication, complete physical examination, laboratory tests, Child Pugh
           score, abdominal ultrasound.

        -  Longitudinal sampling of gut microbiome and cytokines. A second cytokine measurement
           will be made from serum from peripheral blood and gut microbiome samples in fecal
           samples in all patients included in the study at the end of the first treatment cycle
           (3rd month since randomization or 12 weeks) and at the end of the study (last cycle)
           using the same methodology described above.

      Adherence and Follow-up: All the patients will continue in the protocol until the development
      of the primary event or until the end of it, having completed a post-randomization follow-up
      of 3 years. Several measures will be carried out to reinforce adherence to treatment in both
      arms and strategies to avoid loss of follow-up. Adherence to treatment compliance will be
      defined in 80% of the tablets delivered for both arms.

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis: A two-tailed statistical value will be
      taken, α or type I error of 5% (p value <0.05) and a power or error type II or β of 0.20
      (power of 80%). The risk of HCC in each arm will be compared using Cox regression analysis
      with Hazard Ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals and the number needed to treat to
      prevent a clinical outcome will be calculated, done according to the intention-to-treat
      principle. Since the cumulative incidence of HCC from previous data from the literature is
      1-6% per year, a relative risk reduction of HCC development during a 3-year period in the
      intervention arm was estimated to be clinically relevant with a 30% relative difference,
      equivalent to a HR of 0.7. For each arm, a sample size of 140 subjects, with a total
      population to enroll of 280 patients, estimated number of primary events in 28.

      All statistical analyzes will be carried out using STATA version 14.0.

      Analysis of microbiome metadata. The bioinformatic analysis of the data will be done using a
      customized QIIME pipeline. For the estimation of differential abundance between the groups we
      use the DESeq2 package.
    
  