
    
      'Antimicrobial peptide LL-37 as diagnostic biomarker in periodontal disease"

        1. Introduction

           Periodontal disease is an infectious process that consists of the destruction of the
           supporting anatomical structures of the tooth, as a consequence of the inflammatory
           response to the periopathogenic activity of the subgingival bacterial plaque, which
           leads to an innate, inflammatory and adaptative immune response.

           The clinical manifestation of the disease depends of host and environmental factors as
           well as the specific microbiological agent involved. The interrelation amongst bacteria
           and the immunodefence mechanisms of the host constitute the base of the
           immunopathological mechanisms that lead to the disease. In healthy conditions, there is
           a balance between the activity of the periodontal microbiota and the host immune
           response.

           In the innate defence system of the oral cavity there are several antimicrobial peptides
           involved, being one of them, the human cathelicidin LL-37.

           The activity of antimicrobial peptides such as LL-37 in the gingival sulcus is
           considered one of the greatest defence mechanisms of the periodontum. The gingival
           epithelium not only constitutes a physical barrier to avoid bacterial invasion.
           Neutrophils migrate to the junctional epithelium and create a barrier between the
           bacterial plaque and the underlaying epithelium. They also produce antimicrobial
           peptides, one of them the 18 kDa (hCAP18). Once the neutrophils are activated in
           response to the bacterial aggression the release LL-37, with a similar activity to a
           broad-spectrum antibiotic.

           The total absence of this peptide (LL-37) has been associated to aggressive
           periodontitis, in particular in patients with a neutrophil deficiency such as those who
           suffer Morfan Kosmann syndrome

           The nature of this research aims to elucidate the role of LL-37 in periodontal disease
           by comparing the use of a none invasive technique such as crevicular fluid samples in
           patients that suffer periodontal disease, before and after receiving a course of basic
           periodontal treatment (root scaling and planing). Samples obtained will be analysed by
           immunohystochemical analysis (ELISA). The quantification of LL-37 before and after
           periodontal treatment associated with the clinical findings observed may serve as
           diagnostic biomarker of the immunopathological response inherent to the periodontal
           disease.

        2. Justification of research question. Current status

           Over the last years, a great effort by scientific community has been made in order to
           try to understand the complex immunopathological processes related to periodontal
           disease and the relationship between the activity of the periodontal microbiota and the
           host defence mechanisms.

           The relevance of this research may serve to understand in more detail the role of the
           antimicrobial peptide LL-37 in periodontal disease not only due to their bactericidal
           effect but in the modulation of the immunological response of the host and its activity
           before and after periodontal treatment. The lack of studies on this matter reflects the
           need for further research on this topic.

           Ultimately, the findings of this research may form the basis of a new therapeutic
           approach based on the use of LL-37 to help modulate the immunological response of the
           host in combination with conventional periodontal treatment. This may be particularly
           relevant in patients susceptible to develop periodontal or periimplant diseases or in
           particular cases that are resistant to conventional treatment alternatives.

        3. Summary of intended research

      The main aim of the study is to investigate the role of LL-37 in the immunopathological
      response of the periodontum. Subsequent aims are to investigate the possibility of using this
      microbial peptide to serve as diagnostic, prognostic as well as a therapeutic agent in the
      treatment of periodontal disease.

      Research hypothesis: There are significant quantitative differences in the levels of LL-37
      before and after periodontal treatment, with a significant reduction of LL-37 at
      re-evaluation (4-6 weeks after a course of basic periodontal treatment -root scaling and
      planing).

      Null hypothesis: There are no significant quantitative differences in the levels of LL-37
      before and after periodontal treatment

      The objectives of the present study are:

        1. Determine if healthy patients and patients with periodontal disease have different
           levels of LL-37 in saliva and crevicular fluid at baseline.

        2. Evaluate if after a course of basic periodontal treatment, the levels of LL-37 in
           patients with periodontitis are similar to the quantified levels on healthy patients at
           baseline.

        3. With respect to crevicular fluid samples, evaluate if the levels of LL-37 in teeth
           affected by periodontal disease differ from healthy sites on the same individual or if
           there are no significant differences in the above before and after a course of
           periodontal treatment.

        4. Stablish a non-invasive protocol to evaluate the immunological state of the patient
           before and after periodontal treatment as prognostic factor.

      4. Material and methods

      Ethical approval from the Ethical Commite of University Rey Juan Carlos of Madrid (URJC) has
      been granted. A selection of patients of the "Master in Advanced Implantology, Tissue
      Regeneration and Implant supported prosthesis" of the FCU-URJC that fulfil the inclusion
      criteria and that consent to be part of the study will be made.

      The inclusion criteria are the following:

        -  Medical history that does not contraindicate periodontal treatment

        -  The test group will consist of patients with periodontal disease (stage I-II, stage
           III-IV)

        -  The control group will consist of healthy individuals (probing depth 1-3mm, clinical
           signs of gingival health)

        -  All patients included in the study must give appropriate consent.

      Exclusion criteria include the following:

        -  Patients that do not consent to be part of the study.

        -  Non controlled systemic diseases (ASA I, ASA II).

      Smoker patients will not be excluded and will be classified as light smokers (less than 10
      cigarettes/day) or heavy smokers (more than 10 cigarettes /day).

      Diabetic patients will not be excluded either but will be identified and accounted for.

      All patients included in the study will go through the following stages:

        1. Complete periodontal examination (probing depth (PD), clinical attachment level (CAL),
           plaque index (PI), blood on probing (BOP)).

        2. Patients will be divided in two groups:

             -  30 healthy patients (control)

             -  60 periodontal patients (test- periodontitis stage I-II (30 patients),
                periodontitis stage III- IV (30 patients).

      Due to lack of in vivo studies, simple sample size calculation was made using a conservative
      power analysis (G*Power 3.1.9.4 program, 2009). The simple size (27 subjects) was based on a
      two-tailed test with an effective size of 0.05, an alphabetical error probability of 0.05,
      difference of 50% in mean value, standard deviations to be maxium 80% of the mean values and
      a power of 0.90.

      Taking into account these parameters, a simple sample size between 21-30 patients per group
      is estimated.

      Crevicular fluid samples will also be obtained following the manufacturers protocol using
      perio papers (Periopaper, Applied Biosystems, Inc, Foster City, CA). Teeth to be examined
      will be isolated with cotton rolls and air dried. Paper strips will be introduced into the
      gingival sulcus for approximately 30 seconds. Test group patients' samples will be taken from
      periodontally pathogenic sites and healthy sites. Heavily contaminated samples with saliva or
      blood will be discarded.

      Samples will be stored at -80 C at the laboratory of Departamento de Epidemiología y Salud
      Pública, Edificio Departamental I, Fundación Clínica Universitaria, URJC (Alcorcon). Once all
      samples are obtained, appropriate transport will be arranged to the Department of Natural
      Sciences, Biomedical Sciences, Hendon Campus, Middlesex University of London. There ELISA
      analysis of all samples will be performed by using a specific ELISA kit commercially
      available for human LL-37 (HyCult Biotechnology, Uden, the Netherlands).

      Patients of the test group will receive a course of basic periodontal treatment (root scaling
      and planing) and oral hygiene instructions after the first sample collection.

      A re-evaluation appointment at 4-6 weeks will take place where new crevicular fluid samples
      of both groups will be obtained (test and control), to evaluate any statistically significant
      difference with respect to the quantity of LL-37 in relation to the baseline measurements
      recorded. After that, samples will be scrutinised again by performing ELISA assays following
      the protocol described above.

      Once all results are obtained, statistical analysis of the samples will be carried out.
    
  