
    
      Up to twenty stroke survivors with upper extremity impairment will be enrolled in this study.
      After subjects have been consented, they will undergo screening to ensure they meet
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. This will include the Motion Sickness Susceptibility
      Questionnaire (Short Form). Demographics will be recorded including: relevant medical history
      (including any contraindications to engage in virtual reality therapy), age, gender, hand
      dominance, and location and date of stroke. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment will be
      performed to assess feasibility of the intervention for subjects of varying cognitive levels.
      Subjects who meet study requirements and score between 10-50 points on the Fugl-Meyer
      Assessment of Motor Recovery after Stroke (Arm/hand section) will complete pre-testing using
      the Action Research Arm Test (ARAT).

      Virtual reality mirror therapy will be delivered via the commercially available Oculus Rift
      gaming system, using novel software (WiseMind), developed by Realiteer. Subjects will
      complete treatment in a designated space clear of distractions and physical objects. They
      will remain seated in a chair throughout treatment.

      A member of the research team will configure the system, entering in the subject's skin tone,
      height, and weight to enable the system to best approximate their physical form. The subject
      will then don the Oculus Rift headset, which will block external visual stimuli and provide
      an immersive visual environment for training. Researchers will position game controller using
      a wrist strap to ensure patient safety. Researchers will orient subjects to the training
      environment and ensure patient comfort with the system before initiating treatment. Patients
      will complete a System Usability Scale and the Simulator Sickness Questionnaire on the first
      and final treatment day to assess system tolerance. Adherence and adverse events will also be
      recorded throughout the trial.

      The WiseMind software will allow subjects to view an approximation of their upper limbs. As
      the subject moves their arms, the system will detect these movements and mimic them through
      the headset, so the patient envisions a virtual limb moving as their own. Training will
      incorporate range of motion exercises, virtual reality games that require reaching, and
      interacting with functional objects in the virtual environment.

      An occupational therapist, physical therapist or exercise physiologist from the research team
      will run all treatment sessions. Training will be immediately terminated if the subject feels
      excessively queasy or requests termination for any reason. Training will consist of two,
      fifteen minute sessions, 3x/week for four weeks.

      At the completion of treatment, subjects will repeat the Fugl-Meyer and ARAT assessments to
      determine if improvements have been made in motor performance.
    
  