
    
      "Increasing rates of highly malignant hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and biliary tract
      cancers (GBTC) observed in Western populations may be related to obesogenic lifestyle factors
      and their metabolic consequences, such as metabolic syndrome (MetS), inflammation and altered
      production of bile acids (BA). Such lifestyle behaviours may induce changes in the gut
      microflora which in turn affect BA profiles, increasing their carcinogenicity. Some elevated
      BA may be oncogenic in exposed liver, bile ducts and gall bladder. Data from case-control
      studies show higher blood BA in patients with various liver diseases, but from these designs
      it is unclear if the differences in BA levels are etiologic or consequential. To date no
      prospective studies have investigated the role of circulating BA levels in the development of
      HCC/GBTC, nor any potential interactions with diet, obesity and MetS. Interestingly, Vertical
      Sleeve Gastrectomy (VSG), an anti-obesity intervention, may alter BA profiles in some
      patients towards a potentially detrimental composition, but this is largely unexplored.

      Project description: This project is composed of two complementary studies designed to
      explore the role of BA in obesity, liver function and tumourigenesis. The 1st study is a
      case-control study of hepatobiliary cancers (191 HCC; 266 GBTC; 457 matched controls) nested
      within a large prospective cohort of Franco-European populations (EPIC, >520,000 subjects)
      with extensive and detailed dietary/lifestyle data, body size measures and biological samples
      taken at baseline prior to disease development. The aim of this study is to explore
      associations between pre-diagnostic MetS markers and BA levels and the risk of HCC and GBTC,
      and to establish whether the observed associations are modulated, in part, by
      dietary/lifestyle factors or metabolic dysfunction.

      The 2nd study is based on a clinical setting and aims to recruit 100 morbidly obese subjects
      undergoing VSG to compare their BA and metabolic profiles pre- to 1 year post-surgery. This
      study is based on observations that post-VSG BA synthesis is increased, but changes in BA
      composition towards possibly harmful profiles have not previously been studied. It is also
      hypothesized that the degree of weight loss and metabolic improvement in VSG patients may be
      related to pre-surgical BA profiles.

      In both studies, comprehensive panel of 17 serum BA (primary, secondary, (un)-conjugated,
      sulphated) and metabolic biomarkers (inflammation, liver function, dyslipidemia, HbA1c, MetS
      indicators, hepatitis status) will be assessed using validated methods. Study 2 will also
      assess expression of liver FXR, a BA receptor gene. Statistical Methods: Study 1 will
      calculate odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals for circulating BA levels/MetS markers in
      relation to HCC and GBTC risk by multivariable conditional logistic regression, controlling
      for potential confounding variables and effect modifiers. Receiver operating characteristics
      (ROC) analyses will be performed to assess a combination of BA and metabolic markers with
      best performance to prospectively distinguish between cancer cases and controls. In study 2,
      GLM (repeated measures) ANOVA will be used to compare pre-/post-surgery changes in
      biomarkers. BA profiles from both studies, will be compared and correlations between BA and
      other biomarkers, lifestyle and body size measures will be assessed.

      Expected results: This project is based on two related concepts. First, that lifestyle
      behaviours and obesity may alter gut microflora leading to changes in BA metabolism,
      enhancing production of specific BA known to be cancer promoting. Second, observations of
      increased BA levels post-VSG surgery, which may improve metabolic function, but some BA may
      be pro-carcinogenic over the longer term. The project will provide improved understanding of
      the inter-relations between BA, lifestyle behaviours and metabolic factors and the
      development of hepatobiliary cancers. It will also identify specific BA most strongly
      associated with these highly malignant cancers. The findings will contribute to the evidence
      base for advice on lifestyle and metabolic modifications for cancer prevention. The clinical
      implications are two-fold. First, the findings will provide insight as to whether BA profiles
      are predictive of the efficacy of VSG with potential implications in personalized medicine,
      and second, identified biomarker profiles may be used for more refined risk stratification
      for development of these cancers and subsequent closer patients' surveillance for early
      detection "
    
  