
    
      Older adults are at increased risk of various chronic diseases, in which inadequate levels of
      vitamins and minerals may play a significant role, including cardiovascular disease,
      Alzheimer's disease, liver disease, and cancer. Most adults in the United States do not meet
      the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) or Adequate Intake (AI) of many vitamins and
      nutritionally-essential minerals from diet alone, including vitamins A, C, D, E and K,
      calcium, magnesium, and potassium. Older adults are particularly susceptible to micronutrient
      inadequacies because of limited absorption, increased requirements, or - in the case of
      vitamin D - decreased synthetic capacity in the skin. Thus, there is a strong rationale for
      supplementing the diets of older adults with a multivitamin/multimineral supplement, such as
      Centrum® Silver®. However, little is currently known about the bioavailability of the
      Centrum® Silver® formula in this age demographic.

      Epidemiological studies and recent clinical trials have shown that use of
      multivitamin/mineral supplements has beneficial effects on disease risk in men, including
      those of advanced age. It is assumed that these benefits of multivitamin/mineral supplements
      are achieved through changes in nutrition status. However, it has never been documented if
      there are concomitant changes in micronutrient levels in individuals who consume these
      supplements. Furthermore, changes in nutritional status in older individuals taking
      multivitamin/multimineral supplements are a subject that has yet to be explored.

      Therefore, this study seeks to recruit men who are in generally good health, 65 years of age
      or older, to assess their vitamin and mineral status before and after six months
      (approximately 24 weeks) of supplementation with Centrum® Silver®. The investigators
      hypothesize that consuming multivitamin/multimineral supplements everyday will result in
      measurable increases in the status of one or more vitamins or minerals in the body.
      Concentrations of several vitamins and minerals in blood samples will be performed, along
      with a general assessment of micronutrient status in white blood cells (primary outcomes). To
      see if these changes in nutrition status impact other aspects of human health, changes in
      lipid and lipoprotein profiles, antioxidant status, metabolic health, and inflammation and
      treatment differences in cognitive function will be assessed (secondary outcomes). Centrum®
      Silver® supplementation may or may not have any effect on these secondary outcomes, when
      compared to a placebo, unless there are measurable changes in the primary outcomes.

      The expectation is that the results of this research will add to a general understanding of
      multivitamin/mineral supplements and how well they can improve the nutritional status of
      older adults. By employing direct and functional methods to assay for nutritional content,
      this study will determine how well these methods correlate and by using both assay methods
      unique insight into the mechanism(s) whereby multivitamin/multimineral supplements might or
      might not lead to improvements in health may be ascertained.
    
  