
    
      Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) account for
      at least 15% of strokes worldwide. There are many possible etiologies for spontaneous (i.e.
      non-traumatic) ICH or IVH such as longstanding hypertension and cerebral amyloid angiopathy.

      Other causes include vascular malformations, intracranial aneurysms, tumors, coagulopathies,
      use of thrombolytic or antithrombotic drugs, cerebral venous thrombosis, hemorrhagic
      transformation of an ischemic infarct, illicit drug use, endocarditis, and vasculitis.

      Identification of the cause of an ICH or IVH typically relies on clinical evaluation
      supported by computer tomography (CT) with or without conventional contrast cerebral
      angiography in selected patients. While magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has substantially
      improved our diagnostic capabilities, the appropriate use of MRI and its effectiveness has
      not been studied systematically in these patients. Furthermore, it is unclear whether routine
      MRI in ICH yields clinically relevant data. For this reason routine use or MRI in patients
      with ICH is highly variable in clinical practice. Furthermore, it is unclear whether the
      findings detected on MRI will change management decisions regarding further diagnostic
      testing and therapeutic options above and beyond that which can be achieved by CT and
      cerebral angiography.

      This question has major ramifications for the care of patients with ICH or IVH. If MRI truly
      can categorize patients into specific diagnostic categories better than CT, this would
      represent a major paradigm shift in the way that these patients are typically evaluated. On
      the other hand, because of the added expense of MRI, its general use could result in a
      substantial increase in the cost of neurological care. These added costs must result in
      improvements in patient management in order to justify the added financial resources
      involved.

      The overall aim of this project is to prospectively determine whether MRI can improve the
      conventional neuroradiological evaluation (CT with or without cerebral angiography) of
      patients with a spontaneous ICH or IVH. The study design will also allow us to identify the
      added benefit of specific MR sequences and repeat MRI in the chronic stage, thereby allowing
      us to prospectively determine their value in a consecutive series of patients. This
      information should have a major impact on the management of these patients by providing data
      on the diagnostic yield of routine MRI in patients presenting with a wide variety of causes
      for ICH or IVH. These data will help guide the diagnostic evaluation and the management of
      brain hemorrhage patients in the future. During this 5-year study, 160 consecutive inpatients
      presenting with a spontaneous ICH or IVH within 48 hours of symptom onset will be
      prospectively categorized into specific hemorrhage subtypes based upon the findings on MRI.
      We will:

        1. Prospectively assess the value of early MRI in determining hemorrhage etiology in
           consecutive patients who present with a spontaneous ICH or IVH diagnosed by CT. We will
           test the hypotheses that:

             1. MRI will more frequently yield a correct specific hemorrhage etiology than
                conventional non-contrast CT.

             2. MRI will increase the certainty of a specific hemorrhage etiology when compared to
                conventional non-contrast CT.

             3. MRI will affect management in patients who present with a spontaneous ICH or IVH
                diagnosed by CT.

             4. The yield of MRI in patients with a spontaneous ICH or IVH varies among diagnostic
                categories.

             5. Routine use of MRI in patients with spontaneous ICH or IVH will reduce the need for
                conventional (and invasive) cerebral angiography in these patients.

        2. Prospectively assess the relative added value of an improved MR protocol (MRA/MRV, GRE,
           DWI, TEDS, PROPELLER) in the evaluation and management of patients with ICH or IVH
           determined by non-contrast CT.

           We will test the hypotheses that:

           a. MRI with multi-echo, multi-shot GRE sequences, MRA, MR venography (MRV), SENSE-DWI
           and PROPELLER-DWI will more accurately assign patients into appropriate diagnostic
           categories than conventional MRI (T1W, T1W post gadolinium, T2W [FSE/FLAIR FSE]) and CT.

        3. Prospectively identify the added benefit of repeated MRI in the chronic stage in the
           evaluation and management of patients with ICH or IVH. We will test the hypotheses that:

             1. Repeat MRI in the chronic stage (at 60 days) will yield a specific ICH etiology
                above and beyond early MRI and CT.

      This information will contribute substantially to our understanding of the value of routine
      MRI in patients with a spontaneous ICH or IVH both in the acute and in the chronic phase. It
      will also allow us to develop practice guidelines for the use of MRI in these patients.
    
  