
    
      Admission to a Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) can be extremely stressful for patients
      and their caregivers. Both are at heightened risk of psychological distress, including
      post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS), which sometimes persist for months or years
      post-discharge. Unfortunately, few post-PICU psychological interventions have been studied.
      Documented challenges in PICU research (e.g. low recruitment rates) means feasibility issues
      require investigation before investing resources in intervention trials.

      In adult intensive-care, diaries are used to help patients and families undergo key processes
      that underpin therapies to reduce PTSS: talking about and understanding their experiences. In
      the only published study exploring paediatric ICU diaries, families gave positive feedback,
      but their clinical effectiveness has not yet been evaluated. Further, it is hypothesised that
      formatting diaries as 'storybooks' is more adaptable to the developmental variation of the
      paediatric population.

      Using a case-series design, this research aims to establish the feasibility of recruiting to
      a study evaluating PICU storybooks. It will explore the acceptability of research tasks to
      families, the utility and sensitivity of psychometric measures, plus how storybooks are used
      and perceived in supporting psychological recovery. It is anticipated that the findings will
      directly inform the planning of a larger scale evaluation study, and adaptations to the
      intervention. The hope is this will lead to improved support for families leaving PICU.

      Pairs of caregivers and their children aged 3-15 will be recruited upon discharge from a PICU
      and will receive an individualised, developmentally-appropriate storybook about their PICU
      experiences. At discharge, and one, three and six months post-discharge, caregivers and
      children aged 8+ will complete questionnaires about psychological distress symptoms
      (depression, anxiety and PTSS) and their impact on functioning. Participants will be asked to
      keep a brief log of their storybook use and will be interviewed about their experience of the
      intervention and research procedures at three and six months post-discharge.
    
  