
    
      Study Design Older postmenopausal women will be randomized, in a double-blinded crossover
      design, to receive (i) transdermal estradiol, delivery rate 100 µg day-1 plus oral placebo,
      or (ii) placebo patch plus oral placebo. The experimental measurements and procedures below
      will be performed before and 4 weeks after each treatment.

      Experimental measurements:

      Blood Pressure- A blood pressure cuff will be wrapped around the right arm to obtain blood
      pressure via a standard automated auscultometric device (Welch-Allyn). In addition,
      beat-by-beat blood pressure will be obtained via finger photoplethysmography (Finapress blood
      pressure monitor).

      Heart Rate- Standard limb lead electrodes will be used to obtain heart rate measurements.

      Respiration- An elastic band will be placed around the subject's abdomen to measure rate and
      depth of breathing.

      Blood Samples- A venous catheter will be placed in the subjects arm for blood samples. For
      screening purposes measurements of glucose, electrolytes, cholesterol and triglycerides will
      be made. In addition, progesterone, estrogen and testosterone, will be assessed to verify
      hormonal status.

      Sympathetic Nerve Activity- A tiny microelectrode will be placed in the peroneal nerve of the
      leg, located just below the knee on the outer part of the leg. Alternatively, the median
      nerve located at the inside of the elbow will be used. At these points the nerves are closest
      to the surface of the skin. The course of the nerve will be determined by electrically
      stimulating through the skin with a pencil shaped electrode. When the nerve is stimulated,
      involuntary twitching and/or tingling sensations of the foot or hand will occur. The
      twitching or tingling will disappear when the stimulation is stopped. Once the nerve is
      found, two tiny, sterile, microelectrodes will be inserted through the skin. One is a
      reference electrode placed just above the nerve site (2 cm) and the other is the recording
      electrode. The recording electrode is advanced into the nerve. When the tip of the electrode
      enters the nerve, the subject may briefly notice either pressure or tingling sensations. At
      this point, minor adjustments in the position of the electrode will be made until an optimal
      nerve signal is obtained.

      Limb Blood Flow Measurements- Blood flow to the arm or leg may also be measured by using
      duplex Doppler ultrasound to non-invasively measure mean arterial blood velocity and
      diameter. Femoral or brachial blood velocity can be obtained by placing a Doppler flow probe
      on the skin over the common femoral artery distal to the inguinal ligament or the brachial
      artery, respectively. Ultrasound imaging of femoral artery or brachial artery diameter will
      be performed at a site matching that at which velocity is measured. The following formula is
      used to calculate blood flow: blood flow = π * radius2 * velocity.

      Urine samples will be collected to measure specific gravity and pH using test strips.

      Experimental Procedures:

      Neck Pressure and Neck Suction- A padded neck collar will be fitted around the anterior
      portion of the subject's neck for the application of brief 5-second periods of neck pressure
      and neck suction. This allows the application of positive or negative pressure to the carotid
      sinus baroreceptors which are located in this region. The positive pressure will transiently
      cause these receptors to detect a decrease in blood pressure and thus cause an acute increase
      in heart rate, and blood pressure. The negative pressure will transiently cause these
      receptors to detect an increase in blood pressure and thus cause an acute decrease in heart
      rate, and blood pressure. This procedure has been used extensively to non-invasively assess
      baroreflex function in healthy subjects aged between 18-80 years. Nevertheless, in subjects
      over 50 years of age Doppler imaging will be performed to screen for atherosclerotic plaques
      within the carotid vessels to rule out carotid artery disease and determine the feasibility
      of performing neck pressure and neck suction.

      Handgrip Exercise and Post Exercise Ischemia- The subject will be asked to perform handgrip
      exercise for either two minutes or until they feel like they cannot maintain the exercise
      (i.e., fatigue). Five seconds before stopping the exercise, a cuff around the upper arm will
      be inflated to impede blood flow for 2 minutes. This traps the metabolites that were produced
      during the exercise in the area of the muscle, which maintains stimulation of skeletal muscle
      metaboreceptor afferents. Since these metaboreceptor afferents contribute to the rise in
      blood pressure during exercise, continued stimulation of these receptors maintains a blood
      pressure response.
    
  