
    
      Testing and Linkage to Care for Injecting Drug Users in Kenya

      The purpose of the study will be to leverage the GoK's first-ever needle and syringe program,
      to implement the HIV seek, test, treat, and retain paradigm among PWID, whose parenteral and
      sexual transmission networks amplify HIV epidemics. Study innovations include: (1) use of a
      stepped wedge trial design; (2) intent to track community viral load in a low-income country
      setting; (3) use of rapid CD4 assays to reduce time from HIV diagnosis to ART initiation; and
      (4) use of conditional cash transfers to support peer case management of participant HIV
      treatment retention.

      Aim 1: Evaluate seek test treat retain using a stepped wedge cluster-randomized design.
      Clusters will be the planned NSP service sites. The investigators will initiate
      respondent-driven sampling (RDS) to reach PWID in Nairobi, Western region and coastal Mombasa
      (including Malindi) for baseline HIV-1 prevalence determination, then collect waves of study
      data as service sites roll out, including behavioral data. Teams will do rapid HIV and HCV
      testing and refer for addiction/mental health and other services (e.g., OST). HIV-positives
      will receive prevention with positives (PwP) counseling and point of care CD4 counts. Those
      with CD4 <500/μL will be assigned a peer case manager to link the person to ART at
      study-participating HIV clinics, support ART and PwP adherence and care retention. Both peer
      case managers and subjects will receive small conditional cash transfers for subject's
      adherence to HIV care visits. Primary study outcomes will include time to successful linkage
      to care, time to ART, and community viral load before and after TLC-IDU initiation.
      'Community viral load' will be ascertained by collecting specimens from randomly-selected
      HIV-positives at each of the NASCOP NSP-IDU service sites. This sampling will be done in
      waves over time, to document changes in infectivity (median viral load). With individual
      viral loads collected per site per time step (for a n= of at least 1800 viral loads in total
      across all sites and timewaves) the investigators will have good power to detect log10 viral
      load changes of 0.23 and hazard ratios of ~1.5 when comparing pre- and post-intervention
      period using linear mixed effects analysis.

      Aim 1: Research hypothesis: Staggered rollout of a planned NSP/MARP program can be utilized
      to collect pre- and post intervention data that will allow assessment of impact on community
      viral load. Linkage to care will be higher, time to ART initiation will be reduced, and
      retention in care will be higher during time periods with the TLC-IDU services as compared to
      time periods with standard of care.

      Aim 2: Conduct mathematical modeling to estimate community viral load in PWID injecting and
      sexual networks, and to assess potential population-level impact of the TLC-IDU intervention
      on Ro, numbers of infections averted, and quality-adjusted life expectancy.

      Aim 2: Research hypothesis: HIV transmission dynamics models can use parameters from Aim 1
      data waves, with sensitivity analyses identifying those parameters with largest impact on
      effect estimation and stability.

      Aim 3: Assess the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the TLC-IDU model, using a national
      payer perspective. This study will provide among the world's first data regarding
      implementation of the seek, test, treat and retain paradigm with IDUs in sub-Saharan Africa.
      It will demonstrate the degree to which a combination of structural, biomedical and
      behavioral interventions can reduce infectivity. Partnership with Kenya's national HIV
      program will allow lessons learned from this study to inform other countries considering how
      best to address the growing PWID contribution to the HIV epidemic in this high-HIV-burden
      region.

      Aim 3: Research hypothesis: Utilizing MARP/NSP services will result in a reduction in median
      community viral load and in forward HIV transmission. Cost per quality adjusted life year
      saved and HIV infection averted will be favorable as compared with the alternative of no
      specific seek, test, treat and retain program directed to PWID.

      HCV Among PWID in Kenya: A Supplement to the TLC-IDU study

      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a global pandemic that leads to 500,000 preventable deaths
      worldwide. People who inject drugs (PWID) are at much higher risk of HCV infection, with an
      estimated 10 million HCV infections among PWID worldwide. In Kenya, PWID are at high risk of
      HCV infection, yet HCV prevalence in this key population is not well-defined. The time is
      ripe to establish HCV prevalence among high-risk PWID in Kenya, determine the role of sexual
      transmission and risk behavior in those identified with HCV, and explore potential best
      approaches to provide clinical and counseling services, especially to HCV-HIV co-infected
      individuals. We therefore propose to add rapid HCV testing to our study of PWID in Kenya, the
      NIDA-funded parent 'TLC-IDU study' (Kurth & Cherutich, PIs), and to collect additional
      specific behavioral and clinical data relevant to HCV in this high-HIV burden setting.

      These data will provide novel and highly relevant information about HCV and HIV co-infection
      in Kenya among PWID that will be immediately applicable to national HCV testing and treating
      policy. Our scientific objectives:

      Supplement Specific Aim 1: Establish HCV prevalence in PWID in Nairobi, Western and Coastal
      region, by adding a rapid HCV assay to the study panel among all participants (both HIV
      infected and uninfected) recruited during the last TLC-IDU study waves. (The study involves
      recruiting PWID who undergo rapid HIV testing/phenotyping and behavioral data collection, as
      well as peer case management to support HIV treatment). Those testing positive with the HCV
      rapid point of care assay will be given initial counseling to raise their awareness, tell
      them they have been exposed, and encourage them to return for confirmatory results.
      Confirmatory viral HCV testing will be done and confirmed positive participants given an
      incentive to return to the study site for standardized HCV counseling and treatment referral
      for those with HCV monoinfection and HIV-HCV infection. Main outcomes will include: a) HCV
      prevalence determination b) HCV testing and counseling feasibility and acceptability
      measures, c) unique predictors of HCV monoinfection and HIV and HCV coinfection determined in
      multinomial logistic regression analysis.

      Supplement Specific Aim 2: Deliver HCV counseling and available treatment, including
      sofosbuvir treatment to those eligible and collect HCV treatment adherence data.

      Supplement Specific Aim 3: Present study findings and program implications at a national
      workshop with study partner NASCOP. Invite key stakeholders, researchers, and implementers to
      discuss HCV agenda for Kenya.
    
  