
    
      This trial will be conducted on patient from the outpatient clinic in the fixed
      prosthodontics clinic, faculty of oral and dental medicine, Cairo University Adherence
      session will take place in the presence of the patients in the initial visit. This include
      that patient will be informed by Z Elshamy about the study steps and maintenance of oral
      hygiene instructions. Participants will be asked by Z Elshamy if they have any problems.

      Motivation and enforcing the maintenance of oral hygiene measures by ZElshamy.

      The visits will be designated as follow:

      Visit 1: Preoperative records, face-to-face adherence reminder session, clinical,
      radiographic examination, intraoral photographs, and primary impression for diagnostic cast
      construction. Visit 2: teeth preparation, secondary impression using addition silicone rubber
      base material and temporary restoration. Visit 3: one week after the second visit, try in for
      the restoration will be done.

      Visit 4: placement and permanent cementation of the final restoration. Visit 5: Every 2
      months post operatively follow-up visit for one year. Sample size: Since no previously
      published effect size data regarding the effectiveness of neither the intervention nor the
      control exist, an estimated sample of (20 restorations) would be used with allocation ratio
      1:1 Recruitment: The patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria will be selected from the
      outpatient clinic of the fixed prosthodontics department - Cairo University. Screening of
      patients will be carried out until the target population is reached.

      Methods: Assignment of interventions (for controlled trial) Sequence generation. The
      participant teeth will be allocated into two groups with 1:1 allocation ratio by using
      computerized Sequence generation.

      Plans to promote participant retention &complete follow up :

      Telephone numbers and address of the patient included in the study will be Recorded. All
      patients will be given a phone call before the next appointment.

      Data management: All data will be entered electronically. Patient files are to be stored in
      Numerical order in a secured place. This will be carried out by ZElshamy Statistical methods
      Data analysis All Data will be collected, checked, revised, tabulated and entered into the
      computer by ZElshamy. Quantitative variables from the normal distribution will be expressed
      as mean and standard deviation (SD) values. To test the significant differences between two
      groups at different follow-up period's student t-test will be used. Significant level will be
      set at P ≤ 0.05 Statistical analysis will be done using Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences, Version 21.0 (SPSS, IBM, Chicago, III, USA) for Windows. Data monitoring: The main
      supervisor is responsible for data monitoring if harms arise, an interim analysis will be
      done. (El Mahallawi O).

      Harms: Any adverse effect of pain or even failure will be recorded, documented and treated.
      Consent: Researcher will discuss the trial with all patients. Patients will then be able to
      have an informed discussion with the researcher. A researcher will obtain written consent
      from patients willing to participate in the trial. All consent forms will be in the Arabic
      language Confidentiality :All study-related information will be stored securely. All
      participants' information will be stored in locked file cabinets in areas with limited
      access. All data collection, process, and administrative forms will be identified by a coded
      ID [identification] number only to maintain participant confidentiality. All records that
      contain names or other personal identifiers will be stored separately from study records
      identified by code number. All local databases will be secured with password-protected access
      systems.

      Access to data :The investigator and supervisors will be given access to the data sets. All
      data sets will be password protected. To ensure confidentiality, Participant study
      information will become confidentially Ancillary and post-trial care :All patients will be
      followed up until complete period study& patients' satisfactions occur. As any prosthetic
      treatment post insertion adjustment is necessary and in this trial recalls maintenance.

      Dissemination policy : Study results will be published as partial fulfillment of the
      requirements for PHD degree in fixed prosthodontics.

      - Topics suggested for presentation or publication will be circulated to the authors.

      Data collection methods:

      Primary outcome: The fracture of the restoration of the two groups will be assessed using the
      modified United States public health service ( USPHS) criteria Secondary outcome: Color
      changes of the two groups will be assessed using the modified United States public health
      service (USPHS) criteria
    
  