
    
      Many frail and elderly patients undergo surgery for hip fractures every year. Many of these
      patients have other health problems including heart disease and anaemia (low haemoglobin or
      "low blood count") either from chronic illness, from bleeding at the time of their injury or
      during subsequent surgery. The vast majority (more than 95%) of these patients will go on to
      have surgery. This surgery is often high risk. Patients with this type of injury may already
      be frail, may be in hospital for a long time and will need rehabilitation. Many of them will
      develop complications, including heart attacks and some will die.

      Doctors looking after these patients commonly prescribe a blood transfusion around the time
      of surgery. These patient often have anaemia before surgery an lose more blood during their
      operations. A benefit of blood transfusion is that it may increase the amount of oxygen the
      blood can carry. One of the main reasons that doctors prescribe blood around the time of
      surgery is to prevent heart attacks, which can occur if the heart doesn't receive enough
      oxygen. Another possible benefit of blood transfusion is that it may help patients get out of
      bed more quickly after surgery. This is another important aspect of their recovery.

      However, blood transfusions can have side effects such as causing heart failure or increasing
      infections after surgery. These can delay patient recovery too. Although some research has
      been done in this area, anaesthetists and surgeons are still unsure of when to prescribe
      blood transfusions to these patients. In particular, uncertainty about how low the blood
      count should be before a blood transfusion is ordered. Some doctors prescribe blood when the
      haemoglobin count is less than 9 and some at a lower level of 7. Current guidelines suggest
      that prescribing at a lower haemoglobin count is better, but there is research which suggests
      that this level is too low if the patient has a history of heart disease.
    
  