
    
      Dietary sugar is increasingly perceived in a negative way. This has led to taxation by
      government and guidelines by global public health bodies to reduce sugar intake to <5% of
      energy intake. All available public health guidelines regarding sugar advocate a reduction in
      sugar intake, despite a lack of evidence to support these recommendations. These guidelines
      focus on the association between sugar intake and energy intake, without regard for energy
      expenditure. This oversimplifies situations in which energy surplus is pathological, for
      example in diseases like obesity. This complexity is demonstrated by evidence that dietary
      sugar intake is decreasing in the United Kingdom, whilst rates of obesity have increased in
      the same timeframe.

      It is important to consider energy expenditure in the context of health. The most variable
      component of energy expenditure between individuals is physical activity energy expenditure
      (PAEE), which varies from ~600-2100 kcal per day in men of a similar demographic. Current
      guidelines do not regard the effect that changing dietary sugar might have on PAEE and
      therefore total energy expenditure.

      Carbohydrate availability dictates the capacity to perform physical work. However, the role
      of carbohydrate in regulating physical activity behaviours has only recently been considered.
      Ingestion of a carbohydrate-rich breakfast causes a significant increase in 24-hour PAEE
      compared with no breakfast consumption before midday. The magnitude of this difference is
      greatest prior to midday, near to when carbohydrate had been ingested and when glucose uptake
      to peripheral tissue is increased. This points towards a stimulatory role of carbohydrate or
      sugar on PAEE when carbohydrate is readily available to peripheral tissue. The amount of
      carbohydrate present in skeletal muscle is dictated by the amount of carbohydrate in the
      diet. As physical activity is performed by skeletal muscle, dietary carbohydrate intake may
      regulate physical activity behaviour. Consequently, reducing total carbohydrate intake may
      result in reduced PAEE.

      Studies in which carbohydrate has been manipulated and physical activity has been measured
      have not been sufficient in answering this research question. Often self-report measures of
      physical activity are used, which are not sensitive enough to discern meaningful differences.
      Studies which have measured physical activity objectively, i.e. using pedometers or
      accelerometers, are confounded by a lack of information about actual carbohydrate intake or
      concurrent prescription of exercise interventions. Furthermore, government targets of reduced
      sugar intake to <5% of total energy intake are not aimed at overall carbohydrate intake per
      se. In the breakfast study mentioned, sugar intake was significantly greater amongst
      individuals who ate breakfast compared with individuals who fasted until midday. Therefore,
      it is also plausible that a regulatory role of carbohydrate on PAEE may be due to the type of
      carbohydrate rather than the absolute amount.

      If the availability of carbohydrate to peripheral tissue plays a regulatory role on PAEE,
      then theoretically the effects of manipulating the amount or type of carbohydrate will be
      detectable acutely, within 24 hours.
    
  