
    
      Cancer remains one of the leading causes of death in modern society. Breast cancer is a
      prevalent type of cancer in most societies, but due to increasing rates of detection coupled
      with advanced therapies, of the ≈230,000 people newly diagnosed each year with breast cancer,
      approximately 90% are expected to live beyond 5 years. Despite the trend in improved
      cancer-related morality, cancer survivors are at a significantly increased risk for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality. As such, approximately $800 million is
      spent annually in providing cardiovascular care for female cancer survivors alone. In a
      recent study, Daher et al. (2012) reported a Framingham Risk Score of 8.4 and a 10-year risk
      of general CVD of 7.6% in men and women cancer survivors older than 30 yrs. More importantly,
      they also determined that the mean vascular age of cancer survivors was 8 years greater than
      their chronological age, suggesting that sub-clinical manifestation of CVD may be present
      within the vasculature of some cancer survivors.

      The definition and scientific study of cardiotoxicity has, to date, primarily focused solely
      on the myocardial injury related to adjuvant cancer therapy and the National Cancer Institute
      has defined it as "toxicity that affects the heart" (http://www.cancer.gov/dictionary/).
      However, cancer survivors are also at risk for vascular-related abnormalities. Despite this
      risk, the impact of adjuvant treatments on the function and structure of the peripheral
      vascular system is still poorly understood. With normal aging, two of the most important
      vascular adaptations to arteries, which strongly contribute to the increased risk of
      vascular-related and general CVD, are an increase in large artery stiffness and dysfunction
      of the vascular endothelium [15, 16]. In subjects receiving anthracycline chemotherapy,
      Chaosuwannaki et al. (2010), Miza-Stec et al. (2013), and Draft et al. (2013) independently
      demonstrated significant increases in aortic stiffness 4-6 mo following treatment. Likewise,
      carotid intima-media thickness has been shown to increase within 6 mo of treatment with
      chemotherapy. This is critical given that arterial stiffness and intima-media thickness both
      are independently associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. In addition,
      carotid artery stiffness is a key determinant of the sympathetic baroreflex sensitivity in
      older men and women. This information suggests that decreases in baroreflex sensitivity may
      be occurring following chemotherapy treatment, which is important given it is a primary
      mechanism through which the autonomic nervous system regulates arterial blood pressure and
      that a low baroreflex sensitivity is associated with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
      Specific Aim 1 will address this question.

      The vascular endothelium is the first physiological barrier encountered by intravenously
      administered chemotherapy. Unfortunately, the effects of adjuvant therapy on endothelial
      function have primarily been studied in childhood cancer survivors or following a single
      treatment session. Chow et al. (2006) observed a decreased brachial artery flow-mediated
      dilation (FMD), a measurement of endothelial-dependent dilation, ≈20 mo following
      anthracycline-based chemotherapy. Similarly, Vaughn et at. (2008) demonstrated a decreased
      FMD in long-term survivors of testicular cancer. In addition, several reports have
      demonstrated a decrease in arterial reactivity to various biological vasodilators (e.g.,
      sodium nitroprusside, acetylcholine) following acute chemotherapy and radiation. In contrast
      to these studies, Jones et al. (2007) reported no difference in FMD in breast cancer patients
      ≈20 mo post-treatment compared to healthy controls. Increasing our understanding of the
      effects of chemotherapy on endothelial function is essential, especially since it can be the
      initial step in the development of cardiovascular disease.

      Recently, the skin microcirculation has been used as a model circulation to evaluate the
      changes in vascular health in a variety of diseases including hypertension, renal disease,
      diabetes, atherosclerosis, coronary artery disease, and heart failure. This work has been
      facilitated, in part, by its easy accessibility and high responsiveness to biological
      vasodilators. Given the paucity of information on endothelial health in cancer patients
      undergoing anthracycline chemotherapy evaluation of the skin microcirculation provides a
      non-invasive and useful method of increasing our understanding of cardiotoxicity. Specific
      Aim 2 will address this problem.

      Specific Aim 1: Evaluate the changes in spontaneous blood pressure control and arterial
      stiffness in patients treated with anthracycline-based chemotherapy.

      Hypothesis 1a: Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity will be significantly decreased in cancer
      patients and cancer survivors treated with anthracycline-based chemotherapy.

      Hypothesis 1b: Changes in baroreflex control of blood pressure will be related to increases
      in carotid artery stiffness and cardiac changes in left ventricular ejection time.

      Specific Aim 2: Evaluate the changes in macrovascular and microvascular vascular function.

      Hypothesis 2a: Treatment with anthracycline-based chemotherapy will significantly decrease
      endothelium-dependent vasodilation in both the large brachial artery and the small
      microvascular capillaries in the skin.

      Hypothesis 2b: Changes in vascular function will be associated with molecular markers of
      endothelial function and oxidative stress.
    
  