
    
      Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome (RCVS) is a group of conditions characterised
      by prolonged but reversible multifocal narrowing of the cerebral arteries. It presents
      typically as acute severe headache, usually recurrent and thunderclap in character, with or
      without additional symptoms and signs. Adverse complications associated with RCVS can be
      devastating especially if not recognised early; depending on the degree of vasoconstriction,
      RCVS may be associated with cortical subarachnoid haemorrhage (in approximately 34% of
      patients), ischaemic infarction (6-39% of patients), or concomitant posterior reversible
      encephalopathy syndrome (PRES, 9-38% of patients). RCVS may also present as parenchymal brain
      haemorrhage in 20% of cases. The data on complications rate highlight the uncertainty about
      the condition and indicate need for more research to better characterise the evolution of the
      pathology; hence need for this study as it is prospective and longitudinal.

      The hallmark of RCVS is vasoconstriction seen on vascular imaging scans and typically
      reverses within 3 months. Prevalence of radiological vasoconstriction seen on magnetic
      resonance angiography (MRA) in RCVS is reported to be between 60-90% and typically appears as
      diffuse segmental constriction of large and medium sized vessels lasting 4-12 weeks. The main
      advantage of MRA is that it can be performed without the use of a radioactive tracer, thus
      providing a safe method for repeat observations of vascular pathology. Imaging is often
      negative in first 4-5 days following the onset of headache; The mean time to detect
      abnormality on vascular imaging has been reported as 8 days after headache onset. RCVS
      symptoms usually resolves by 1 month after presentation, however the adverse complications
      associated with RCVS may have lasting consequences as described above. Magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) is an excellent tool for characterising brain changes during the progression
      and resolution of RCVS. Standard structural images can identify complications of RCVS, such
      as bleeding, ischaemia, and PRES.

      Finally, Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) MRI can be used to non-invasively quantify perfusion of
      brain tissue, providing a measure of the impact of upstream arterial vasoconstriction on
      local cortical regions.

      Cortical perfusion has not yet been extensively studied in RCVS; at time of writing, only two
      case reports have been published. Rosenbloom and Singhal reported a case of RCVS induced by
      carotid endarterectomy following a frontal lobe ischaemic stroke. Perfusion MRI showed
      unilateral hypo-perfusion, mainly affecting internal watershed areas with superficial
      cortical regions being relatively spared. In a second study, ASL-MRI was performed on a
      50-year-old man with RCVS who presented with severe recurrent headaches and neurological
      deficits (localising to the right hemisphere). ASL-MRI demonstrated significant
      hypo-perfusion in the right parieto-occipital lobe, but no infarct was seen on diffusion
      imaging. At 12 weeks, there was complete resolution of cerebral vasoconstriction on
      angiography and normal perfusion findings on ASL-MRI.

      These case studies suggest that perfusion MRI can offer an additional tool to confirm and
      understand RCVS. ASL-MRI is a non-invasive, radiation and contrast-free technique that can be
      performed at multiple time points to monitor changes in perfusion over the time period of
      RCVS resolution and assess response to potential therapeutics.

      One of the disadvantages of ASL-MRI is a low signal to noise ratio, this can be addressed by
      using high-field MRI at 3 Tesla (3T). In addition, 3T MRI can provide very good spatial
      resolution. The University of Nottingham represents one of the leading international research
      centres with experience in using high and ultra-high field MRI for investigating different
      neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis and brain tumours with excellent results.
      Applying advanced non-invasive MRI techniques in this study will be a significant advantage
      as we investigate RCVS, understand the pathophysiology, and assess brain perfusion in
      multiple time points.
    
  