
    
      Methods Two hundred patients with palpitations and no clear cause for their symptoms will be
      randomized to receive either PPI or placebo for one month. At base line they will be
      investigated to rule out arrhythmia by documenting normal heart rate (less than 110 beat per
      minute) or ECG showing normal sinus rhythm or mild sinus tachycardia (Less than 110 per
      minute) during symptoms. Obvious causes such as anxiety due to a stressful event or organic
      causes such anemia or thyroid disorders should be also ruled out.

      Patient who agree to participate in the study will be asked to sign an informed consent. A
      baseline questionnaire with symptoms will be filled. They will then be randomized for
      treatment with either PPI or placebo once at night time. After 10 days of treatment they will
      be contacted and questioned regarding their symptoms. The two groups will be compared to see
      if there is any improvement of symptoms with treatment.

      Studying group The study will be under the umbrella of the JCC group. Primary investigators
      are Dr Munir Zaqqa and Dr Ismail Hamam

      Support required Pharmaceutical company will be contacted to provide 120 packets with 30 tabs
      of PPI and if possible packets with similar matching placebo to support the study

      Study criteria inclusion

        1. Persons with palpitations and no clear cause who are above the age of 16 years and who
           consent to the study will be included

        2. Clear causes that should be excluded are true arrhythmia such SVT or VT or frequent
           premature atrial or ventricular contractions or any organic cause such as thyroid
           disorder, anemia (hg less than 11 g/dl) and obvious anxiety disorder

        3. Arrhythmia can be excluded by an ECG showing sinus rhythm or sinus tachycardia during
           episodes or measurement of heart rate by a reliable method during symptoms showing
           regular heart rate less than 120 beats per minute.

        4. Patient will be randomized to either PPI or placebo to be taken one table at night time

        5. Patients will be provided with 2 weeks supply but will be evaluated at 10 days to see if
           symptoms improved

        6. The two groups will be compared using statistical methods to see if there is difference
           in improvement.

      Expected harm:

      PPI's are generally safe medications. Side effects are rare and generally mild. They include
      nausea, stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation or headache.

      Very rarely allergic reaction can occur with hives, difficulty in breathing and swelling of
      the face and lips.

      Benefit to the patient:

      Patients randomized to either group may experience benefit due to the medication or even
      placebo use. There is no financial benefit of participating in the study. The result of the
      study will be used to help patient in the future with similar symptoms
    
  