
    
      Study flyers will be posted in all doc boxes to ensure all ED personnel is aware of ongoing
      studies. Initial ED history and physical examination (standard procedure). Provider
      identifies patient who is felt to require suture closure. Provider will contact study staff
      that approved to consent patient to consent the patient for the study. After identification
      of a patient who meets inclusion criteria, the patient will be screened for exclusion
      criteria by the investigators using a preprinted form on the outside of the study envelope.
      If the patient has an exclusion criterion, this will be noted on this preprinted form and the
      form will be saved for further data analysis without any patient identifiers, and the patient
      will not be enrolled in the study. If the patient does not have exclusion criteria, the
      enrollment envelope will be opened and he/she will undergo the written consent process. After
      written consent is complete, the randomization envelope is opened. There will be a question
      asking if buried sutures will be needed as the group of patients needing buried sutures will
      have their own randomized packets to ensure a similar amount of buried suture patients are in
      both the Vicryl Rapide and nonabsorbable suture closure group. The study staff will then
      gather the following information regarding wound characteristics: Measure the length and
      width of the laceration, laceration location, presence of contamination, and if it is simple
      linear. The laceration will then be prepped for closure using whatever cleaning or anesthesia
      is felt to be appropriate by the practitioner. Suture closure will then occur with either
      Vicryl Rapide or nonabsorbable suture according to randomization direction in the envelope.
      After laceration closure, the practitioner will also write down on this paper the suture size
      and, for the nonabsorbable group, the type of suture used. The practitioner performing suture
      closure will also write down whether he/she is the nurse practitioner (NP), physician
      assistant (PA), emergency medicine (EM) faculty or EM resident. Patients will be given
      preprinted discharge instructions appropriate to whether Vicryl Rapide or nonabsorbable
      suture was used that gives information such as precautions for infection, information about
      how to do the 3-month follow-up, research coordinator contact information, and date to return
      for suture removal in the nonabsorbable group.

      At 30 days post enrollment, the patient will receive a call from trained Institutional review
      board (IRB) approved study personnel. The pre-printed scripted form will ask questions to
      determine if the patient had any complications including infection, dehiscence, and, in the
      absorbable suture group, whether a return visit was needed to have the sutures removed.

      At 30 days post enrollment, study personnel will also do a chart review collecting the
      following elements: Patient's age, ethnicity, gender, comorbid conditions including diabetes
      mellitus, renal insufficiency, liver disease, and immunodeficiency, ED vital signs, and
      whether patient was admitted or treated as outpatient for the index visit. The chart will
      also be reviewed examining for any revisit to the ED during those 30 days with any of the
      complications listed in the previous paragraph.

      At three-months post enrollment, the research coordinator will work with the patient to
      arrange an appointment to take pictures of the wound. The patient will have their follow-up
      visit done at the Clinical Research Center at the University of California, San Francisco
      (UCSF) Fresno building. The photographs will be taken by study personnel with instructions on
      how to take these. At this time, the patient would be provided with a gift card and log book
      would be signed by the patient. The photographs are then prepared for submission to the
      plastic surgeon who will be evaluating them. Photographs will not have any patient
      identifiers other than a study number, and would be labeled with the anatomic area. The
      plastic surgeon, who is a blinded study staff to the study hypothesis, then assesses the
      cosmesis of the wound on a 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS).
    
  