
    
      Pharmaceutical companies have developed new oral anticoagulants (NOACs) to replace warfarin
      for prevention of systemic thrombo-embolization and embolic stroke in patients with atrial
      fibrillation or other thromboembolism diseases. The sale of NOACs has been increasing
      globally as the prevalence of atrial fibrillation increases in countries with aging
      population. Patients with high thromboembolism risk are also at high risk for major bleeding.
      The conservative strategy is not good for that more patients on reduced dose of NOACs had
      stroke. The clinical dilemma is how to justify the efficacy of NOACs in stroke prevention
      without encountering the incidental major bleeding from side effects. In order to solve this
      dilemma, the comprehensive evaluation of risk for thromboembolism, risk of bleeding, and
      genetic background on related to drug pharmacokinetics and response is essential. The primary
      goal of this project is to combine the clinical data and genetic information to develop a
      drug response evaluation platform to facilitate personalized and precision medicine for NOACs
      prescription.

      Pharmacogenomics elucidates the drug response and side effect on the basis of individual
      genetic background. This proposed project will enroll clinical patients who have atrial
      fibrillation and indications for the prescription of NOACs. The information will be collected
      for clinical demographics, medical history of embolic stroke, thromboembolism events, any
      bleeding events, and concurrent use of other medicines. Peak level of NOAC in use, and
      post-drug coagulation test will be performed. The above data will be integrated for the
      pharmacogenomic analysis with multiple genes (CES1, ABCB1, SLCO1B1, CYP2C9*2, CYP2C9*3,
      VKORC, CYP3A4, MMP-9, ALOX5AP, MTHFR, FGB and eNOs). The single nucleotide polymorphism
      (SNPs) of gene clusters will be derived from this clinical study. These output results will
      be used to optimize the gene-array product that is specifically-designed for NOACs
      prescription.

      The NOACs-specific gene-array for a precision prescription will be developed to help
      physicians to choose the right NOAC and the best dose for individualized patients. This tool
      will maximize thromboembolism prevention from the NOACs prescription along with the
      minimization of NOACs side effects. The product will be commercialized with great potential
      for the global market.
    
  