
    
      The prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is rapidly increasing worldwide,
      particularly in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Tight glycemic control via diet and
      lifestyle modification is critical to treating GDM and preventing its adverse health
      consequences, including increased risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D), in women and their children.
      However, in many resource-limited countries including Nepal, time for diet/lifestyle
      counseling often competes with other components of antenatal care. Mobile health (mHealth)
      technology can be leveraged to promote healthy behaviors, and support self-management and
      treatment of GDM, but this approach has not been tried previously in any LMICs. Taking a
      user-centered design approach, here the study investigators propose to develop a
      culturally-appropriate smartphone application (app) to support self-management of GDM (mGDM),
      and test its usability and preliminary efficacy, among patients in a tertiary level,
      university hospital of Kathmandu University, Nepal. Based on the Social Cognitive Theory
      framework for behavior change, this app will assist in self-management of GDM by increasing
      the patient's knowledge and self-efficacy to adhere to the recommended diet and physical
      activity regimens. The app will also help clinicians by generating easily digestible visual
      displays of patient data and behaviors, which can aid in their clinical decision-making and
      counseling. In the requirements gathering phase, 6 GDM patients will be recruited into a
      focus group to view paper prototypes and provide feedback on its features and functions.
      Additional questions will be asked about their perceived barriers, facilitators, and
      strategies for lifestyle modification. Key informant interviews will also be conducted with 5
      clinicians (gynecologists, dietician, physical therapist) and 3 family members, asking them
      to provide feedback on the mGDM prototype, especially pertaining to the usefulness and format
      of the graphic summaries of patient data. After revising paper prototypes and developing the
      first digital prototype, six additional patients with GDM will be recruited for two rounds of
      usability testing including think-aloud protocol and focus group discussions. Final prototype
      will be developed following an iterative process of product design and user testing. After
      developing the app, the investigators will recruit 60 women who are newly diagnosed with GDM,
      and randomly assign them to one of two treatment conditions: either (A) mGDM app + standard
      care + telemonitoring, or (B) standard care + telemonitoring alone, from 28 weeks of
      gestation to delivery. All participants will receive bio-monitoring devices for the
      self-monitoring of blood pressure and blood glucose. . Although the fundamental elements of
      the telemonitoring support are the same between the two groups, patients in the app group
      will be able to leverage the technological features in the app to aid with self-monitoring.

      In this proof-of-concept trial, feasibility outcomes will be app usage, self-monitoring
      adherence, app usability and acceptability and the telemonitoring feasibility outcomes will
      be patient engagement and the validity of self-measurements by the patients. Exploratory
      treatment outcomes will be glycemic control measures at 6 weeks postpartum, neonatal
      birthweight and neonatal glucose levels, neonatal APGAR score, NICU admittance, insulin
      prescription in pregnancy, hypertensive disorder in pregnancy, gestational weight gain and
      labor induction and caesarean delivery. Findings from the proposed study will empirically
      inform a future randomized control trial that will be fully powered to test the efficacy and
      cost-effectiveness of the mGDM app in improving treatment outcomes.
    
  