
    
      Some neuromuscular diseases with myogenic or neurogenic origin present with proximal muscle
      weakness. These diseases preferentially affect muscles around shoulders and hips and hence
      are called limb girdle neuromuscular diseases (LG-NMD). Patients have difficulty in climbing
      stairs or hills, and reaching high shelves. The vast majority of these diseases are X-linked
      recessive, autosomal recessive or dominantly inherited muscular dystrophies and are called
      limb girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMD). Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a disease of motor
      neurons, is also characterized by progressive proximal muscle weakness. Although the diseases
      are progressive in both conditions, regular and proper doses of exercise starting from the
      early stages may delay the progression of muscle weakness and may prevent joint stiffness,
      and contractures.

      The strengthening and aerobic exercise program increases overall wellness, condition and
      muscle strength in patients with neuromuscular diseases. The aerobic exercise program under
      supervision enhances oxidative capacity and muscle function without causing fatigue. Patients
      performing regular exercise program report an increase in their physical endurance, leg
      muscle strength and walking distance. Submaximal strengthening exercises combined with
      aerobic exercise are highly effective.

      Regulation of the exercise program according to the needs of the patient is the most
      important step. Appropriate individualized exercises should be programmed by a physical
      medicine and rehabilitation physician and performed under the supervision of a
      physiotherapist in the hospital environment in order to be effective. Otherwise, success of
      rehabilitation and patient compliance might be reduced. With the development of technology,
      patients can perform exercises at their home under remote supervision by a physiotherapist
      via electronic connection. Therefore, the aim of our study is to investigate the
      effectiveness of two exercise programs supervised by a physiotherapist, performed in the
      hospital or at their home via electronic connection in a group of LGMD and SMA patients.

      Fourteen consecutive patients from the Koç University Center for Muscle Diseases (KUCMD)
      diagnosed with LGMD or SMA are enrolled.

      Patients followed by KUCMD outpatient clinic with proximal muscle weakness who held LGMD or
      SMA diagnoses will be evaluated by a physical medicine and rehabilitation physician.
      Demographic characteristics, Vignos scale, Brooke scale, Barthel index, upper extremity
      functional index, Nottingham Health profile, short form-36, 6 minute walk test and muscle
      thicknesses measured by ultrasound of certain muscles will be recorded. Patients will be
      randomized into two groups.

      The first group will perform the exercises in the hospital under the supervision of a
      physiotherapist (Group 1: Hospital based rehabilitation group) and the second group will
      perform the exercises at their home under remote supervision of a physiotherapist via
      internet connection (Group 2: Telerehabilitation group). The exercise program will be
      administered 3 times in a week for 10 weeks. Patients will be examined by a blinded
      neurologist and functional assessments and ultrasonographic evaluations will be performed by
      a blinded physical medicine and rehabilitation physician before and after the rehabilitation
      program and at the 6th and 12th months following the completion of the rehabilitation.

      One exercise session will consist of breathing, posture, dynamic core stabilization, upper
      and lower extremity strengthening exercises. The basic exercises from each group will be
      performed as 1 set of 5 repetitions at the beginning and will be gradually increased
      according to the tolerability of the patient. If the patient has difficulty performing the
      basic exercises, modifications of the relevant exercise will be applied.
    
  