
    
      Urinary incontinence in women is a major problem with significant medical, psychological, and
      social consequences. Previous research on urge incontinence, a common form of incontinence,
      has demonstrated that behavioral and drug interventions are effective, but do not cure most
      patients. Thus there is a need to improve conservative treatment for urge incontinence in
      women. The primary objective of this project is to evaluate whether enhancing drug therapy
      with components of behavioral training, including pelvic floor muscle rehabilitation, results
      in better outcomes than drug therapy alone for urge incontinence in community-dwelling women.
      This project is a randomized controlled clinical trial. Sixty-four women with predominantly
      urge incontinence have been randomized. Stratification and blocked randomization procedures
      are used to assign a subject to 8 weeks of drug therapy alone or 8 weeks of drug therapy
      enhanced with components of behavioral training that can be administered in most any
      outpatient clinic. The drug therapy is extended release oxybutynin, a well-established
      pharmacologic agent with a state of the art drug delivery system that has the lowest rates of
      side-effect. The behavioral treatment is an innovative, comprehensive, behavioral training
      program, which includes pelvic floor muscle rehabilitation, teaching urge suppression and
      other skills to improve bladder control, and self-monitoring with bladder diaries. Bladder
      diaries completed by subjects before and after the treatment are used to calculate reduction
      in the frequency of incontinence. Secondary outcomes measures include a patient satisfaction
      questionnaire and three impact/quality of life measures (Incontinence Impact Questionnaire,
      Uro-Genital Distress Index, SF-12 Health Survey). The second objective of the study is to
      examine the cost-effectiveness of adding behavioral components to drug therapy. With the
      changing health care environment, there is increased concern with the costs of providing
      treatment. This project will compare the relative costs and value of combined intervention
      using the methods of cost-effectiveness analysis, the most widely adopted method for the
      economic evaluation of health interventions. The third objective of the study is to examine
      further the mechanisms by which these therapies reduce incontinence, including changes in
      bladder capacity, thresholds for bladder sensation, pelvic muscle strength, use of pelvic
      muscles in response to the sensation of urgency and frequency of urination. Pre-post changes
      in these parameters are measured to examine the effects of the treatment on these variables,
      and structural equation modeling will be used to examine whether changes in each of these
      measures are related to treatment outcome.
    
  