
    
      A Phase 1b study of the safety and efficacy of a topically-administered 7-amino acid peptide
      labeled with a near-infrared fluorophore Cy5 for detecting neoplastic areas of the bile duct
      is proposed. The study will test the safety and efficacy of administering this agent
      (QRH-882260 Heptapeptide) to human subjects undergoing clinically indicated ERCP for the
      evaluation of biliary disorders.

      This is a pilot study of a single study group at a single center. The investigators intend to
      enroll 12 evaluable subjects. Expected enrollment is one subject every 1 month, so the study
      should take 12 to 24 months to complete. The expected duration of each subject's
      participation is 2 to 7 days.

      Subjects will be recruited around their standard of care procedure. The endoscopists
      performing study procedures are all credentialed to do these procedures at the UWMC Digestive
      Health Center.

      ERCP will proceed per UWMC standard of care. The endoscopists performing the procedure will
      evaluate the potential risk (if any) for the subject to continue with the study procedure.
      Five mL of the reconstituted QRH-882260 Heptapeptide (~100 μM) will be administered to the
      site of interest through a catheter in the standard endoscope. Five minutes after QRH-882260
      Heptapeptide application, the unbound peptide will be washed off using the endogator
      irrigator and the residual liquid will be suctioned. Pictures with reflection-light and
      fluorescence will be taken with the SFE based molecular imaging mini-cholangioscope (MC)
      inserted via the instrument channel of the standard endoscope before the QRH-882260
      Heptapeptide application, immediately after application and then again after the QRH-882260
      Heptapeptide is rinsed.

      The area of interest identified will be biopsied at the discretion of the endoscopist per
      clinical care. Any specimens taken will be for clinical care only and will be sent for
      routine histology per UWMC standard of care.
    
  