
    
      The consequences of sleep deprivation to the productivity of the individual and society are
      extensive. (Most clinicians and patients believe that insomnia becomes a clinical problem
      requiring therapy when excessive daytime sleepiness impairs cognition and mood, interfering
      with a patient's performance of functions that require alertness. Chronic sleep deprivation
      often leads to adverse personal, medical and psychiatric complications, underscoring the
      common request of patients for treatment by their physician.

      With an increasing focus on the problem of sleep deprivation in children of all ages, our
      appreciation of the scope of the problem is expanding. It is estimated that up to 40 % of
      infants experience difficulty in settling and frequent nighttime wakings with sleep
      disturbances including bedtime resistance, delayed onset of sleep, and disruptive night
      wakings occurring in 25 to 50 % of preschoolers. In school-aged children, parents reported an
      incidence of bedtime resistance in 15 % of their children.

      Very limited data exist describing the pharmacokinetics of zolpidem in pediatrics. Colle and
      colleagues reported the zolpidem clearance to be 3 times greater in children (n=6) compared
      to young adults (n=104) though Cmax and AUC values were similar despite a higher zolpidem
      dose (mg/Kg) in the children. Unfortunately these data raise more questions than they answer
      regarding zolpidem disposition relative to age and highlight the need to comprehensively
      determine zolpidem disposition characteristics across a broad age range of pediatric
      subjects.

      In summary, although researchers have been hesitant to include children in drug studies, the
      data indicate that pediatric sleep disturbance have a negative health impact on children and
      warrant pharmacologic intervention. Studies to identify the appropriate drug and dosage for
      children of all ages are essential in addressing this health problem that impacts the child
      and his/her family.
    
  