
    
      This is a Phase 3, double-blinded, randomised placebo-controlled, multi-centred trial
      evaluating the efficacy of the four-component meningococcal B vaccine, 4CMenB (Bexsero®), in
      the prevention of Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection.The target population for this trial is
      GBM+, either HIV-negative and on PrEP or HIV-positive, who had a diagnosis of gonorrhoea or
      infectious syphilis in the last 12 months (a key characteristic associated with greater
      gonorrhoea risk). This population has the highest known gonococcal incidence and are
      recommended under Australian guidelines to attend clinics 3-monthly for comprehensive sexual
      health screening, including Nuclei acid amplification test (NAAT)-based screening of urine,
      and pharyngeal and anal specimens for N. gonorrhoeae infection. 730 participants will be
      enrolled and randomised 1:1 and stratified by clinical sites to receive two doses of 4CMenB
      vaccine or a matching placebo at 0 and 3 months by intramuscular injection. Recruitment will
      occur over a 12-month period and all participants will be followed up 3-monthly over a period
      of 2 years. Participants, their study clinicians and study researchers assessing the outcomes
      will be blinded to the treatment arm (vaccine or placebo). Participants will be required to
      attend approximately 10 study visits. Participants may attend additional visits to receive
      treatment for gonorrhoea infection and return to test whether they are cured of the
      infection. Potentially eligible individuals will be screened within 14 days of baseline (the
      visit when the first dose of study treatment is administered). Randomisation can be conducted
      any time between screening and baseline. Screening, randomisation and baseline can occur on
      the same day if the required HIV result(s) and drug kit (containing 4CMenB or placebo) are
      available for a participant in the clinic. At screening, study clinicians will conduct the
      informed consent process with a participant and the informed consent will be signed by both
      the study clinician and the participant. Eligibility criteria will be checked and a review of
      medical history (including vaccination history for 4CMenB, prior known meningococcal disease,
      recent history of sexually transmitted infections [STIs], history of taking PrEP [for HIV
      negative individuals] as well as antibiotic use in the last 3 months) will be conducted.
      Routine blood, urine and swabs will be collected, and urine pregnancy test will be performed
      in participants with child-bearing potential. Symptoms of urethritis, proctitis,
      epididymitis, and cervicitis/vaginitis will be documented. At randomisation (which can occur
      anytime within screening an baseline), participants will be randomised to receive either the
      4CMenB vaccine or the placebo. At the baseline visit, research blood specimen and an oral
      mucosal exudate swab for immune responses testing will be collected before the administration
      of the first dose of the study treatment. A 10-minute study questionnaire will be completed
      by the participants. Participants will return to their study site 3 months after the first
      dose of study treatment to receive the second dose. Prior to the treatment administration,
      urine pregnancy test (in participants with child-bearing potential), research blood specimen
      and oral mucosa exudate swab will be collected. Symptoms of urethritis, proctitis,
      epididymitis, and cervicitis/vaginitis will be documented. History of antibiotic use in the
      last 3 months will also be collected. If a participant has tested positive for gonorrhoea
      infection, routinely collected culture isolates and NAAT samples will be stored in a study
      research laboratory for phenotypic antimicrobial resistance (AMR) testing and genotyping.
      Routine blood, urine and swabs will also be collected. Adverse events and serious adverse
      events (SAEs) will be recorded but only SAEs will be entered into the study electronic data
      capture system, and reported to the Sponsor in real time. Three-monthly visits will be
      conducted over a period of 2 years. The study aims to evaluate the efficacy of 4CMenB in the
      prevention of N. gonorrhoeae infection.
    
  