
    
      People who recently became infected with HIV often have a high level of the virus and may be
      highly infectious. If they have sex (especially anal intercourse) without condoms soon after
      they have been infected with HIV, there is a great chance that they may transmit the virus to
      others. When they learn of their HIV infection, some but not all men change sexual behaviors
      so as not to infect their partner(s) with HIV. Possible reasons for such behavior change
      include increase or decrease in drug use and what is going on within their sexual
      partnerships. A study that tracks men with recent HIV infection and their partners over time
      can provide information key to stopping further spread of HIV given that sexual behaviors can
      vary over time, especially during this most infectious period.

      This study will look at how likely it is for HIV infection to be spread among partner types
      over time by recently HIV-infected men and their partners. The study will compare behaviors
      of recently HIV infected men to those with long-term HIV infection and no HIV infection. It
      will allow a study of sexual partnerships by actively recruiting sexual partners. We will
      also focus on the role of drug use, especially methamphetamine and how it changes behaviors
      over time. We will especially look at how different sex partners affects one's drug use and
      increases or decreases HIV transmission. The study will enroll 150 recently HIV-infected men
      who have sex with men and follow them for a year. In addition, up to 6 sexual partners of
      each recently HIV infected individual will be recruited and followed for a year. Some sexual
      partners will be HIV negative and some HIV positive. We will use their HIV status to compare
      behaviors over time in the group and between partners of the same status and partners of a
      different status. The results will be used in special formulas that will allow for a better
      understanding of behavior change by men with recent HIV infection. This new information will
      be key for designing new ways to target risk reduction for recently HIV-infected men.
    
  