
    
      Tasks of preparation and completion - reviewing one's life, assessing unfinished business,
      addressing relationship conflicts, offering or receiving forgiveness, and identifying wisdom
      gained and future goals - are associated with quality in both palliative care and chaplaincy
      care. The consequences are dramatic when preparation and completion at the very end of life
      are not achieved, and unmet needs in these domains influence caregiver experience earlier and
      throughout longer periods during the trajectory of serious illness.

      Efforts to improve the caregiver experience have tended to focus on skill-building and
      self-efficacy for providing care, including patient pain and symptom management, and
      caregiver coping. However, less is known about effective ways to address other elements of
      caregivers' experience that may influence well-being and capacity to care, namely the meaning
      caregivers' ascribe to their caregiving role. Research shows caregivers with higher sense of
      meaning report lower subjective caregiver burden. In palliative care, the important tasks of
      caregiver preparation and completion are tools through which caregivers engage in
      meaning-making, identifying purpose, and connecting with what is held sacred.

      These tasks are central to patient and family definitions of quality at end-of-life, and the
      goals and skills of healthcare chaplaincy. Addressing issues of meaning, exploring relational
      well-being, and supporting caregiver's own sense of loss and hope is at the heart of
      chaplaincy care. Professional chaplaincy uses narrative pastoral care to help patents,
      families, significant others, and staff focus on meaning-making and quality of life in the
      midst of health celebrations, changes, crises, and loss. Clinical chaplains focus on
      caregiver's specific concerns, values, beliefs, and practices that enhance caring with
      integrity and authenticity for the purpose of ongoing spiritual assessment and pastoral care
      planning.

      However, both the manner and extent to which caregiver concerns are addressed vary based on
      family and patient circumstance, time available, and individual chaplain skill. The majority
      of chaplain's approaches to these concerns have not been delivered or evaluated in a
      manualized format. The chaplaincy profession's evidence base would be strengthened by
      systematically exploring the content of such an approach, its impact on caregiver health
      outcomes, and the ways a manualized intervention approach ("Caregiver Outlook") may serve as
      a foundation for the chaplain's future teaching, practicing, and researching of systematized
      spiritual assessment and care planning processes.

      The investigators propose a one-arm pilot trial to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability
      of a chaplain-led preparation and completion intervention, and also to examine effect sizes
      on health outcomes. Results will permit feasibility and acceptability evaluation of an
      evidence-based tool for addressing and assessing caregivers' spiritual strengths and
      experiences of suffering in palliative care. The project will serve as a foundation to
      understand integration of the central tasks of preparation and completion with other
      approaches to spiritual assessment and pastoral care planning. Finally, results will provide
      preliminary data for future large-scale randomized control trials of the intervention.
    
  