
    
      The REACT trial has been designed as a feasibility study to investigate the impact of pre-,
      peri-, and postoperative computerized cognitive trainings on the incidence of postoperative
      cognitive dysfunction. Two different study groups (training programs) will be compared. Each
      group consists of two training modules of the validated computer based training program of
      cognitive functioning called RehaCom®. The experimental group consists of the modules
      'Topological Memory (MEMO)' and 'Divided Attention 2 (GEA2)'. The active comparator group
      consists of the modules 'Topological Memory (MEMO)' and 'Working memory (WOME)'. 48 surgical
      patients undergoing elective urogynecological or breast cancer surgery will preoperatively be
      randomly assigned to one of two study groups. Before starting the training, patients will
      complete a neuropsychological test battery comprising the cognitive tests to measure POCD.
      The tests will be assessed at preoperative baseline visit and at 3-months follow-up. In order
      to correct change in cognitive performance for practice effects, a group of 24 female
      surgical control subjects will also prospectively be tested with the cognitive test battery
      at baseline and 3-months follow-up. The control subjects will be matched to the 2 study
      groups regarding health status, surgery and age, but will neither undergo the computerized
      cognitive training program RehaCom®. Further, 24 female control subjects are included from
      the POCD-Register (EA1/104/16) and will be matched to the 2 study groups as well.

      After baseline assessment, the study group patients will be taught to use the training
      program RehaCom®, and training should start preoperatively as early as possible. The patients
      are recommended to perform the training daily during inpatient hospital stay, and at least
      three times a week for 30 to 60 minutes until month 3.

      The neuropsychological assessment will be performed at preoperative baseline and at
      three-months follow-up. Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) will be classified using
      the dichotomous approach established by Rasmussen et al in the International Study on
      postoperative cognitive deficits (ISPOCD) (Rasmussen et al. The assessment of postoperative
      cognitive function. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2001 Mar;45(3):275-89.) This calculation method
      defines POCD as a reliable change in pre- and postoperative cognitive performance (difference
      scores) of each individual in the surgical patients cohort as compared to the changes in a
      non-surgical control group (reliable change index in either a composite score including
      cognitive test parameters from all tests in the cognitive test battery or in at least two of
      the chosen cognitive test parameters).

      Secondary outcome measures of this trial comprise structural and functional MRI measures,
      Electroencephalogram simultaneous with fMRI, intraoperative cerebral oximetry and
      neuromonitoring, delirium, pain, sleep quality, postoperative complications, frailty,
      psychological distress, quality of life, training performance and evaluation of the training.
    
  