
    
      Individuals with lower limb amputation often complain about uncomfortable residual limb skin
      temperatures, accumulation of perspiration inside their prostheses, and loss of confidence in
      suspension security that often leads them to cease their activities or, in demanding
      circumstances, may lead to their prosthesis falling off. Most amputees can sense the
      impending loss of suspension during vigorous activities and can stop, doff the prosthesis,
      wipe it and the residual limb dry, and then don it again. However, the Warfighter amputee may
      not be afforded such accommodations.

      The investigators will compare the performance of an individual's as-prescribed suspension
      with two exciting alternatives: a new-to-market liner intended to transport perspiration away
      from the skin and an improved version of the Dynamic Air Exchange (DAE) suspension system the
      investigators developed. The new-to-market suspension system consists of a perforated
      elastomeric liner that allows perspiration to be exuded into the liner-prosthesis space.
      Anecdotal reports suggest this liner (Uniprox's SoftSkin Air), can maintain suspension during
      profuse perspiration, but may result in excessive skin dryness and discomfort. The improved
      Dynamic Air Exchange - Rising Edge Design (DAE-RED) suspension expels accumulated
      perspiration using a vacuum pump like its predecessor, but incorporates hybrid, body-weight
      activated pump to minimize battery consumption and a revised ventilation system obviating the
      need for undesirable exterior tube connections.

      The objective of the proposed research is to provide lower limb amputees who work in
      demanding environments with a prosthesis that remains secure despite profuse residual limb
      perspiration without compromising residual limb health and comfort.

      The proposed research has two specific aims: (1) compare three different, lower limb
      prosthetic suspension systems and identify which is most effective at maintaining a secure
      adherence when worn in conditions that result in profuse perspiration, and (2) compare how
      the three suspension systems effect residual limb skin health and comfort when participants
      pursue their usual activities in the home, work, and community environments.

      The investigators will recruit unilateral transtibial amputees who are successful ambulators
      on their as-prescribed prosthesis and collect baseline data (residual limb skin hydration,
      transepidermal water loss (skin barrier function), and Socket Comfort Score). After fitting
      the participants with Uniprox and DAE-RED prostheses, subjects will wear one of these study
      prostheses (random order) for two weeks, after which the investigators will measure their
      skin hydration, transepidermal water loss, and Socket Comfort Score. The subject will then
      enter our environmental chamber (35° C and 50% relative humidity) and sit for a 30-minute
      acclimation period. The subject will then walk for 30 minutes on a treadmill at their
      self-selected speed. Subjects will then exit the environmental chamber and sit for 30 minutes
      in a comfortable climate (~20° C and 50% relative humidity). The amount of slippage, along
      with the perspiration accumulated/expelled, will be then be measured. Subjects will then be
      fit with their as-prescribed prosthesis and the protocol repeated to washout intervention
      effects. Finally, subjects will be fit with the other study prosthesis (either Uniprox or
      DAE-RED) and repeat the protocol.

      After wearing the prostheses in our environmental chamber set to Middle East-like conditions
      (35 °C and 50% relative humidity), the investigators hypothesize:

      H1.1 The amount of slippage (loss of adherence) will be different between the three
      suspension systems.

      H1.2 The amount of perspiration expelled will be different between the Uniprox and DAE-RED.

      After wearing the study prostheses in the home, work, and community environments for two
      weeks, the investigators hypothesize:

      H2.1 Residual limb skin hydration will be different between the three suspension systems.

      H2.2 Residual limb transepidermal water loss will be different between the three suspension
      systems.

      H2.3 The Socket Comfort Score will be different between the three suspension systems.
    
  