
    
      RATIONALE

      Endovascular thrombectomy (EVT) is standard treatment for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) if
      there is a large vessel occlusion in the anterior circulation (LVO-a). Because of its
      complexity, EVT is performed in selected hospitals only. Currently, approximately half of EVT
      eligible patients are initially admitted to hospitals that do not provide this therapy. This
      delays initiation of treatment by approximately an hour, which decreases the chance of a good
      clinical outcome. Direct presentation of all patients with a suspected AIS in EVT capable
      hospitals is not feasible, since only approximately 7% of these patients are eligible for
      EVT. Therefore, an advanced triage method that reliably identifies patients with an LVO-a in
      the ambulance is necessary. Electroencephalography (EEG) may be suitable for this purpose, as
      preliminary studies suggest that slow EEG activity in the delta frequency range correlates
      with lesion location on cerebral imaging. Use of dry electrode EEG caps will enable
      relatively unexperienced paramedics to perform a reliable measurement without the EEG
      preparation time associated with 'wet' EEGs. Combined with algorithms for automated signal
      analysis, we expect the time of EEG recording and analysis to eventually be below five
      minutes, which would make stroke triage in the ambulance by EEG logistically feasible.

      HYPOTHESIS

      We hypothesize that dry electrode cap EEG can be used in patients with a suspected AIS to
      identify patients with an LVO-a in the ambulance.

      OBJECTIVE

      To develop and validate an algorithm based on dry electrode cap EEG data that accurately
      determines the likelihood of an LVO-a in patients with a suspected AIS in the ambulance.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This diagnostic study consists of four phases:

      Phase 1: Optimization of measurement time and software settings of the dry electrode cap EEG
      in a non-emergency setting in patients in whom a regular EEG is/will be performed for
      standard medical care.

      Phase 2: Optimization of measurement time and software settings of the dry electrode cap EEG
      in patients close to our target population in a non-emergency setting.

      Phase 3: Validation of several existing algorithms and development of one or more new
      algorithms for LVO-a detection, as well as optimization of logistics and software settings of
      the dry electrode EEG cap in patients close to our target population in an in-hospital
      emergency setting.

      Phase 4: Validation of several existing algorithms and algorithms developed in phase 3 for
      LVO-a detectionin patients with a suspected AIS in the ambulance, as well as assessment of
      technical and logistical feasibility of performing EEG with dry electrode caps in patients
      with a suspected AIS in the ambulance.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Phase 1: Patients in the outpatient clinic of the Clinical Neurophysiology department of the
      AMC, in whom a regular EEG has been/will be performed for standard medical care.

      Phase 2: Patients with an AIS admitted to the Neurology ward of the coordinating hospital
      with an LVO-a (after reperfusion therapy).

      Phase 3: Patients with a suspected AIS in the emergency room (ER) of the coordinating
      hospital (before reperfusion therapy).

      Phase 4: Patients with a suspected AIS in the ambulance.

      INTERVENTION

      Performing a dry electrode cap EEG (in phase 1 in the outpatient clinic, in phase 2 during
      hospital admission, in phase 3 in the ER and in phase 4 in the ambulance).

      MAIN END POINTS

      Primary end point: specificity of dry electrode cap EEG for diagnosis of LVO-a in suspected
      AIS patients in the ambulance;

      Secondary end points:

        -  Developing one or more new EEG data based algorithms, with optimal diagnostic accuracy
           for LVO-a detection with ambulant EEG;

        -  Sensitivity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) of dry
           electrode cap EEG for diagnosis of LVO-a in suspected AIS patients in the ambulance;

        -  Technical and logistical feasibility of performing dry electrode cap EEGs on patients
           with a suspected AIS in the ambulance.
    
  