
    
      This investigation involves a 8 weeks randomised, balanced, double blind parallel group
      between-subjects design aimed to analyse the effects of combining exercise and a post
      exercise nutrition strategy (hydrolysates meat protein, whey protein or a isocaloric only
      carbohydrate placebo) on training outcomes, markers of immunity and health after a period of
      regular training and feeding intervention. Participants will be divided in three-treatment
      groups 1) Hydrolysed meat-protein (MEAT); 2) Whey (W) and 3) non-protein iso-energetic
      placebo (CHO). Once considered eligible for the study, and after an initial familiarisation
      period and baseline tests, participants will be randomly assigned to one of the intervention
      groups: MEAT; W and CHO. Each group will follow a 8-week periodised resistance training
      intervention combined with one of the three specific supplementation treatments (MEAT, W or
      CHO). Measurements of general markers of health, immunity, body composition, muscle structure
      and performance will be determined before and after the training intervention.

      Once informed consent and health history have been obtained, after the baseline Assessment
      (t1), participants will divided into three similar profile groups, matched by body mass, age,
      sex and performance. 1) The meat protein group (MEAT n=10) that will take 250 ml of orange
      juice mixed with 20g of hydrolysates meat protein powder and water 2) The whey group (n=10)
      will take 20 g of whey intact isolate powder mixed with 250 ml of orange juice and water 3)
      the contrast group (P n=10) that will take an iso-energetic non-protein, only carbohydrate
      (maltodextrin) placebo.

      Participants: Thirty participants, recruited from the University Campus, will take part in
      the project. After being informed of all risk, discomforts, and benefits involved,
      participants will sign a written informed consent regarding their participation.

      Intervention Familiarization period: Participants will undertake 3 sessions of
      familiarization (1 weeks). A qualified strength and conditioning coach will control and
      assists participants in order to guarantee a correct execution of the selected exercise. All
      participants will be instructed about the appropriate use of the Rate of Perceived Exertion
      (0-10) scale to control the load and training intensity.

      Resistance Training: The resistance-training program will be designed to increase strength
      and mass of all major muscle groups. The program will be undertaken on three non-consecutive
      days per week, under the supervision of strength and conditioning coaches, preferable
      Strength and Conditioning master students. Training workout will be performed during the
      afternoon (between 3pm and 6pm) with at least 48 hours between sessions.

      Each session will begin with individualized warm-up (5-minute warm-up stretches, followed by
      one set of eight repetitions of six resistance training exercises without any additional
      weight). Workout will involve 8 resistance exercises per 3 sets of 6 to 10 repetitions at 70%
      to 85% of an individual 1RM. Exercises will be performed using free-weights, elastic bands,
      sticks and machines selected to stress the major muscle groups. Resting periods of around 2
      min will be allowed sets. Participants will be instructed to maintain the proper execution
      along the entire training session.

      Periodization strategy: The intervention will consist of 8-week periodised resistance
      training programme that will be divided in 3 blocks: First block (1st to 3th week) using a
      moderate load intensity of around 70%1RM; Second block (4th to 6th week) where the intensity
      will increase to >75% to 80% 1RM and the third block (7th to 8th week) where the highest
      loads (>80 to 85% 1RM) will be used. The Rate of Perceive Exertion (0-10) scale (RPE) will be
      used to appropriately select the load along the training intervention. Resistance training
      intervention will be appropriately integrated with the regular sport activity performed by
      the University athletes along the academic period.

      Supplementation protocol: Training days: Immediately (<10 min) after com Non-training days:
      before breakfast. Supplements and placebo will be provided in powder form and should be mixed
      with an standardised orange juice and water at the moment of consumption. Supplements and
      placebo will looks and tastes identical.

      Thus, a total of one 20g doses will be administered on daily bases. Participants should
      ingest a total of 56 doses for a total of 8 weeks of study intervention.

      Supplement will be provided in 14 days based by a blind researcher after Participants should
      return back the empty bag of the supplement/placebo consumed during the previous 14 days
      period.
    
  