
    
      BACKGROUND Common Variable Immunodeficiency (CVID) is one of the most clinically important
      primary immunodeficiencies due to its frequency, serious complications, and long-term costs
      of therapy. A form of lung disease known as granulomatous and lymphocytic interstitial lung
      disease (GLILD) occurs in 10-15% of patients with CVID. The causes of GLILD are unknown; no
      long-term study has defined the natural course of GLILD; and no clinical trials have been
      done to define the best possible treatment for this condition. As a result, currently there
      is no proven standard of care for the treatment of GLILD.

      The best treatment for individuals with GLILD is not currently known. Some doctors believe
      that GLILD does not always continue to get worse and patients should only be treated unless
      this happens. Other doctors believe GLILD is always progressive and should be treated early
      to prevent more problems later.

      There is compelling evidence to support that treatment using rituximab (RTX) in conjunction
      with azathioprine (AZA), may improve the lung function and abnormalities seen on high
      resolution CT (HRCT) scans of the chest.

      STUDY GROUPS Patients in this study will either receive a placebo or a combination of
      Rituximab and azathioprine. These drugs are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
      for other conditions, but not yet for this disease.

      Because no one knows which of the treatments is best, patients will be "randomized" into one
      of the two study groups. Randomization means that you are put into a group by chance.

      TREATMENT Eligible patients will be randomized to receive either 18 months of Rituximab and
      Azathioprine (20 patients) or placebo (20 patients). Rituximab will be administered
      intravenously (IV) weekly for four consecutive weeks at enrollment and months 6 and 12. IV
      placebo will be administered on the same schedule as Rituximab. Azathioprine or oral placebo
      will be administered by mouth daily for 18 months.

      SUMMARY OF STUDY PROCEDURES

      -Month 1, 6, 12

      Patients will be required to travel to a study site weekly for four consecutive weeks at
      enrollment and at 6 and 12 months to receive study infusions. At each of these visits,
      patients will be given:

        -  Your study infusions

        -  Physical exams with vital signs

        -  Blood tests to check your organ function

      Every six months (Enrollment, 6, 12 & 18 months) while receiving study treatment, patients
      will be asked to complete the following study tests:

        -  Lung Function testing

        -  High resolution CT of the chest

        -  Quality of Life Questionnaire, 6-min walk distance test and Karnofsky performance scale.

        -  Blood for research - approximately 10 teaspoons of blood will be collected

      Monthly Labs Following the first month of study treatment, patients will be required to visit
      their local clinic/hospital for a blood draw to monitor their lab values twice monthly for
      the second and third months of treatment, then monthly.

      Final Study Visit

      The final study visit will take place at Month 24 after start of study treatment. Patients
      will also have the following tests done:

        -  Physical exams with vital signs

        -  Lung Function testing

        -  High resolution CT of the chest

        -  Quality of Life Questionnaire, 6-min walk distance test and Karnofsky performance scale.

        -  Blood for research - approximately 10 teaspoons of blood will be collected
    
  