
    
      This is a prospective descriptive study including 1 French centre The arrhythmogenic
      substrate that leads to fibrillating heart is poorly understood. This has hindered the
      development of methods for better understanding mechanisms. The development of better adapted
      tools to improve understanding and assessment of this substrate is crucial. The current
      electrophysiological study preceding the ablation is exclusively based on substrate
      depolarisation potential. It is very powerful when the arrhythmia is organized but limited
      during fibrillation due to incessant changes in activation. Therefore, potentials of
      repolarization are better suited for the explorations of fibrillations because they provide
      basic properties such as refractory period and tissue heterogeneity in arrhythmia, but also
      in sinus rhythm. Monophasic Action Potential catheters (MAP EFA Boston and MAP Biosense
      Webster) are available for many years and represent a very useful tool in cardiology in
      identifying critical areas to arrhythmias (mapping of depolarization and cardiac
      repolarization). However, their capacity to record action potential is limited because they
      have one electrode that allows "point-to-point" mapping by moving the catheter sequentially
      in the cardiac cavities. Moreover, it is difficult to obtain one action potential due to the
      configuration or the angle of contact of the catheter with the cardiac wall. We want to
      evaluate a new MAP catheter (MAP4, Medtronic) to assess cardiac depolarization and
      repolarization. This catheter was developed to allow recording of an action potential
      whenever the catheter touches the heart wall and whatever the configuration or contact angle.
      It appears identical to other catheters but is equipped with 4 spherical microelectrodes at
      its end. Each microelectrode is arranged to one of the 4 'cardinal points' which allows
      easily simultaneous recording of 4 actions potential. Hundred and fifty patients will be
      included to explore mapping capabilities in cardiac chambers in patients suffering from
      regular or fibrillating tachycardia's with the following inclusion plan: i) Atrial
      fibrillation at a total of 50 patients ii) Ventricular fibrillation or patients at high risk
      of sudden cardiac death at a total of 50 patients iii) Junctional tachycardia at a total of
      50 patients. We will focus on cardiac activation (depolarization and repolarization) in this
      population.
    
  