
    
      Background:

      Acute gastroenteritis is one the most common cause of emergency room visits. Studies have
      demonstrated that ondansetron is effective in reducing vomiting in children with
      gastroenteritis and improve outcomes by decreasing intravenous rehydration and hospital
      admission of those patients. Giving ondansetron to children with suspected gastroenteritis
      immediately at triage could reduce the number of patients requiring observation in the
      emergency department after medical consultation and improve patients' outcomes.

      Objective:

      The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of triage-initiated administration of
      ondansetron for suspected gastroenteritis in the paediatric emergency department. The
      investigators aim to assess whether ondansetron given at triage can reduce the number of
      patients requiring observation in children with acute gastroenteritis. The investigators will
      also assess the improvement of patient comfort and total length of stay.

      Methods:

      This will be a randomized controlled trial performed in a tertiary paediatric emergency
      department. Participants will include all infants more than 8kg who present to the emergency
      department with at least four vomiting in the previous 24 hours and the last vomiting that
      occurred in the previous 2h. The intervention will consist of giving ondansetron at triage
      versus placebo. The primary outcome will be the number of patients requiring observation
      after medical consultation in both groups. Secondary objectives will be the number of
      episodes of vomiting after receiving the intervention, length of stay in the emergency
      department and the proportion of children who will return to a physician within 48 hours. The
      investigators will assess the improvement of patient comfort evaluated by parents according
      to a BARF (Baxter Animated Retching Face) Scale within the ondansetron group vs placebo. The
      primary analysis will be the comparison of the proportion of observation for the two groups.
      Based on a preliminary study of the currents children suffering from gastro-enteritis, it was
      estimated that the recruitment of 248 participants will provide a power of 90% to identify a
      20% difference in the proportion of observed patients.
    
  