
    
      Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and congenital anomalies are one of the important
      reasons for infant and childhood death, which carry a high burden to affected individuals and
      their families. The detection rates are increasing with the improving diagnostic techniques.
      There are several cohorts mentioning the screening of these diseases during pregnancy.
      However, at present there have been no reported relevant cohorts that study from intrauterine
      to extrauterine period to understand and research the occurrence and development of IUGR and
      congenital anomalies as well as the relationship between IUGR and the presence of congenital
      anomalies. So in this study, the investigators aim to conduct large-sample prospective cohort
      study based on clinical data and biological samples to observe the occurrences, progression
      and clinical outcomes of IUGR and congenital anomalies, and investigate factors, pathogenesis
      and prognostic biomarkers of these diseases. These results can play an important role in
      preventing the occurrence of IUGR and congenital anomalies, promoting prognosis and guiding
      the clinical treatments.

      All pregnant women or neonates/infants who present to Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical
      Center with the diagnoses of IUGR or congenital anomalies (including congenital malformation,
      deformations, disruptions, dysplasia and chromosomal anomalies) are eligible to participate
      in the study. Investigators will use routine obstetrical ultrasound to evaluate the growths
      and developments of fetuses during pregnancy. Investigators will collect dietary habits,
      exposures (the usage of medicine, exposure to contaminants), maternal history and history of
      disease, imaging data from the pregnant women who are prenatally diagnosed with fetus having
      IUGR or congenital anomalies. Afterbirth, the neonates will receive appropriate treatment.
      Regular physical and neural development examination with a pediatrician to measure growth and
      development that has taken place. Data regarding diagnosis, treatment, growth and development
      will be collected by intelligent data extraction platforms. Machine learning and statistical
      analysis are used to build the diagnostic prediction models to improve the accuracy of
      prenatal diagnosis of IUGR and congenital anomalies. In addition, the investigators will
      estimate the burden on individuals and families by evaluating the associations between
      interventions during pregnancy and after birth and clinical outcomes such as adverse events,
      length of hospitalization, hospitalization expenses in abnormal children.

      In particular, maternal blood, placenta, cord blood, child' blood, urine, stool and tissue
      and other specimens during hospitalization and outpatient clinical visit will be collected
      and stored in the biospecimen bank. biospecimen bank is managed by special accounts to ensure
      the correct and ethical usage of specimens. Investigators hope to identify some markers that
      impact the prognosis of IUGR and congenital anomalies by analyzing the prenatal and postnatal
      serologic data. Genetic testing will be done on some fetuses to help identify the
      pathogenesis and the most appropriate treatment.
    
  