
    
      DESIGN: Multi-centre, phase III, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial.

      SETTING: Secondary care heart failure clinics across the UK. TARGET POPULATION: Higher-risk
      patients with CHF due to LVSD recruited from CHF clinics.

      HEALTH TECHNOLOGY: 4000IU (100mcg) vitamin D3 or placebo daily for minimum 2yrs and maximum
      4yrs.

      MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES:

      Primary end-point is a composite of HF hospitalisation or death Secondary outcomes include
      all-cause mortality, hospitalisations and cost-effectiveness. Patient outcomes will be
      obtained from NHS Digital (KKW is an approved researcher) with a transfer of linked data to
      be held at the Leeds Institute for Data Analysis.

      Patient reported outcomes will be Minnesota Living with HF questionnaire and EQ-5D which will
      be assessed at twelve-monthly research visits.

      SAMPLE SIZE: Based on VINDICATE, 2-yr CV mortality or hospitalisation in stable high-risk HF
      is 28% in those receiving placebo and 21% in those receiving vitamin D3 (hazard ratio 0.717).
      In the largest observational study (n=1800) of the effect of vitamin D deficiency on outcomes
      in patients with CHF on optimal medical therapy, balanced for all important variables except
      vitamin D, there was a significant adverse effect of vitamin D deficiency on all-cause
      mortality, demonstrating a 14% reduction in death for each 2.72-fold increase in vitamin D.

      To demonstrate this effect 379 events in 1278 patients are required. Calculations assume time
      to CV event follows an exponential distribution, 2-sided 5% level of significance, 90% power,
      20% dropout, 2.5-yrs recruitment and min. 2-yr follow-up.

      ANALYSIS: Primary analysis will be on an intention-to-treat basis. Cox proportional hazards
      regression will be fitted to the time to first CV event adjusted for stratification factors.

      Health Economics: A model will estimate lifetime incremental costs from an NHS/PSS
      perspective and QALYs gained based data from VINDICATE-2 and the literature. ICERs will be
      estimated and compared to standard cost-effectiveness thresholds to determine if vitamin D3
      supplementation is cost-effective. Further analyses will explore the value of investing in
      activities to support uptake of vitamin D3 in clinical practice.

      CURRENT AND PLANNED CARE PATHWAYS: The pathway within the study will be 4000IU vitamin D3
      daily or placebo followed by safety and adherence visits at 3m and 12 monthly
      post-randomisation up to final visit at 24-48m. Patients will be screened, recruited and
      followed up during standard clinic visits. A small parcel containing three months of the
      intervention will be posted to participants by Leeds Teaching Hospitals Pharmacy every three
      months for the duration of their involvement in the study.

      If adopted into standard care pathways, vitamin D could be prescribed and monitored cheaply
      and easily in primary care with annual blood tests.

      PROJECT TIMETABLES: Set-up 6m, recruitment 30m, follow-up 24m, data cleaning, analysis and
      reporting 6m - total 66m.

      RECRUITMENT RATE: 5 main centres (+2 PIC sites), 3.55 pts/mth/centre.
    
  