
    
      Deaths from opioid overdose represent an important and expanding global public health
      epidemic. Opioid Overdose Education and Naloxone Distribution programs (OEND) involve
      training and equipping people who are likely to witness overdose to recognize these
      emergencies and administer essential first aid interventions including naloxone, a widely
      known and effective competitive opioid antagonist. Policymakers and practitioners have called
      for expanded access to OEND programs in clinical settings such as emergency departments,
      family practice, and addiction medicine clinics, or "point-of-care OEND". Point-of-care OEND
      would improve access to this potentially life-saving intervention. Simple and effective
      point-of-care OEND tools are a prerequisite for the successful translation of this
      intervention into general ambulatory settings, including family practice, addiction medicine
      and psychiatry clinics, and emergency departments. The investigators plan to conduct a
      randomized trial to evaluate the educational effectiveness of a novel point-of-care OEND kit
      in a simulated opioid overdose, in comparison with existing community- and hospital-based
      OEND programs.

      Conducting trials among people who use drugs or who are likely to witness overdose involves
      several well-documented scientific, logistical, and bioethical challenges. These challenges
      contribute to the persistent under-evaluation of interventions to enhance the health of this
      marginalized population, and threats to study validity when retention rates are low.

      Recruitment, retention and attrition rates could alter the study timelines, logistics and
      costs for the proposed trial. A feasibility study is needed to evaluate and refine an
      integrated participant recruitment and retention strategy, develop expected retention rates,
      establish the local acceptability of study procedures in recruitment sites, and reconsider
      study design and analysis if required. A feasibility study will also permit the evaluation of
      basic randomization and data collection procedures.

      The primary objective of this feasibility study is to identify if an integrated participant
      recruitment and retention strategy can recruit approximately 28 eligible participants within
      4 weeks and maintain less than 50% attrition in the context of a randomized trial on
      point-of-care OEND and simulated overdose resuscitation performance in family practice,
      emergency department, and addiction medicine settings at St. Michael's Hospital, and in
      family practice at the Inner City Family Health Team.
    
  