
    
      The FB-10 study is designed as an open label, single arm, Phase Ib/II study with a
      dose-escalation phase and an expanded cohort (phase II) to evaluate the combination of
      trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) with neratinib in women with metastatic, HER2-positive breast
      cancer. The primary aim of the phase Ib portion of this study is to determine the safety and
      tolerability of the two-drug combination. The primary aim of the phase II portion is to
      demonstrate efficacy.

      Patients will receive concurrent therapy with T-DM1 (3.6 mg/kg IV) on Day 1 of a 3-week (21
      day) cycle and neratinib as a continuous daily oral dose. The neratinib dose-escalation will
      include 4 dose levels (120 mg, 160 mg, 200 mg, and 240 mg). At the recommended phase II dose
      (RP2D) of the T-DM1 and neratinib combination, up to 39 additional patients will be treated.

      The sample size of the phase I portion of the study will be between 2 and 24 patients. The
      sample size of the Phase II portion will be 42 patients. Approximately 6 patients at the
      Phase I RP2D level will be included in the Phase II portion. The total study enrollment will
      be a maximum of 63 patients. Accrual is expected to occur over 16 months.

      Submission of diagnostic tumor samples and blood samples for FB-10 correlative science
      studies will be a study requirement for all patients. Blood samples will be collected at
      baseline, at Cycle 2, Day 1, and at progression. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic (PK)
      determination will be collected at Phase 1 sites from consenting patients at various time
      points during the first 24 hours of study therapy (Cycle 1, Days 1 and 2).

      An optional tumor biopsy will be procured from consenting patients from an accessible site of
      metastasis before study dose level assignment (after the patient has signed the consent form
      and has been screened for eligibility), after Cycle 1 of treatment, and at the time of
      disease progression.
    
  