
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      All currently available mechanical ventilation modes assume that patient-ventilator
      interaction is necessarily a "master-slave" or controller-follower relationship. In
      controlled mechanical ventilation, the ventilator takes control of the ventilatory rhythm
      irrespective of whether the patient is breathing or not. In the patient-triggered mechanical
      ventilation modes such as assist/control, pressure support ventilation, proportional assist
      ventilation, neutrally adjusted ventilator support), instead of the ventilator dictating the
      ventilatory rhythm (ventilator-based ventilation), patient triggering allows the patient to
      initiate the breath with the ventilator responding to the patients demand (patient-based
      ventilation) with the imposition of various support.

      Entrainment-based mechanical ventilation (EMV) is a new mode of mechanical ventilation based
      on the classical physics theory of mutual entrainment between coupled oscillators. It takes
      advantage of the patient's powerful innate capacity to entrain 1:1 to the ventilator rhythm
      via the Herring-Breuer reflex, provided that the ventilator rhythm is close enough to the
      spontaneous breathing rhythm. This ability of the respiratory system to adapt to changes in
      the entrainment mechanism via habituation and desensitization of the Herring-Breuer reflex
      allows an even greater dynamic range of entrainment.

      Justification for the investigation

      The investigators anticipate that the results of the study will help to improve the
      interaction of patients with the mechanical ventilator thereby minimizing the risks of
      mechanical ventilation in future. We believe the potential benefits significantly outweigh
      the potential risks.

      METHODS

      This is a prospective study designed to evaluate the ability of entrainment-based mechanical
      ventilation to provide synchronous mechanical ventilation to patients in the SICU, MICU, CCU
      and Cardiac and Neuro Surgery ICUs at the Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH).

      Study design and procedures:

      After obtaining informed consent a respiratory real-time data monitor will be placed between
      the artificial airway and the Y piece of the ventilator circuit. Baseline mechanical
      ventilation data with conventional pressure-limited assist/control ventilation mode will then
      be collected for a 4-hour period. The patients will then be transitioned to pressure-limited
      entrainment-based ventilation for a 4-hour period. Baseline ventilation monitoring will be
      carried out either immediately preceding or immediately following EMV in the same patient.
      The sequence of the control/baseline phase and the experimental phase of the study will be
      randomized.

      During the observation study period, the basic ventilator settings will remain as prescribed
      during conventional mechanical ventilation. Any adjustment in basic ventilator settings will
      be up to the medical staff caring for the patient. Throughout the observational period a
      respiratory therapist familiar with the operation of entrainment-based ventilation will be at
      the patients' bedside constantly observing the patients interaction with the ventilator. In
      addition, the ventilator alarms and limits will be set appropriately preventing the airway
      pressure from increasing more than 5 cmH2O above the set level or the respiratory rate or
      tidal volume from exceeding or decreasing below the patient average tidal volume or
      respiratory rate by more than 25%. Apnea backup ventilation will be set to activate after a
      20 second apnea period.

      Data collection:

      Demographic data, weight, height, and past and current medical history will be recorded. Also
      hospital admission information, reasons of mechanical ventilation, mode of mechanical
      ventilation and settings, arterial blood gas, clinical laboratory (hematology/chemistry)
      values, and hemodynamic values will be recorded.

      A respiratory real-time data monitor will continuously collect mechanical ventilation data,
      which will be downloaded to a laptop computer for later analysis.

      Blood gas analysis will be performed at the 2nd hr and at end of the baseline ventilation
      period, 2nd hr and at the end of the entrainment-based ventilation period.

      Oxygen saturation and blood pressure will be recorded every 15 minutes (every 5 minutes in
      the first hour) until completion.

      ECG will be monitored continuously and recorded every 15 minutes (every 5 minutes in the
      first hour).

      Heart rate, paradoxical breathing, accessory muscle use, nasal flaring, will be continuously
      monitored throughout the study.

      Safety criteria:

      The following criteria will be used to identify failure of entrainment-based ventilation:

      RR > 35/min for > 5 min SpO2 < 88% for 5 minutes and not corrected by suctioning or if SpO2 <
      80% at any time Pulse sustained < 50/min or > 120/min PH + 0.05 units from baseline pH PCO2 +
      10 mmHg from baseline PCO2 Mean arterial pressure sustained + 20 mmHg from baseline pressure
      Ischemic changes on ECG New onset of paradoxical breathing, accessory muscle use, nasal
      flaring, etc. Agitation (RASS > +1), diaphoresis, persistent anxiety despite reassurance and
      requiring sedation.

      Once any of these safety criteria are met, the patient will be placed back to the baseline
      ventilation mode and closely observed for return to the pre-intervention baseline. Any
      patient who does not return to a pre-intervention baseline within 5 minutes after return to
      baseline ventilator settings will be evaluated by the study doctor for possible adverse
      effects or serious adverse effects and the patient will not be given further EMV therapy.
      Such AEs or SAEs will be deemed unknown related UADE or USADE. The DSMB will review the data
      and any safety concerns along with the Investigator and Sponsor each time any adverse event
      or serious adverse event occurs regardless of whether such an event is device related or not.
      If three or more non-serious adverse events occur or if two serious adverse events occur or
      if any death occurs, the corresponding events will be deemed possibly device related and the
      study will be placed on hold and the DSMB will review all available data at the time of the
      hold. The FDA and IRBs would review and approve any and all modifications to the protocol in
      response to such a study hold. Unanticipated problems and adverse events that occur during
      the conduct of the study, after study completion, or after subject withdrawal or completion
      will be reported to the IRB within 5 working days/7 calendar days of the date the
      investigator first becomes aware of the problem.

      The first indications of any adverse events: such as bronchospasm, atelectasis, hypoxemia,
      barotraumas, pulmonary edema, prolonged mechanical ventilation, increased ventilatory
      requirements, pneumonia, pneumothorax, acute lung injury, ARDS, organ failure, MI, or death
      are abnormal cardiorespiratory responses meeting the above safety criteria will be reported
      to the IRB and FDA according to the guidelines. Serious adverse events will be defined as any
      of the previous adverse events that lead to death, or are life-threatening, or lead to
      persistent or significant disability/incapacity, prolongation of hospitalization or surgical
      procedures. Investigators will monitor all subjects for any adverse events or serious adverse
      events for 48 hours after return to baseline mechanical ventilation and will specifically
      include each of the above-listed events or any other adverse events or serious adverse events
      in the case report forms.

      Patient monitoring:

      This study will be performed at the subject's bedside when the subject is stable. A standard
      ventilator modified to provide entrainment-based ventilation will be used for the study. All
      ventilator alarms will be active.

      During the study period a respiratory therapist and study staff will constantly monitor the
      patient for adverse or serious adverse events. If any of the events listed in the safety
      criteria above occurs, the entrainment-based ventilation will be permanently discontinued and
      subject will be changed back to baseline or conventional ventilation. Also the study will be
      stopped if any SAEs occur.

      The protocol calls for blood gas analysis at the 2nd hr and at the end of the EMV period.
      Therefore, changes in arterial pH and PCO2 values from baseline will be assessed at those
      time intervals for any violation of the safety criteria. Once any changes in these blood gas
      variables are found to violate the stated safety criteria, the patient will be immediately
      returned to the pre-intervention ventilator settings and closely observed for return to the
      pre-intervention baseline.

      ECG will be monitored continuously and recorded every 15 minutes (every 5 minutes in the
      first hour). Mean arterial pressure will be recorded every 15 minutes (every 5 minutes in the
      first hour).

      Once any ischemic changes on ECG or excessive changes in mean arterial pressure (+ 20 mm Hg
      from baseline) are detected, the patient will be immediately returned to the pre-intervention
      ventilator settings and closely observed for return to the pre-intervention baseline.

      For all other safety criteria mentioned above (regarding pulse, paradoxical breathing,
      accessory muscle use, nasal flaring, etc.), the timeframes are similar to those for RR.
      Specifically, the patient will be monitored continuously and will be placed back to the
      baseline mode of ventilation if any of these safety criteria are violated for > 5 min.

      Sedation management will be performed per BWH ICU sedation guidelines, with sedation targeted
      to Ricker Agitation Sedation Scale.

      Statistical analysis

      Our study is targeted to enroll at least 20 sequential mechanically ventilated patients.
      Baseline demographic and procedural variables will be analyzed statistically by plotting the
      95% confidence intervals of each variable. With 20 patients we will have an 88% chance of
      seeing any complication (such as those defined by the safety criteria or any associated
      adverse event or serious adverse event) that occurs with a frequency of 10% or more. For
      feasibility evaluation, the total number of each type of asynchronous breaths/hour during
      entrainment-based ventilation will be averaged over the 4-hour experimental period and
      compared with those in the 4-hour baseline ventilation period. The 95% confidence intervals
      of the differences of each type of asynchrony between entrainment-based ventilation and
      baseline ventilation will be provided without formal inference of statistical significance.

      Analysis of synchrony:

      The following types of patient-ventilator asynchrony will be analyzed every hour over the
      4-hour baseline period and 4-hour experimental period:

      Trigger asynchrony - Number of breaths/hour initiated by the patients that fail to trigger
      the ventilator to inspiration (identified by pressure, flow and or CO2 ventilator graphics.

      Breath initiation asynchrony - Number of breaths/hour in which the initial airway pressure
      drops below baseline pressure for > 100 milliseconds prior to pressurization of the airway or
      a concave rise in airway pressure after triggering or an initial pressure increase that
      exceeds the set pressure level.

      Breath termination asynchrony - Number of breaths/hour in which airway pressure at the end of
      the pressure targeted breath increases above set level just prior to exhalation or a second
      breath is rapidly triggered (double triggering) during initial expiration or premature
      termination of breath with small tidal volume.

      Rhythm asynchrony - Number of breaths/hour in which ventilation is continuously
      patient-triggered (assist mode) or continuously ventilator-initiated (control mode) for more
      than 10 minutes.

      Risk minimization

      The EMV method is an extension of the well-established assist/control (A/C) ventilation mode
      and has minimal risk.
    
  