
    
      Supraglottic airways (SGA) have become a standard proposition in management of the upper
      airway. These devices have suitably interposed its utility as airway conduit between the
      facemask and the tracheal tube in terms of anatomical position and degree of invasiveness.
      These devices sit outside of trachea but provide a hands-free means of achieving a gas-tight
      airway. In the year 1989, the first SGA, the classic laryngeal mask airway (C-LMA), became
      available. As time went on, additional variants of LMA came into use.

      The ProSeal Laryngeal mask airway (PLMA), introduced in 2000, is by far the most specialized
      SGA device. It comprises of four main subparts: the cuff, inflation line with pilot balloon,
      airway tube, and the gastric drain tube. All components are made of silicone and are
      latex-free. Studies indicate that size 3/4 is most preferable for adult women and size 4/5
      for adult men.

      The airway (breathing, ventilation) tube of the PLMA is shorter and smaller in diameter than
      its C-LMA counterpart. PLMA's wire-reinforced body makes it more flexible and yet resistant
      to luminal compression. The locating-strap on the anterior distal tube of PLMA prevents
      finger slipping off the tube and also provides an insertion slot for an 'introducer-tool'. An
      additional safety accessory vent under the drainage tube in the bowl help avoid secretions
      from pooling and accessing the upper airway. The PLMA has a deeper bowl than C-LMA and has a
      bite-block between the airway and drain tubes at the level of teeth to prevent device injury.

      In a correctly positioned PLMA, the cuff tip lies behind the cricoid cartilage at the origin
      of the esophagus; allows liquids/gases a bypass escape from the stomach and reduces the risk
      of gastric insufflation, regurgitation and pulmonary aspiration; and provides information
      about the PLMA position. The drain tube is designed to prevent the epiglottis from occluding
      the airway tube, thus eliminating the need for aperture bars. A gastric tube, doppler probe,
      temperature probe can be passed into the oesophagus through the drainage port.

      The PLMA also has a second dorsal cuff which pushes the mask anteriorly to provide a better
      seal around the glottic aperture.

      As per the standard guidelines, an introducer-tool (a curved, malleable, silicone-coated
      blade with a guiding handle) is used to facilitate placing an PLMA in the pharyngo-laryngeal
      slot, and helps greatly with the first-insertion placement success.

      Once in place, the PLMA offers a dependable conduit through which effective PPV can be
      instituted. Interestingly, although the PLMA placement and position adequacy has a static
      corollary to it and that the institution of PPV situates a dynamic airflow system; not
      uncommonly, there are problems to effective PPV even through an adequately placed PLMA. The
      rhythmic PPV which leads to back pressure onto the PLMA cuff often result in subtle cuff
      movements resulting in leak at the desired PPV pressure.

      Based on past clinical data in unit regarding safety of this procedure we hypothesize that
      keeping the introducer-tool in position (after facilitating insertion of PLMA) minimizes
      unwanted position changes owing to back pressure effect of PPV on the PLMA cuff, and
      therefore, would enable us to achieve and maintain adequate ventilation during GA.

      We plan this study with an objective to compare efficacy of PLMA with or without introducer
      tool assisted stabilization during PPV in anaesthetized paralyzed patients undergoing short
      to moderate duration surgery.
    
  