
    
      Adequate middle ear (ME) pressure-regulation, defined as the maintenance of a total ME
      pressure at approximately ambient levels, is required for normal hearing and to preserve ME
      health. The mechanism of ME pressure-regulation consists of two distinct components that
      affect total ME gas pressure: the bolus, total gradient driven exchange of gases between the
      ME and nasopharynx during active, transient Eustachian tube (ET) openings and the passive,
      partial-pressure gradient driven diffusive exchange of gases between the ME cavity and
      adjacent compartments including the local blood via the ME mucosa (MEM) and environment via
      the tympanic membrane. The basic physiology of gas transfers through the ET is well
      established and a slow to negligible gas exchange across the normal and inflamed tympanic
      membrane has been measured for chinchillas, cats and monkeys, and confirmed by us for humans.
      In contrast, the characteristics of transMEM gas exchange is controversial. Mathematical
      modeling shows that transMEM gas exchange controls the ME pressure trajectory between ET
      openings and the relative rates of exchange for the different physiologic gases defines the
      demand placed on the ET for ME gas resupply. Here, we empirically measure the transMEM
      ME-to-blood and the blood-to-ME exchange constants for the physiologic gases in humans with
      normal and inflamed MEMs. For that purpose, a total of 20 otherwise healthy adult subjects,
      10 with no significant history of ME ear disease (Group-1) and 10 with at least 1 functional
      ventilation tube (VT) inserted for extant ME disease (Group-2). Group-1 subjects will have VT
      insertion under local anesthetic in the research clinic and, for all subjects, a custom-made
      acrylic ear-plug will be fabricated and fitted with a sensor for measuring pressure, a
      syringe for adjusting system pressure and micro-tubing to allow for periodic gas sampling
      with composition analysis by an online mass-spectrometer. All subjects will undergo a series
      of six transMEM gas exchange experiments, with each experiment designed to establish a
      ME-to-blood or a blood-to-ME partial-pressure gradient for one of the 3 physiologic gases,
      N2, O2 or CO2. During each experiment, the ear-plug will be inserted into and sealed within
      the ear canal. The ear-plug will be attached by valves to a line leading to the
      mass-spectrometer and to a known composition gas source, and the system (ear-plug + ME)
      washed with a test gas specific to the experiment. Then, the ear-plug will be closed to the
      gas source, and for the 60 to 90 minute duration of the experiment, system pressure will be
      recorded continuously and ME gas samples will be taken at 10 minute intervals for composition
      analysis. The data will be transformed to estimate the transMEM conductance (exchange
      constant) for the test gas. On the last day of the experimental series, the Group-2 subjects
      will be dismissed; Group-1 subjects will have their VT removed and then be followed weekly
      until the tympanic membrane perforation has healed. At that time, audiometry which was
      performed before VT insertion will be repeated. The results will be used to complete our
      mathematical models of ME pressure-regulation as the ME transitions from health to disease.
      These empirical data will also be used to evaluate certain hypotheses related to the
      limitations placed on the exchange of each gas species and regarding the directional symmetry
      of the exchange processes.
    
  