
    
      JaW PrinT is a 'real-world' prospective observational pilot study, evaluating the clinical
      effectiveness, usability and economics of two approaches to mandibular reconstruction surgery
      (using flexed titanium versus printed titanium patient-specific osseosynthesis plates).
      Patient participants will be recruited prospectively over a minimum period of 18 months (with
      observation of at least 10 participants in each treatment pathway). The figures are based
      upon the historical clinical practice of the research site, with both techniques in equal
      use; choice depending on resources, surgical training requirements and surgeon's clinical
      preference.

      As a purely observational study, treatment choice will be made in the normal clinical manner
      and will in no way be influenced by the study itself.

      Participants will be followed up at their routine outpatient clinics (6 weeks, 6 months and 1
      year postoperatively) with prospective outcomes data collection.

      Participants will be recruited prospectively as they present as new patient cases to the
      Maxillofacial and Head & Neck cancer multidisciplinary team (MDT) clinics. Once a potential
      patient participant has been given his/her diagnosis and it is confirmed by the principal
      investigator (PI) that he/she meets the inclusion criteria, clinic staff will provide the
      potential participant with an invitation letter introducing the study as well as a patient
      information sheet and consent form (explaining the available options of participating or
      refraining from the study). Patients will be allowed up to 24 hours to decide whether or not
      to participate as to avoid any impact/delay on the scheduling of their clinical treatment.
      The PI will obtain written informed consent from willing participants.

      Upon recruitment, provision of informed consent and collection of baseline data, as per
      standard clinical practice, the patient participant's CT scan data is used to produce a
      virtual surgical plan for the mandibular resection and fibular free-flap reconstruction. Once
      the clinically optimal reconstructive surgical plan is established by the surgeon and
      technician, the choice of surgical approach will be made in the routine clinical manner by
      the surgeon: Pathway A (pre-flexed customized mandibular reconstruction plate and cutting
      guides) or to pathway B (SLM customized mandibular reconstruction plate and cutting guides).
      Both treatment pathways are already part of routine/standard clinical practice at the
      research site.

      The expected/planned patient numbers for this study are based upon the historical workload of
      the department, typically at 10-20 cases annually. A recruitment period of 18 months with
      follow-up for 1 year fits within the time constraints of the postgraduate student
      investigator's PhD timeline.
    
  