
    
      Introduction:

      Epidural analgesia is considered a gold standard method for treatment of labor pain . However
      one of the major risks with epidural analgesia is an accidental dural puncture, a common
      complication occurring in 0.4-6% of the obstetric population . ADP increases the risk of
      developing a post dural puncture headache (PDPH) in 50% of parturients. PDPH is defined as a
      postural headache that worsens within fifteen minutes of standing and is relieved in the
      supine position . PDPH results from a CSF leakage from the intrathecal space, causing a
      decrease in CSF volume and pressure .

      PDPH is associated with significant maternal morbidity, prolonging hospital stay, preventing
      ambulation and impairing maternal neonatal bonding . Less frequently PDPH can cause severe
      maternal complications resulting in posterior reversible encephalopathic syndrome ,
      pneumocephalus , or a subdural hematoma .

      Treatment protocols for PDPH vary greatly, with numerous existing conservative/ invasive
      treatment options . Conservative treatment includes bed rest, fluids administration,
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and caffeine intake. The most standard invasive method
      for treatment of PDPH with a reported success rate of 70-90% includes the epidural blood
      patch (EPD) which is applied by injecting autologous blood epidurally .

      Several factors have been found to increase the risk for developing a PDPH and increasing the
      duration of a PDPH including young age, low BMI and previous history of anxiety or depression
      .

      Posttraumatic stress disorder is classified as an anxiety syndrome one may develop in
      response to a traumatic experience. Clinical manifestations include persistent re-experience,
      avoidance of traumatic memories, hyperarousal and emotional numbing . In a retrospective
      analysis war related PTSD was not associated with increased risk of PDPH.

      Post partum (PP) PTSD is a form of PTSD occurring in the postpartum period in relation to a
      traumatic birth . As PDPH is unexpected and can cause severe maternal sequele, PDPH can
      exhibit a posttraumatic stress response. Therefore the investigators hypothesize that
      parturients who suffered from a PDPH are at higher risk for developing PP-PTSD.

      To date very few reports have examined the long term outcomes of parturients suffering from a
      PDPH associated with epidural analgesia. In a prospective, case control trial Webb et al
      demonstrated an increased risk for developing a chronic headache and backache in 40
      parturients who suffered an accidental dural puncture with a large gauge needle . In a five
      year follow-up study examining long term consequences of PDPH, PDPH was associated with
      persistent headache and backache in the obstetric population. In a case control trial
      evaluating long term auditory function following EBP treatment for PDPH, a minor hearing loss
      was detected in the PDPH group . However, these studies had a small sample size.

      As a follow up to the national survey of PDPH management in Israel the investigators aimed in
      this study to evaluate the long term consequences of PDPH including chronic headache,
      backache, postpartum depression (PPD), decreased breastfeeding and the development of PP
      PTSD.

      Study Objective:

      In this study the investigators intend to evaluate the long term sequelae of parturients who
      suffered from an accidental dural puncture and a subsequent PDPH.

      Primary Aims:

      This study's primary objective is to examine whether parturients suffering from a PDPH are at
      higher risk long-term for developing PP-PTSD than their counterparts.

      Secondary aims:

      Secondary aims include long term outcomes of parturients who suffered from PDPH:

        -  Chronic headache

        -  Chronic backache

        -  Comparing long term outcomes of parturients suffering from a PDPH with conservative
           treatment verses epidural blood patch treatment.

        -  PPD

        -  Breastfeeding outcomes including duration of breastfeeding

        -  Women will also be questioned about other labor experiences including analgesic
           consumption, breastfeeding outcome.

      Study Design This study is a prospective multi center cohort, study. Following obtaining
      approval from the local Institutional Review Board at each center, all women who developed a
      PDPH following an ADP between the years 2007-2017 will be contacted by phone and verbal
      consent will be obtained for participation in the study. Each participant will be compared to
      two women receiving epidural analgesia on the same day as those women who suffered an ADP.
      All participants will be requested to answer an IRB approved telephone script. Parturients
      will be assed for postpartum depression using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale
      (EPDS)translated into Hebrew . They will also be assed for PTSD using the validated PTSD
      questionnaire . Additionally in order to examine long term risk for chronic pain and backache
      parturients will be assed for persistent pain using the validated Brief Pain Inventory
      questionnaire ,and the validated Oswestry low back pain questionnaire . Parturients will also
      be asked about other labor experiences including analgesic consumption and breastfeeding
      outcome, in cases of breastfeeding cessation women will be asked an open-ended question about
      the reason for discontinuation.

      Data collection:

      Additional data will be collected from an electronic medical file database. Data collection
      will include; parturient's demographic data, obstetric data, in case of EBP treatment
      procedural data (level of injection, volume of blood injected, loss of resistance technique-
      air/saline, anesthesiologist experience, time of procedure, duration of procedure, technical
      difficulties, visual analogue score (VAS) upon lying down/ upon sitting up - before the EBP
      and upon release
    
  