
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the rates of unfavorable clinical outcomes in the two arms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare rates of major surgical morbidity and/or mortality between arms. II. To compare
      pancreatic cancer incidence and all-cause mortality across arms. III. Compare institutional
      (direct) costs. IV. Compare healthcare utilization of imaging, invasive testing, surgical,
      and other procedures across the two surveillance arms.

      V. Compare patient (out-of-pocket and other indirect) costs. VI. Describe diagnostic test and
      treatment pathways by arm. VII. Compare patient reports of quality of life (QOL), situational
      anxiety. VIII. Compare patient report of financial distress. IX. Compare rates of
      non-adherence by arm assignment. X. To evaluate and compare the predictive performance of
      known and future biomarkers for dysplasia or cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate and compare the predictive accuracy of known and future radiomic markers for
      dysplasia and pancreatic cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A (LOW INTENSITY SURVEILLANCE): Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or
      computed tomography (CT) at the beginning of the trial and again in 1 year. Following the
      first year, patients with no abnormalities repeat MRI or CT every 2 years. Patients with
      positive imaging features on MRI and CT at 1 or 2 years and with negative endoscopic
      ultrasound (EUS), repeat MRI or CT in 1 year. Patients with negative imaging repeat MRI or CT
      in 2 years.

      ARM B (HIGH INTENSITY SURVEILLANCE): Patients undergo MRI or CT. Patients with 1-2 cm cyst
      undergo MRI or CT every 6 months for 1 year, then every 12 months for 2 years, and then every
      24 months thereafter. Patients with 2-3 cm cyst undergo EUS within 6 months, and if EUS is
      negative, patients repeat MRI or CT in 1 year. If second EUS is negative, patients undergo
      alternate MRI or CT and EUS every 12 months. Patients with cyst > 3 cm undergo EUS within 6
      months, and if EUS is negative, patients undergo alternate MRI or CT with EUS every 3-6
      months.

      After completion of imaging procedures, patients are followed up for 5 years from the date of
      registration .
    
  