
    
      Background:

      Interpersonal violence (IPV) among substance use disorder (SUD) patients is common,
      undertreated, and costly. SUD patients have high rates of perpetrating IPV, and IPV is a risk
      factor for poor response to SUD treatment. Failure to address IPV among SUD patients
      interferes with treatment effectiveness and contributes to relapse and higher rates of health
      services use. Nonetheless, SUD treatment programs typically do not include violence
      prevention interventions and few studies have examined interventions designed to prevent
      violence perpetration among SUD patients.

      Objectives:

      This trial evaluated the effectiveness of an IPV-prevention (IPV-P) intervention among
      patients entering VA SUD treatment who had perpetrated violence in the past year against
      another adult. Primary objectives were to test the hypotheses that, compared to patients
      assigned to a control condition (CC), those assigned to IPV-P would (1) improve more on
      violence and SUD outcomes, and (2) use fewer VA mental health and medical care services,
      thereby saving costs for VA. Secondary objectives were to test the hypothesis that, compared
      to patients assigned to CC, those assigned to IPV-P would improve more on legal and
      alienation problems and social resources.

      Methods:

      Patients entering VA SUD treatment who met eligibility criteria (past-year violence;
      cognitively intact) and provided informed consent were assigned to SUD usual care plus either
      a CC (N=60) or IPV-P (N=59) intervention using a recurrent institutional design. That is, the
      IPV-P and CC conditions were run in alternate 3-month periods. The manualized IPV-P group
      intervention, based on a Cognitive-Behavioral approach, consisted of 8 in-person group
      sessions over 1 month, followed by telephone calls once a month for 3 months. The manualized
      CC was designed to control for non-specific treatment effects associated with the IPV-P
      condition, i.e., counselor time and attention, peer support, patients' expectations that
      additional sessions provide benefit. It consisted of 8 in-person group sessions over 1 month
      that reviewed material covered in usual SUD treatment, but with novel methods used to deliver
      the IPV-P intervention (role-play, homework, group activities). CC included the booster
      telephone sessions (once per month for 3 months). Participants were assessed at baseline and
      end-of-intervention (4 months post-baseline) and 6 and 12 months post-intervention (i.e., 10
      and 16 months post-baseline) for primary and secondary outcomes and non-VA healthcare.
      Assessments consisted of the Addiction Severity Index (ASI, to assess Alcohol, Drugs,
      Psychiatric, and Legal functioning), the Conflicts Tactics Scale (CTS, to assess
      Psychological Aggression and Physical Assault against another adult), the Multidimensional
      Personality Questionnaire (MDQ, to assess Alienation, Stress Reaction, and Aggression), and
      the Life Stressors and Social Resources Inventory (LISRES, to assess family and friends
      resources). VA health care is being assessed with VA databases. Response rates at 4, 10, and
      16 months were 90%, 79%, and 73%, respectively, and did not differ between the IPV-P and CC
      groups. Follow-up analyses compared the IPV-P to the CC group on outcomes using analyses of
      covariance that controlled for the baseline value of the outcome.

      Status:

      We are still completing portions of this project: (1) conducting mixed effects regression
      analyses to compare the CC and IPV-P groups on primary and secondary outcomes (these analyses
      are partially completed), and (2) using data on VA health care utilization to compare the two
      groups on VA health care costs (permission to download these data has been obtained, and we
      are working with HERC investigators to download and analyze the data).
    
  