
    
      Spine surgery is associated with a variety of post-operative visual complications, ranging
      from mild, transient deficits in acuity to full visual loss. Known risk factors for visual
      loss include anemia, hypotension, and long surgical times in the prone position under general
      anesthesia. Despite recognition and control of risk factors, the prevalence of visual loss
      after prone spine surgery is estimated at approximately 0.1-1% . The pathophysiology of
      visual loss most often reflects posterior ischemic optic neuropathy, but anterior ischemic
      optic neuropathy and posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome have also been described.

      These reports suggest that the entire pathway from retina to visual cortex is vulnerable to
      injuries causing post-operative visual deficits. The potential for severe injury during spine
      surgery mandates improved detection of evolving optic tract injury during prone spine
      surgery.

      Theoretically, the flash visual evoked potential (VEP) represents a useful intraoperative
      tool to monitor global visual system function. However, its application to spine surgery has
      been limited due to challenges in acquiring and interpreting signals intraoperatively.
      Several devices for intraoperative VEP-recording have been described . However, most of these
      have been trialed with patients in the supine or beach chair position, undergoing
      neurosurgical procedures. Goggle or eyepatch-designed devices have the potential to move
      during surgery, changing the relationship between the goggle and globe. The goggle itself may
      potentially compress the globe, producing inconsistent illumination to the retina or causing
      mechanical injury. These are particular liabilities during changes in position from supine to
      prone, as is required for many spine surgeries. Additionally, VEPs are extremely variable and
      exquisitely sensitive to anesthetics- particularly inhaled agents. Consistent with this,
      intravenous (rather than inhaled) agents have been associated with successful intraoperative
      VEP monitoring patients, particularly in patients without baseline visual impairment.
      Nonetheless, there are multiple reports in the literature showing poor correlation/prediction
      of postoperative visual status by intraoperative VEP measurements. A novel technology for
      capturing VEPs has recently been developed and may address several of the liabilities
      described above. The device is constructed from soft foam padding in a "ski mask" design,
      which we hypothesize may add a measure of protection to the eyes compared to traditional VEP
      goggles or patches. This design may also provide stability during changes in patient
      positioning from supine to prone. The front of the mask consists of an opaque circuit board
      with six bright light emitting diodes positioned in front of each eye, allowing illumination
      of the retina through closed, protected eyes. Opaque foam separates right and left sides of
      the mask, allowing each eye to be stimulated individually. To date, the mask has not been
      tested for sensitivity to elicit and record VEPs in patients under anesthesia. In this pilot
      study, we tested the feasibility of using the mask during prone spine surgery. Specifically,
      we asked if VEPs can be detected throughout spine surgeries of varying complexity and
      duration, whether the signals change with changes in patient positioning and anesthetic
      conditions, and whether the mask was associated with any adverse effects. Here we show that
      intraoperative VEPs can be recorded throughout spine surgery using this device. We also
      describe effects of several anesthetic agents on VEP stability, and ask if there is any
      qualitative relationship between changes in VEPs and SSEPs recorded simultaneously.
    
  