
    
      Study Summary:

      Title:

      A Randomized Single-blinded, Prospective Study to compare a Maquet PWD 50SF theatre-light as
      a light source with natural daylight for the application of photodynamic therapy (PDT) to
      treat actinic keratoses.

      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is of proven efficacy for treatment of actinic keratosis (AK) and
      is increasingly used internationally. It involves the topical application of
      5-aminolaevulinic acid cream (ALA) or its methyl ester methyl 5-aminolaevulinic acid (MAL),
      which is absorbed into the AK and converted into a photosensitizing compound protoporphyrin
      IX. When the AK is then exposed to visible light an oxygen dependent photochemical reaction
      is induced which results in cell death through apoptosis and necrosis.

      Pain is the main limiting factor with PDT. Recently researchers have used natural daylight as
      the source of visible light for photodynamic therapy, a process called daylight PDT. This has
      been found to be equally effective as conventional PDT but less painful. Patients prefer this
      treatment option and in fact in Copenhagen, where they routinely offer daylight PDT from
      April to October, they have found that patients will frequently opt to defer their treatment
      until a time of year when daylight PDT is an option. The drawback of performing daylight PDT
      in Ireland is the climate, both in terms of cloud cover and temperature. The typical daylight
      treatment time is 2 hours and it would be difficult for patients to stay outside in winter,
      spring and autumn. This study investigates the use of an artificial white light source as an
      alternative.

      It is not known what is the light dose required to effectively treat AK's, but a study on
      daylight PDT in Copenhagen found no difference in treatment outcome above 8 J cm-2.

      The pain experienced with PDT may relate to the accumulation of PpIX and the short
      accumulation time of 30 minutes used in daylight PDT may account for some of the reduction in
      pain experienced with daylight PDT. With PpIX photography it can be demonstrated that with
      daylight PDT (incubation 30 mins) almost no accumulation of PpIX occurs yet the local
      reaction (erythema and erosions) and the clinical response indicate that the photodynamic
      reaction is taking place. Perhaps the key to the tolerability and efficacy of daylight PDT is
      not allowing so much PpIX to accumulate. The reduction in pain and the efficacy may result
      from the continuous activation of small quantities of PpIX. It is known from studies looking
      at PpIX accumulation in psoriasis that PpIX can still be identified in the skin up to 14 days
      after application of ALA. If the patient spends time outdoors in the days after PDT it is
      likely that small quantities of PpIX continue to be activated.

      Daylight PDT has to date been studied exclusively in Nordic countries and has proved
      effective, despite the fact that these countries have a relatively low daylight irradiance.
      Wiegell et al have studied the PpIX light dose at various latitudes between the July and
      December months. They found that in Copenhagen, Denmark, a country at similar latitude to
      Ireland (55 degrees north in the former versus 53 degrees north in the later) it was possible
      to receive a light dose above 8 J cm-2 in 2 hours on nearly every day in July, August and
      September. In the first three weeks of October this fell to 16 out of 21 days. They also
      associated the weather conditions with the light dose and in Copenhagen they found that the
      mean light dose in 2 hours in July and August was 10.6 J cm-2 on rainy days, 30.7 J cm-2 on
      partly sunny days and 38.3 J cm-2 on sunny days. It was also determined that weekly mean
      temperatures need to be 10 degrees or higher for a patient to be comfortably treated
      outdoors. Therefore, patients are treated with daylight PDT in Copenhagen from 20th April to
      the 24th October.

      A large multicenter study of daylight PDT found no difference between 2 hours and 3 hours
      daylight exposure.

      In Copenhagen they perform daylight PDT from April to October and only reschedule the
      treatment if the day is very rainy and overcast.

      The investigators propose to study the use of the Maquet PWD 50SF theatre light as an
      alternative light source to daylight. This would provide a year-round, well-tolerated
      treatment option for patients.

      The Maquet PWD 500 theatre light source has been chosen for a number of reasons:-

        1. It has a suitable spectrum, i.e., it emits radiation in the wave band that reacts most
           efficiently with the PpIX to give the optimum response,

        2. It does not emit UV radiation which this patient subgroup is particularly sensitive to.

        3. There is no infrared (IR) radiation emitted which can cause heating and therefore
           further complications.

        4. It has an ideal size and geometry for treating the head.

        5. The output and distribution of LEDs is optimal for this application.

      Study protocol:

      Based on prior studies of similar design, aiming for a significance level of 0.05 and a power
      of 0.80 and on the assumption that the smallest clinically important mean difference is 15%
      and the standard deviation of the difference in response is 25%, at least 22 patients need to
      be enrolled in this study.

      The investigators will enrol these patients from the patients who have been referred for PDT.
      For inclusion patients must be in generally good health and attending for treatment of AKs on
      the scalp or face. Two symmetrical treatment fields will be defined. AKs in each treatment
      area will be counted, graded, mapped and photographed. Grading will be according to Olsen et
      al ; I, mild (more easily felt than seen), II, moderate (easily felt and seen), III, severe
      (thick obvious AK). Sunscreen with a protection factor of 20 will be applied to all sun
      exposed areas including the treatment areas (P20; Riemann & Co. A/S, Hilleroed, Denmark).
      This sunscreen has been chosen to avoid potential absorption of wavelengths activating
      protoporphyrin IX. In all patients hyperkeratotic lesions will be pre-treated with paraffin
      gel to remove keratotic debris, carefully avoiding bleeding. No patient will receive
      pre-treatment analgesia.

      All patients will be randomized to determine which side of the scalp is treated first.
      Randomization will be achieved by the patient choosing an envelope with a card marked right
      or left. Approximately 1 gram of MAL cream will be applied on the right treatment field. They
      will then initially have treatment daylight PDT ,weather permitting. The treatment for the
      second side will be PDT using a Maquet PWD 50SF theatre-light as a light source. After MAL
      application patients will be instructed to start daylight exposure after 30 minutes or will
      be positioned below the Maquet PWD 50SF theatre-light. Exposure to daylight or the Maquet PWD
      light will then be discontinued after 2 hours.

      The second treatment field will be treated one week later so that each patient will have
      daylight PDT to one treatment area and PDT using the Maquet PWD 50SF theatre light as a light
      source to the other treatment area.

      Prior to treatment in both groups fluorescence will be graded on a scale of 1 -3, using a
      Wood's light; one being light/pale, 2 being moderate and 3 being strong.

      For daylight PDT patients will record how long they sat outside and what the weather
      conditions were like. Any interruption to light exposure must be recorded.

      For both treatments patients will rate their pain using a visual analogue score (VAS) (1-100)
      at 1, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes. To use this patients move a counter along a 100 mm scale
      from "no pain" to "worst pain ever". The flip side of the scale indicates the score
      numerically. A nurse will record the numerical pain score and patients will not be aware of
      this value. If treatment has to be discontinued because of pain the timing of this will be
      recorded. Adverse events will be recorded.

      Patient will be reviewed between 1 and 3 days following treatment for adverse events.
      Patients will be assessed for local reactions such as erythema and erosions and asked to
      indicate how long pain persisted. To assess clinical response patients will be assessed 28
      days after their last treatment. The investigators will record if patients had a preference
      for one treatment modality. The investigators will use the baseline map and categorize
      response for AK lesions as complete response or non-complete response. Patients will
      similarly be assessed at 3 months, 6 months and 9 months for clinical response.

      The primary endpoint will be complete response rates of AKs. Secondary endpoints will be pain
      scores, adverse effects and patient preference.
    
  