
    
      Rationale: Understanding the mechanisms of enzalutamide as an androgen receptor inhibitor in
      early prostate cancer could lead to improved patient selection for treatment.

      Objective: To study the effects of enzalutamide on surgical margin status and AR / DNA
      interaction and gene expression.

      Study design: A phase II prospective single-arm analysis. With a power of 80% to detect an
      expected reduction in positive surgical margin rate from 34% to 17% the investigators will
      have to included 55 men. For the AR/DNA interaction patients will serve as there own control
      since biopsies will be taken before and after enzalutamide treatment.

      Study population: Patients over 18 years of age with localized prostate cancer that are
      planned for prostatectomy.

      Intervention : Men with localized prostate cancer will undergo an additional set of targeted
      tumor biopsies and will be subsequently treated with 3 months of enzalutamide. The
      prostatectomy specimen will be additionally sampled, ex vivo.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: 1. The effects of neoadjuvant androgen ablation on tumor
      downstaging. 2. The genetic and transcriptional changes caused by neoadjuvant androgen
      ablation by enzalutamide.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Burden and risks: Patients will be submitted to an additional set of 4 tumor
      targeted biopsies under local anesthesia and antibiotic prophylaxis. This comprises a 5
      minute intervention with an elevated (2%) risk of postbiopsy urinary tract infection.
      Additionally oral enzalutamide treatment for a period of 3 months will result in temporary
      signs of androgen ablation such as: hot flushes (20%), headache (12%), diarrhea (1%), and
      seizures (0.9%). Benefits: neoadjuvant enzalutamide treatment has been shown to result in
      tumor and prostate downsizing. Earlier neoadjuvant androgen ablation studies with other
      agents have shown a reduced positive surgical margin rate and reduced intraoperative blood
      loss
    
  