
    
      Latinos with serious mental illnesses have an inordinately high rate of physical illness
      leading to a significantly shortened life. One reason is the difficulty in engaging this
      disenfranchised group in primary care. Integrated services through community-based outreach
      and care coordination are an innovative and evidence-based practice that improves physical
      health. Unfortunately, social determinants of health for Latinos are often a barrier to
      participation in integrated care. Peer navigators offer a strategy that might help members of
      this group. Peer navigators, in this study, are Latinos with past history of serious mental
      illness specially trained to help patients meet their health needs. The program will be
      developed through community-based participatory research (CBPR) representing a hands-on
      partnership between investigators and a community advisory board made up of patient partners.
      Given this, investigators aim to do the following. (1) Develop a peer navigator program meant
      to enhance the impact of already existing integrated services for Latinos with serious mental
      illness. (2) Using an experimental design, test the impact of peer navigators, compared to
      existing integrated services alone, on engagement of Latinos with serious mental illness in
      primary care services. This includes indices of care seeking, appointments, and satisfaction
      with engagement. Investigators expect these indices to be higher in the group with peer
      navigators. (3) Determine the comparative impact of peer navigators versus
      integrated-care-as-usual on subsequent health. Investigators expect to show physical health
      improvement with the greater engagement observed in the peer navigator group. Investigators
      expect a similar improvement in mental health and quality of life as physical health concerns
      are diminished. This proposal represents the partnership between researchers from the Center
      on Adherence and Self-Determination (a National Institute of Mental Health-funded Center
      dedicated to understanding service engagement among people with serious mental illness and
      their health care system) and Trilogy. Consistent with other projects, investigators will
      develop a Community Advisory Board to conduct CBPR and complete a mixed-methods research
      project to inform the peer navigator program. Based on a power-analysis, investigators will
      recruit 100 Latinos with serious mental illness who will complete baseline measures of
      physical health, mental health, service use and engagement in the previous year, quality of
      life, and current housing/employment status. Patients will then be randomized to an existing
      integrated care program for Hispanic/Latinos with mental illness with or without peer
      navigators for one year. Measures will be repeated at 4, 8, and 12 months.
    
  