
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive disease characterized by
      airflow limitation, has a high prevalence of morbidity and mortality, and results in negative
      physical, psychological, and quality of life (QoL) impacts. Patients with COPD typically
      experience dyspnea, exercise intolerance, autonomic dysfunction, anxiety, depression, and
      poor QoL. Mind-body intervention with walking, breathing, and mindfulness is beneficial for
      the health of patients with COPD. However, the result of mind-body walking intervention for
      patients with COPD is not clear. Thus, this study will evaluate the effects of mind-body
      walking exercise (MBWE) on the physical psychological wellbeing and QoL of patients with
      COPD.

      This study will be a randomized controlled trial. Data will collect from the pulmonary
      clinics of a medical center in northern Taiwan. The participants will recruit and randomly
      assign into the MBWE group or the control group. Participants in the control group will
      receive their usual care. Participants in the MBWE group will receive not only their usual
      care but also a MBWE program, consisting of walking, breathing, and mindfulness activities,
      for 30 min per day, 5 days per week, for 8 weeks. Data will collect at baseline and follow up
      on week 4 (WK 4), week 8 (WK 8), and week 12 (WK12). The primary outcome is dyspnea using
      modified Borg scale. The secondary outcomes are dyspnea in daily life using modified Medical
      Research Council (mMRC), exercise capacity using six minute walk distance (6MWD), Heart rate
      variability (HRV), anxiety and depression using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale
      (HADS), interoceptive awareness using the Multidimensional Assessment of Interoceptive
      Awareness- Chinese version (MAIA-C), QoL using COPD Assessment Tes (CAT). The independent
      t-test and Chi-square test were used to examine the homogeneity of the demographic
      characteristics of two groups. Generalized estimating equations were used to examine the data
      from repeated measurements.
    
  