
    
      The overarching goal is to assess the effectiveness of doxycycline PEP on incidence of STIs
      and tetracycline resistance among STIs and commensal bacteria to inform public health policy.
      Participants will be randomized 2:1, with a greater number receiving doxycycline PEP compared
      with the standard of care control, to maximize data on safety, tolerability, adherence
      coverage of sexual acts, and resistance data in participants randomized to doxycycline PEP,
      without negatively impacting power to measure effectiveness. Participants will be counseled
      about the preliminary effectiveness data from IPERGAY, and the potential for antimicrobial
      resistance (AMR) in STIs or other bacteria. Possibility of unreported doxycycline us in the
      control arm (contamination) will be monitored through retrospective batch testing of
      doxycycline metabolites in hair, to detect doxycycline use in the prior 3 months. 53

      Eligible participants randomized 2:1 to receive PEP will receive open-label doxycycline 200
      mg to be taken ideally within 24 hours but no later than 72 hours after condomless sexual
      contact (oral or anal). 200 mg of doxycycline will be taken at most once per 24 hour period
      regardless of the number of sexual acts occurring during this time period. Sexual activity
      will be recorded for both arms of the study (doxycycline PEP and control condition) by the
      participant using a smartphone application that will be adapted for study use; this will
      enable comparable assessment of risk in the two arms. PEP pill-taking will also be measured
      by the app to enable assessment of coverage of sex acts by PEP. Sexual activity and adherence
      will also be assessed in person at quarterly visits. STI testing will be conducted quarterly
      from three anatomic sites (pharyngeal, rectal and urinary) and blood for syphilis testing.
      Participants with a positive STI test will return for STI treatment and for swabs of the
      affected site for resistance testing; culture based for gonorrhea (GC) and molecular methods
      for CT and syphilis. Those with a serologic test that indicates a new syphilis infection will
      have swabs of any current active lesion as well as mucosal swabs from the oropharynx. Nares
      and oropharyngeal swabs will be obtained at baseline, 6 and 12 months to evaluate
      tetracycline resistance in S. aureus among carriers and in commensal Neisseria species.

      Stool samples from 100 participants on the doxycycline PEP arm - 50 MSM living with HIV and
      50 HIV uninfected MSM on pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) - will be collected at baseline, 6
      and 12 months to evaluate effects of intermittent doxycycline on the gut resistome, using 16s
      ribosomal RNA amplification to study tetracycline resistance genes. Rectal swabs will be
      collected and archived in all participants at baseline, 6, and 12 months for future studies
      of the impact of doxycycline PEP on the enteric microbiome and resistome.

      Study population: This study will enroll 390 HIV-infected participants and 390 persons taking
      PrEP, for a total sample size of 780. An approximately equal number of participants in each
      of these cohorts (and in each study arm) will be enrolled in San Francisco and Seattle.

      Current or planned initiation of PrEP use is an eligibility criterion for enrollment, because
      this population of MSM has high rates of STIs and are typically seen quarterly for PrEP
      visits. However, participants may opt to stop PrEP use at any time during the study without
      affecting their involvement in the study. Any HIV-uninfected participants who subsequently
      seroconvert will be managed clinically by the study site according to local practice
      (appropriate counseling, clinical evaluation and immediate linkage to clinical and
      psychosocial services). These participants will also be retained in the study unless they
      choose to discontinue study participation.
    
  