
    
      The Investigators will consecutively enroll adult patients referred to outpatients' Clinics
      of 21 Centres because of persistence of relevant intestinal and extraintestinal symptoms
      believed by them to be caused by the ingestion of food containing even low doses of gluten.
      In their clinical management patients in gluten-containing diet since at least two months
      will undergo ad hoc tests including serum determination of IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase
      and anti-endomysial antibodies, IgG anti-gliadin antibodies (AGA), total IgA and IgE,
      wheat-specific IgE, upper endoscopy with collection of multiple duodenal biopsies, HLA
      genotyping, fecal calprotectin and lactose breath test. The Investigators will investigate
      serum AGA IgG since they have been detected in some patients with "suspected" nonceliac
      gluten sensitivity. Patients with celiac disease, wheat allergy, intolerance to further food
      source of fermentable oligo- and disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols, lactose
      intolerance, Helicobacter pylori infection, giardiasis, inflammatory bowel disease,
      cirrhosis, excessive alcohol intake, intake of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, use of
      systemic immunosuppressant medication, poorly controlled psychiatric disease, pregnancy and
      those unable to give written informed consent will be excluded. The Investigators will also
      recruit as control group 420 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers, undergoing IgG AGA and
      all negative for anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies. Healthy volunteers will not be
      affected by any comorbidity and food intolerance.

      Each Centre will enroll 20 patients with suspected nonceliac gluten sensitivity and 20
      healthy volunteers. Recruitment of patients and, at greater extent, healthy volunteers should
      not be an issue as the 21 Centres involved in this trial are well-known for diagnosis and
      treatment of gluten-related disorders. The Investigators will consider drop-outs from the
      study all the patients who will fail to attend even a single appointment or test in the
      trial. Moreover, compliance with the study treatment will be assessed by unused capsule
      counts at T2 and T4. Compliance with the gluten-free diet at each time point will be assessed
      through a validated questionnaire. To exclude the possibility of patients being able to
      discriminate between gluten capsules and placebo capsules, we preliminarily tested capsule
      recognition in a group of 20 healthy volunteers. On two different days, healthy volunteers
      were asked to take capsules and then clearly state if the capsules contained gluten or not.
      Healthy volunteers were not able to differentiate the appearance and taste of gluten capsules
      from those of placebo capsules. Assuming a within-patient comparison and a SD of the overall
      score of 40, 70 subjects per arm would be needed in order to achieve a power of 80%, at a
      2-sided 5% significance level, if the true difference is 15.
    
  