
    
      Introduction: Parkinson's disease is a progressive degenerative disease of unknown etiology.
      Its treatment has been symptomatic and the most successful approach has been to replace the
      missing dopamine through administration of its precursor levodopa. As the disease progresses
      the usefulness of this approach gradually diminishes and motor complications become a source
      of significant disability. Although a number of pharmacological strategies have attempted to
      improve this situation, none has yet proven fully satisfactory. The mechanism by which
      levetiracetam exerts this beneficial effect is unknown. Recently, in a PD monkey model
      levetiracetam was found to moderate dyskinesias and other motor complications, possibly due
      to its effects on striatal GABAergic transmission.

      Objective: To evaluate the acute ability of levetiracetam to safely ameliorate
      dopaminomimetic-treatment-associated dyskinesias and related motor complications in
      parkinsonian patients without compromising the antiparkinsonian response.

      Study Population: 22 moderately advanced parkinsonian patients will be enrolled into a
      randomized, placebo controlled, double-blind proof-of-principle study. Levetiracetam efficacy
      will be assessed through the use of validated motor function scales. Safety will be monitored
      by means of frequent clinical evaluations and laboratory tests.

      Anticipated Risks and Benefits: The potential risks associated with this study amount to only
      a minor increase over minimal risk and are primarily associated with adverse reactions to the
      medications involved. Levetiracetam is a marketed drug with a wide margin of safety. Patients
      receiving drug could benefit from improvement of their symptoms, those on placebo will also
      have their medications adjusted, leading to an improved quality of life.

      Outcome Estimate and Potential Meaning for the Field: This study should further the
      understanding of mechanisms contributing to motor disability in patients with PD that may
      lead to the development of improved therapeutic interventions for this disorder and for
      associated motor response complications.
    
  