
    
      This study will recruit 20 current or ex-smokers who meet the criteria for mild chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), measured by lung function tests. Participation is
      voluntary and participants may withdraw from the study at any time.

      Procedures:

      General Medical Examination: All participants will undergo a physical examination conducted
      by a physician. Concomitant medications will be recorded as well as body height and weight;
      blood pressure; heart rate rhythm using a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG); and blood oxygen
      saturation. The physician will identify any contraindications to exercise testing that would
      prevent safe participation.

      Pulmonary Function Tests: Standard lung function tests include: spirometry (measuring
      respiratory flow during a maximal breath outward); body plethysmography (measuring lung
      volumes); diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO; measuring gas exchange across the
      lung); maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP) maneuvers
      (evaluating respiratory muscle strength); and impulse oscillometry (IOS; measuring lung
      mechanics). Each test will be performed at least 2-3 times to ensure the results are
      consistent. For all tests, the participant will breathe through a rubber mouthpiece with nose
      clips on to occlude the nasal passage.

      Cardiopulmonary Exercise Tests: The participants will perform exercise on a stationary
      bicycle at each visit. While exercising, they will breathe through a mouthpiece with nose
      clips on, which allows for the breath-by-breath recording of physiologic variables throughout
      exercise. For each test, the participant will begin by sitting on the bike at rest (no
      pedaling) for approximately 6 minutes to establish a consistent measure of their baseline
      breathing. They will then begin pedaling for 1 minute against no resistance to warm-up. The
      load will then increase either by 10 Watts every minute (Visit 1) or to a constant work rate
      that will be maintained for 4 minutes (Visits 2-5). Every 2 minutes, the participant will be
      asked to take a full breath all the way in (an inspiratory capacity (IC) maneuver). The
      participant will also be asked to rate their breathing discomfort, their leg discomfort, how
      unpleasant their breathing feels, and how difficult it is to breathe in and out, using a
      10-point Borg Scale.

      Diaphragm EMG and Respiratory Pressure Measurements: Before exercise, a topical anaesthetic
      spray will be applied to the nasal passages and throat and a thin catheter (diameter 2 mm)
      will be inserted by experienced personnel through the nose down the throat and into the
      esophagus ("food tube") and top part of stomach. This catheter measures the electric activity
      (EMG) of the diaphragm, which provides useful information about the inspiratory drive to
      breathe. It also measures pressures in the esophagus within the chest as well as in the
      stomach, which gives useful information about the work of breathing and breathing mechanics.

      Blood Sampling: Small samples of blood will be taken from the earlobe before exercise, at
      2-minute intervals during exercise, and after exercise. The participant's earlobe will be
      warmed using a warm, damp cloth (ensuring adequate blood flow to the skin surface) throughout
      the baseline rest period and exercise. A very small puncture will be made using a lancet
      (similar to a very fine needle-tip), and blood will be collected in small glass tubes < 1mm
      in size. These samples will be analysed for their blood gas content (oxygen and carbon
      dioxide), variables needed to calculate dead space (the proportion of the lung unable to
      adequately participate in gas exchange).

      Study design: This will be a single-centre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      crossover study evaluating the effects of inhaled nitric oxide on the intensity of
      breathlessness and the physiological responses to a standardized exercise task. After giving
      written informed consent, participants will complete 5 visits, each conducted in the morning
      2-7 days apart.

      Visit 1 (Screening): The participants will have a detailed medical history taken and physical
      examination conducted by a study physician. The participants will also have their symptoms of
      COPD evaluated by standard written questionnaires [modified Medical Research Council (mMRC)
      dyspnea scale, Baseline Dyspnea Index (BDI), and COPD Assessment Test (CAT)]. These
      questionnaires will be explained to the participant by the study personnel and will be used
      to determine if the participants meet the criteria of having moderate-to-severe
      activity-related breathlessness. The participants will then undergo a series of pulmonary
      (lung) function tests at rest to determine lung function. Participants will complete a
      symptom-limited, incremental workload, cardiopulmonary exercise test on a stationary bicycle
      to determine their maximal work rate (Wmax). The participant will exercise on the bike for as
      long as they can, with the resistance increasing by 10 Watts every 1 min (see description
      above). Cardiac status will be monitored by 12-lead ECG. Heart rate, oxygen saturation
      (SpO2), and blood pressure will be monitored throughout exercise.

      Visits 2 & 3 (Run-In): The participants will be familiarized with the 4-min standardized
      cycle exercise test and breathing apparatus that will be completed for the remaining visits.
      This cycle exercise test will be performed at a constant load. The initial resistance
      selected will be 75% of their maximum workload (Wmax; determined from exercise test in Visit
      1) with adjustments to the load made as needed. The goal of the resulting 4-min exercise test
      is to have a standardized protocol that allows the participants to become sufficiently
      breathless to assess the potential therapeutic effect of nitric oxide while not being so
      intense as to prevent them from completing the test.

      Visits 4 and 5 (Treatment): The participants will complete the 4-min cycle exercise test at
      the work rate established in Visits 2 and 3 while breathing from a gas mixture consisting of
      either 1) inhaled nitric oxide (800 ppm) or 2) placebo (room air), each on a background of
      room air (21% oxygen; remainder nitrogen). Tests at Visits 4 and 5 will include detailed
      measurements of diaphragm electric activity (EMG) and respiratory mechanical measurements.
      Blood samples will be collected as described above: before exercise, at 2-minute intervals
      throughout exercise, and at the end of exercise.
    
  