
    
      Since ER function is regulated by peptide growth factor signaling, the phenotype of ER
      positive tumors may be influenced by the expression of growth factors and growth factor
      receptors. A potential interaction between ErbB2 (HER2/neu) expression and the success of
      endocrine therapy has been examined. ErbB2 expression was shown to correlate with resistance
      to hormone therapy.

      An inverse relationship between endocrine therapy responsiveness and ErbB2 expression has not
      been observed in all studies. This may be due to discordant ER status between the primary
      tumor and metastatic sites. ER status can be discordant in approximately 20% of cases, with a
      tendency for metastatic disease to become ER negative with time. Data concerning ErbB2 is
      more limited, but there may be similar lack of concordance between primary tumor and
      metastases.

      Inhibition of ErbB2 signaling may slow the development of resistance to estrogen deprivation
      therapy by inhibiting a pathway that promotes estrogen independent growth. The ErbB2 signal
      transduction pathway bypasses the requirement for estrogen for breast epithelial cell growth.
      When ErbB2 is activated in ER positive breast cancer cells in vitro, ER becomes
      phosphorylated and capable of stimulating transcription without estrogen. Chronic activation
      with heregulin, a ligand for the ErbB family of receptors, leads to ER down-regulation and
      the acquisition of an ER negative phenotype.

      Estrogen deprivation therapy with selective aromatase inhibitors (SAIs) has become the
      standard of care for postmenopausal women with tamoxifen-resistant advanced breast cancer.
      About 1/3 of patients benefit from this therapy. There is interest in treating endocrine
      therapy refractory breast cancer with the recombinant DNA-derived humanized monoclonal
      antibody trastuzumab. When given alone, trastuzumab has an endocrine therapy-like risk
      benefit ratio. Trastuzumab targets ErbB2 (HER2/neu). Some breast cancers may coexpress ER and
      ErbB2.

      Letrozole (Femara™) is a highly selective oral non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor. According
      to in vitro data, letrozole is 170-fold more potent in inhibiting aromatase than
      aminoglutethimide (AG) and 19-fold more active than anastrozole. Letrozole effectively
      inhibits intratumoral aromatase according to in vitro and in vivo data. It is indicated for
      the treatment of advanced breast carcinoma in post-menopausal women who have failed prior
      anti-estrogen therapy. Final FDA approval was granted in 1997. In two randomized phase
      IIb/III studies in patients previously treated with an antiestrogen, 19.5% and 23.6% of
      patients achieved an objective response with letrozole 2.5 mg/day compared with 12.4%
      receiving AG and 16.4% of patients receiving megace. Median overall survival was increased in
      the letrozole 2.5 mg/day group by 8 months compared to AG and by 3 months compared to megace.
      The lower 0.5 mg/day dose of letrozole was associated with poorer response rates and overall
      survival in both studies.

      Trastuzumab (Herceptin®) was approved in 1998. A trial of trastuzumab as a single agent for
      first line treatment of advanced disease has been reported. Response rate in the first 62
      patients was 24%.

      The primary objective of this trial is to determine the proportion of patients with ER and/or
      PR positive, ErbB2 positive tamoxifen resistant metastatic breast cancer who achieve complete
      remission or partial remission or no significant change in lesion size for > 24 weeks from a
      combination of letrozole and trastuzumab. The study will also determine duration of response
      and median time to progression, evaluate toxicity, generate a tumor and serum bank, and
      analyze ErbB2 expression on circulating malignant cells during treatment.

      The study will enroll 35 patients
    
  