
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common functional bowel disorder of the gastrointestinal
      tract affecting up to 20 percent of the adolescent and adult populations. It is characterised
      by abdominal pain, irregular bowel habits, altered stool consistencies and bloating, and is
      associated with impaired quality of life. IBS can be categorised into diarrhoea predominant
      type (IBS-D), constipation predominant type (IBS-C), and mixed type (IBS-M). Until recently,
      the development of an effective therapy for this condition has been hampered by a poor
      understanding of the etiology of the disease. Traditionally the underlying pathogenesis of
      IBS has been centered on the brain-gut axis whereby stress and psychological conditions alter
      the perception of IBS symptoms. Emerging evidence however supports the observation that at
      least in a subgroup of patients with IBS, peripheral mechanisms within the intestine
      including low grade mucosal inflammation, abnormal immune activation and altered visceral
      sensitivity may be the main drivers of the manifestations in IBS.

      Accumulating data suggest that the intestinal microbiota play an important role in the
      pathophysiology of IBS. This is derived from early observation that post-infectious IBS
      developed in a subgroup of patients following a bout of gastroenteritis. Several studies have
      shown that the fecal microbiota was altered in IBS and IBS symptoms can be improved by
      therapeutic interventions that target the microbiota including antibiotics, probiotics and
      prebiotics. Rifaximin, an oral, non-systemic broad spectrum antibiotics has also been shown
      to provide significant relief in IBS symptoms in a randomized controlled trial.

      Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) defined as infusion of feces from healthy donors to
      affected subjects has shown impressive results with high cure rates in patients with
      recurrent clostridium difficile infections.The mechanism of FMT in IBS is not completely
      clear.

      The investigators propose a randomised, placebo-controlled trial of FMT in patients with IBS.
    
  