
    
      Elevated plasma cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia) and various other plasma lipid imbalances
      (dyslipidemias) are major risk factors for coronary heart disease. It has been established
      that lowering the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol plasma concentration effectively
      reduces cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. As a result of this finding, the National
      Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III identifies control of low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol as essential in the prevention and management of coronary heart
      disease.

      Currently, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) are the
      first-line monotherapies prescribed to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, after diet
      and therapeutic lifestyle change. However, low doses of statins often fail to produce the
      Adult Treatment Panel III-recommended levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol
      reduction, making it necessary to increase the dose or add an additional treatment. This in
      turn may result in decreased tolerability and potential safety concerns.

      At higher doses, statins are associated with various myopathies ranging from rare occurrences
      of rhabdomyolysis and myositis to more frequent symptoms of muscle weakness, cramps, or pain;
      these can occur with mild or no increases in creatine kinase. Statin use also is associated
      with increases in liver transaminase levels. These tolerability and safety concerns may
      contribute to the high discontinuation rates of statins and their prescription at low, and
      often ineffective, doses.

      TAK-475 (lapaquistat acetate) inhibits the cholesterol synthesis pathway at a different step
      than statins (acting on squalene synthase rather than 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A);
      it does not reduce concentrations of isoprenylated intermediates believed to be responsible
      for the myopathies associated with statin use.

      This study was conducted to determine whether lapaquistat acetate with fenofibrate has the
      potential to be more effective than fenofibrate by itself in lowering low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol.
    
  