
    
      The main addictive component in tobacco, nicotine, has very low toxicity in cigarette doses
      and is available in a novel product, electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes). E-cigarettes are
      widely available and popular; almost one-third of cigarette smokers in the general population
      have tried them. E-cigarette use may be equally common among heavily dependent subgroups of
      chronic smokers. For example, two studies suggest that smokers with mental illness have tried
      this product at similar or even higher rates compared with the general population. This
      proposal targets chronic, highly dependent smokers with serious mental illness (SMI) who have
      been unable to quit and are thus maintaining exposure to toxins in combustible tobacco smoke.
      Whether smokers with SMI find e-cigarettes appealing is an important question because
      substituting e-cigarettes for combustible cigarettes may have profound health effects related
      to reduced impact on lung function and cardiovascular inflammation, as well as reduced
      exposure to carcinogens and tumor promoters.

      E-Cigarettes are popular and readily available even though information about toxicity,
      addiction liability, effect on health, and impact on current or future smoking behaviors is
      limited. Given the ubiquity of e-cigarette use and the lack of definitive data on their
      impact, more information about their appeal and impact, especially in vulnerable populations
      who are unable to quit smoking, will be key for regulators and treatment providers. The FDA
      has published its intention to regulate e-cigarettes, and the National Institute on Drug
      Abuse (NIDA) is supporting the development of a standardized, safety-tested e-cigarette for
      use in research. The American Heart Association recently issued a policy statement that
      e-cigarettes present "an opportunity for harm reduction if smokers adopt this alternative
      tobacco product as a substitute for cigarettes," but further research on behavioral and
      psychological appeal, toxicity, and impact of e-cigarettes on smoking heavier and nicotine
      dependence are sorely needed. The proposed study would add significantly to this science
      base.

      In partnership with the New Hampshire Department of Medicaid, this research group conducted a
      statewide study of incentives for health behavior change. Over 600 smokers with mental
      illness were enrolled and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 smoking cessation treatments. Almost
      23% of smokers with schizophrenia and 31% of smokers with bipolar disorder had tried an
      e-cigarette during the 3 months prior to participating in the study, providing evidence for
      the potential appeal of e-cigarettes among people with SMI who are trying to quit smoking.

      These findings led to a preliminary prospective study of e-cigarette use among 19 chronic
      smokers (9 had bipolar disorder, 10 had schizophrenia) who had tried to quit an average of
      3.8 (±8.14) times over the prior year but were no longer seeking cessation treatment.
      Participants received a 4-week supply of e-cigarettes and instruction on their safe use, and
      were assessed weekly for a month. Participants sustained a steady level of e-cigarette use
      over the study period. Overall, participants significantly reduced the number of cigarettes
      smoked per week from a mean of 191.9 (±159.3) at baseline to 66.7 (±76.3) at the final study
      visit (t=3.26, df=17, p=.005), confirmed by a significant decrease in mean CO level from
      27ppm (±16.9) to 15ppm (±9.2) (t=3.246, df=18, p=.004). Participants rated several aspects of
      e-cigarette use based on items created for this study, including: 1) enjoyment compared to
      tobacco cigarettes, 2) satisfaction from e-cigarettes, and 3) willingness to buy
      e-cigarettes. Ratings were consistently high (>4 on a 5-point Likert type scale) across the 4
      weeks. This study provides the basis and justification for conducting a large study using a
      randomized design to learn more about the behavioral and psychological appeal of e-cigarettes
      among chronic smokers with SMI, and to explore important aspects of e-cigarette use,
      including impact on toxicity and nicotine dependence.

      This study will evaluate the behavioral and psychological appeal of e-cigarettes among
      chronic smokers with SMI, it will evaluate the effect of e-cigarettes on markers of tobacco
      toxicity, and it will evaluate the effect of e-cigarettes on measures of nicotine dependence.
      A total of 240 people with SMI who are receiving services at 1 of 2 mental health providers
      (Vinfen Corporation in Lowell/Lawrence MA and Centerstone Kentucky, formerly Seven Counties
      Services, Inc. in Louisville, KY) will be enrolled and randomly assigned.

      The hypothesis is that at least 50% of smokers assigned to the e-cigarette group will use
      e-cigarettes daily during each of the 8 weeks that they are provided; mean satisfaction of
      e-cigarettes will be >3 on a 5-point scale; and subjective perception of e-cigarettes will be
      positive based on responses to a qualitative interview.

      Secondly, it is hypothesized that over 8 weeks, reduction in expired breath CO, combustible
      cigarettes consumed/week, and urine levels of 4-(Methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol
      or NNAL (a tobacco-specific carcinogen) will be greater among those assigned to e-cigarettes
      compared to those assigned to assessment only. Lastly, it is hypothesized that people
      assigned to e-cigarettes will have similar nicotine dependence at the end of the study
      period, when compared to people assigned to assessment only.
    
  