
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the nonspecific humoral immune response, as measured by human anti-murine
      antibodies (HAMA), in patients with stage III or IV ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or
      primary peritoneal adenocarcinoma treated with consolidation therapy comprising adjuvant
      oregovomab with vs without cyclophosphamide after achieving a complete clinical response to
      second-line taxane/platinum-based therapy.

      II. To compare the magnitude of the immune responses in these patients at approximately 14
      weeks after the initial treatment.

      III. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events, as assessed by NCI CTCAE
      v3.0, in patients treated with these regimens.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the specific humoral immune response, as measured by HAMA and
      anti-idiotype antibodies, in these patients.

      II. To assess the treatment emergent cellular immune response, by measuring the delayed-type
      hypersensitivity response to the anergy panel and to oregovomab as compared to baseline, in
      these patients.

      III. To characterize the duration of each patient's first progression-free interval after
      primary chemotherapy and second progression-free interval after another regimen of
      chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) skin testing with oregovomab and
      a standard anergy panel (i.e., mumps, Candida, and tetanus toxoid) on day 0 (at baseline) and
      at week 14. The skin test response is measured 48 hours later. Patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV on day 6 and oregovomab IV over 20 minutes on day 9 or 10. Patients then
      receive oregovomab alone at weeks 6 and 10 and then every 12 weeks for up to 2 years (10
      doses) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo DTH skin testing and receive oregovomab as in arm I.

      Blood samples are obtained from patients at baseline and at weeks 14 and 38 for immunologic
      correlative studies. Samples are examined to determine CA-125 levels and human anti-murine
      antibody (HAMA) and anti-idiotype antibody levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
      (ELISA).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then
      every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  