
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether increasing the dose of sorafenib tosylate increases the plasma
      steady-state concentration in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      II. Determine whether increasing the dose of this drug affects blood pressure in these
      patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether the variability in blood pressure elevation is due to pharmacokinetic or
      pharmacodynamic variability.

      II. Compare the toxicity and differences in pharmacokinetics of delivering a higher dose of
      this drug per day (using two different schedules) vs delivering the currently recommended
      dose of this drug.

      III. Investigate mechanisms of sorafenib tosylate-induced hypophosphatemia with serial
      measurements of phosphate metabolism (no longer assessed as of 4/29/2009) in these patients,
      detailed baseline measurements in all patients, and detailed evaluations of patients
      developing grade 3 or greater hypophosphatemia.

      IV. Detect subclinical effects of this drug on measures of thyroid function. V. Identify
      biomarkers predicting the categorization of patient response.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-7 and once on day 8. Patients
      not experiencing at least one grade 2 or higher toxicity during the initial sorafenib
      treatment are randomized to 1 of 3 dose-escalated treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive higher-dose oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 15-36.

      ARM II: Patients receive standard-dose oral sorafenib tosylate three times daily on days
      15-36.

      ARM III: (closed to accrual as of 4/29/2009) Patients receive standard-dose oral sorafenib
      tosylate twice daily on days 15-36.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo ambulatory blood pressure monitoring at baseline, on days 7, 14, and 21, and
      at 6 and 12 months. Blood samples are collected periodically throughout study and evaluated
      for pharmacokinetic studies, thyroid function, serum markers, and phosphate metabolism*. CT
      perfusion imaging is performed at baseline, week 6, week 12, and then every 8-12 weeks
      thereafter.

      NOTE: * Phosphate metabolism no longer assessed as of 4/29/2009.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 4 weeks for 1 year and then
      every 3 months thereafter.
    
  