
    
      Evidence from the literature showed that coronally advanced flap was a predictable method for
      root coverage. The addition of a connective tissue graft was also found to improve the
      outcome of obtaining complete root coverage in Miller class I and II gingival recession. Many
      different connective tissue graft-harvesting techniques have been utilized. These techniques
      aimed at reducing patient morbidity by primary closure of the palatal flap to achieve primary
      intention wound healing. However, they had the limitation of requiring an adequate thickness
      of the palatal fibromucosa in order to prevent desquamation of the undermined flap and
      compromised vasculature.

      On the other hand, the free gingival graft surgical technique was also unaccepted
      esthetically due to the white scar and irregularities produced at the monolingual junction.

      Moreover, despite the fact that the free gingival graft had its limitation of being
      associated with greater post-operative pain, discomfort and bleeding due to healing by
      secondary intention in 2-4 weeks, nevertheless, this technique was much easier to perform and
      could be used even in cases of thin palatal fibromucosa.

      The evidence in literature comparing patient morbidity and root coverage outcomes between
      these two techniques is minimal. Studies by Griffin et al. (2006) and Wessel and Tatakis
      (2008) reported increased incidence of post-operative pain with free gingival grafts.
      However, a recently study by Zucchelli et al. (2010) compared post-operative morbidity and
      root coverage outcomes in patients treated with trap-door connective tissue graft and
      de-epithelialized free gingival graft found no statistically significant differences in pain
      killer consumption, post-operative discomfort and bleeding between the two groups.

      Still very few studies measured the effect of different connective tissue graft harvesting
      techniques on gingival thickness. And even in the study by Zucchelli et al. (2010), only
      speculative explanation was given regarding the increase of gingival thickness in case of a
      de-epithelialized free gingival graft than subepithelial connective tissue graft.

      Gingival thickness was proved to be an important factor for the etiology of gingival
      recession as thick gingival tissues are able to confine the inflammation within the region of
      the gingival sulcus and prevent its extension to destroy the outer gingival tissue leading to
      gingival recession.

      Therefore, this study will monitor the effect of different connective tissue harvesting
      techniques (De-epithelialized free gingival graft versus subepithelial connective tissue
      graft) on gingival thickness enhancement. It will also evaluate the de-epithelialized free
      gingival graft as a harvesting mechanism for connective tissue graft in terms of patient
      morbidity and root coverage outcomes.
    
  