
    
      Objective: The purpose of this randomized, controlled, double-blind trial is to evaluate if
      sub-dissociated dose ketamine given as an infusion versus an intravenous (IV) push over 1
      minute has fewer and/or less severe adverse drug reactions and provides equivalent analgesia
      for patients with moderate to severe pain in the emergency department (ED).

      Study design: Prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blind trial

      Participants: Research assistants will recruit patients ≥18 years old with moderate to severe
      pain (NRS≥5) and an anticipated stay in the emergency department ≥1 hour. A sample size
      calculation was performed based on prior data which suggests that 60% of IV push arm and 20 %
      of infusion arm will have adverse drug reactions. investigators assume an alpha of 0.05 and a
      power of 0.8, which results in 56 patients needing to be enrolled.

      Intervention: After a trained research assistant obtains written informed consent,
      pharmacists will randomize the participants to the IV push or IV infusion arm of the study.
      All patients will be placed on a cardiac monitor. All patients will receive and IV push over
      1 minute and a 100 mL normal saline minibag over 15 minutes.

      In the IV push arm, pharmacists will provide to the nurse ketamine 0.3 mg/kg in a 10 mL
      syringe and a 100 mL normal saline minibag. The nurse will start the minibag of normal saline
      and then administer the IV push of ketamine over 1 minute.

      In the IV infusion arm, pharmacists will provide to the nurse ketamine 0.3 mg/kg in a 100 mL
      normal saline minibag and a 10 mL syringe of normal saline. The nurse will start the minibag
      of normal saline and then administer the IV push over 1 minute.

      Data collection: The trained research assistant will collect data on the patients' pain
      scores, adverse drug reactions (presence, severity, and how bothersome they are), and vital
      signs.

      Statistical analysis: Investigators will perform descriptive statistics, compare the
      proportion of patients with side effects, compare the severity of the side effects scores,
      and compare how bothersome the side effects.
    
  