
    
      Phenotyping Study Aims

      Aim 1: Longitudinally assess body function and body structure (impairment) through the
      measurement of anthropometrics, muscle strength and pulmonary function in subjects with DMD
      through the multicenter CINRG network.

      Aim 2: Longitudinally assess activity limitations in subjects with DMD through CINRG with
      timed motor performance, burden of care, and functional status.

      Aim 3: Longitudinally assess secondary conditions in subjects with DMD, and relative risks of
      developing those conditions based on exposure to preventive interventions.

      Aim 4: Longitudinally assess participation, life satisfaction, service utilization and
      health-related quality of life in subjects with DMD.

      Aim 5: Determine appropriate outcome measurements for impairment, activities (activity
      limitations), participation and quality of life to determine the effect of prednisone and
      other therapeutic interventions on these factors.

      Aim 6: Using the most robust impairment, activity, participation and quality of life outcome
      measures, determine the sample size, power and statistical methods for the analysis of the
      effect size for future planned randomized-controlled rehabilitation interventions in DMD.

      Aim 7: Examine the associations between interventions and incidence and severity of secondary
      conditions, achievement of disease milestones and measures of motor function and mobility.

      Aim 8: To assess the validity and responsiveness of novel clinical outcome measures in DMD,
      including the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), the 9-hole peg test (9-HPT) Egen Klassification
      Scale(EK), the North Star Ambulatory Assessment (NSAA), and quantitative key and pinch grip
      strength testing.

      Aim 9: To assess the reliability, validity and responsiveness of novel patient-reported
      outcome(PRO) measures in DMD, including the NeuroQOL and PedsQL Neuromuscular Module.

      Aim 10: To assess the clinical meaningfulness of novel objective clinical outcome measures by
      assessing their ability to predict milestones of loss of ability to stand from supine, to
      stand from a seated position, to climb stairs, to ambulate independently and to raise a hand
      to the mouth.

      AIM 11: To determine the impact of development and growth on outcome measure performance,we
      will assess physical function on a group of healthy, typically developing male children and
      adults between 6 and 30 years of age for outcome measures of motor function and strength
      including the9-HPT, 6MWT, NSAA, timed function tests and quantitative muscle strength (QMT).
      Test results from this cohort will be used to develop initial percent predicted for age
      values for these assessments.

      SNP Genotyping Study Aim

      Our goal of the proposed study is to define polygenic modifiers of disease progression, and
      also response to treatment with glucocorticoids (prednisone and deflazacort). The most common
      type of human genetic variation is the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP, a base position
      at which two alternative bases occur at an appreciable frequency (>1%) in the population.
      SNPs are 90% of variation in the human genome. SNPs occur on the average of 1 per 1000 to
      2000 bp throughout the 3.2 billion bp of the human genome while coding region SNPs (cSNPs)
      occur on the average of 1 per 346 bp.

      Genome-wide Association Study Aim

      Our goal of the proposed study is to isolate genomic DNA and find possible correlations of
      clinical phenotypes with gene loci associated with mild vs. severe clinical presentation,
      progression, or response to steroids.

      Serum Biomarkers Study Aim

      Our goal is to discover and validate sensitive and specific serum biomarkers for DMD.
    
  