
    
      Our purpose will be to compare 2 models of home care corresponding to 2

      Primary Care Centers (EAP):

        -  Model integrated (EAP Gran Sol), traditional, continuity, made by the UBA with care of
           the home patient by the usual care team (family physician and nurse)

        -  Model functional (EAP Apenins), based on the internal reorganization of the EAP:
           equipment specific home care program composed of family physician and nurse, with
           dedication exclusively to Preventive home visits, with training aimed at excellence in
           the Management of fragile patients with pluripathology and palliative care.

      HYPOTHESIS. A care group dedicated exclusively to the ATDOM patient with what it entails in
      dedication of time and specific knowledge could get better results in health, optimize health
      resources and at the same time achieve greater satisfaction and quality of life to these
      patients. That is why our hypothesis will be that it is expected that the patient's global
      assistance attended from Primary Care in your home is better if it is performed by a Primary
      Care team trained for it with exclusive dedication to this type of patient, that, with the
      traditional model, where the patient that is attended at home is assisted by the clinical
      team that serves the rest of the community.

      OBJECTIVES Main objective The main objective will be the comparison of the two models of home
      care in Primary care previously described by the difference in the average number of days
      hospitalized for 12 months among the people served in an integrated model of home care and
      among those served in a functional model. 3.2 Secondary objectives We will analyze them under
      a triple vision AIM, triple goal, better health, better care, lower costs, -effectiveness,
      efficiency and experience in people's health-

        -  Results in health: comparison in mortality at 12 months and integral geriatric
           assessment.

        -  Results in experience in health care and quality of life:

      Comparison of both models in terms of self-perception in patients' health included in the
      preventive home care program, the patient's experience in attention to their health and
      overload of the caregiver.

      -Results in efficiency and resource utilization: comparison in professional assistance,
      consumption of intermediate resources, consumption of social products, quality in the
      prescription.

      METHODOLOGY OF THE STUDY.

        -  Design of the study. It is a quasi-experimental study of 2 population samples. The group
           of study is composed of the sample of subjects treated with the home care model
           exclusive and expert. The control group is made up of the subjects that are treated with
           the model of traditional home care. The study is expected to have a duration of 2 years
           that will be the time of follow-up of each participant, being able present the
           possibility of doing later substudies.

        -  Population under study. Justification of the choice of the comparator. The integrated
           model of home care that is implemented in EAP Gran Sol is compared with the proposed new
           functional model that includes a team of family doctor and nurse dedicated exclusively
           to patient care included in the home care program and who have received specific
           training. This intervention has been carried out in EAP Apenins since 2013.

      To the subjects of this obtained sample, a telephone call will be made inviting them to
      participate in the study, agreeing a visit by the doctor or nurse responsible for the patient
      and the subject of the project will be informed. In the agreed view, will give the informed
      consent and the information sheet to the patient. Once signed in informed consent by the
      subject or in case of patients with deterioration cognitive, by the caregiver, the
      self-administered scales EuroQOL and IEXPACto the patient, in the case of patients with
      cognitive impairment, at caregiver and the Zarit questionnaire to the main caregiver so that
      complete They will be given an envelope to enter the completed scales that will be delivered
      closed to the healthcare professional. Fragility will be measured with instrument of
      Gérontopole at that time. These scales will be redelivered the patient and the caregiver at
      the end of the study, after 2 years, with the same methodology.

      It is considered inevitable that professionals know how to measure themselves since they have
      their collaboration for the delivery of informed consent and information sheet to patient and
      the EuroQol, IEXPAC and Zarit scales and calculation of fragility index.

      There will be 2 training sessions for healthcare professionals on the project of the study
      and the use of the scales they will deliver. Losses of selection of the sample are considered
      to the subjects or main caregivers, in the case of subjects with cognitive impairment, who do
      not sign informed consent.

      Every 6 months the researchers will contact the subjects by telephone participants of the
      study (each of their Primary Care Center) and on that call will proceed to question about
      possible admission to private hospitals, stay in day centers or answer questions or provide
      information about the study. Study groups.

      They are the following:

      A control group of patients included in the Home Care program of the ABS Gran Sol where11
      healthcare teams work with 241 patients in total in the Home care program (date December
      2016) And a study group, of patients included in the Home Care program of ABS Apenins, the
      which have a healthcare team that works exclusively for home care with 113 patients (date
      December 2016) Study sample. Patients will be included who are in the Home care program and
      who comply with the Inclusion and exclusion criteria.
    
  