
    
      Introduction As numerous studies have identified TNF-α, TH-17 and IL-17 as particularly major
      roles governing the inflammatory cascade in psoriasis, target therapies, including TNF-α and
      TH-17 antagonists, have represented major breakthrough in the treatment of psoriasis. It is
      well known that TNF-α plays an important role in the immune response to viral infections,
      which is attributed to direct inhibition of viral replication, killing of virally infected
      cells, induction of FasL-dependent CD8+ T-lymphocyte effector pathways through TNF/TNF
      receptor 2 interaction and promote inflammatory response indirectly.Additionally, it has been
      shown that treatment with TNF-α antagonists is associated increased viral replication in
      virus-inoculated rats, progressive loss of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and decreased level of TNF-α
      and interferon. A transient decreased T cell responsiveness was also observed in some
      patients treated with TNF-α antagonists.10 TNF-α can inhibit CMV production in certain cell
      types and the CMV major immediate early promoter is inhibited by TNF-α. Increased TNF
      production has been reported during CMV infection, which also displays anti-CMV activity in
      vitro.

      TNF-α is also involved in direct control of HPV infection by induction of apoptosis of
      HPV-infected cells, arresting growth of HPV-infected keratinocytes and down-regulation of
      HPV-gene transcription, stimulation of inflammatory response and up-regulation of HLA class I
      components in antigen-presenting cells. E6 protein of HPV-16 is known to directly bind to TNF
      receptor 1 and abrogate TNF-induced apoptosis of the host cells. Recent studies have shown a
      high prevalence of HPV DNA in psoriatic skin and increased HPV5 antibodies in patients with
      psoriasis. It seems that psoriatic skin may be specifically permissive for HPV. Increased pap
      smear abnormalities has been observed in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases receiving
      TNF-α antagonists. However, the specific effects of anti-TNF therapy on HPV carriage and
      HPV-associated disease remain unknown.

      Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with several B-cell and epithelial-cell malignancies,
      especially in patients under the immunosuppressive treatment. Increased risk of
      lymphoproliferative disorders in patients treated with TNF-α antagonists has been addressed.
      Case reports of EBV-associated lymphoproliferative diseases that regressed after withdrawal
      of anti-TNF-α drugs had been also described. Thus, the concern of the increased risk at least
      in part caused by immunosuppression of anti-TNF therapy, which may cause a consecutive EBV
      reactivation, emerged but was not proven yet.

      Anti-TNF-α drugs, including monoclonal antibody against TNF-α (infliximab and adalimumab) and
      soluble TNF receptor (etanercept), are recognized as a risk factor for opportunistic
      infections. A recent study demonstrated a higher risk of opportunistic infections for
      patients receiving adalimumab than etanercept, with a 10- to 17-fold differences in risk.
      However, most knowledge of latent viral reactivation during anti-TNF treatment has come from
      studies of patients with inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. Moreover, these
      studies mainly focus on herpesviruses and viral hepatitis. Several case reports in which EBV,
      CMV,and HPV infection complicated therapy with TNF-α antagonists in patients with psoriasis
      have also been reported.

      IL-17 is a proinflammatory cytokine that is produced by a variety of cells, including a newly
      identified subset of activated CD4+ T cells (Th17 cells), γδT cells, CD8+ cells and NKT
      cells. There is evidence to support a protective role for IL-17 in the host defense against
      extracellular bacterial infections, including Klebsiella pneumonia,38 Bacteroides fragilis
      and Escherichia coli. A recent study also showed IL-17 is essential for human immunity
      against common fungus Candida albicans.

      Various bacteria and fungi are reported to be associated with provocation and/or exacerbation
      of psoriasis. The strongest evidence exists for the induction of guttate psoriasis by a
      preceding tonsilar Streptococcus pyogenes infection. Balci et al also found significant
      higher rates of Staphylococcus aureus colonization in lesional skin and nares of the patients
      with psoriasis than healthy controls. They also suggested a significant relationship between
      PASI scores and both S. aureus cultivation and toxin production in lesional skin of the
      patients with psoriasis.

      However, the studies investigating the impact of TNF-α, TH-17, IL-17 antagonists and other
      targeted agents in patients with psoriasis are limited.

      Aim： In Taiwan, the seropositive rate of CMV is approximately 50% for school age children and
      more than 90% for adults. EBV causes a persistent infection of B lymphocytes in more than 90%
      of the adult population worldwide.46 Thus, the importance of investigating the influence of
      target therapies on the latent viruses and other microorganisms can't be overemphasized. The
      aim of this study is to prospectively investigate the effect of TNF-α, TH-17 and IL-17
      antagonists administration on the activation of viruses, including CMV, EBV and HPV and the
      impact of biologics on the prevalence of surface colonization of microorganism, including
      HPV, bacteria and fungi, in patients with psoriasis. The microbial effect of novel targeted
      agents, like tofacitinib, secukinumab and apremilast, will also be studied.

      Methods Patients Characteristics and Study Schedule We include patients with psoriasis who
      will receive and who are currently on TNF-α (etanercept and adalimumab) for psoriasis, in a
      tertiary referral centre in northern Taiwan (National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH))
      between 2011 and 2015. We also include patients who have signed informed consent to use or
      participate in the clinical trials and are currently using the target therapies of
      ustekinumab, secukinumab, tofacitinib (CP690,550), and apremilast. These clinical trials are
      approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the NTUH (NTUH-REC: ustekinumab, 200806022M;
      secukinumab, 201104022MA; tofacitinib, 201012013MA; apremilast, 201010022M). Patients
      themselves or their guardians have signed informed consent for the study protocols of these
      new drugs before entrance to this study. All the participants of our study or their guardians
      also need to sign another informed consent of this study, which is approved by the Research
      Ethics Committee of the NTUH (NTUH-REC No: 201106079RC).

      This project consists of two related studies:

      Study 1

        1. Patients who are planned to receive targeted agents:

           This prospective, observational study includes psoriasis patients who are going to
           receive targeted agents. After enrollment, CMV and EBV IgG are checked. Patients undergo
           the sampling of blood, eyebrow hairs and skin scales before the initiation of biologics
           therapy, 12 and 24 weeks after initiation of the target therapies, 12 weeks after
           discontinuation of target therapies. Blood samples are sent to check viral load, and CMV
           and EBV viral load are determined by real-time PCR. Bacterial, fungal cultures and HPV
           DNA detection of skin scales are also performed. HPV typing is determined by genechip
           and semi-quantitative measurement of HPV viral load is done. Demographic data and the
           activity parameters of the psoriasis, such as psoriasis area and severity index (PASI),
           are collected at baseline and each study visit. The aim of this study is to investigate
           the dynamic effect of target therapies administration on the microorganisms, including
           CMV, EBV, HPV, bacteria and fungi in patients with psoriasis.

           Study 2

        2. Patients who have received targeted therapy The second part of our project, a
           case-control study, includes psoriasis patients who have received targeted agents for
           more than 3 months. We also recruit age-and disease severity-matched psoriasis patients
           who are not treating with targeted agents or other systemic antipsoriatic agents as a
           control group. Likewise, after enrollment, CMV and EBV IgG are checked. HPV detection,
           bacterial, fungal cultures of the skin scales were done. Comparison of the prevalence of
           latent virus, virus reactivation, bacteria and fungi skin colonization between psoriasis
           patients who are treating with and without target therapies is performed.

      Additionally, the microorganism examinations are repeated again 12 weeks after the
      discontinuation of target therapies. The dynamic changes of viral serology, bacterial and
      fungal cultivation data after stopping target therapies are analyzed.

      The aim of this part of our study was to assess any difference of the status of latent virus
      or microorganism colonization in skins between psoriasis patients treated with and without
      target therapies.

      Scale sampling on the nonlesional skins for HPV The sampling areas will be first cleaned with
      Hibitane and gentlely taped with adhesive tapes to remove surface contamination. Then a
      superficial skin scraping is taken from the head and neck areas, as far as possible from any
      psoriatic plaques, using a fine sandpaper to abrade the stratum corneum and collecting the
      debris for HPV detection.

      Cultivation of bacteria and fungi on the skin folds After clearing sampling areas with
      Hibitane, skin swab samples are taken from skin folds, including retroauricular areas,
      inguinal or axillary areas, by using a sterile cotton swab dipped in double-distilled water
      and then a gentle swabbing of the skin.

      Hair sampling for HPV Eyebrows are plucked with new tweezers used for each subject. Only
      hairs containing intact hair follicles are collected for HPV studies.

      Determination of viral loads

      Quantitative PCR for CMV and EBV viral load Whole blood specimens were stored at - 80 ◦C
      before testing. DNA was extracted from 400μL of sample with the MagNA Pure Compact Nucleic
      Acid Isolation kit I using the MagNA Pure Compact Instrument (Roche Diagnostics). The volume
      of solution was 100μL. Viral DNAs were then amplified using the "in-house" real-time PCR
      assays implemented in the laboratory for virological diagnosis. For CMV, real-time PCR assays
      based on hydrolysis probe technology were used, as described previously.48 For EBV, the
      "in-house"real-time PCR assay using hybridization probes was carried out, as reported
      previously.49 CMV amplification was performed on the ABI PRISM® 7500 (Applied Biosystems,
      Courtaboeuf, France) using the following cycle parameters: 2 min at 50 ◦C and 10 min at 95
      ◦C, followed by 45 cycles each consisting of 15 s at 95 ◦C and 1 min at 60 ◦C (ramprates of
      0.8 ◦C/s up and 1.6 ◦C/s down; 9600 emulation mode). EBV assay was carried out on the
      LightCycler® 1.5 (LC1.5; Roche Diagnostics). EBV assay was performed with the following cycle
      parameters: 1 min at 50 ◦C and 8 min at 95 ◦C, followed by 45 cycles each consisting of 10 s
      at 95 ◦C, 15 s at 58 ◦C and 15 s at 72 ◦C, and a cooling step of 1 min at 40 ◦C (ramp rate of
      20 ◦C/s). Real-time PCR assays were performed in parallel on the LC480, after slight
      adaptations from the initial protocols. Ten microliters of extracted DNA were amplified in
      25μL of mixture containing 1 × LightCycler® 480 Probes Master, 200 nM forward primer, 200 nM
      reverse primer, 100 nM hydrolysis probe, 0.38 units uracil-N-glycosylase (Invitrogen,
      Cergy-Pontoise, France). For EBV, the hybridization probe labeled with LC-Red 640 was used as
      a FAM-labeled hydrolysis probe.49 The sequences of all primers and probes used in LC480
      protocols are indicated in Table 1. Cycling conditions on LC480 were as follows: 2 min at 50
      ◦C and 10 min at 95 ◦C, followed by 45 cycles each consisting of 15 s at 95 ◦C and 40 s at 60
      ◦C, and a cooling step of 30 s at 40 ◦C (ramp rate of 4.4 ◦C/s). For CMV and EBV assays,
      quantitation was achieved with a standard curve generated from 10-fold serial dilutions of
      viral DNA extracted from infected cell cultures and quantified using a plasmid. In order to
      detect potential PCR inhibitors, all DNA extracts were tested undiluted and at a dilution of
      1:10. Results were expressed logarithmically (viral copy number/mL). Given the extraction
      dilution, the sensitivity threshold was 1.4 logs for all assays.

      HPV genotyping and semiquantitative HPV viral load The HPV genechip (Easychip HPV Genotyping
      Array, King Car, Taipei, Taiwan) will offer an revert-blot hybridization to detect 39
      subtypes of HPV DNA (6, 11, 16, 18, 26, 31, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 42, 43, 44, 45, 51, 52, 53,
      54, 55, 56, 58, 59, 61, 62, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 72, 74, 82, CP8061, CP8304, L1AE5, MM4, MM7,
      and MM8) in a single reaction, as reported by Huang et al. The nested multiplex PCR products
      of L1 region of HPV of each specimen will be hybridized with a genechip. The other set of
      nested PCR will be also performed for skin typed HPV which consisted of FAP59/64 and
      Fap6319R/6085F and DNA sequencing analysis.will be performed for the product to rule out the
      presence of coinfection. The genechip is able to detect multiple infection and the
      skin-directed PCR sequencing can only detect one serotype of HPV at one time. Internal
      Control for extracting of human-genomic DNA

        1. . GAPDH, gap-1/gap-2 (ca. ~341 bp)

        2. . Beta-globin, KW42/KW29 (ca. ~510 bp)

        3. . Beta-globin, KC03/KC04 (ca. ~110 bp)

        4. . Beta-globin, KC03/KC05 (ca. ~150 bp)

      Strategy of mucosal HPV detection:

      Primers mDeAV1 5'-CGTCCM*ARRGGAWACTGATC-3' mDeAV2 5'-GCMCAGGGWCATAAYAATGG-3'-Biotin GAP1:
      5'-CCAACTTTCCCGCCTCTCAGC-3' GAP2: 5'-AAAACCGCTAGTAGCCGGGCC-3' KW29:
      5'-GGTTGGCCAATCTACTCCCAGG-3' KW42: 5'-GCTCACTCAGTGTGGCAAAG-3'

      For the detection of skin typed HPV, the other sets of nested PCR primer will be used as:

      FAP59：5'-TAACWGTIGGICAYCCWTATT-3') FAP64：5'-CCWATATCWVHCATITCICCATC-3')
      FAP6085F：CCWGATCCHAATMRRTTGC FAP6319R：ACATTTGGGGGAAAAATTGTTTDGGRTCAA The amount of HPV DNA in
      the specimen was determined by semiquantitative method. Luminescence signal strengths in
      relative light units (RLU) of the specimen were compared with standard positive controls
      (RLU/PC).
    
  