
    
      This study has the following aims:

        1. To detect novel, previously undescribed pathogens.

        2. To characterize viruses (not necessarily novel but emerging and re-emerging) that are
           raising concern or causing clusters or epidemics in the hospital and/or country;

        3. To characterize immune responses to such viruses in patients.

        4. To archive specimens with no identifiable infectious etiological agents for future
           testing.

      A recent global analysis documented that emerging infectious disease events have increased
      significantly over time. Singapore has not been spared with the list of pathogens since the
      late 1990s, including Nipahn virus, SARS coronavirus, dengue, chikungunya, and 2009 H1N1. As
      is widely known, the novel coronavirus may potentially impact Singapore as Haj pilgrims from
      Singapore travel to Saudi Arabia and are potentially exposed to this virus.

      Novel pathogens continue to be discovered. An example of this is the Severe Fever with
      Thrombocytopenia Syndrome bunyavirus in Henan, China. Appropriately a commentary accompanying
      the report identified China as a country with the largest potential for emerging or
      re-emerging infectious disease, due to the close proximity of animals and human populations.
      Similarly, Southeast Asia was identified as a potential hotspot, citing the avian influenza
      pandemic and Nipahn virus outbreak. As such, it is obvious that there is a need to better
      define undiagnosed infective syndromes in Singapore, and subsequently characterize emerging
      pathogens.

      In Singapore, there is currently a lack of research focus on discovery of novel pathogens.
      Our current protocol is an attempt to fill this gap. This proposal brings together experts in
      clinical infectious diseases in SGH, world renowned scientists in laboratory diagnostics of
      infectious diseases and public health epidemiology experts in Duke-NUS Postgraduate Medical
      School. We hope by employing state of the art technologies, we will be at the frontier of new
      pathogen discovery.
    
  