
    
      Fasting from 6-12hours before elective surgery is still standard of care in many
      departements, including our departement in Oslo University Hospital.

      Surgery is a trauma that triggers a catabolic stress response with high emissions of hormones
      and immune activation. These activations can affect brain, heart, muscles and liver. The
      metabolic changes may in addition influence development of pain, tissue damage, ileus,
      tachycardia and other hemodynamic disturbances. Preoperative fasting has shown an increase of
      surgical stress and to impact catabolic processes which secondarily may lead to insulin
      resistance and hyperglycemia in non-diabetic patients. Insulin resistance and hyperglycaemia
      are known to increase the incidence of postoperative infections. Previous studies have also
      shown that prolonged fasting increases the incidence of gastrointestinal problems. A 12 hour
      fast before surgery has shown delayed recovery.

      Studies have shown that patients undergoing lung cancer surgery suffer from multiple symptoms
      and experience discomfort in the postoperative phase. Symptoms include dyspnea, fatigue,
      pain, weakness, cough, dry mouth, nervousness, difficulty sleeping,
      stomach-/intestinal-problems and lack of appetite. Carbohydrate-rich supplements have shown a
      positive effect on other perioperative symptoms and measures, but is to our knowledge
      currently not investigated in lung cancer surgery.

      Therefore, there is a need to explore the possible advantages of preoperative oral
      carbohydrate loading in lung cancer surgery.

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate whether preoperative carbohydrate loading
      with PreOp® provides less postoperative discomfort in the early postoperative phase measured
      by Quality of Recovery-40 (QoR-40), a validated and widely used measure of quality of
      recovery.

      The secondary aim is to investigate if preoperative loading with carbohydrates affect the
      incidence of postoperative complications such as stomach-/intestinal problems and heart
      rhythm disorder, in addition to contribute to faster mobilization and to reduce hospital
      length of stay.

      This study may provide important data regarding the lung cancer patients perioperative
      symptoms, complications and well-being when using a carbohydrate-rich supplement as
      intervention to standard of care.

      In this study, the intervention group will be given 800ml of a oral carbohydrate supplement,
      PreOp®, the night before surgery and 400ml of the same supplement, PreOp®, 2-4 hours prior to
      surgery. The control group will be fasted from 24h, the night before surgery, in accordance
      to the departements standard of care.

      Both groups, the interventional and the control group, will follow the department's
      perioperative course with regard to anesthetic and surgical procedures.
    
  