
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is characterized with recurrent collapse of upper
      airway during sleep and resulted in hypoxia and sleep fragmentation, which resulted in
      cardiovascular diseases, metabolic disorders and neurocognitive dysfunctions. The
      cardiovascular complications attributed to OSAS included hypertension, coronary artery
      disease, heart failure and stroke. The mechanisms responsible for developments of
      cardiovascular sequelae included repeated episodes of hypoxia and hypercapnia, exaggerated
      negative intrathoracic pressure and bursts of sympathetic activity provoking surges in blood
      pressure and heart rate. Increase of inflammatory mediators, which included C-reactive
      protein, oxidative stress, adhesion molecules, vascular endothelial growth factor and
      proinflammatory cytokines, were thought to involve in the developments of cardiovascular
      diseases in patients with OSAS.

      To clarify the exact mechanisms of OSAS and the linkage to cardiovascular complications, in
      our previous study, we used oligo microarray to genome-wide profile the gene expression
      patterns in OSAS patients and the changes of gene expressions before and after four-week CPAP
      treatment. The oligo-microarray data were processed with CRSD database and two-way
      hierarchical clustering method. The results showed the gene expression patterns were
      different between control subjects and OSA patients and CPAP treatment also altered the gene
      expression patterns. Totally 27 genes and four pathways were identified as target genes and
      pathways from comparing the gene pattern changes before and after CPAP treatment, which
      included apoptosis, oxidative phosphorylation, cell adhesion and activation and metabolism.
      To continue analyzing the gene pattern changes before and after CPAP treatment, we propose
      this three-year project to achieve the following goals: (1) To verify the differentially
      expressed genes and pathways between normal and OSA patients, and OSA patients before and
      after CPAP treatment. (2) To correlate the confirmed genes with the clinical presentations
      and CPAP effects in another 50 OSAS subjects to validate the altered gene expressions and
      pathways involved. (3) To establish a cell model to investigate the differentially expressed
      genes and the putative biological pathways involved in OSA syndrome. The information obtained
      by this approach is very useful to understand the pathogenic mechanism of OSA that leads to
      systemic complications and further therapeutic intervention may therefore be possible.
    
  