
    
      Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFβ) is a pleiotropic cytokine which belongs to a
      superfamily of ligands, including bone morphogenetic proteins and activins [1-5]. Under
      normal conditions, members of the TGFβ family maintain homeostasis in many organ systems. In
      normal and non-cancerous cells, TGFβ limits the growth of epithelial, endothelial, neuronal,
      and hematopoietic cell lineages through anti-proliferative and apoptotic responses. In
      addition, TGFβ exerts potent effects that influence immune function, cell proliferation/
      functional differentiation, cell adhesion, extracellular matrix production, cell motility,
      angiogenesis, and cytokine production. TGFβ has been implicated as an important factor in the
      growth, progression, and metastatic potential of advanced cancers. Although TGFβ has been
      shown to suppress the growth of epithelial cells in the early stages of tumor development
      (premalignant conditions), the effect on advanced cancers is more complex [1, 5-6]. Increased
      production of TGFβ has been found in many neoplasms such as breast, prostate, gastric, renal,
      and epidermal carcinomas, and elevated plasma TGFβ levels in patients have been correlated
      with advanced disease, metastases, and lower survival rates [7-13]. In these later stage
      cancers, TGFβ induced growth suppression is lost, and instead, TGFβ promotes tumor growth and
      metastasis.

      Eli Lilly has developed and produced a Transforming Growth Factor-beta (TGF-β) receptor
      type-1 kinase inhibitor. LY2157299 monohydrate (LY2157299) is a small molecule that inhibits
      the TGF-β receptor type 1 kinase activity. LY2157299 was developed to investigate its
      activity in patients with glioblastoma where TGF-β has been demonstrated to play a specific
      role in tumor progression. In addition, LY2157299 was investigated in other patient
      populations, either as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with standard anti-tumor
      treatment regimens for indications including hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreatic cancer.
      Future investigations include indications with likely TGF-β associated pathway activation,
      such as melanoma, breast and prostate cancer as well as hematologic malignancies.
    
  