
    
      Clinicians often refer to elderly persons under their care as "agitated." However, agitation
      is not a diagnosis, but rather, a descriptive term pertaining to a group of behavioral signs
      and symptoms, defined as socially inappropriate verbal, vocal, or motor (physical) activity
      that is not judged by an outside observer to result directly from the needs or confusion of
      the agitated individual. While the literature reports positive effects of non-pharmacological
      interventions, most studies tend to be based on small samples and do not yield statistically
      significant results. This study examines the impact of non-pharmacologic interventions
      tailored through an algorithm labeled TREA (Treatment Routes for Exploring Agitation) using a
      large, well-controlled, systematic research design.

      TREA is an objective, systematic method for developing individualized non-pharmacological
      treatment plans based on an analysis of the agitated person's unmet needs, past and current
      preferences, past role-identity, cognitive, mobility, and sensory abilities/limitations, and
      possible causes for particular agitated behaviors. The methodology calls for ascertaining the
      type of agitated behavior and the most likely etiology, and then matching the intervention to
      the etiology and to the participant's characteristics.

      The protocol involves the following steps:

        -  Baseline assessment - using standardized assessments (e.g., MMSE, ABMI, CMAI,
           Self-identity in dementia), collecting background demographic and medical information as
           well as systematic observations of the agitated resident

        -  Intervention exploration - after analyzing potential unmet needs as well as preferences,
           abilities and identities of each participant, investigators develop a list of
           potentially successful interventions, examining the effectiveness of a wide range of
           interventions, from family videos to manipulatives (e.g., puzzles, a tool kit)

        -  Intervention (treatment) phase - Interventions are systematically provided during the
           hours of highest agitation (determined at baseline) and observations are conducted at
           the same time. The treatment phase lasts for 10 days. The placebo control group includes
           a presentation to staff members as to how to intervene with behavior problems and
           similar observations of residents.

        -  Follow-up phase includes repeated assessments without interventions.
    
  