
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess if long-term high-dose bisphosphonates alter bone quality as measured by
           change in the histomorphometry of bone biopsies after tetracycline hydrochloride
           labeling to calculate eroded and osteoid surfaces, mineralization surface, bone
           formation rate, wall width, and activation frequency.

        -  To assess if long-term high-dose bisphosphonates alter bone quality as measured by
           change in the backscattered electron imaging of bone to measure average mineralization
           density as well as distribution of density values.

        -  To assess if long-term high-dose bisphosphonates alter bone quality as measured by
           change in the micro-computed tomography of bone biopsy specimens to measure bone
           structure, including bone volume, connectivity, trabecular width, and cortical width.

        -  To assess if long-term high-dose bisphosphonates alter bone quality as measured by
           change in the biomechanical testing of bone biopsy samples loaded in compression to
           measure stress-strain relationships, including Young's modulus, yield point, ultimate
           strain, and work to failure (toughness).

        -  To characterize bone using classical, non-invasive techniques (i.e., measurement of bone
           mineral density of spine and hip using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry and analysis of
           serum biochemical markers of bone formation [i.e., bone specific alkaline phosphatase]
           and resorption [i.e., N-telopeptide]) after long-term, high-dose bisphosphonates.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      At baseline (prior to initiating bisphosphonate therapy on SWOG-S0307), patients receive oral
      tetracycline hydrochloride twice daily on days 1 and 2 and oral demeclocycline hydrochloride
      twice daily on days 11 and 12. Patients undergo a tetracycline hydrochloride-labeled bone
      biopsy from the anterior ilium on day 14. At 36 months (for patients who have completed
      bisphosphonate therapy) or after 30 months of concurrent bisphosphonate therapy, patients
      receive oral demeclocycline twice daily on days 1 and 2 and oral tetracycline hydrochloride
      twice daily on days 11 and 12. Patients undergo a demeclocycline hydrochloride-labeled bone
      biopsy from the anterior ilium on day 14.

      Patients undergo dual energy x-ray absorptiometry measurements of the hip and spine at the
      time of biopsy or within the next 10 weeks. Blood samples are collected for analysis of bone
      specific alkaline phosphatase and N-telopeptide before and after treatment on the clinical
      trial.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 10 years.
    
  