
    
      BMSM bear the highest burden of HIV in the US. PrEP is the single most effective HIV
      prevention strategy yet under-utilized among BMSM. When taken every day PrEP can prevent up
      to 92% of HIV infections. Studies estimate that 48-70% of BMSM are willing to use PrEP, yet,
      uptake among blacks remains low (~10%). Lower insurance rates among blacks compared to whites
      may be a barrier to PrEP, but, evidence of insurance rates, as well as prescription payment
      programs that cover most or all of the costs of PrEP do not completely explain significant
      disparities in PrEP uptake. Indeed, limited access to PrEP, distrust of physicians and stigma
      are noted as critical barriers to PrEP that must be improved to reduce HIV.

      Neighborhood residence shapes BMSM HIV exposure and access to HIV prevention resources.
      Census tracts with high HIV had 20% higher poverty and 200% larger MSM populations. High
      poverty neighborhoods also have the fewest HIV physicians. While most census tracts are
      within 15 minutes of an HIV physician by car, residents in HIV prevalent areas have low rates
      of car ownership and commute time more than doubles when traveling by public transportation,
      which is unavailable in some areas.

      There is a strong scientific premise for increasing PrEP delivery in pharmacies for BMSM.
      About 95% of Americans live within 5 miles of a pharmacy; pharmacies have flexible hours and
      pharmacists have high credibility with community members. Studies have shown pharmacies can
      engage with high risk populations including people who inject drugs (PWID) to reduce HIV risk
      behaviors and provide primary prevention services including immunizations, blood pressure
      screenings and HIV testing. PrEP has also been sustainably offered in a Seattle pharmacy, but
      mostly to white MSM (85%). Nevertheless, almost 100% initiated PrEP and 75% followed up for
      continued PrEP. Following this, Walgreens across the US have offered PrEP through their
      existing clinics.

      Existing pharmacy PrEP models have limited potential for reaching BMSM. In Seattle, state
      regulations give pharmacists authority to administer biological screenings (HIV, sexually
      transmitted infections (STIs) and creatinine) and prescribe PrEP. Many states do not have
      legislation that expand pharmacists' purview in service delivery. Walgreens has overcome this
      regulatory limitation by using nurse practitioners to screen and prescribe PrEP in their
      existing clinics. While Collaborative Practice Agreements between pharmacists and physicians
      are another route to deliver services through pharmacies, they are time-consuming and thus
      infeasible for community pharmacists in high morbidity neighborhoods who already have a
      hectic workflow; and for chain pharmacies these partnerships are determined on a corporate
      rather than individual pharmacy level.

      Accomplishing the study aims will be done through three steps: conducting interviews and
      workflow assessments with stakeholders, developing an intervention to deliver a culturally
      relevant pharmacy PrEP model, and perform a pilot test to study the delivery model in
      pharmacies in high poverty, racial minority neighborhoods.

      In the pilot test phase, two pharmacies will be chosen to test the pharmacy PrEP delivery
      model by informing men of the study and performing their study activities. Pharmacists and
      technicians will complete a pharmacy-based HIV prevention training to equip them with the
      tools needed for optimal PrEP delivery. During the training, pharmacists and technicians will
      learn how to engage customers/ patients for recruitment into the study. Black race is not
      included in the eligibility criteria to avoid profiling and potentially stigmatizing one
      racial group. However, since the pharmacies selected to be a part of the study are located in
      racial minority neighborhoods, the researchers anticipate that most customers will be racial
      minorities. The researchers will be collecting both qualitative and quantitative data to
      assess the impact of the pharmacy PrEP intervention on the pharmacy environment, personnel,
      and business flow. Among the customers/patients, this study will assess feasibility,
      acceptability and safety of the intervention activities, satisfaction with the activities and
      participation in activities without stigmatization, discomfort or harm.

      The study pharmacies will deliver the PrEP intervention for 6 months. Study participants will
      receive a 3-month follow-up phone call to see if they are continuing to use PrEP.
    
  