
    
      The enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) pathway has emerged as an evidence-based protocol
      to optimize patient post-operative recovery. It utilizes multimodal analgesia to decrease
      narcotic use and promote streamlined patient-centered care that helps to reduce blood loss,
      expedite patients' return to baseline function, and prepare patient expectations around
      surgery. This pathway has been well studied in several surgical populations, including
      gynecologic (post hysterectomy) and obstetric (post cesarean) patients.

      Patients undergoing cesarean hysterectomies are a unique surgical population. These
      procedures are most commonly performed for patients with placenta accreta spectrum or severe
      postpartum hemorrhage. Ideally, women with suspected placenta accreta spectrum diagnosed
      antenatally should be delivered at a level III or IV center with placenta accreta spectrum
      Centers of Excellence accreditation to improve outcomes. With the rates of placenta accreta
      spectrum increasing, these Centers of Excellence could consider applying principles of the
      ERAS pathway to the operative management of these patients. Other populations have seen
      decreases in opioid use, quicker baseline recovery, shorter hospital stays and overall
      improved patient satisfaction with the use of the ERAS pathway.

      In recent studies examining the effectiveness of the ERAS pathway, post-operative cesarean
      patients experienced decreased average inpatient opioid exposure without an increase in pain
      scores, early mobilization and nutrition targets without increases in adverse outcomes after
      program implementation. Post-operative hysterectomy patients with gynecologic indications
      experienced shorter lengths of stay and decreased opioid consumption. Additionally, patients
      have significantly higher satisfaction scores. The investigators suspect that this population
      may also benefit similarly.

      This research is a pre- and post- study to assess and describe surgical outcomes and
      parameters surrounding patients' post-operative recovery and experience before and after the
      ERAS pathway is implemented at a high volume placenta accreta spectrum Center of Excellence.

      The study design involves a retrospective analysis of variables related to postpartum
      recovery. The primary outcome will be oral morphine equivalents as a proxy for narcotic use
      in the first 72 hours post-operatively, comparing pre- to post-ERAS implementation.
      Investigators will also collect data on pain scores, time to ambulation, time to foley
      catheter removal and first void, and length of stay. Investigators will also collect data on
      post-operative complications including surgical site infection, urinary tract infection,
      transfusion, unplanned return to OR, pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, unplanned intubation,
      cardiac arrest, readmission within 30 days, sepsis, and death within 30 days.
    
  