
    
      1. Introduction

           1.1. Background

           In low and middle income countries, 28.6 million people were eligible for antiretroviral
           therapy (ART) based on 2013 guidelines and only around 10 million were currently on ART.
           Cameroon is a lower-middle-income country with a prevalence of human immunodeficiency
           virus (HIV) infection in adults of 4.3% in 2011. In the same year, coverage for
           antiretroviral therapy in adults and children was 49.6%, demonstrating the immensity of
           the work to be done to achieve the goals of good ART coverage. The considerable
           expansion of access to HIV treatment in the world has changed the epidemic of HIV
           infection. The importance of ART is well established. Life expectancy of adults
           receiving ART is approximately 80% of the normal life expectancy. The preventive effect
           of ART is increasingly evident, even in cases where the HIV epidemic is concentrated.

           There exists the link between alcohol consumption and infectious diseases, with the
           deleterious effect of alcohol on disease progression. In Cameroon, in general
           population, adult (15+ years) per capita alcohol consumption was 13.74 litters of pure
           alcohol. Heavy episodic drinking is 8.4% and 2.1% respectively among males and females
           in Cameroon in general population. Alcohol binge drinking was found in 11.6% of people
           living with HIV on ART and in 20.6% of those who were interrupted their treatment. Binge
           drinking was defined for male as consumption of 5 or more drinks, for female as
           consumption of 4 or more drinks, in about 2 hours. Alcohol use disorders screened with
           cutting down, annoyance by criticism, guilty feelings, eye-openers (cage) questionnaire
           are present among 17% of adults HIV-infected in Cameroon.

           In Cameroon, the prevalence of non-adherence to ART was 22.5% based on the Community
           Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS index and 34.9% based on the Centre for Adherence
           Support Evaluation index. Alcohol is one of the main factors of ART interruption and ART
           non-adherence. The consumption of alcohol being on ART decrease response to highly
           active ART, and decrease health related quality of life.

           In general, health data, including HIV prevalence data, are less robust for key
           populations than for general populations due to complexities in sampling (and lack of
           size estimation data), legal concerns and issues of stigma and discrimination. To date,
           studies on injecting drug user in Cameroon, and even in sub-Sahara Africa are scarce
           among HIV-infected people. The estimation showed that in 2012 worldwide about 12.7
           million people had recently injected drugs and that, of these, 13.1% was living with
           HIV.

           1.2. Study rationale

           With this demonstrated burden so harmful of alcohol consumption and injecting drug use
           (IDU) among people living with HIV, it is necessary to measure the weight of alcohol
           consumption and IDU among HIV-infected adult on HAART; to understand why HIV-infected
           people consume alcohol and use injecting drug being on HAART in Cameroon, sub-Saharan
           Africa country; and to assess the impact of alcohol consumption and IDU on adherence to
           ART.

        2. Study objectives

           The aim of this study is (1) to determine and describe the prevalence of alcohol
           consumption and IDU among HIV-infected people on HAART; (2) to determine
           sociodemographic factors associated with alcohol consumption and IDU among people on
           HAART; (3) and to determine impact of alcohol consumption and IDU on adherence to HAART.

        3. Methods

           3.1. Design

           The investigators will use cross-sectional design. The recruitment of participants will
           be conducted from January to June 2015. Socio-demographic data, adherence to ART,
           alcohol consumption will be self-reported by the patients with a questionnaire, but
           patient will can ask more clarifications if he/she not understood a question. The
           investigators will follow STROBE guidelines for the report this study.

           3.2. Setting

           Cameroon is a sub-Saharan central Africa country, divided in ten region and with a
           population of 19,406,100 inhabitants in 2011. The adult prevalence rate of HIV in the
           country is 4.3%. In Yaoundé, capital of Cameroon, site of recruitment, the adult
           prevalence rate of HIV infection is 6.4% (3.6% for men and 8.9% for women). Subjects
           were recruited at Day Hospital in Yaoundé Central Hospital. It is the largest HIV clinic
           in the country. This is an urban center in the heart of Yaoundé city.

           3.3. Participants

           The investigators will include in this study subjects who are aged 18 years or above and
           who were on HAART for at least one month. The investigators will exclude pregnant women.
           Informed consent will be a prerequisite for participating in the study, and will be
           provided verbally.

           3.4. Data collection

           3.4.1. Sociodemographic profile

           The investigators will collect age, gender, sexual orientation, last level of education,
           monthly household income, area of habitation, number or person in household, mode of
           healthcare payment, marital status, employment status, probable route of HIV infection
           and when, and disclosure of HIV status.

           3.4.2. Alcohol consumption

           The investigators will use the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) to
           identify subjects with at-risk, hazardous, or harmful drinking. AUDIT has a possible
           range from 0 to 40. A score ≤ 7 is classified as no current problem (low risk drinking),
           a score range between 8 - 15 is classified as probable current problem drinking (risky
           or hazardous drinking), a score range between 16 - 19 is classified as high risk or
           harmful drinking, and a score ≥ 20 as define harm and likely to be alcohol dependent.
           The investigators prefer to use self-reported questionnaire vs. interview questionnaire
           because it may produce more accurate answers, but patients who will not well understand
           a question, could ask more clarifications. The investigators will therefore use AUDIT
           screening instrument test to classify current drinkers as problem or non-problem
           drinkers at cut-off ≥ 8. Sensitivity and specificity of AUDIT is respectively 51%-97%
           and 78%-96%. The investigators will define as current drinkers, all patients who had
           consumed alcohol in the last 12 months.

           3.4.3. Adherence to antiretroviral therapy

           The investigators will use several methods to measure adherence to ART: a linear visual
           analogue scale (VAS) on the past month and self-rate of adherence to ART in the last
           month using scale from '1 - very good' to '5 - very bad'.

           3.4.4. Injecting drug use

           Patients will report if Yes or No, they have already used an injectable drug. If yes,
           they will give frequency and last time of use.

           3.5. Statistical analysis

           3.5.1. Sample size

           The sample calculation was based on alcohol consumption, because there is no data for
           IDU in Cameroon among HIV-infected people. The investigators assume that alcohol abuse
           among adults HIV-infected is 17%. With a 95% confidence interval (95%CI), acceptable
           difference of 5%; the minimal required sample size was 217 adult HIV-infected on ART.
           The investigators have used Windows Program for Epidemiologist (WinPepi, version 11.43)
           to estimate required sample size. Because the investigators will use self-reported
           questionnaire, the investigators suppose 20% for missing data. Therefore, the minimal
           required sample size will 272 for male and 272 for female because alcohol consumption
           was different between both sex (14). The investigators hope to have a sample of about
           1,000 patients to have a high powered study.

           3.5.2. Statistical method

           Data will be coded, entered, and analyzed using the Statistical Package for Social
           Science version 20.0 for Windows (IBM Corp. Released 2011. IBM SPSS Statistics for
           Windows, Version 20.0. Armonk, New York: IBM Corp.). The investigators will describe
           continuous variables using means with standard deviations or using median with
           interquartile range, and categorical variables using their frequencies and percentages.
           For all tests, we will use 2-sided p-values with alpha < 0.05 level of significance. The
           investigators used χ² test or equivalents for categorical variables, Student T test for
           means, and Mann-Whitney U test for medians. Null hypothesis of no difference was
           rejected if the 95% CI of odds ratio (OR) estimates excluded 1. All regression analyses
           will be conducted with stepwise forward method with entry in model if p value ≤ 0.2.
           Multiple imputation will be used to handle missing data, creating a new data set which
           was the average of five data sets of imputed values. The investigators will only impute
           socio-demographic data for regression analysis.

        4. Ethical considerations

           The study will be conducted in accordance with Helsinki Declaration. Prior to enrolment,
           all eligible participants will provide verbal consent. Patients with alcohol
           consumption, injecting drug use and/or non-adherence to ART will receive a counseling to
           address this problem according WHO recommendations.

        5. Discussion

      The expansion of the use of ART helped make HIV infection as a chronic disease. One of the
      major challenges to overcome is the effective use of ARVs to improve the outcome of people
      living with HIV. Consumption of alcohol and injecting drug by patients on HAART may be
      obstacles. The scientific evidence is already done for the first for its negative effect on
      antiretroviral therapy in others people than Africa but very few studies on the IDU are done,
      particularly in Africa. Even if there are data on alcohol consumption being on antiretroviral
      therapy exist in Africa, very few studies have a large sample size. More and to the best of
      our best knowledge, there are almost no studies on the prevalence of injecting drug use among
      HIV infected people in Africa, particularly in Cameroon.

      With this study, the gap in knowledge about injecting drugs and alcohol and their effects on
      adherence to antiretroviral therapy may be addressed. This will guide future research. This
      knowledge can also provide to clinicians and policy makers of health, a light on the
      implementation of guidelines to improve the outcomes of people living with HIV in our
      context.

      One of the limitations that might emerge during the implementation of this study is the
      presence of missing data, particularly related to data collection of the study by patients
      themselves. It is nonetheless necessary to use this form of data collection, since we will
      collect data on adherence to ARV treatment, on alcohol consumption, and on injecting drug
      use. In general, people tend to underestimate their alcohol consumption and overestimate
      adherence to treatment when a third party ask them a question about. In addition, the use of
      drugs is prohibited by law. Some patients may therefore deny its consumption. This is why no
      name or contact will be asked, no signature or written consent for participation in the study
      will be required for this study. We will thus use verbal consent.

      The final report of this study in the form of scientific paper will be published in
      peer-reviewed journals. Findings will further be presented at conferences and submitted to
      relevant health authorities.
    
  