
    
      Studies have shown that vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) may exert an anti-inflammatory effect
      through mechanisms like cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway (CAP). This anti-inflammatory
      function of VNS has been verified in collagen induced arthritis (CIA) rats, RA patients, and
      animal models of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In recent years, it was reported that
      sacral nerve stimulation (SNS) is a safer way to exert a similar anti-inflammatory effect as
      VNS. Therefore, this study aims to explore the therapeutic effect of SNS on RA patients.

      This is a randomized controlled clinical trial which will enroll 60 eligible RA patients.
      These subjects will be divided into two groups at a ratio of 1:1, the treatment group (Group
      1) who will receive SNS and the control group (Group 2) who will receive sham stimulation.
      The patients will lie in prone position. In Group 1, a senior acupuncture doctor will pierce
      filiform needles through the sacral foramen into the S3 and S4 sacral nerves. These sites
      correspond to the Zhongliao and Xialiao acupoints in Traditional Chinese Medicine. In Group
      2, shallow acupuncture stimulation will be performed at sites 8-10cm away from the acupoints
      in Group 1. In both groups, electrodes will be clamped on the filiform needles and an
      electrical current of 0.5 mA will be delivered. The stimulation will last for 60 minutes
      every time, once a day for 2 weeks. If the subjects respond to the treatment well, SNS
      treatment will be continued for 2 weeks. The following parameters will be measured before and
      2-4 weeks after treatment:

        1. Disease activity-related indexes of RA: swelling joint number (SJC), tender joint number
           (TJC), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP);

        2. Serum levels of inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, IL-17, TNF-α, etc;

        3. Patient report outcomes: Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) pain score, Health Assessment
           Questionnaire Disability Index (HAQ-DI) ;

        4. Indexes of autonomic nervous function: serum level of norepinephrine (NE), heart rate
           variability (HRV).
    
  