
    
      Many national statements have been made recently about the importance of evidence-based
      arthritis self-management to improvements in the public's health. The prevalence of arthritis
      is increasing as the US population ages; the prevalence of arthritis-related disability is
      higher among Blacks than Whites. Effective arthritis self-management education programs with
      varying formats have been developed and found effective. Despite this, many Arthritis
      Foundation chapters and arthritis units of state health departments have found dissemination
      difficult, and cite the time demands (6 weekly sessions, 2 hours/session) of the classic
      arthritis self-management education program (ASMP) as a major barrier. Researchers at the
      University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Stanford University will develop and evaluate
      two "low dose" arthritis self-management programs. The study will be conducted in three
      phases. Phase One (Development): Researchers will conduct needs assessments with arthritis
      self-management program disseminators, rheumatologists and other arthritis health
      professionals, and potential program users to determine preferred content, length, and
      schedule. Using findings from these assessments, researchers will develop two "low dose"
      versions of the ASMP. Phase Two (Implementation and Evaluation): Researchers will evaluate
      the "response" (effectiveness) of both "low dose" interventions in a randomized controlled
      trial (4 months) and a longitudinal study (one year). We will measure four outcomes: (1)
      Self-Management Behaviors, (2) Arthritis Self-Efficacy, (3) Health-related Quality of Life
      (Self-reported Health, Pain, Disability, Fatigue, Activity Limitation, and Health Distress);
      and (4) Health Care Utilization. A sample of 700 adults with diagnosed arthritis or chronic
      joint pain, including 200 African Americans, will participate in the study. All data will be
      gathered via self-administered mailed questionnaires, with telephone follow-up as needed. We
      will use analysis of co-variance and structural equation modeling to evaluate effectiveness.
      Researchers will also compare the effectiveness of each new "low dose" program with the
      effectiveness of existing arthritis self-management education program options. Phase Three
      (Dissemination): We will consult with arthritis units of state health departments and state
      chapters of the Arthritis Foundation on program adoption and distribution.
    
  