
    
      1. Background

           Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common malignancy of the gastrointestinal
           system. Regular screening, early detection and early treatment of colorectal cancer can
           achieve better prevention and even cure. Currently, 60%-70% of CRC patients are not
           diagnosed until late stages and only 11.8% of cases are detected at early stage. It is
           therefore urgent to reduce the CRC mortality by improving the early screening rate. In
           China,fecal occult blood test (FOBT) and colonoscopy are available presently for early
           CRC screening. FOBT is widely used due to its low cost and non-invasiveness, however,
           its false positive rate is relatively high due to many interfering factors. The more
           advance FOBT, fecal immunochemical test (FIT), has greatly improved the test specificity
           compared with the traditional chemical method and its compliance is high, but is still
           subject to the influence of other intestinal diseases, leading to low positive
           predictive value. In contrast, the compliance for colonoscopy is low due to its
           invasiveness, cost and risk of complications.

           In recent years, the plasma-based SEPT9 gene methylation assay has proved to be a
           promising method for the early detection of CRC. Many clinical studies have demonstrated
           that the methylated SEPT9 gene is a useful biomarker for early CRC detection.At present,
           Epigenomics' Epi proColon 2.0 CE is the only commercialized assay of SEPT9 gene
           methylation globally. This product has obtained the approval from the European Union CE
           certification, the Chinese FDA and the Argentina FDA. It has completed key clinical data
           submission to the US FDA, with reasonable expectation of the US FDA approval soon.
           Services based on the SEPT9 gene methylation assay are also provided in clinical
           laboratories such as quest, Arup, companion to DX and gamma dynacare with the common
           medical procedure code (CPT code) 81401. In China, BioChain (Beijing) Science and
           Technology, Inc, a strong partner of Epigenomics AG, has developed its own SEPT9 gene
           methylation assay with the agreement of Epigenomics AG.

        2. Estimation of sample size

           Based on the equation N=Z2* (P (1-p))/E2 for known positivity detection rate, the
           investigators calculated the number of samples needed for the trial, in which N
           represents the sample size, Z is a statistical parameter (Z=1.96 for 95% confidence
           interval); E represents the error (5% was chosen in this study), and P represents the
           probability (putative positive detection rate). The investigators choose 0.75 for P
           value based on existing literatures on SEPT9 sensitivity. The number of CRC cases is
           calculated as 288 based on the equation above. The investigators aim to collect complete
           information for 300 cases due to information incompleteness and tracking loss. etc.
           Based on the estimation that CRC account for 30% of high-risk outpatients and inpatients
           in Chinese hospitals, the total number of patients in the trial should be no less than
           1000 cases. The investigators aim at recruiting 1200 cases in this trial taking account
           of 20% loss of follow-up rate.

           The final actual number of cases for this trial was 1031, due to loss of tracking,
           incomplete test or clinical data, or samples that did not meet the test criteria.

        3. Subject grouping

           All patients will not be grouped before blood draw for SEPT9 assay, and blood samples
           will be obtained for all subjects who met the selection criteria. All the technicians
           are blinded to the clinical information of subjects. In order to investigate the
           feasibility of joint detection with SEPT9 assay and other screening tests,
           carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) and FIT tests will be performed at the will of
           participating patients and the judgment of physicians. This part of data will be used in
           a retrospective analysis after the completion of the trial.

           When all planned tests are finished, all subjects will be divided into three groups
           based on colonoscopy diagnosis and pathology, the CRC group, the precancerous disease
           group and other disease group, in which the CRC group consists of patients with stage
           0-IV CRC, the precancerous disease group includes patients of adenoma and polyps, and
           other disease group includes patients of other bowel disease, other cancers, and
           subjects with no evidence of disease.

        4. Trial procedure

           Training will be finished before the trial starts including the operation procedure of
           the assay and the use of kits and instruments. This trial is a randomized, single-blind
           study. All patients should sign the informed consent before blood draw of 10ml. Samples
           will be processed and the SEPT9 assay will be performed based on the instructions for
           users. All subjects will receive colonoscopy and/or pathological examination to confirm
           the diagnosis, and the results for SEPT9 assay will be decided based on the instructions
           for users. Statistical analysis will be performed based on the results from both SEPT9
           assay and colonoscopy and/or pathological examination.

        5. Sample collection and storage

      1) sample collection:

        1. sample should be collected from outpatients or inpatients and the sample information
           should be recorded in sample collection forms.

        2. sample collection: 10 mL peripheral blood (K2EDTA decoagulant only).

        3. in order to ensure the accuracy of the assay, sample collection should be performed
           strictly based on the above requirements, otherwise it may affect the accuracy of the
           assay.

      2) sample storage and transportation method: Store and transfer the samples based on the
      instructions for use of the kit

      6, SEPT9 assay

      SEPT9 gene methylation assay (PCR fluorescence probe method) is composed of two steps.
      Firstly, the cell-free DNA in plasma is extracted using the plasma processing kit, followed
      by bisulfite conversion, in which the unmethylated cytosine will be converted while the
      methylated cytosine will not. Secondly, real-time PCR using bisulfite-converted DNA (bisDNA)
      as the template will be performed to determine the amplification of template. PCR blocking
      agent and methylation-specific probes can work together to distinguish between methylated and
      unmethylated DNA. Beta-actin will be used as the internal control to evaluate the plasma DNA
      quality and the validity of PCR amplification. Positive and negative controls will be
      provided in the kit as quality controls and will be run parallel with samples each time.

      7,Data analysis and statistics

      The data for SEPT9 assay and the data of colonoscopy of all subject will be collected and
      analyzed, the following parameters will be calculated:

      Sensitivity Specificity Consistency positive predictive value (PPV) negative predictive value
      (NPV)

      8,Ethics

      The budget plan for the clinical trial will be submitted to the ethic committee of
      participating hospitals for review before the clinical trial starts. The study will not be
      initiated unless the approval by the committees. All subjects will sign the informed consent
      before blood collection, and will be informed the usage of plasma and the test results.

      9, Research progress

      2014.02-2014.04 Confirmation of clinical trial protocols and training of personnel for sample
      collection and test

      2014.04-2014.08 Submission of clinical trial application to ethics committee for approval in
      four hospitals

      2014.08-2015.04 Start patient recruitment and collection of general information of subjects

      2014.10-2015.04 Sample collection and tests

      2015.04-2015.07 Collect and track the colonoscopy and/or pathology information

      2015.07-2015.09 Data processing, statistics and analysis

      2015.10 Close of patient recruitment and finish of the trial

      10,Budget

      The costs include expenses for recruiting 1200 subjects, equipment rent charges, test
      material costs, sample processing fee, labor costs, patient compensation costs, travel and
      conference costs, publication and intellectual property (IP) fees. All expenses will be
      covered by BioChain, as this trial is initiated and organized by BioChain.

      11,Publication and intellectual properties

        1. plan to publish 2-3 papers in science citation index (SCI)-indexed journals, 3-4 papers
           in Chinese domestic core journals.

        2. plan to submit one patent

      12, Data management

      Quality of clinical trial data is the basis for evaluation of results. To ensure the reality
      and reliability of experiment results, the investigators set up a series of data management
      principles. The investigators will explain data management principles in this study
      thoroughly in the following from the composition and responsibility of Data Management
      Committee and content of data management.

      13.Research team and personnel

      In order to avoid the possible errors caused by difference in disease incidence and ratio of
      patients in different hospitals, four hospitals in Beijing will be chosen for patient
      recruitment in this clinical trial. Since patients in these four hospitals are mainly from
      northern China, the study population is representative for disease epidemiology in this part
      of the country. Doctors and technicians from the department of gastrointestinal diseases,
      endoscopy and general surgery from the four hospitals will participate the trial, they are:

      Peking Union Medical College Hospital (Beijing) Beijing Military General Hospital (Beijing)
      Cancer Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences (Beijing) Beijing Cancer Hospital
      (Beijing)
    
  