
    
      The patients will be randomized assigned to UVA 1 phototherapy or to 5-MOP UVA
      photochemotherapy as a first therapy. Besides emollients no additional treatment will be
      allowed. First a detailed history inclusive drug history will be gathered. The skin type will
      be determined and a clinical photo will be made. Prior to 5-MOP UVA photochemotherapy an
      ophthalmological examination, blood cell count and blood chemistry will be routinely
      performed. A determination of the serum level of 5 MOP will be routinely made at the minimal
      phototoxic dose (MPD) determination before start of the 5-MOP UVA photochemotherapy. The
      serum levels of total Ig E and eosinophilic cationic protein (ECP) will be additionally
      determined at the start and at the end of each therapy. In all patients receiving 5-MOP UVA
      photochemotherapy reliable eye protection by wearing photoprotective glasses during the
      treatment and on the day of taking 5-MOP until night will take place. The skin of the
      patients should not be exposed to direct sun light or to other artificial UV sources at the
      day of irradiation. A determination of SCORAD Score will be performed by a blinded
      investigator at baseline, after 10 and 15 irradiations as well as at every follow-up visit at
      month 1, 3, 6 and 12. A clinical photo will be made at the beginning of each therapy, at the
      end as well as at every follow-up visit. In case of a relapse (SCORAD Score > 50 % of initial
      value), or on patients' request for a premature resumption of the therapy (despite SCORAD
      Score > 50 %) patients will receive that treatment which have not been performed until now.
      That means, patients who were treated with 5-MOP UVA as a first therapy will now receive the
      UVA 1 phototherapy and vice versa. The minimum interval between the two therapies is at least
      1 month except in a case of complete non response on the first therapy.

      Irradiation protocol of the UVA 1 phototherapy:

      Irradiation 5 x week for 3 weeks (altogether 15 exposures) Determination of the UVA 1 MED
      prior to treatment Start with 1 MED if MED < 70 J/cm2. Increase of the dose by 20 % every
      time if there is not an erythematous reaction and by good tolerability until a maximal dose
      of 70 J/cm2.

      Irradiation protocol of the 5-MOP UVA photochemotherapy:

      Irradiation 3 x week for 5 weeks (altogether 15 exposures) Intake of 5-methoxypsoralen
      (Geralen) 2 hours prior to each irradiation in a dose of 1.2 mg/kg Determination of a minimal
      phototoxic dose (MPD) prior to treatment Determination of the 5-MOP serum level at the MPD
      testing Start with 70 % of MPD, no dose increments during the first week. From the second
      week increase of the UVA dose by 20 % if there is no an erythematous response (respectively
      by 10 % if there is a light erythemal reaction), but at the earliest 96 hours after the last
      increment.
    
  