
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) develops when a constellation of symptoms persist
      following exposure to traumatic events such as actual or threatened death, serious injury,
      and sexual violation, leading to significant interference with occupational and social
      functioning. Epidemiological data indicate that the rate of lifetime PTSD in Canada is
      approximately 9.2%, with a rate of current PTSD (symptoms for 1 month) estimated to be 2.4%.
      Although significant advances have been made in the treatment of PTSD, e.g.,
      cognitive-behavioural therapy; pharmacological interventions, a sizable proportion of
      individuals do not respond to treatment. The lack of biomarkers and poor understanding of the
      pathophysiology has hindered the efforts for advancing treatment of this disorder.

      The meta-analysis on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies demonstrated that
      patients with PTSD show reliable hyper-activity in the limbic brain regions including the
      amygdala and hippocampus, while prefrontal brain regions associated with top-down executive
      control, show decreased activity. These findings were in line with traditional neurocircuitry
      models proposing that PTSD-related deficits in attention or awareness, including the
      inability to suppress attention to trauma-related stimuli, are mediated by decreased
      recruitment of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) whereas vivid and intrusive trauma
      recollections are mediated by exaggerated amygdala activity. While the traditional
      neurocircuity model proposed more of a unidirectional relationship (i.e., loss of top-down
      prefrontal control results in exaggerated amygdala activity), later research suggested that
      dysfunction in the PFC and limbic brain areas may stem from bidirectional alterations in
      functional connectivity. An increasingly emerging body of studies has revealed PTSD symptoms
      may arise from a breakdown in the interaction between larger-scale, neurocognitive networks.

      Recent advances in fMRI methodology have allowed for a more comprehensive assessment of
      network interactions in PTSD. Newly developed network analysis techniques have shifted the
      focus toward a perspective that views the brain as a network system, and have suggested that
      disconnection or hyper-connection between brain regions is more relevant to clinical symptom
      expression than regional dysfunction itself. Relatively lower frontal connectivity and
      hyper-connectivity of limbic-amygdala circuitry have been found in PTSD. However, due to the
      unstable nature of the conventional brain imaging analysis techniques, replication studies
      are generally lacking and test-retest variability is too high to be qualified as a
      "biomarker" to be used in clinical settings. In the current study, the investigators have
      proposed using a novel method that can identify reliable brain network topography and
      quantify the degree of abnormality which has great potential to be used as a biomarker for
      PTSD.

      In a preliminary study, the investigators analyzed the resting state fMRI data of 11 PTSD and
      11 trauma-exposed control (TEC) subjects using a novel approach that combines graph theory
      and scaled subprofile modeling (SSM), which identifies eigenvector centrality and its
      group-discriminating topographical pattern, respectively. The eigenvector centrality
      represents how a node is neighboring other important nodes with respect to information flow.
      The resulting pattern was characterized by increased eigenvector centrality in the
      orbitofrontal regions, left amygdala, left anterior cingulate, right middle frontal and right
      angular cortices (Ko & Patel, in preparation). Moreover, the degree of pattern expression was
      significantly higher in PTSD patients compared to TEC (t(20)=2.165, p=0.043) and this pattern
      expression was correlated with memory performance for negative versus positive information
      only in the PTSD group (r=0.641, p=0.034). As SSM typically focuses on the principal
      components with >10% variance-accounted-for, it has historically demonstrated high
      replicability which lends the proposed method to be a potentially more useful biomarker.

      In the proposed project, the investigators will recruit 40 patients with PTSD, 20 patients
      with trauma exposure but without PTSD (TEC; 1st control group) and 20 healthy normal subjects
      (HC; 2nd control group). All participants will undergo a comprehensive assessment (including
      a psychodiagnostic and neuropsychological assessment) followed by resting state fMRI. The
      PTSD and TEC groups will then be re-scanned with resting-state fMRI after undergoing 12
      sessions of cognitive-processing therapy (CPT; 1 session/week). The HC group will be
      rescanned 12 weeks later but no intervention will be introduced. The investigators expect
      that the investigators will be able to replicate the preliminary finding described above
      (i.e., identifying a PTSD-related network configuration that is not present in the control
      groups) and demonstrate that changes within the PTSD-related network pattern expression will
      be correlated with clinical improvement after CPT. The anticipated neuroimaging results are
      expected to reveal a reliable neurobiological biomarker associated with the treatment (i.e.,
      symptom reduction) of PTSD. The use of objective neuroimaging-based biomarkers will benefit
      clinicians, patients and caregivers by significantly advancing the ability to establish a
      connection between brain-related changes and an improvement in clinical symptoms.
    
  