
    
      Neurogenic bowel dysfunction (NBD: constipation and/or faecal incontinence) is common in
      people with multiple sclerosis (MS) and is rated as the most severe impact of their
      disease/injury, above wheelchair dependence. Despite this, current treatment options are
      limited, poorly evaluated and complex.

      This research aims to find out whether abdominal massage can help improve the symptoms of NBD
      in these patients. A small study has already shown that it is possible for patients or carers
      to perform abdominal massage and in some cases this helped the patient with their symptoms. A
      larger study is now required to confirm the results one way or another.

      Patients with Multiple Sclerosis who attend one of the participating study centres who are
      bothered by constipation and or faecal incontinence will be asked to take part if they fit
      the other requirements for the trial. Those who agree to take part will be allocated at
      random to one of two groups, one will receive advice on the management of bowel dysfunction
      (called optimised bowel care), and the other will receive the same advice and will be taught
      how to do the abdominal massage (called abdominal massage and optimised bowel care). Both
      groups will visit a specialist nurse for 1 additional hour after their normal clinical
      appointment, or at an agreed time, to receive optimised bowel care advice. The patients in
      the intervention group +/or their carers will receive training on abdominal massage and a
      DVD/copy of demonstration of the massage for home use. All patients will also be called
      weekly for 6 weeks to discuss their bowel care.

      The investigators will measure the results of treatment after 6 and 24 weeks. The
      investigators are primarily interested in whether patients in the intervention group
      (receiving optimized bowel care & abdominal massage) have had more of an improvement in their
      NBD score at 24 weeks after they start the study that the control group (receiving optimized
      bowel care only). The investigators also want to find out how bad the constipation and bowel
      symptoms are, how much this affects their life and if they have any problems with their
      bladder. The investigators will also measure the costs of the treatments and any costs to the
      patient and their family, and balance these against any benefits of the intervention
      treatment.

      During the trial the investigators will assess how well the optimized bowel care and
      abdominal massage training was delivered by speaking with nurses and listening to recordings
      of some of the telephone calls. The investigators will talk to the patients to find how they
      perceive the treatment they received and how they got on during the treatment period and once
      the treatment finished. The investigators will explore how the treatment delivery and
      patient's perceptions impact on the patients NBD symptoms.

      The investigators have worked out from previous research that if 200 patients take part and
      most complete the trial, there will be enough data to successfully compare the treatments to
      find out if one is better than the other. Individual participation will be entirely voluntary
      and the investigators do not believe there are any risks associated with taking part.
    
  