
    
      The HELP- MOM study is an observational study that seeks to identify the major determinants
      of morbidity induced by postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) in the short and medium term. Even if PPH
      remains the leading cause of death in the world and in France , its main impact in so-called
      developed countries is not so much maternal mortality ( which is very small ) but induced
      morbidity.Data from the literature suggest that in a number of cases, PPH is associated with
      cardiac abnormalities. The nature of the abnormalities, their potential impact on the
      functioning of the cardiovascular system of women and their evolution over time (possibility
      of persistent sequelae) are not known. Similarly, it is known that the postpartum period of
      normal pregnancy followed by a normal delivery is at risk of psychological disorders in the
      mother. The PPH is a very serious situation where sometimes the vital prognosis of the mother
      was committed. Again, determining the exact nature and consequences of psychological harm
      secondary PPH are not known. Finally, fertility and the risk of recurrence after an episode
      PPH are also poorly understood. Outside hysterectomy hemostasis which permanently affects the
      fertility of the patient, the severity and type of management of PPH most likely affect
      fertility. Only a long-term monitoring could help address this issue. Thus, HELP MOM - study
      aims to address these issues. To do this, HELP MOM, was divided into two sub- studies : 1)
      HELP-MOM 1 "multidisciplinaire" which corresponds to the cohort of patients in whom
      psychological state will be studied in the immediate waning PPH then during a 6 months
      through appropriate questionnaires , 2 ) HELP-MOM 2 "cardio" that corresponds to the cohort
      of patients who experienced a cardiac abnormality in the initial management and will
      therefore be included in a cardiac monitoring.
    
  