
    
      Purpose of the study:

        -  To determine whether continued intensive metabolic control using closed loop insulin
           delivery (CL) following diagnosis of type 1 diabetes can preserve C-peptide secretion as
           a marker of residual beta cell function compared to standard multiple daily injections
           (MDI) therapy

      Primary objective:

        -  To assess residual C-peptide secretion 12 months after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes in
           participants receiving either CL insulin delivery or standard MDI therapy

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Biochemical:

             -  To compare effects of study interventions on residual C-peptide secretion over 24
                months following diagnosis

             -  To examine how intensive diabetes management using CL insulin delivery affects
                glucose control in terms of safety and efficacy over 24 months

        -  Human Factors: To assess cognitive, emotional, and behavioural characteristics of
           participating subjects and family members and their response to closed loop insulin
           delivery and clinical trial

        -  Health economics: To perform cost utility analysis and inform reimbursement
           decision-making

      Study design:

        -  An open-label, multi-centre, randomised, single period, two-arm parallel group study
           with internal pilot, contrasting closed loop with MDI with an optional 24 month
           extension phase.

      Sample Size:

        -  96 participants randomised (48 per group); each clinical site will aim to recruit
           between 15 and 20 participants

      Maximum duration of study for a subject:

        -  24 months (48 months if opting to participate in extension phase)

      Recruitment:

        -  Recruitment will take place at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, Leeds Teaching
           Hospital, Leeds, Alder Hey Children's Hospital, Liverpool, Nottingham Hospital,
           Nottingham, Oxford Children's Hospital, Oxford, Southampton Children's Hospital,
           Southampton and Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh..

      Consent

        -  Written consent/assent will be obtained from participants and/or guardians according to
           Research Ethics Committee (REC) requirements.

      Screening and baseline assessment:

      Eligible participants will undergo a screening evaluation including the following activities:

        -  medical (diabetes) history

        -  body weight, height and blood pressure measurement

        -  record of current insulin therapy

        -  screening and baseline blood sampling

      During a baseline visit, the following assessments/ interventions will be carried out at the
      clinical research facility:

        -  mixed meal tolerance test (MMTT)

        -  blood sampling for lipid profile

        -  centrally measured HbA1c and subsequent immunological analyses

        -  questionnaires

        -  computerised cognitive testing

        -  initiating blinded CGM to assess baseline glycaemic control

      Run in period:

        -  Following consent/screening and baseline assessment, multiple daily injection therapy
           will be continued in all participants. All participants will receive non study related
           core diabetes training as per usual clinical practice for a period of up to three weeks.

        -  All subjects will be provided with 24 hour telephone helpline and will also be given
           written instructions about when to contact clinical team.

      Randomisation:

        -  Eligible participants will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio using central randomisation
           software to either closed loop or standard therapy i.e. MDI.

             1. Closed loop (interventional arm) Following randomisation, participants in the
                closed loop group will receive additional training sessions to cover key aspects of
                insulin pump use and CGM, prior to starting closed loop insulin delivery.

                Once competent in the use of the study pump and CGM system, participants will
                receive training required for safe and effective use of the closed loop system.
                During a 2-4 hour session participants will operate the system under the
                supervision of the clinical team. Competency on the use of closed loop system will
                be evaluated. Thereafter, participants are expected to use closed loop for 24
                months without supervision or remote monitoring. The 24 hour support helpline will
                be available in case of problems.

             2. Multiple daily injections (control arm) Participants in the control group will
                receive additional training sessions following randomisation including a refresher
                on carbohydrate counting skills, and insulin dose adjustments.

      Standard therapy (i.e. MDI) will be applied for 24 months. Participants will be allowed to
      switch to insulin pump therapy if clinically indicated.

      Follow up assessments (3-, 6-, 9-, 12-, 15-, 18-, 21- months):

        -  Follow up study visits will be conducted 3 monthly including data downloads/recording of
           insulin requirements, adverse event recording, and blood sampling (HbA1c).

        -  Participants will be fitted with blinded CGM systems at the end of each follow up visit.
           The sensors will be worn at home for up to 14 days and will be sent back to the research
           team.

        -  MMTTs will be performed at 6 month and 12 month follow up visit.

        -  Sleep will be assessed using a wristwatch device for 7 days following study visits at 6
           and 12 months post diagnosis. Concomitantly, a sleep diary and sleep quality
           questionnaire will be distributed.

        -  Validated questionnaires evaluating the impact of the technology on quality of life,
           life change, diabetes management and fear of hypoglycaemia will be completed at the 12
           month visit.

        -  At 12 months, participants will repeat the computerised cognitive tests first
           administered at baseline.

        -  Qualitative interviews will be conducted at month 12 in a subset of subjects and parents
           int he closed-loop arm.

      End of study assessments (24 months):

        -  A MMTT will be performed.

        -  A blood sample will be taken for measurement of HbA1c, lipids and immunological
           analyses.

        -  Validated questionnaires evaluating the impact of the technology on quality of life,
           life change, diabetes management and fear of hypoglycaemia will be completed.

        -  Participants will repeat the computerised cognitive tests first administered at
           baseline.

        -  Sleep will be assessed using a wristwatch device for 7 days within the last month of the
           trial. Concomitantly, a sleep diary and sleep quality questionnaire will be distributed.

        -  Participants and families will be invited to attend focus group discussions. 24-hour
           telephone helpline:

        -  In case of any technical device or problems related to diabetes management such as hypo-
           or hyperglycaemia, subjects will be able to contact a 24-hour telephone helpline to the
           local clinical and research team at any time. The local research team will have access
           to central 24 hour advice on technical issues.

      Procedures for safety monitoring during trial:

        -  Standard operating procedures for monitoring and reporting of all adverse events (AE)
           will be in place, including serious adverse events (SAE), serious adverse device effects
           (SADE) and specific adverse events such as severe hypoglycaemia.

        -  Subjects will be asked to test and record blood or urine ketones if their finger prick
           glucose is above 14.0 mmol/l, as part of the safety assessment for hyperglycaemia.

        -  A data monitoring and ethics committee (DMEC) will be informed of all serious adverse
           events and any unanticipated serious adverse device effects that occur during the study
           and will review compiled adverse event data at periodic intervals.

      Criteria for withdrawal of patients on safety grounds:

        -  A subject, parent, or guardian may terminate participation in the study at any time
           without necessarily giving a reason and without any personal disadvantage. An
           investigator can stop the participation of a subject after consideration of the
           benefit/risk ratio. Possible reasons are:

             1. Serious adverse events

             2. Significant protocol violation or non-compliance

             3. Failure to satisfy competency assessment

             4. Decision by the investigator, or the Sponsor, that termination is in the subject's
                best medical interest

             5. Pregnancy, planned pregnancy, or breast feeding

             6. Allergic reaction to insulin Efforts will be made to retain subjects in follow up
                for the final primary outcome assessment even if the intervention is discontinued,
                unless the investigator believes that it will be harmful for the subject to
                continue in the trial.
    
  