
    
      Fractional laser surgery under local anesthesia will accompany by the pain and anxiety. It's
      a bad experience for the patients. The effect of Virtual Reality (virtual reality, VR) to
      alleviate pain and anxiety of fractional laser treatment of scar is still not studied.
      Virtual reality technology is an important direction of simulation technology. Including the
      computer graphics technology, human-computer interface technology, multimedia technology,
      sensor technology, network technology and other collection technology. Usually generated by a
      real-time 3D animation of the computer system, a location tracker data. The handle and the
      head mounted display technology is commonly used in a variety of clinical invasive
      procedures, such as debridement and burn patients physical therapy, dental pain, injection
      pain, chronic itching. Previous study shows that VR as a distraction therapy, compared to the
      traditional methods ,for example watching video and listening to music, has stronger
      individual initiative and human-computer interaction, it shows a stronger analgesic effect.

      HTC Vive is a VR headset, jointly developed by HTC company and Valve company. This equipment
      could improve the virtual reality experience and bring obvious analgesic effect. There are
      reasons to believe that HTC Vive could bring the best immersion experience and could be
      obviously decrease pain and anxiety of scar treatment with fractional laser under local
      anesthesia.

      This study was conducted at department of burn, Changhai hospital, and all operations
      completed by experienced surgeons (researcher).

      This study is a prospective randomized controlled study. A group of patients wear a blindfold
      and the other group treated with VR equipment (HTC Vive) after localized anesthesia with
      standard lidocaine cream. Finally, the differences of pain score,anxiety score, physiological
      indicators and satisfaction between two groups are compared. This study could provide a safe
      and non-drug intervention measure for patients receive fractional laser treatment under local
      anesthesia.
    
  