
    
      Delirium is a complex, preventable, neuropsychiatric syndrome that is associated with higher
      mortality rates post discharge, increased hospital stays, increased mortality and an
      increased risk for developing dementia. Early, nonpharmacological treatment of delirium is
      preferable and supported by the literature to preserve patient safety. Music therapy is an
      evidence based, goal directed treatment process in which the music therapist and the patient
      maintain a state of well-being to achieve individualized patient goals. Music interventions
      are therapist developed and nurse initiated, in accordance to individual patient needs to
      maintain well-being, and show promise for improving attention and engagement. Understanding
      the effect of an individualized music intervention on the incidence, duration and severity of
      delirium has the potential to facilitate the use of cost-effective methods to modify
      individual environments to deliver appropriate care for acutely ill older adults. Purpose:
      The purpose of this study is to test the effect of an interdisciplinary music intervention on
      the incidence, severity and duration of delirium in older acutely ill adults. Methods: A
      randomized control pilot study will be used to test the effect of a music
      therapist-developed, music listening intervention on delirium. Acutely ill patients will be
      randomized into a usual care control group or an experimental group receiving the music
      intervention twice daily for 30 minutes. Data analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used
      to describe the sample. Independent t-tests will be used to examine group differences in
      delirium severity and duration. Chi-square analysis will be used to assess group differences
      in delirium incidence. Implications: For patients exposed to the stress of hospitalization, a
      music intervention may enhance delirium care and promote care that is safe and efficient.
    
  