
    
      INTRODUCTION Septic shock is the most commonly occurring of all types of shock.The Third
      International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3) defines septic
      shock as a subset of sepsis in which particularly profound circulatory, cellular, and
      metabolic abnormalities are associated with a greater risk of mortality than with sepsis
      alone. Patients with septic shock can be clinically identified by a vasopressor requirement
      to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 65 mm Hg or greater and serum lactate level greater
      than 2 mmol/L (>18 mg/dL) in the absence of hypovolemia. This combination is associated with
      hospital mortality rates greater than 40%.

      The "sepsis bundle" has been central to the implementation of the Surviving Sepsis Campaign
      (SSC) from the first publication of its evidence-based guidelines in 2004 through subsequent
      editions. Developed separately from the guidelines publication by the SSC, the bundles have
      been the cornerstone of sepsis quality improvement since 2005. An updated version was
      published in 2016 "Surviving Sepsis Campaign: International Guidelines for Management of
      Sepsis and Septic Shock". There is compelling nature of the evidence in the literature which
      demonstrates an association between compliance with bundles and improved survival in patients
      with sepsis and septic shock. This has led to the adoption of the SSC measures by the
      National Quality Forum (NQF) and other departments. The important relationship between the
      bundles and survival was confirmed in a publication from this initiative.

      The Surviving Sepsis Campaign released an updated one-hour sepsis bundle, which combines
      recommendations listed in the three-hour and six-hour bundles. This includes 5 elements: 1.
      measuring lactate levels 2. obtaining blood cultures before administering antibiotics 3.
      administering broad-spectrum antibiotics 4. fluid resuscitation for hypotension or lactate
      level ≥ 4 mmol/L and 5. use of vasopressors for hypotensive during or after fluid
      resuscitation to maintain MAP ≥ 65 mm Hg.

      Presently there is no data from Indian ICUs on the way patients in early sepsis are
      resuscitated and monitored. There may exist a wide variation in clinical practice.The
      Investigator would like to conduct an observational study in various levels of Indian ICUs,
      to prospectively collect data on adult patients admitted to ICU with early sepsis in a 60-day
      window period. Investigator would like to study the hemodynamic resuscitation and monitoring
      performed in these patients. In addition, investigator would like to identify factors
      associated with improved outcomes and fulfilling the goals of the one hour SSC bundles within
      one, three and six hours in patients with sepsis and septic shock.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. To capture the patient characteristics and hemodynamic resuscitation and monitoring
           practices in patient presenting with early sepsis and hypotension to Indian ICUs

        2. To determine various factors associated with improved survival in patients with septic
           shock

        3. To determine factors associated with achieving the 1 hour, 3 hour and 6-hour
           resuscitation goals of the sepsis bundle in patients with septic shock

      METHODS Study design- Prospective observational multi-center national cohort study.

      Patient Recruitment

      ISCCM members across India will be contacted to register their ICUs in the study, through
      emails sent from the ISCCM Research committee. Repeated emails will be sent over a two-month
      period. Hospitals with more than one ICU can enroll each of their ICUs separately. Each ICU
      will need to contribute a minimum of 10 adult patients with sepsis and hypotension in a 60
      day window period.

      Each center will designate a maximum of two local coordinators (PI and Co-PI) who will
      provide scientific and structural leadership in their centers. They will ensure that all
      local necessary ethical and regulatory approvals are obtained before the start of patient
      inclusion.

      Local coordinators will guarantee the integrity of data collection and ensure timely
      completion of the case record forms. Each center will select a 60 day window period for
      patient recruitment. The start date may be anytime any time between 1st August to 15th
      October 2019. Therefore, the recruitment window period will end for a respective centre,
      anytime between 30th September and 14th December 2019, depending on the start date. All
      consecutive patients in the 60-day period will be screened and those eligible will be
      enrolled.

      Data Collection

        1. There will be no direct patient contact or intervention. Local coordinators will
           guarantee the integrity of data collection and ensure timely completion of CRFs (case
           record forms). Date related to the following will be collected prospectively from the
           charts:

        2. Patient demographic data e.g. age, sex, comorbidities, likely source of sepsis

        3. Total number of ICU patients, patients with sepsis and septic shock admitted to the ICU
           in the 60 days period

        4. Patient clinical examination findings and severity of illness

        5. Details of hemodynamic monitoring and other systemic monitoring and therapy performed in
           ICU e.g. fluid bolus, vasopressor agents, monitoring devices used, hemodynamic variables
           measured, mechanical ventilation, dialysis etc. in the first 3 days of ICU admission

        6. Antibiotics administered and details of microbiology examinations

        7. Adjunct therapies initiated for sepsis

        8. ICU, hospital and 28-day mortality

      Sample size The primary endpoint of study was to determine the incidence of ICU mortality in
      patients with septic shock admitted to Indian ICUs. The sample size calculation was done on
      the basis of INDICAPS I(Indian Intensive Care Case Mix and Practice Patterns Study-I) Study
      data (IJCCM April 2016). In this study the ICU mortality incidence was found to be 45% in
      patients with septic shock. Assuming the incidence rate found in this study, a sample size of
      401 produces a two-sided 95% confidence interval with a width equal to 0.100 when the sample
      proportion is 0.450. Sample size calculation was done using PASS software. To account for
      attrition, Investigator will take a sample size of at least 450 patients. Investigator plan
      to recruit 50 -100 centers nationwide. Each center will be asked to collect data from at
      least 10 patients, hence investigator should be able to meet this target of >450 patients.

      Statistical analysis The primary objective of the study is to determine the patient
      characteristics and hemodynamic resuscitation and monitoring practices in patient presenting
      with early sepsis and hypotension to Indian ICUs which will be analyzed using descriptive
      statistics. To determine various factors associated with improved survival in patients with
      septic shock investigator will use the Fisher's exact test or Pearson's χ2 test. Univariable
      and Multivariable logistic regression models will be developed to assess the independent
      effects on ICU mortality. To determine factors associated with achieving the 1 hour SSC
      Sepsis resuscitation bundle in 1 hour, 3 hours and 6-hours in patients with sepsis and septic
      shock will be assessed by Fisher's exact test or Pearson's χ2 test. Univariable and
      Multivariable logistic regression models will be developed to assess the independent effects
      on ICU mortality of the 1 hour, 3 hour and 6-hour resuscitation goals of the sepsis bundle in
      patients with sepsis and septic shock. The overall performance of the internally validated
      model will be assessed using Nagelkerke's R2 (R squared in logistic regression). The higher
      Nagelkerke's R2, the greater the strength of the model. The ability of the models to identify
      ICU mortality will be quantified as the area under the receiver operating characteristic
      curve (AUC). The AUC ranges from 50% to 100%, indicating no discriminative capacity to
      perfect discriminative capacity. The agreement between predicted probabilities and observed
      frequencies of the outcome will be assessed by visually inspecting the calibration plot.
      Last, the Hosmer and Lemeshow goodness-of-fit statistic will be computed as a quantitative
      measure of accuracy. A high outcome of this statistic is related to a low p-value, which
      indicates a poor fit. All analysis will two sided, and significance will set at a p-value of
      0.05. Statistical analyses will be performed using SPSS (the statistical package for social
      sciences) IBM Corp. Released 2017. IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 25.0. Armonk, New
      York: IBM Corp and R studio (version 1.2).

      INSTITUTIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEE (IEC) APPROVAL The local hospital investigators should ensure
      that all necessary local ethical and regulatory approvals are obtained if required, before
      the start of the study in their institution.

      CONSENT FOR DATA COLLECTION This is an observational study and involves capture of data from
      the patient charts. There is no direct patient contact or intervention, hence written,
      informed consent is not mandatory. However, if required by the institution, consent may be
      taken from the patients legally accepted representative (LAR). Sample short consent forms for
      patient data capture will be provided by the PI in English, Hindi and Marathi. This may be
      translated in various regional languages as required by the local investigator

      STUDY FUNDING This is an ISCCM Research Committee funded study. The ISCCM will fund the
      Principal Investigator institution for all expenses related software development, website
      hosting, secretarial assistance and miscellaneous expenses related to the conduct of the
      study, data analysis and publication (against actual bills). No funding will be given to the
      investigators from the various participating centres for contributing data.

      DATA STORAGE AND OWNERSHIP The Principal Investigator will have ownership of the data. The
      data will be stored in the Principal Investigators department at Tata Memorial Hospital,
      Mumbai for 10 years.

      PUBLICATION AND AUTHORSHIP POLICY The main results of study will be published in a
      peer-reviewed medical journal. Authorship policy will follow the International Committee of
      Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) recommendations. Authorship will be considered based on
      contributions the study design and protocol development, recruitment of patients, data
      acquisition and cleaning, analysis and interpretation of the data, manuscript writing and
      final approval of the version to be published and agreement to be accountable for all aspects
      of the work, in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of
      the work are appropriately investigated and resolved.

      Steering Committee - Members of the Steering Committee will include 7 members from the
      Principal Investigators center and 8 -10 experts from across the country. They will be
      involved and provide active guidance from inception till publication of the study.

      Writing committee and main author list - Members of the steering committee and Principal
      Investigator from the top 3 centers with highest number of patient recruitment.

      The Principal Investigator and Co-Principal Investigator from each participating ICU will be
      in the list of study collaborators and their names will be in the publication. The names of
      all the investigators will be indexed in PubMed depending on the journal policy.

      SECONDARY ANALYSES After publication of the primary results, on request, the pooled dataset
      will be available for investigators for secondary analysis, after judgment and approval of
      scientific quality and validity by the steering committee. Before submission, the final
      version of all manuscripts related to the study dataset must be approved by the steering
      committee. The members of the writing committee will be authors of the publications derived
      from the study dataset.
    
  