
    
      Some research has been done on the human body to learn about how it may exist within an
      electromagnetic (energy with electric and magnetic parts) field. Some research has shown that
      changing the form of this field may have an effect on cell growth.

      You will be asked to complete 3 questionnaires that ask about your quality of life (QOL),
      your physical functioning, and any symptoms you may be having. The questionnaires will take
      about 15 to 20 minutes to complete. You will also have a physical exam. If you have had
      mammogram and ultrasound less than one week after your core biopsy, you will need to have a
      repeat mammogram and ultrasound to check the size of your tumor.

      You will then be scheduled for a total of 5 EQT sessions (1 session per day for 5 consecutive
      days). You will meet with an expert in EQT (qigong master) to conduct the sessions. During
      each session, the qigong master will send forth qi (energy) focused toward helping to improve
      patients' physical and mental functioning. The qigong master will do this by placing his
      hands over the affected area and emitting his energy into your body. He will not touch you,
      but will say a few words. These comments will be spoken in Chinese and may be translated into
      English by a translator. The sessions may be conducted in a group setting. After each
      session, you will have a physical exam. Each session will last about 30 minutes.

      Once you have completed all the sessions, you will have a follow-up visit. During this visit,
      you will have a physical exam and a mammogram and ultrasound to check the size of your tumor.
      You will also be asked to complete 3 more questionnaires that will ask the same questions as
      before. The questionnaires will take about 15 to 20 minutes to complete.

      In order to find out if women are willing to have EQT, researchers will keep track of how
      many people are asked to join the study and how many decide to participate. If you consent to
      participate, the study staff will keep track of the EQT sessions you attend, if you complete
      the questionnaires, and if you provide the optional blood samples.

      Your participation in this study will be over after your follow-up visit.

      This is an investigational study. The baseline mammogram and ultrasound are standard of care.
      All questionnaires and the follow-up mammogram and ultrasound are for research purposes. Up
      to 10 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson or Fudan
      University Cancer Hospital.
    
  