
    
      Facial lacerations are commonly encountered problem in trauma and emergency room patients.
      Soft tissue trauma of the face can cause significant psychological impact. Wound care and the
      need to minimize scarring is particularly important in this region. There have been many
      studies evaluating the management of soft tissue injuries in general. For example, simple
      lacerations of the hand do not benefit from antibiotic therapy. The need for antibiotics for
      full thickness lacerations of the lip, however, has received little attention. Full thickness
      lacerations of the lip are defined as wounds that violate the mucosa, underlying muscle and
      skin (i.e through-and through lacerations). These oral-cutaneous injuries constitute a unique
      type of injury in that the laceration exposes the skin and underlying soft tissue to microbes
      of the oral pharynx that are normally encountered only by intact oral mucosa. This represents
      a uniquely different flora from that typically seen in simple skin lacerations. Because these
      are contaminated wound, there may be an increased risk for infection and an increased need
      for prophylactic antibiotics. Currently, there is no consensus on the prophylactic treatment
      of oral-cutaneous wounds with many physicians prescribing oral antibiotics, others utilizing
      topical antibacterials, and still others treating with local wound care.

      A review of the literature found only four original articles addressing the topic of oral
      antibiotic prophylaxis. Two of these four original articles suffer serious methodological
      flaws. The first, published in 1965, was a prospective observational study which was neither
      blinded, nor specified the type or duration of antibiotic therapy. Despite these flaws, the
      study demonstrated a non-significant trend toward benefit with antibiotics. Of interest, the
      author noted all wounds older than 24 hours not treated with antibiotics became infected.

      The second article, published in 1970 by Paterson et. was a prospective randomized trial,
      though the type and duration of antibiotic treatment in the intervention arm was left to the
      discretion of the treating clinician. The author combined both mucosal only oral lacerations
      and oral-cutaneous wounds. Wound infection was deemed to be present in 18.5% of patients
      treated with antibiotics versus 4.3% of those receiving no treatment (RR = 4.32, 95% CI =
      1.30 to 14.31). None of the patients with mucosa-only wounds developed wound infections; all
      infections were seen in patients with "through-and-through" lacerations. Despite this, the
      authors concluded that the role of prophylactic antibiotics is questionable in preventing
      local infection.

      The third article was a prospective, randomized study in the pediatric population evaluating
      all intra-oral lacerations. In this study 4.3% of patients treated with prophylactic
      penicillin had evidence of wound infection at follow-up, versus 8.5% of patients in the
      control arm (RR = 0.51, 95% CI = 0.10 to 2.65). The authors conclude that given the low
      background rate of infection in this study (8.5%), their study was markedly underpowered, and
      severely limited their ability to make any conclusions regarding the efficacy of prophylactic
      antibiotics.

      Finally, in 1989, Steele et al. randomized 62 adult patients presenting within 24 hours of
      injury to a single emergency department with full-thickness intraoral or
      "through-and-through" lacerations to either treatment with oral antibiotics (penicillin VK
      for 5 days) or placebo therapy. Among patients treated with penicillin prophylaxis, 6.7%
      developed wound infection versus 18.8% in the placebo group (RR = 0.36, 95% CI = 0.08 to
      1.63). In a subgroup analysis of patients who were perfectly compliant with therapy by pill
      counts, there were no infections in the penicillin arm versus 17.9% in the placebo arm (p =
      0.054 using two-tailed Fisher exact test). The authors alternatively reported this as a
      statistically significant finding, using a one-tailed Fisher exact test, which yields a p
      value of 0.027. Furthermore, in subgroup analysis of "through-and-though" lacerations, 7% (1
      out of 14) versus 27% (4 out of 15) of patients developed wound infection in the treatment
      and placebo groups, respectively (RR = 0.27, 95% CI = 0.03 to 2.12). Overall the authors
      conclude that while they cannot conclusively recommend prophylactic penicillin for adults
      with intraoral lacerations treated within 24 hours of injury, though there may be a trend
      towards benefit 9. They also suggest that patients with "through-and-through" wounds may
      benefit proportionally more from prophylaxis.

      Despite the authors' inability to make conclusive recommendations from the available data,
      many textbooks cite these references and recommend the routine use of antibiotics for
      oral-cutaneous wounds. Many other text books, on the other hand, do not address this topic at
      all. Our study aims to answer the question of whether or not antibiotics reduce wound
      infection rates in through-and-through lacerations of the lip with a dedicated antibiotic
      regimen evaluated prospectively.

      The type of antibiotic used to prophylactically treat oral-cutaneous wounds also remains
      controversial among clinicians. Previous studies have utilized penicillin V K. Penicillin,
      however, does not fully cover the flora typically cultured in infected oral-cutaneous wounds.
      Cephalexin is well described in the literature as an appropriate choice for oropharyngeal
      infections and has appropriate skin flora coverage, thereby, making it an ideal antibiotic
      for the prophylaxis of oral-cutaneous wounds.

      Current practice concerning the use of antibiotics for oral-cutaneous wounds varies greatly.
      Many textbooks either do not address the topic or cite inconclusive evidence. A thorough
      search of the literature revealed only four original articles. No article was able to produce
      significant results and the trends and recommendations were mixed. Currently, there is no
      consensus regarding the treatment of oral cutaneous wounds and patients are treated with oral
      antibiotics, or local wound care depending on the treating physician's preference. It is
      important to determine the best treatment protocol for these unique wounds.
    
  