
    
      Purpose: A strong body of evidence suggests that lifestyle factors influence cancer risk, and
      there is now convincing evidence that a physically activity lifestyle is associated with
      reduced risk of developing colon cancer. However, low self-reported physical activity levels
      in elderly populations demonstrate the need for physical activity interventions for this
      patient group that evoke meaningful changes in physical activity behaviour for improvements
      in CC risk profile to occur.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of a 6 month physical activity
      intervention on physical activity behaviour and biological markers of CC risk in individuals
      classified as being at elevated risk of developing the disease following surveillance
      colonoscopy. The physical activity intervention will be underpinned by Self Determination
      Theory to create an autonomy-supportive environment, an approach that was recently shown to
      evoke greater physical activity levels and weight loss than general health education in
      overweight women. Secondary outcomes will explore the impact of the intervention on aerobic
      fitness, health-related quality of life and psychological variables (self-efficacy,
      motivational regulation). In addition, interviews and focus groups will be used to obtain
      narrative accounts of patient experiences, their perceived health benefits from participating
      in the intervention and the barriers and facilitators influencing adherence.

      Design The proposed study is a randomised controlled trial, with participants stratified for
      risk status (determined by number and size of polyps identified by colonoscopy). Participants
      will be randomly allocated to either the physical activity intervention (Active Lifestyle
      Programme: ALP) or the usual care control group (SC). Outcomes will be assessed at baseline,
      and after 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. Participants allocated to the ALP group will attend
      supervised exercise sessions at a facility at the University of East Anglia. These will take
      place twice per week for 3 months and once per week for an additional 3 months. These will be
      supplemented by home based exercise to achieve a total of 300 minutes of physical activity
      each week. Supervised exercise sessions will take place in small groups of maximum 7
      participants, and last approximately 60 minutes. The exercise sessions will include a 5-10min
      warm-up period, followed by 20-30 min aerobic exercise, and 15-20 min resistance exercises.
      The target intensity of the exercises will be 65-85% of the maximum heart rate as determined
      by the cardiopulmonary fitness test. Intensity will be monitored with heart rate monitors and
      the rate of perceived exhaustion (Borg Scale). A short cool-down period will conclude the
      exercise sessions. In addition, participants will be offered physical activity counselling
      workshops which will be led in groups, and in a motivational interviewing style. All
      components of the intervention will be undermined by Self-determination Theory, that is to
      facilitate feelings of autonomy, competence and relatedness.

      To further facilitate behaviour change, participants in the ALP group will be provided with
      pedometers and an educational workbook, which contains information about the benefits of
      physical activity in general and in regards to bowel cancer, aids to set personalised goals,
      and other information relevant to physical activity.

      There will also be a purposefully selected sample chosen based on prior consent and
      demographic variables to take part in face to face interviews at 1 and 12 months. Furthermore
      3 focus groups containing, participants from the EX and UC group will take place alongside a
      focus group with Health professionals after the intervention has taken place.

      Recruitment and Consenting Potential participants will either hear about the study via
      posters and flyers at the Big C Cancer Charity at NNUH or they will be approached by a
      specialist nurse during a consultation appointment before their colonoscopy. However, the
      recruitment procedure will be the same for each path from the point of their pre-colonoscopy
      consultation appointment.On the day of the consultation, a nurse will inform the potential
      participants about the study and give them an invitation letter, and a participant
      information sheet. At this meeting, the nurse will also provide the patient with a consent
      form, asking for their agreement to be contacted by a researcher. If the patient gives
      consent to be contacted, a researcher will call the patient prior to their screening
      colonoscopy to provide further information about the study, and arrange an appointment to
      obtain consent for biopsies to be taken during their colonoscopy. If the patient is diagnosed
      with polyps during the screening colonoscopy, the researcher will arrange another appointment
      post-colonoscopy to carry out baseline assessments and obtain full study consent.

      Baseline assessments will include a maximal fitness test, assessment of current physical
      activity using accelerometers and self-report, questionnaires assessing quality of life and
      psycho-social variables, and body composition.

      After the completion of all baseline assessments, participants will be randomised to one of
      the two study arms. This will be carried out by a person not directly involved in the
      research. The person undertaking the maximal fitness test will be blinded to group allocation
      throughout the whole duration of the study. The person carrying out the intervention will not
      be blinded to group allocation.
    
  