
    
      Currently, there is no effective screening to detect ovarian cancer at its earliest stage in
      low risk women. CA-125 is an FDA approved blood test that may show the presence of ovarian
      cancer.

      If you are eligible to take part in this research study:

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn for CA-125 testing and other tumor
           markers. Tumor markers may be related to the presence of certain cancers.

        -  You will be asked to complete a questionnaire about your medical and family history. It
           should take about 20-30 minutes to complete.

        -  You will be asked to complete a questionnaire about your symptoms. It should take about
           10-15 minutes to complete.

      Depending on your CA-125 level:

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn for CA-125 testing and other tumor
           markers in 1 year.

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn for CA-125 testing and other tumor
           markers in 3 months, OR

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn for CA-125 testing and other tumor
           markers, and you will have a transvaginal ultrasound (to look at your ovaries and
           fallopian tubes) in 6 weeks +/- 2 weeks.

      An ultrasound test uses sound waves to check the position, size, and shape of the ovaries.
      During a transvaginal ultrasound, a small probe will be placed in your vagina and used to
      create and measure sound waves.

      Based on the results of the transvaginal ultrasound (if you receive one):

        -  You and the study doctor will discuss options for further treatment or standard cancer
           management, OR

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn for CA-125 testing and other tumor
           markers in 3 months.

      When you return for your next visit (at 1 year, 3 months, or 6 weeks +/- 2 weeks), and each
      visit after that:

        -  You will have blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) drawn for CA-125 testing and other tumor
           markers.

        -  You will be asked to complete the questionnaire about your symptoms.

        -  You will be asked to complete a follow-up visit survey so that any updates to your
           personal and family medical history can be recorded. It should take about 10 minutes to
           complete.

      Your CA-125 blood draw results will be sent to you by letter or e-mail so that you will know
      when to return for a visit.

      If you miss a visit, the study staff may try to contact you by telephone, e-mail, or letter.
      Visit reminders may also be sent to you by letter or e-mail.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue to return for visits depending on the CA-125 level from your last visit. If
      you are unable to return for visits after 3 years, you will be taken off study. You may
      continue to take part in this study unless you no longer qualify for the study or you no
      longer would like to take part in this study.

      This is an investigational study. Transvaginal ultrasound scans on this study are performed
      using FDA-approved and commercially available methods.

      Up to 8,000 women will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 2,000 will be enrolled at
      MD Anderson.
    
  