
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to provide cost-effective interventions for nursing
      personnel aimed at reducing fatigue and stress within their work environment while improving
      their overall quality of life. Studies have demonstrated that stress management resources and
      overall engagement of staff lead to quality outcomes for both staff and patients. There is
      limited research that examines interventions that can reduce stress perception in nursing.
      This study will examine the physical and psychological impact of 10-minute massage therapy in
      comparison to a 10-minute scheduled break weekly over a period of 5 weeks. If the outcomes of
      the study indicate that either massage therapy or scheduled breaks are an effective
      intervention for management of stressful situations and improving quality of life, the
      overall goal would be to create relaxation rooms on more nursing units that allow staff to
      engage in massage therapy or scheduled rest sessions to reduce stressful work situations.

      Studies have indicated that healthcare workers experience high levels of work-related stress
      that include individual, social, occupational and environmental factors. Unrelieved or
      mismanaged stressors contribute to a variety of health-related consequences including
      disturbances in the digestive system, headaches, sleep disturbances, hypertension, fatigue
      and psychological issues, including anxiety. Massage therapy and scheduled breaks have been
      identified as potential interventions to mitigate or reduce stress. The use of mechanical
      massage has been shown to mimic the effects of traditional physical massage in terms of
      reducing stress and anxiety of the end-users. Mechanical massages have an advantage over
      physical massages since they are more cost-effective, can be used when convenient, and within
      a controlled environment. The literature supports that massage therapy can have an impact on
      reducing stress, anxiety, depression, and pain, while enhancing an individual's immune
      function, relaxation, and overall well-being. Studies have also indicated that nurses often
      lack opportunities to take breaks during their scheduled shifts. In many instances, staff
      sacrifice their breaks in order to fulfill patient-care duties. This study will compare both
      massage therapy and scheduled breaks to examine the overall impact on healthcare workers.

      The COVID-19 pandemic has increased workplace stressors for healthcare workers; however,
      there is limited evidence to support successful interventions to manage these stressors.
    
  