
    
      The last decade has seen a steady increase in the resources that VHA uses to treat chronic
      heart failure (CHF) and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), both of which are among
      the most common reasons for admission and re-admission in VHA facilities. Multi-component
      care transition interventions can be effective, but are costly. One approach to reduce
      complexity and costs is to offload some work to technology.

      Informed by the sociotechnical model, this study proposes a technology-assisted care
      transition intervention founded on the concept of a virtual nurse that interacts with
      Veterans through different technology channels. The virtual nurse is an anthropomorphized
      computer program designed to simulate a discharge nurse. During the inpatient stay, the
      virtual nurse will appear on a computer touch screen and will educate Veterans with CHF or
      COPD about the important components of a care transition (drawing on the Coleman Care
      Transition Model) as well as how to send and receive text messages on their mobile phone.
      Following discharge to home, the virtual nurse will continue to coach Veterans and their
      family members and improve post-discharge access to care through two-way computer-tailored
      text messaging made possible by VHA's new HealtheDialog system. Specific aims are to:

        1. Refine methods and collect formative measures to guide implementation

        2. Conduct a randomized trial of the technology-assisted care transition intervention

        3. Evaluate the intervention, including its effectiveness, implementation, and budget
           impact

      The investigators propose a mixed methods formative assessment and simulation experiment to
      refine existing technologies to the VA care transition setting (Aim 1). This will be followed
      by a multi-site randomized type1 hybrid implementation trial (Aims 2 and 3). The trial will
      evaluate the effectiveness of the virtual nurse intervention in twelve clinical teams and
      also gather information about its implementation to inform broader rollout.
    
  