
    
      Eligible patients will be scheduled to receive a chemotherapy regimen with risk of febrile
      neutropenia ≥20%. Study drug will be administered more than 24 hours after completion of
      chemotherapy and every 3 weeks with chemotherapy. Eligible patients scheduled to receive four
      or six cycles of chemotherapy in every three weeks will be screened in the preceding 28± 3
      days and will be randomized (1:1) to one of two treatment arms (Peg-Filgrastim of GEMA
      BIOTECH, or Peg-Filgrastim of Roche).

      A total of 4 or 6 cycles of chemotherapy supported by Peg-Filgrastim will be administered
      with an interval of three weeks between each cycle.

      Patients will be followed up for 28± 3 days after the last dose of Peg-Filgrastim.

      Hematological assessment (Absolute Neutrophil Count [ANC]) will be assessed on day 1 or up to
      -3 (before administration of anticancer chemotherapy), day 2 or 3 and 5 through 9 of the
      first cycle, and thereafter every day until post-nadir ANC recovery to ≥ 1.5 x 109/l
      following each cycle of chemotherapy. In the following cycles, hematological assessment shall
      be performed on day 1 or up to -3 (before administration of anticancer chemotherapy), on day
      2 or 3 and on days 5 and 7. This schedule only applies if the subject did not develop Severe
      Neutropenia on the previous cycle. If the patient develops Severe Neutropenia on the first
      cycle or at any cycle, then the schedule corresponding to first cycle shall be followed.

      During baseline (before the administration of Peg-Filgrastim), day 5 and day 9 following the
      first cycle of chemotherapy CD34+ (cluster of differentiation) count will be determined.

      The study consists of:

        -  Screening (up to 4 weeks)

        -  Treatment period (6 cycles each of 3 weeks. i.e. a total of 18 weeks)

        -  Follow up period for safety (4 weeks after Peg-Filgrastim last dose)
    
  