
    
      Sample size calculation:

      To calculate the sample size we use the effect size on decrease in waist circumference in the
      previous intervention study (d =0.51) and the same analysis (multiple regression with
      correction for baseline value's on age, diagnosis and disease severity). To be able to detect
      the same effect in the current study with a minimum 80% power as a benchmark for a fair test
      and a significant level of 95% (α = 0.05), a minimum sample of 124 people is required (2
      groups of 62). Taking into account a response rate of 73% from the first measurement a sample
      size of 168 patients is required.

      Analyses:

      We use multilevel regression to analyze the intervention effect. Possible clustering of data
      within the residential locations (and thus care teams) is taken into account by using a
      two-level structure with the first level residential location and the patients as the second.
      The intervention variable is set as an independent variable against difference scores of
      outcome variables (T2 minus T1) and corrected for the baseline value of the outcome to
      prevent regression to the centre. As we are unable to randomize patients individually in the
      current configuration on personal and disease characteristics (gender, age, diagnosis,
      disease severity at the start of intervention), these factors will be corrected for in the
      analyses if they differ significantly(p<0.05) between intervention and control group,
      analysed using independent t-tests and chi-squared tests. Characteristics that differ
      significantly will be included as covariates in the analysis described above.
      Multicollinearity will be checked with correlation coefficients and collinearity statistics
      (tolerance and Variance Inflation Factors (VIF) values).

      Missing data:

      Patients who are hospitalized for more than two months will be excluded from analyses.

      If baseline or follow-up data are missing for two or more measures on physical or psychiatric
      health, patients are excluded from the analysis as insufficient difference scores can be
      calculated. Patients lacking difference scores on one outcome variable, are excluded from the
      analysis of that particular variable.
    
  