
    
      Congestive heart failure is a leading cause of hospitalization and mortality with an
      estimated 5 million people affected in the United States of America. Ischemic and idiopathic
      (dilated) cardiomyopathies are the two most common etiologies. As the left ventricle fails,
      changes in ventricular geometry and function occurs that leads to functional mitral
      regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is a complication of end stage cardiomyopathy that
      adversely affects survival and patient's functional status. Mitral regurgitation in these
      patients is not an intrinsic disease of the mitral valve but rather results from mitral
      annular dilatation and ventricular dilatation.

      Geoform mitral annuloplasty ring reduces the antero-posterior diameter of the mitral valve
      and elevates the posterior mitral annulus. Although it has been very effective on eliminating
      mitral regurgitation its effects on ventricular geometry have not been fully elucidated.
      Evaluation of ventricular and mitral valve geometry and function and their interactions has
      been difficult. The availability of three dimensional echocardiogram with sophisticated
      finite volume analysis allows us to evaluate the changes in ventricular geometry associated
      with the implantation of the Geoform ring. We have then designed this study with the purpose
      of evaluating the changes in left ventricular geometry and function resulting from mitral
      valve annuloplasty with the Geoform ring in patients with left ventricular dysfunction and
      congestive heart failure.

      The two primary endpoints of this study will be:

        1. To assess the changes on left ventricular geometry and function as assessed by 3D
           echocardiography in patients with cardiomyopathy and severe mitral regurgitation who
           undergo mitral valve annuloplasty with a Geoform ring. This assessment will be done
           preoperatively, at three months, at six months, at one year, and at two years after the
           procedure.

        2. To evaluate the effects on mitral valve annuloplasty with a Geoform ring on functional
           status.

           Secondary endpoints will be:

        3. To evaluate the effect of mitral valve annuloplasty with a Geoform ring on mortality.

        4. To evaluate its effects on hospitalization for congestive heart failure.

        5. To evaluate the effect on the need of further interventions for congestive heart failure
           (insertion of ventricular assist device, transplantation, cardiac resynchronization
           therapy).
    
  