
    
      1. INTRODUCTION 1.1. Background Vitamin D is an essential hormone involved in bone
           metabolism, bone mineral density maintenance, and bone health. Vitamin D deficiency is
           putatively linked to poor pediatric orthopedic outcomes [1]. Further, the risk of low
           vitamin D associated fractures may be greater in minority pediatric populations [2]. In
           adults, utility of vitamin D alleles as a biomarker for bone density and fracture risk
           has been debated for over 10 years [3-5]. Peak bone density is achieved at 25 years old;
           however, most orthopedic trauma patients less than 25 years of age present with
           substantial vitamin D deficiencies.

           1.2. Aim(s)

             -  Identify the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in young trauma patients with
                fractures.

             -  Describe the merits of vitamin D supplementation in healing and long-term outcomes
                ≤25 year old trauma patients with fractures.

           1.3. Rationale for the study Occurrence of stress and low energy mechanism fractures
           within a population at peak bone density is troubling and suggestive of underlying
           pathology. Understanding how to combat vitamin D deficiency, and improve outcomes, is
           essential in the development of comprehensive and preventative trauma care.

           1.4. Hypothesis 1.4.1. Primary Hypothesis Patients aged ≤25yrs old with fractures will
           have low vitamin-D levels.

        2. OBJECTIVES AND STUDY OUTCOME MEASURES 2.1. Study Objectives 2.1.1. Primary Objective
           Determine the frequency of vitamin D deficiency in fracture patients aged less than 25
           years old.

           2.1.2. Secondary Objective Report the long-term (one year) outcomes for fracture healing
           relative to baseline and therapeutic vitamin D levels.

           2.2. Study Outcome Measures 2.2.1. Primary Outcome Vitamin D levels at the time of the
           index injury through one year post-operative follow up.

           2.2.2. Secondary Outcomes Patient demographics (age, sex, ethnicity), injury
           characteristics, lab values, rate of nonunion (i.e., failure of a fractured bone to
           heal), admit information, discharge disposition, payer type, and mortality.

        3. STUDY DESIGN All patients between 18 and 25 years treated for fractures at Methodist
           Dallas Medical Center (MDMC) with an index admission vitamin D assessment will be
           enrolled. This study will consider any patients with an index admission occurring
           between February 2016 and February 2020. No changes to care or intervention will occur
           and this study will be conducted completely via chart review. The aim is to identify 100
           subjects with a one-year follow-up appointment for their injury to determine the rate of
           nonunion and vitamin D levels. As patients receive vitamin D supplementation as standard
           of care if index values are low, impact will be assessed through relative deficiency and
           clinical outcomes. Data collected from subjects without need for supplementation may be
           used to generate a threshold. We will also consider patient demographics as practice
           suggests minority patients may be disproportionally affected. We plan to complete the
           data collection and analysis by February 2021.
    
  