
    
      PRESTUDY ASSESSMENTS Note: Assessments that are part of the standard of care and obtained
      within 3-4 weeks of prestudy assessment visit, are acceptable as part of the screening tests.
      Results of such tests will be acceptable even if obtained prior to the execution of the
      Informed Consent.

      Prior to entry into the study, the following assessments will be performed to determine if
      patient is eligible to continue in the study as per section 4.2 and 4.3 describing the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study.

        1. A signed Patient Informed Consent Form must be obtained.

        2. A signed Patient Authorization Form (HIPAA) must be obtained.

        3. It has been confirmed that the patient meets all inclusion criteria and none of the
           exclusion criteria.

        4. Assessment of concomitant medications must be obtained within 4 weeks prior to
           registration.

      ASSESSMENTS DURING STUDY

      The following evaluations will be performed during the study:

      1. An assessment of liver stiffness will be performed by shear wave elastography using a
      Supersonic Imagine Aixplorer ShearWave™ ultrasound machine. Liver stiffness assessment will
      be performed at a baseline visit (i.e., before LVAD placement for those undergoing LVAD
      therapy), and if feasible at 1 month and 6 months post-therapy (for those undergoing advanced
      therapy [i.e., LVAD or transplant]) or at 1 month and 6 months post-baseline (for those not
      undergoing advanced therapy.) FOLLOW UP ASSESSMENTS The duration of patient participation in
      the study will be a total of 12 months, which is counted from LVAD placement (or from
      baseline, for those not undergoing LVAD therapy). Follow-ups will be performed at 1 month, 6
      months, and 12 months, during which the following information will be documented on the CRF.

      Note: Patients who die or withdraw consent are considered off study and no further
      information will be collected.
    
  