
    
      Background

      Falls are among the most common and devastating concern facing older adults. The scope of
      this problem will continue to expand as the number of older adults is projected to increase
      dramatically over the coming decades. Since most falls occur as a result of a complex
      interaction of risk factors, considerable evidence documents that gait instability and poor
      balance capacity are two major contributors to falling. A large proportion of falls in
      elderly people are experienced while walking and, with advancing age, older adults are more
      likely to fall when they are engaged in concurrent tasks. Gait variability, particularly
      during dual-task walking conditions, may provide an objective measure to characterize
      impaired execution of gait, with greater variability placing older adults at increased risk
      of falling.

      Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics, an approach to music education through movement developed by the
      composer Emile Jaques-Dalcroze (1865-1960) in Geneva in the early 20th century, is currently
      practiced worldwide in the field of music, as well as dance, theatre and therapy. Initially
      intended for music students, Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics soon expanded extensively to music
      education of children and adolescents all over the world. The main focus of this method are
      on developing rhythmicality and musicality as well as strengthening body awareness,
      coordination, expression, as verbal and social skills. Recently, Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics
      classes for older adults were developed. Those classes engage the elderly in varied multitask
      exercises performed to the rhythm of improvised piano music, sometimes with the manipulation
      of objects (e.g., instruments of percussion, balls). Basic exercises consist of walking
      following the music, responding directly to changes in music's rhythmic patterns. In a
      cross-sectional study performed in long-term Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics users, the
      age-related increase of stride-to-stride variability appeared to be attenuated (Kressig,
      2005). The effectiveness of this intervention to achieve improvement in gait variability in
      older adults without previous experience of Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics need to be confirmed
      prospectively.

      Method

      This randomized controlled trial was designed to assess the efficacy of a 6-month
      community-based Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics program in improving gait and balance, and
      reducing fall risk in elderly people with an increased risk of falling. The primary objective
      is to assess the efficacy of the intervention in reducing gait variability. Change in gait
      variability under dual-task condition over 6 months is the primary endpoint. The main
      secondary objectives are to assess the effects on other quantitative gait and balance
      measures, functional tests performances, and falls.

      Volunteer participants are recruited in the Geneva area (Switzerland) through flyers, press
      releases and advertisements in local community newspapers. Individuals aged 65 or older,
      community-dwelling and identified at high risk for falling are randomly assigned, according
      to a computer-generated list, to either an immediate Jaques-Dalcroze eurhythmics program of
      weekly 1-hour classes for 6 months or a wait-list control group scheduled to receive the same
      intervention 6 months following the completion of the baseline assessment. Participants in
      the intervention group are followed for an additional 6 months in order to evaluate whether
      intervention gains can be maintained over time. Main outcome measures include gait (under
      single and dual-task conditions) and balance performances assessed by quantitative analysis
      (i.e., electronic walkway and angular velocity transducers) and functional tests administered
      at baseline, 6 and 12 months. Falls data are prospectively ascertained during the whole
      follow-up using a monthly calendar method with daily records. The principal analysis will be
      done on an intention to treat basis.

      Following completion of the 12-month follow-up, subjects will have the option of continuing
      classes via the Jaques-Dalcroze Institute. Subjects will be invited to enter into an
      extension phase of the trial and participate in a follow-up assessment visit scheduled four
      years following original trial enrolment.
    
  