
    
      In vitro and in vivo performance of SOLX® RBCs produced with the modified SOLX® System will
      be used to demonstrate the acceptability of both the proposed product modification and
      expanded indications. To accomplish this, the study will require a total of 120 evaluable
      donors completing the study. Enrolled donors will be assigned to either of two study arms.
      Each study arm will entail a randomized, paired, 2-x-2 crossover design where every study
      donor (n = 60 evaluable study donors who complete the study per arm) will donate a total of
      two whole blood units with individual units being donated at least 56 days (8 weeks) apart.
      One unit will be collected with the investigational product (IP) and the other unit will be
      collected with the control product (CP). The order in which the IP and the CP will be used to
      collect, filter and store the whole blood and appropriate blood products (within the context
      of the crossover design) will be randomized.

      Each of the two study arms will evaluate outcomes resulting from different storage,
      filtration and processing conditions:

        -  Arm 1 will entail holding whole blood units at 20-24°C after collection for ≥ 20 hours
           (IP) or ≥ 6 hours (CP) prior to initiating room temperature filtration. Following room
           temperature centrifugation and subsequent separation, SOLX® PRBC will be placed at 1-6°C
           and plasma placed at ≤ -18°C within 24 hours (IP) or within 8 hour (CP) of collection.
           The first donation will occur with product indicated per randomization and the second
           donation will occur with product alternate to the randomization. Arm 1 will further
           entail an in vivo double-radiolabelled autologous RBC recovery substudy (n = 20-24,
           paired IP and CP data will be collected) and an evaluation of pre- and post-rejuvenation
           PRBC 2,3-DPG levels (all IP and CP units). The in vivo substudy and rejuvenation
           evaluation is limited to only Arm 1 and is not included in Arm 2.

        -  Arm 2 will entail holding whole blood units at 1-6°C after collection for ≥ 66 hours
           (both IP and CP) prior to initiating cold filtration. Following refrigerated
           centrifugation and subsequent separation, SOLX® PRBCs will be placed at 1-6°C within 72
           hours of collection (both IP and CP). Plasma will not be evaluated for this arm and will
           be discarded. The first donation will occur with product indicated per randomization and
           the second donation will occur with product alternate to the randomization.

      For each study arm that does not meet the protocol-defined in vitro acceptance criteria for
      exactly 1 unit, an additional 71 evaluable donors will be enrolled, thus increasing the
      number of evaluable enrolled donors completing the respective study arm to 131 donors. Only
      those acceptance criteria endpoints that were not met within their respective study arm will
      be evaluated and neither matched/paired crossover controls nor in vivo RBC recovery (Arm 1 In
      vivo substudy) will be evaluated. If all protocol defined in vitro acceptance criteria are
      met or > 1 subject does not meet the protocol defined in vitro acceptance criteria relative
      to a specific study arm, then no enrollment will occur relative to the same study arm.
    
  