
    
      COPD-related morbidity and mortality has been increasing, making COPD already the third
      leading cause of death and a growing global health concern.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is a comprehensive intervention, with known cost-effectiveness
      in managing patients with COPD. One of the PR goals is to improve physical activity (PA),
      since it has shown to reduce exacerbations and mortality.

      Nevertheless, adopting/sustaining a physically active behaviour is highly challenging and
      benefits of PR are usually lost 6 months after its completion. Therefore, PA programmes
      capable to maintain the PR effects are urgently needed Community can provide different PA
      modalities in various settings, which can be personalised to patients' needs and preferences.
      By filling the gaps between healthcare systems and patients' daily environment, these
      programmes have the potential to improve patients' HRQoL and self-efficacy, enhancing their
      ability to overcome exercise barriers and their motivation to sustain a physically active
      behaviour.

      PICk UP will offer patients different PA modalities tailored to their preferences and needs,
      thus personalising the community programmes, and aiming at sustaining a physically active
      behaviour and enhancing their HRQoL.

      This study aims at assessing the effectiveness of PICk UP, a personalised community-based
      physical activity programme tailored to patients' needs and preferences, on their physical
      activity levels and on the maintenance of pulmonary rehabilitation benefits. To accomplish
      these aims a randomised controlled trial will be conducted.

      PICk UP randomised controlled trial

      The primary aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of PICk UP, a personalised
      community-based PA programme, tailored to patients' needs and preferences, on their PA
      levels.

      The secondary aims is to determine the short- and mid-term effects of PICk UP on HRQoL
      symptoms, number of exacerbations, healthcare use, exercise capacity, functionality,
      motivation to exercise, peripheral muscle strength and emotional status.

      Recruitment Primary healthcare providers of Aveiro and Estarreja or pulmonologists of the
      Centro Hospitalar do Baixo Vouga will inform eligible patients about the study. Additional
      information will be provided to those interested to participate in a meeting with the
      researcher and written informed consent will be acquired. Patients with COPD will be eligible
      if they are clinically stable, as determined by their referred doctor, and completed a PR
      programme in the previous month. Patients will be excluded if they present signs of cognitive
      impairment or have significant cardiovascular, neurological or musculoskeletal diseases,
      which may limit their participation.

      Study design Patients will be randomised into experimental group (EG) or control group (CG).
      The EG will receive the PICk UP programme. The CG will receive no additional interventions
      and will only proceed with the physical activity recommendations delivered during the
      pulmonary rehabilitation programme. Assessments will be conducted by a second researcher
      blinded to the intervention.

      Data collection:

      Data will be collected at baseline, after 3 months and after the intervention (6 months). The
      researcher will collect:

        -  Sociodemographic, anthropometric, general clinical data (e.g., number of exacerbations
           or healthcare utilisation);

        -  Physical activity levels (time in sedentary, moderate and vigorous physical activities;
           steps/day): accelerometry.

        -  Health related quality of life: St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire.

        -  Disease impact: COPD Assessment Test.

        -  Exercise tolerance: six-minute walk test.

        -  Motivations to exercise: Behavioural Regulation and Exercise Questionnaire-3.

        -  Quadriceps muscle strength: Handheld dynamometry.

        -  Fatigue: Checklist of Individual Strength-8 and the Functional assessment of chronic
           illness therapy fatigue subscale;

        -  Handgrip strength: dynamometry.

        -  Emotional status: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.

        -  Occurrence of adverse events and adherence to the interventions

      Intervention:

      Participants in the EG will enrol a 6-months personalised community-based physical activity
      programme, which will include 2 sessions/week, with the aerobic training being the
      cornerstone. Patients will receive the PICk UP manual and a diary to register their physical
      activities. During the 1st month the physiotherapist will guide patients through 4 types of
      outdoors (e.g., walking, cycling trails) and indoors (e.g., dance, pilates) physical
      activities. Patients will then be asked to choose and commit to 1 or 2 activities, according
      to their preferences, which they shall integrate for another 5 months. During this period,
      the support provided by physiotherapist will decrease over time

        -  2nd and 3rd months: support every 2-weeks (face-to-face physical activity sessions
           alternated with phone-calls) to reassure safety, clarify doubts, monitor patients'
           evolution and enhance their motivation to physical activity;

        -  4th month: 1 face-to-face physical activity session;

        -  5th month: 1 phone-call;

        -  6th month: no support. The sport-related professionals will register patients'
           attendance to the programme.

      Sample size estimation:

      The sample size was estimated using G*Power 3.1.9.6, with an effect size specification "as in
      G*Power 3.0", for the within-between interaction of a repeated measures ANOVA with two groups
      (control and experimental) and 3 measurements (immediately after, 3 and 6 months post-PR) of
      the defined primary outcome (time in moderate to vigorous PA). The investigators considered
      an α of 0.05, a power of 0.80, a repeated measures correlation of 0.5, a nonsphericity
      correction of 1 and an expected effect size f of 0.30. The effect size f was derived from the
      partial η2 of 0.21 (f=0.516) obtained from a study which aimed to assess the impact of a
      PA-focused behavioural intervention during and after PR on PA levels in patients with COPD. A
      smaller f value of 0.30 was chosen to account for a longer follow-up period (up to 6 months
      after PR, instead of 3) and differences in selected time-points. The calculated sample size
      was 20 (i.e., 10 in each group) COPD patients and considering a possible 50% dropout rate,
      the final sample size was determined to be 40.
    
  