
    
      1. Introduction Low back pain is defined as a pain in the lower back bad enough to limit
           your usual activities or change your daily routine for more than 1 day, that may or may
           not go down one or both legs and lasting at least a day. The pain must be comprised on
           the back, within the limits of the lower rib and the lower gluteal fold. Low back pain
           (LBP) can further be compartmentalized in "specific LBP", by definition a LBP that be
           attributable to a known cause, or in "non-specific LBP" (NSLBP), defined as a LBP that
           cannot be associated to a known cause. LBP is one of the leading causes of functional
           limitations and sick leave, carrying a heavy financial cost for both individuals and
           society. According the 2010 Global burden Disease study, LBP is classified the 6th in
           the overall burden when compared to 290 other pathologies. Global prevalence of LBP is
           between 11% and 84%, and would reach its peak value à 80 years old. Therefore, the
           impact of LBP would be more important in societies where the life expectancy is higher,
           such as Canada and the United States. Moreover, aging would be accompanied by an
           increase in the frequency of severe back pain, as well as an increase in the prevalence
           of pain and other symptoms and conditions associated with low back pain, occasioning
           higher social and functional limitations. It also is one of the main causes of physical
           therapy consultation, which uses therapeutic exercises, such as core muscle training to
           address it. Yet, it is unknown as today which method is to be privileged to teach how to
           contract those muscles in the elderly.

        2. Literature review One of the favoured approaches in physical therapy to address LBP is
           the training of the core muscles, specifically the transversus abdominis (TrA). In a
           healthy subject, trunk muscles will maintain trunk stability by making a sequence of
           postural adjustment in advance of distal movement to prevent any loss of balance. This
           fine tuning adjusting happening before any kinesthetic or sensorial feedback may happen,
           it is considered as planned by the central nervous system (CNS). Yet, it has been shown
           that those postural adjustments are lacking in the patients with LBP, and would persist
           even after the resolution of the LBP episode, which might contribute to the recurrence
           of LBP. Furthermore, aging is also accompanied by a diminution of motor control of the
           trunk, constituting a part of the LBP in the elderly. Fortunately, these postural
           adjustments of the TrA have been shown to be trainable again.

      Teaching to contract the TrA often gets to be quite a challenge, since its contraction
      creates no visible movement. It requires an understanding and/or a good feeling of the
      desired contraction from the patient. To help in the teaching of the TrA, physical therapists
      (PT) may use one of the few feedback tools that have been shown to be efficient in that
      regard. Biofeedback is a technique where the biological information otherwise unknown to the
      patient is transmitted in real time to him. That information goes over what is usually
      accessible for those patients. In physical therapy, biofeedback comes from the biomechanical
      measure of physiological measure of the human body. Adding biofeedback to a usual physical
      therapy intervention enables the patient to control physical adjustments that were thought to
      be controlled by the CNS, such as the postural adjustments. It also allows for a better
      tuning in the tasks and engages the patient in a more proactive therapy. In the literature,
      two non-invasive biofeedback tools used in clinics are documented for their efficiency to
      assist in the teaching of the TrA contraction and for their validity to measure its
      activation, the rehabilitative ultrasound imaging (RUSI) and the pressure biofeedback unit
      (PBU).

      The use of RUSI by physiotherapists is growing. RUSI is a non-invasive technique to provide
      immediate visual feedback on changes in the thickness of the abdominal wall muscles,
      reflecting the contraction of these muscles, more specifically the TrA. This is done by
      transmitting, on a screen, an ultrasound image produced by a probe placed on the abdomen of
      the participant. The probe emits ultrasound waves which passes through the tissues and then
      return to the probe in the form of echoes. RUSI would detect recruitment of TrA at a
      contraction as low as 12% of the maximum voluntary contraction (MVC), and recruitment of the
      internal oblique (OI) when contracted to 22% a MVC. This visual feedback, coupled with the
      usual explanations for TrA recruitment, reduces the number of trials required for an
      effective recruitment of TrA in patients with and without low back pain immediately after
      training and in the short-term follow-up.

      The PBU is a simple and inexpensive device that measures the change in pressure in a
      three-compartment bag filled with air placed under the patient's lumbar spine whilst lying on
      his back (supine position). The movement of the lumbar spine on the three-compartment bag
      produced by a false contraction of the TrA changes the intensity of the pressure and this
      change can be seen on an adjustable gauge, and therefore avoided. However, Lima et al. (2012)
      have shown a low association between the pressure measured with the PBU and the surface
      electromyography (EMG) (r = 0.2, p <0.2), with a sensitivity and a specificity of 60%. A
      systematic review by the same author concludes that inter- and intra-evaluative reliability
      ranges from medium to good (intra-class correlation (ICC) of 0.42 to 0.82 and 0.5 to 0.81,
      respectively) and a construct validity ranging from medium to excellent (ICC from 0.48 to
      0.90). Nevertheless, it is a widely used apparatus for learning TRA in physiotherapy because
      of its low cost and ease of use.

      Only three studies compared the efficacy of RUSI and PBU on the recruitment of TrA in both
      young and asymptomatic individuals and low back pain. Bajaj et al. (2010) report that low
      back pain patients trained with RUSI acquire more rapidly the ability to recruit TrA
      (significant reduction in the number of trials required to activate the TrA and the number of
      days needed to consolidate learning) than those performed with the PBU. Lee et al. (2016)
      randomized a sample of young and asymptomatic individuals into three groups according to the
      type of feedback used during training: tactile, RUSI or PBU. The primary measurement was the
      thickness of the TrA measured with an ultrasound. An increase in TrA thickness (reflecting a
      better TrA activation) was observed in all three groups. When compared to the tactile
      feedback group, the RUSI group had significantly higher TrA thickness. Finally, Wooldridge et
      al. (2014) compared the immediate effect of training with different types of feedback (PBU,
      RUSI and PBU + RUSI) in a population similar to that of Lee et al. (mean age = 22.2 years).
      The authors report no significant difference in the activation of TrA, measured with
      different parameters extracted from ultrasound images, pre and post-training and between
      groups.

      In summary, although two studies show that the recruitment of the TRA would be more effective
      following training with the RUSI, the heterogeneity of interventions and outcome measures
      means that the current level of evidence does not allow a decision on its superiority in
      young people. Moreover, the results of these studies cannot be generalized to an elderly
      population. Aging can disrupt the anticipated postural adjustments, and an effective modality
      of training in young people may not be conclusive for the elderly. Finally, no study has
      verified whether the training of recruitment of the TrA, which is generally carried out in
      supine position, allows the transfer of the learnt skills to other more functional positions,
      such as the standing position, for either of the tools.

      Aim The main goal of this study is to compare the immediate (pre-post laboratory) effect of a
      TRA recruitment training with RUSI to that of training with the PBU on the thickness of the
      TrA, an indirect measure of recruitment measured in the supine position (SP) in a healthy
      elderly population. Secondary objectives are (1) to determine whether one of the feedback
      tools is more effective in facilitating preferential recruitment of TrA versus oblique
      muscles and (2) to determine whether one of the feedback tools is more effective in
      transferring the recruiting capacity of the TrA from the SP to the standing position. The
      main assumption is that in SP, the thickness of the TrA will be greater following the
      teaching with RUSI compared to teaching with the PBU. The secondary hypotheses are 1) the
      RUSI will allow a preferential recruitment of the TrA; and 2) the thickness of the TrA in the
      standing position will be greater following the teaching with the RUSI.

      Methods Ideally, the effectiveness of an intervention is assessed by a randomized controlled
      trial (RCT). However, the prerequisite for an RCT are as follows: 1) plausibility of
      previously demonstrated effect; 2) demonstration that the research procedures are well
      established in real situations and 3) the possibility of recruiting a large number of
      participants. The plausibility of effects is still verified in a new population with valid
      and reliable instruments. The investigators propose an experimental "before-after" laboratory
      study to document the immediate effects. The independent variable will be the type of
      feedback used (RUSI vs PBU) during a TrA recruitment training session, and the dependent
      variable will be TrA thickness, an indirect measure of TrA recruitment.

      Participants:

      The investigators will recruit 40 people aged between 60 and 80 according to a
      non-probabilistic sampling method from the Nabù recruitment bank of the Center for Aging
      Research (CdRV) and a non-probabilistic sampling method by convenience. These participants
      will be randomized to two intervention groups: RUSI or PBU. The randomization will be
      stratified by gender (in equal proportion) using sealed envelopes and of a random number
      table. Participants must be between the ages of 60 and 80 years of age and be in good health
      (no chronic conditions restricting activities or requiring punctual care) without back pain
      for more than 12 months and be free from pain since less 1 week. They should be unable to
      contract the TrA specifically (i.e. without contraction of the oblique internal (OI) or
      oblique external (OE) muscles in response to a simple instruction). Those able to contract
      their TrA specifically will be excluded, and statistics will be kept to describe that sample.
      The participants will have to live in the community or in semi-autonomous residence, and will
      be excluded participants with a history of spinal, abdominal or lower extremity surgery,
      neurological or respiratory problem, structural scoliosis, body mass index greater than 30,
      pacemaker, lower Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) to 24 or previous TrA training
      experience. The recruitment procedures will go on until the full sample size is reached with
      admissible participants.

      Sample size :

      The sample size (n=40) was calculated to respect an effect size of 0.7 with an alpha error of
      5%.

      Procedure for data collection:

      Those interested in participating will contact the Project Coordinator to verify their
      eligibility and schedule a meeting. Upon arrival at the Research Center of the Centre
      hospitalier universitaire de Sherbrooke (CRCHUS), a member of the research team will welcome
      them and verify their ability to recruit the TrA to confirm their eligibility to participate.
      They will be asked to contract the TrA following a standardized verbal instruction and the
      presence or absence of contraction (i.e. movement of muscle fibers) will be checked with
      ultrasound. Individuals who will be excluded because of their ability to contract the TRA
      will receive, from a physiotherapist, the advice that is provided in current practice to
      improve their performance in contracting the TRA. The consent form will be presented and
      explained to those who will meet this last inclusion criterion. Once their free and informed
      consent is obtained, participants will be randomized to the two intervention groups. They
      will provide their age and they will be measured and weighed. This data will be used to
      describe the sample. They will also be asked to complete a questionnaire to diagnose the
      presence of urinary incontinence (QUID), which will be used as a covariance in the analyzes.

      Interventions (independent variables):

      RUSI Group: Participants will be taught about the anatomy of abdominal wall muscles and the
      general functioning of RUSI. Then, they will be invited to take the SP position, knees
      flexed. The feedback will consist of an ultrasound image transmitted to brightness (B)-mode.
      In order to obtain an image of the TrA, the probe will be placed halfway between the 12th rib
      and the iliac crest. The probe will be moved laterally to have the rim of the thoraco-lumbar
      fascia at the right edge of the screen, so that the 3 muscles of the abdominal wall are
      clearly seen, i.e. the oblique external (OE), oblique (OI) and TrA, according to the method
      described by Teyhen et al. ( 2005). Participants will receive the necessary education to
      understand the image and the desired recruitment according to a standardized protocol. They
      will then be asked to perform 15 contractions held 10 seconds of the TrA with a visible
      thickening of the TrA on the RUSI monitor exceeding the measurement at rest (visible on the
      monitor). One-minute rest will be allowed between each contraction to avoid fatigue.
      Participants will have to watch the RUSI monitor during the 15 tests. These parameters were
      determined from previous studies.

      PBU Group: Participants will receive the same instruction on the anatomy of abdominal wall
      muscles and general information about the PBU device. They will be invited to take the same
      position as for the RUSI group (SP, knees flexed). The feedback will be to visualize the
      intensity of pressure on the dial of a STABILIZER PBU. The PBU will be placed under the
      lumbar spine of the participants and inflated to 40 mmHg, as recommended by the manufacturer.
      Participants will receive the education necessary to understand the tool and the desired
      recruitment according to a standardized protocol. They will then be asked to perform 15
      contractions of the TrA with a duration of 10 seconds while maintaining the constant pressure
      at 40 mmHg ± 2 mmHg. A minute of rest will be allocated between each contraction.
      Participants will have to watch the PBU dial during the 15 tests.

      For both groups, interventions will be given by the same physiotherapist (PT treating)
      experienced with the use of both tools, and the duration of the lessons (anatomy and general
      information) will be the same.

      Dependent variable and measuring tools:

      The dependent variable is the change in thickness of the TrA muscle between the rest state
      and the recruitment state measured from an ultrasound image (LOGIQ E, GE Healthcare, 13 Mega
      Hertz (MHz) linear probe, at B-mode). Before and after the intervention, three images will be
      taken in the SP, knee-flexed (main objective) position at rest and during a TrA recruitment
      maneuver carried out according to the following instruction: "inhale then exhale, then bring
      your navel back to your vertebral column ". Three other images will be recorded in standing
      position (secondary objective 1), both at rest and when recruiting the TrA according to the
      same instruction. During these measurements, the ultrasound device will be arranged so that
      the participants cannot see the screen. The image capture will be taken with the probe in
      transverse plan and positioned midway between the 12th rib and the iliac crest. It will be
      moved laterally to have the rim of the thoraco-lumbar fascia at the right edge of the screen,
      allowing a clear image of the 3 muscles of the abdominal wall (i.e. OE, OI and the TrA). The
      angle on the skin will be adjusted to have the best image quality by keeping the same
      position perpendicular to the skin. The use of anatomical markers rather than superficial
      markers on the skin will improve reliability and reproduce clinical reality. Resting and
      activation measures will be taken at the end of the expiration to standardize the effect of
      breathing. This method has been demonstrated to be valid and reliable for indirectly
      measuring the activation of abdominal wall muscles in asymptomatic individuals. This measure
      has also been validated in an elderly population . In addition to the change in thickness of
      the TrA (main variable), other parameters will be used for secondary analysis purposes, such
      as the activation ratio (AR) and preferential activation ratio (PAR). Image recording and the
      intervention will be performed by a physiotherapist (PT measurement) with this expertise. She
      will be blinded the participant's group.

      Analysis :

      Descriptive analysis will be used to describe the sample. The investigators will compare the
      change in thickness of the pre and post-intervention TrA using Wilcoxon's signed row tests
      for dependent groups. Then, the averages for each group will be compared (RUSI vs PBU, young
      and elderly) using tests of the sum of the Wilcoxon ranks for independent groups. Analyzes of
      covariances (ANCOVA) will be used to study the effect of the presence of urinary incontinence
      (categorical variables) on changes in TrA thickness. In the event of missing or invalid data,
      a sensibility analysis will be made post hoc. The analysis will be made using the Statistical
      package for the social sciences (SPSS v.25).

      5. Potential Bias Participants and the attending physiotherapist will not be blinded for the
      intervention, but the physiotherapist responsible for the analysis and image capture will be
      unaware of the groups of randomization. The fact that the main variable measurement tool (TrA
      thickness) is also used as a feedback tool for one of the groups could induce an intervention
      bias. Note, however, that for the measurement of the main variable, no participant will see
      the monitor; they will therefore have no visual feedback. However, contact of the probe on
      the abdomen during ultrasound measurement will provide a tactile stimulation similar to that
      which the RUSI group was exposed during surgery. It is possible that these favours the
      realization of the task by the participants of this group during the measurement of the main
      variable. However, the investigators believe that this effect will have a trivial impact. The
      limitations of the other measurement tools would further compromise the validity or
      feasibility of our study (eg noise in the surface EMG or implanted EMG which is an invasive
      procedure).

      6. Clinical Benefits Age and NSLBP have been shown to affect motor control of trunk
      stabilizing muscles. Knowledge is limited and non-consensual for the young population and
      absent for the elderly. It is therefore the first study to focus specifically on the training
      of the TrA in a population of elderly people. This research project will allow us to realize
      the first steps (plausibility of the effect of RUSI and PBU in healthy elderly people, tuning
      of the procedures, testing of the recruitment and data collection procedures) to justify a
      larger RCT comparing the two feedback tools to promote recruitment of the TrA, reduce pain
      and improve function in a population suffering from NSLBP. Due to the high prevalence of
      NSLBP in the general population and particularly in the elderly, it is important to identify
      the most effective tool to optimize rehabilitation (better efficiency and less time).
    
  