
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called sapanisertib (MLN0128). Sapanisertib is being
      tested in women with estrogen receptor positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
      negative (ER+/HER2-) advanced or metastatic breast cancer who progressed on treatment with
      everolimus. This study will look at the safety and efficacy of sapanisertib when given in
      combination with exemestane or fulvestrant.

      The study enrolled 118 patients. This study has two phases: phase 1 and phase 2. Phase 1 has
      2 parts. In part 1 of phase 1, unmilled active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) capsules were
      administered, while in part 2, capsules based on milled API were administered.

        -  Phase 1 (Part 1): sapanisertib 5 mg (unmilled) + exemestane

        -  Phase 1 (Part 1): sapanisertib 5 mg (unmilled) + fulvestrant

        -  Phase 1 (Part 2): sapanisertib 3 mg (milled) + exemestane

        -  Phase 1 (Part 2): sapanisertib 3 mg (milled) + fulvestrant

        -  Phase 1 (Part 2): sapanisertib 4 mg (milled) + exemestane

      In phase 2, participants were enrolled into one of 2 parallel cohorts, depending on the
      quality and/or duration of their prior response to everolimus in combination with either
      exemestane (any country) or fulvestrant (US only).

      Everolimus-Resistant Cohort: patients who had progressed on treatment with everolimus in
      combination with either exemestane (any country) or fulvestrant (US only) without achieving
      an objective response (CR or PR) or after achieving stable disease for <6 months as their
      best response.

      Everolimus-Sensitive Cohort: participants who had progressed on treatment after achieving a
      CR or PR of any duration, or stable disease for ≥6 months with prior everolimus treatment in
      combination with either exemestane (any country) or fulvestrant (US only). Participants were
      to receive MLN0128 in combination with the same dose of the previously administered treatment
      (exemestane [any country] or fulvestrant [US only]).

      This multi-center trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this
      study was 52 months. Participants made multiple visits to the clinic and were contacted by
      telephone every 3 months for a follow-up assessment.
    
  