
    
      This study involves two groups. You will be randomly assigned to one of these groups (i.e.
      you do not have a choice for group assignment) which means your group will be assigned to you
      by chance. Both groups will receive information on a dietary approach aimed at losing weight.

      One group will receive instruction on a low-calorie approach to weight loss (reducing caloric
      intake by approximately 500 calories per day). The other group will be instructed to follow a
      low-fat, low-glycemic index vegan diet. A vegan diet is one that does not contain any animal
      products (no meat, fish, poultry, eggs, or dairy) but emphasizes plant-based foods, such as
      fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and legumes/beans. In addition, this will be a low-glycemic
      index diet, which means you will be asked to favor foods that don't cause a quick rise in
      blood sugar (for example, choosing oatmeal over cornflakes for breakfast).

      Below are the steps in the study:

      If you are accepted into the study, you will come to the study site (Fertility Center of the
      Carolinas in Greenville) to learn more about the study and complete your consent form. If you
      live outside the Columbia, SC area (more than a 60 mile drive), you may complete the study
      orientation process over the phone and Web. You will be mailed a consent form to sign and
      return to the study coordinator. This study will involve 3-4 in-person visits to the
      Fertility Center of the Carolinas office, each lasting approximately 1.5 to 2 hours.

      You will complete some questionnaires that measure your diet and physical activity levels on
      a computer at home or other location where you have computer/internet access.

      You will come back for a meeting to have your weight measured. You will then be randomly
      assigned to one of the two groups: calorie controlled group or vegan diet group. You will
      receive a one-hour overview of the diet you have been assigned to and be provided with
      materials on this diet.

      During the study, we will ask you to complete a weekly questionnaire which will assess if you
      are following the diet, your weight, and ask for information on your menstrual cycle. This
      will take approximately 5 minutes to complete.

      You will be provided individualized feedback each week via e-mail on your progress, along
      with a weekly lesson on the topic for the week.

      You will have access to a group website (a private Facebook group) that will provide group
      support. Participation using this group is optional.

      You will be provided with test strips to monitor ovulation each month and pregnancy tests (1
      per month) to monitor pregnancy status. You will report these results to us via online
      survey.

      Study personnel will host a weekly 30 minute webinar for your diet group online. This will
      take place after work time on a weekday. Make-up sessions by phone during the work day will
      be available.

      At 3 months, you will be asked to complete another set of questionnaires from home and return
      to our study site for your weight measurement.

      You will continue the study for the next 3 months. At study completion (6 months), you will
      complete the last set of questionnaires (online). Also, you will come to a follow-up
      assessment to be weighed and to receive your incentive for participating ($10 +$5/month of
      each menstrual cycle data submitted for a total of $25 possible).

      Participants in both groups will be asked to take a daily prenatal vitamin (or other reliable
      source of vitamin B-12) over the course of the study.

      During the study, we will ask you to keep your physical activity levels constant (keep your
      levels the same as what you were doing at study entry).
    
  