
    
      Background: End-of-life decision-making is an important aspect of providing quality
      healthcare, especially for the elderly population. Increasingly, the appropriateness of many
      of these decisions is being questioned. Some invasive procedures done in seriously ill
      patients do not significantly alter their course, many patients die without having pain or
      other symptoms addressed, and families may feel dissatisfied with the care provided.
      Additionally, there are striking racial/ethnic disparities in end-of-life care.

      Objectives: The explicit identification of values that guide medical decision-making could
      improve the decision-making process for end-of-life care for patients of all
      races/ethnicities. 1) We will directly compare, critically assess, and revise two Values
      Histories on the basis of qualitative data derived from individual interviews with
      racially/ethnically diverse patients and surrogates, and explore patients', surrogates', and
      physicians' values, preferences and concerns that guide decision-making about medical
      interventions at the end-of-life. 2) We will then adapt the existing Values Histories into a
      clinically practical tool, the Values Inventory discussion aid. 3) We will conduct
      preliminary testing of this tool to be used in physician-patient or physician-surrogate
      encounters to improve and facilitate decisions about end-of-life care.

      Methods: To complete Objective 3 we will conduct a pilot randomized trial of the developed
      Values Inventory discussion aid to test the feasibility of using it in clinical practice.
      This clinicaltrials.gov number applies to Objective 3 of IIR-02-224 only (as the complete
      study is a mixed-methods study with several different arms and enrollment goals). Eligible
      patients are at risk for 6-12-month mortality with one of the following diagnoses: congestive
      heart failure, with ejection fraction of less than 25%; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease/emphysema with dependence on oxygen; chronic liver disease with cirrhosis and
      ascites; colon carcinoma with liver metastases; or non-small cell cancer of the lung, stage
      III or IV, and patients with chronic kidney disease on renal replacement therapy, with
      previous hospitalization. All (patient) participants are age 55 years or older and are
      recruited through the clinics/wards at the Houston VAMC. Surrogates are surrogates of
      patients with such conditions; physicians are generalists and medical subspecialists. All
      participants are African American, Hispanic, or White, reflecting the 3 major
      races/ethnicities at the Houston VAMC.
    
  