
    
      Background:

        -  Immune based approaches in GI cancers have unfortunately- with the notable exception of
           immune checkpoint inhibition in microsatellite instable (MSI-H) disease and gastric
           cancer-been largely unsuccessful. The reasons for this are unclear but no doubt relate
           to the fact that in advanced disease GI cancer appears to be less immunogenic, as
           evidenced by the lack of infiltrating lymphocytes with advancing T stage as well as an
           immunosuppressive tumor micro environment.

        -  VB-111 is an anti-angiogenic agent comprising of a nonreplicating E1 deleted adenovirus
           type 5 which contains a modified murine preproendothelin (PPE) promoter and Fas-chimera
           transgene

        -  VB-111 has been tested and shows promise in glioblastoma, ovarian and thyroid tumors

        -  Nivolumab is a human monoclonal antibody directed against PD-1.

        -  The aim of this study is to study the effects of VB-111 in colorectal cancer (CRC) and
           to evaluate whether the antitumor immunity induced by VB-111 therapy can be enhanced by
           PD-1 inhibition.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of VB-111 in combination with nivolumab in
           patients with refractory, metastatic CRC

        -  To determine Best Overall Response (BOR) (partial response (PR) + complete response
           (CR)) according to Response Evaluation Criteria (RECIST v1.1) of combined treatment of
           VB-111 and nivolumab in patients with refractory, metastatic CRC.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histopathological confirmation of colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver

        -  Patients must have progressed on > 2 lines of standard of care chemotherapy for
           colorectal cancer or been intolerant of chemotherapy or refused prior chemotherapy.

        -  Patients tumors must be documented to be microsatellite stable (MSS).

        -  Patients must have at least 1 focus of metastatic disease that is amenable to pre-and
           on-treatment biopsies and be willing to undergo this.

        -  All patients enrolled will be required to have measurable disease by RECIST v 1.1
           criteria.

      Design:

        -  The proposed study is a phase II study of VB-111 in combination with immune checkpoint
           inhibition (nivolumab) in patients with metastatic CRC

        -  Treatment will be delivered in cycles consisting of 2 weeks with VB-111 given every 6
           weeks and nivolumab given every 2-week until progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Disease status evaluation will be done every 8 (+/- 1) weeks after the start of study
           therapy.
    
  