
    
      Silicone gel-filled breast implants were introduced in the early sixties and were in
      wide-scale distribution by the time the Medical Device Amendments to the Food Drug and
      Cosmetic Act was passed in 1976. In 1983, gel-filled breast implants were designated as Class
      III devices requiring premarket approval. In May 1990, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      published a proposed request (515(b)) for Premarket Approval Applications (PMA) and in April
      1991 published the final request. This final publication put manufacturers of gel-filled
      breast implants on notice that for continued marketing of gel-filled breast implants, a PMA
      was due to FDA in 90 days from the final publication date.

      A premarket approval (PMA) for the Mentor gel-filled breast implants was filed with the FDA
      in July 1991. At the FDA General and Plastic Surgery Advisory Committee meeting in November
      1991, the committee recommended the submission of additional information to establish the
      safety and effectiveness of gel-filled breast implants.

      In January 1992, the FDA Commissioner announced a voluntary moratorium of the sale of
      gel-filled breast implants to allow the advisory panel time to assess additional information.
      In April 1992, the moratorium was lifted but only for reconstruction and revision patients.
      Every patient implanted had to be part of an adjunct study, and had to be offered
      participation in a registry of gel-filled breast implant patients. In order to be implanted
      with gel-filled implants for augmentation, women had to be enrolled in a core clinical study.

      In September of 2000 the Core Gel study began, leading the way to the November 2006 FDA
      approval of the Core Gel implant or Memory Gel breast implant.

      The objective of the Contour Profile Gel Study, which started in 2002 is to determine the
      safety and effectiveness of the Silicone Contour Profile Gel Mammary Prostheses in women who
      are undergoing primary breast augmentation, primary breast reconstruction, or revision. In
      the duration of this study patients are required to have follow-up visits 10 weeks
      post-surgery and every year after surgery through the 10th year of completion. Additionally,
      out of the approximately 1000 patients enrolled in the CPG study, 400 have been randomly
      selected to have MRI scans at their 1,2,4,6,8,and 10 year post-surgery visits. Protocol
      changes now require all patients in this study to have MRI scans at years 6, 8, and 10.

      In June of 2013 the FDA approved MENTOR® MemoryShape™ Breast Implants (CPG Style 321 Medium
      Height, Moderate Profile) for the following indications:

        -  Breast Augmentation for women at least 22 years old.

        -  Breast Reconstruction.
    
  