
    
      The prognosis for patients with metastatic or locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
      is poor. The role of conventional systemic chemotherapy has been very limited because most
      chemotherapeutic agents are in-effective and relative toxic to HCC patients who tend to have
      poor organ function reserves due to liver cirrhosis. The molecular-targeted therapy, which
      aims at deranged signaling pathways of cancer cells or their microenvironment, holds promise
      for HCC.

      Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006), a novel bi-aryl urea, is a potent inhibitor of VEGFR2 and Raf
      kinase. The clinical activity of sorafenib in HCC has been tested in a phase II study (Bayer
      study 10874), which enrolled a total of 137 advanced HCC patients. There were 4% of
      documented partial response, 5% of minor response, and 55% of stable disease. The 6- month
      progression -free for the cohort was 40%. Currently, there are two on-going large-scale
      randomized trials of sorafenib in advanced HCC patients worldwide.In this study proposal, we
      propose to combine sorafenib with metronomic chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced HCC
      patients. It has been recently demonstrated that cytotoxic chemotherapy, when given in a
      low-dose, continuous, and uninterrupted way (i.e. the "metronomic" chemotherapy), inhibits
      tumor angiogenesis. The anti-angiogenesis effect of metronomic chemotherapy can be
      potentiated by combining the inhibitors of VEGF/VEGFR pathway. UFUR®, a composite drug
      composed of tegafur and uracil, is an orally active 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) preparation. The
      activity of tegafur/uracil in HCC has been tested in two relatively small-scale phase II
      studies, with objective tumor response rates ranging from 0~18%. Interestingly, tegafur and
      its metabolites, including γ-hydroxybutyric acid and γ-butyrolactone, have been shown to be
      potent inhibitors of angiogenesis in several preclinical models. Therefore, tegafur/uracil
      (UFUR®), which has potential anti-HCC activity and interesting anti-angiogenesis activity, is
      an ideal candidate drug to improve the efficacy of sorafenib in HCC.
    
  