
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate whether the transition of early Multiple Myeloma (High
      Risk Smouldering Multiple Myeloma SMM or "Ultra High Risk" SMM) or SLiM CRAB positive
      multiple myeloma to a symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM) can be reduced or delayed by the
      administration of denosumab.

      With the exception of clinical studies, there are currently no standardized treatment options
      for SMM. Ultra-high risk SMM is already part of early active myeloma and is therefore in some
      cases treated according to a standard myeloma protocol (Revlimid-Dexamethasone, Velcade
      melphalan prednisone, melphalan prednisone thalidomide, or others). However, most
      practitioners recommend a wait-and-see strategy, since depending on the initial situation
      within two years only 58-95% of patients develop an 'active' MM and 5-42% of the patients had
      a stable disease and therefore do not necessarily have to be treated immediately.

      Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody (IgG2) which binds to RANKL with high affinity and
      specificity. RANKL (receptor activator of NF-κB Ligand) is a protein that is responsible for
      the formation, function and survival of osteoclasts (cell type responsible for bone
      resorption) Increased osteoclast activity, stimulated by RANKL, is a key mediator of the bone
      resorption in bone metastases and MM. Thus the activity of denosumab is resulting in a
      reduced number and function of osteoclasts and thus decreases the bone resorption and
      tumor-induced bone destruction.

      After an initial phase of about 14 days (screening), the patients will be randomized 1:1 in
      one of the two study groups (arm A: denosumab or arm B: placebo). The study is
      double-blinded. The planned duration of therapy is 3 years. Patients receive denosumab or
      placebo every 4 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months until a total of 3 years or
      progression.

      After completion of the therapy, an observation and follow-up phase is carried out with
      patient visits every 3 months until the end of the treatment.
    
  