
    
      Our aim is to recruit 140 patients (based on statistical power calculation in). These
      patients will be recruited from the cardiology clinics at The Royal Brompton Hospital as well
      as from a database of patients who have previously undergone imaging.

      The study will be a double-blinded, placebo-controlled randomized study. The recruited
      patients would have had an established diagnosis of cardiomyopathy as documented by the
      history, examination and characteristic echocardiographic + ECG findings. The patients would
      also have had a CMR scan demonstrating late gadolinium hyperenhancement previously. These
      patients will have been established on maximally tolerated doses of standard drugs used in
      the treatment of cardiomyopathy (including ACE inhibitors and beta blockers as appropriate)
      and the doses of these drugs would have remained unchanged in the 2 months preceding
      enrollment to the trial. Patients would be randomized to receive a maximal dose of 50mg
      eplerenone or placebo. The study dose of Eplerenone to be used will be initially 25mg once
      daily (one tablet). After 4 weeks, provided it has been well tolerated with no problems the
      dose will be increased to the usual maintenance dose of 50mg once daily (two tablets). For
      patients receiving placebo, the number of tablets received will match the Eplerenone group at
      the same time points.

      Baseline tests will include CMR evaluation of ventricular function using a magnetic field
      strength of 1.5 Tesla (T). The initial scan will assess ventricular size and function and LV
      mass. Blood tests will be taken prior to the scan (at the time of intravenous cannulation)
      for urea and electrolytes, liver function, cytokines, and collagen markers. In addition,
      echocardiograms, 24 hour Holter monitors will be fitted and metabolic exercise tests (MVO2)
      will be performed as part of the cardiac assessment at baseline, 6 and 12 months.

      The findings of the initial scans and tests will be correlated with base line parameters and
      also prospectively compared with the occurrence of events over 6 and 12 month time periods.
      During the follow up period all events including death, cardiac arrest, cardiac
      transplantation, arrhythmic events, implantation of implantable cardiac
      defibrillators/biventricular pacemakers, NYHA classification, escalation of treatment and
      hospitalization will be recorded. There will be regular clinical reviews at 1 week, 2 weeks,
      4 weeks and then at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months during the study period at which point blood tests
      will be taken including a check of renal function to look for evidence of hyperkalaemia and
      renal failure which may be a result of treatment with eplerenone. Other reported adverse
      effects and any withdrawals from the trial as a direct result of these effects will also be
      recorded. After the treatment/placebo has been stopped we will contact all patients within
      one week by telephone to ensure that there has been no deterioration in symptoms and will
      review all patients within four weeks for a post-treatment follow up visit to monitor their
      blood-pressure, kidney function and ensure that there has been no evidence of problems.

      Patients will also be asked to complete a Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (MLWHF)
      Questionnaire at baseline visit and again during the 6 and 12 month visits.

      It is hoped that the study will reveal that patients with cardiomyopathy who are treated with
      eplerenone will have evidence of regression of fibrosis with a concomitant improvement in
      diastolic function as demonstrated by CMR scanning, as well as in clinical outcomes by Holter
      and metabolic exercise testing and markers of collagen turnover.
    
  