
    
      The study design is a prospective observational analysis. Subjects who have been deemed
      candidates for a large-volume paracentesis, based on clinical criteria and who meet the
      above-referenced inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited to participate in this
      study. Study visits will take place on 2 consecutive days. Each study visit will last
      approximately 2 to 3 hours. The first assessment day will occur immediately prior to an
      electively-scheduled large-volume paracentesis. The second assessment will occur one day
      later.

      Once enrolled, all subjects will undergo a baseline assessment of liver function. Medical
      records will be reviewed to determine etiology of cirrhosis, history of variceal bleeding,
      history of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, history of hospitalization for hepatic
      encephalopathy, and use of and clinical response to treatment with lactulose, neomycin,
      and/or rifaximin. Body mass index and grade of ascites (grade 1, mild ascites; grade 2,
      moderate ascites; grade 3, massive or tense ascites) will be determined based on physical
      examination. History or presence of asterixis will be recorded. Severity of hepatic
      encephalopathy will be graded according to the West-Haven criteria and further assessed by
      neuropsychological testing (discussed in further detail below). Baseline serum laboratory
      analyses will be obtained, including the following: aspartate aminotransferase, alanine
      aminotransferase, total bilirubin, albumin, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, prothrombin time
      and international normalized ratio, and platelet count. Based on these serum studies, the
      Child-Pugh score and Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score will be calculated.

      After baseline assessments are obtained, the six-minute walk test and a series of
      questionnaires (discussed in further detail below) to assess fatigue, sleep, and quality of
      life will be performed on study day 1, immediately prior to the paracentesis, and then
      repeated one day after the paracentesis. Note that neither the six-minute walk test nor the
      neuropsychological testing or questionnaires are considered standard of care for patients
      requiring large-volume paracentesis and these will be performed exclusively for research
      purposes.
    
  