
    
      Sixty subjects undergoing total or partial nephrectomies will be asked to participate in this
      IRB approved placebo-controlled randomized study. Potential subjects will be recruited out of
      the surgeon's office or at a preoperative clinical visit prior to surgery. The clinical care
      team will introduce the study and request permission for the research team to speak with the
      patient. If the subject agrees to be approached by a member of the research team, then the
      research team will approach the subject. During the Informed Consent, a PI or Co-I will be
      available to answer final questions and facilitate the process.

      After signing an informed consent, the subjects will be equally randomized to either active
      auriculotherapy treatment (with nitrogen gas) or placebo auriculotherapy treatment (without
      nitrogen gas). Each subject will be asked to complete the PROMIS Emotional Distress - Anxiety
      - Short Form 8a, the PROMIS Emotional Distress-Depression-Short Form and Pain Catastrophizing
      Scale (PCS) in the pre-operative setting. Those whose anxiety scores are ≥22 will be included
      in the study and randomly distributed to either treatment allocation.

      Randomization will occur by assigning the participant a subject ID number, and this ID number
      will correspond to a treatment allocation based on a pre-designed randomization schema. This
      treatment allocation (intervention/control) will be contained in a sealed, opaque, envelope
      with the subject ID number that is designated on envelope. The master randomization list will
      be created and held by an independent data monitor who will both create and hold the master
      randomization list. A data manager research associate will confidentially reveal the
      randomization to the PI or Amy Monroe so that the study coordinators, Co-Is and subjects will
      be blinded. PI or Amy Monroe, and the data managing associate will be the only individuals
      who are unblinded.

      Study assessments will be conducted on the day of surgery, in the pre-operative setting
      taking roughly 30 minutes total. This will include the PROMIS questionnaire to be
      administered in paper form before the surgery and then via REDCAP after surgery. This is the
      first assessment conducted after obtaining Informed Consent. It is used to assess eligibility
      for the study. This assessment will take roughly 5 minutes.

      Auriculotherapy treatment will occur in pre-operative setting, within one hour of surgery.
      For the active treatment group, a nitrogen gas canister will be applied to a cryopuncture
      device (manual attached), and the tip of the cryopuncture will be sanitized and placed on
      each treatment point of the ear, releasing a spurt of gas for 2 seconds on each point (6
      points total). For the sham device, an empty canister will be applied to the cryopuncture
      device, and in exactly the same fashion as the treatment group, the tip of the cryopuncture
      will be sanitized and placed on each treatment point of the ear. Instead of releasing a spurt
      of nitrogen gas, the empty canister will make the same noise as a full canister, but without
      the expulsion of gas. We are not expecting any adverse events from performing this technique.
      The only "adverse event" that is expected is a mild local blistering/scab, which may occur
      within 24 hours after the treatment. In our experience in our ongoing auriculotherapy study
      (24 subjects enrolled), we did not observe this adverse event. In the experience of Dr.
      Chelly(11 years) and Dr. Alimi (30 years), any local blistering or ulceration is extremely
      mild, and resolves in days without any intervention. No potential adverse effect would
      require immediate treatment or delay the surgery.

      After surgery, the subject will be assessed for pain medication requirement and pain scores
      in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) and then assessed daily until discharge. Upon
      discharge, subjects will repeat the PROMIS Emotional Distress questionnaires and the PCS.
      Additionally, subjects will be asked to complete an overall satisfaction questionnaire
      measured on a scale to 0-10.

      The subjects will take home a diary where they will record daily NRS pain scores (scale
      0-10), daily anxiety level (scale 0-10) and daily analgesic/opioid requirement for one-week
      post-op. The subject will be contacted at Day 7 post-op, 30-day and 90-day post-op to report
      the PROMIS Emotional Distress -Anxiety- Short Form 8a, the PROMIS Emotional
      Distress-Depression-Short Form, and Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) verbally over the
      telephone. The subject will be contacted via phone daily to gather their responses post op to
      the surveys, a maximum of three times. If we are unable to reach the subject after 3 days
      they will be considered lost to follow up. If In addition to this, the subject will be asked
      to assess their functional recovery using the SF-12 questionnaire, and to report their VAS
      pain score/opioid consumption for the previous week.
    
  