
    
      64 patients are goint to be included in the study. All of these are referred to the Hand
      surgery Clinic at Sahlgrenska University Hospital. Potential patients are informed about the
      study and those who accept sign an informed consent before randomisation. The surgery is
      performed in the same way for all patients. The rehabilitation is initiated the day after
      surgery or on the first working day if the surgery is done during a weekend. The
      randomisation was done by a computer program and the two different mobilisation protocols are
      placed accordingly in sealed envelopes numbered from 1 to 64. The envelopes are used one
      after another in a consecutive order. The patients are randomised after surgery but before
      initaition of rehabilitation.

      Inclusion criteria are: primary injury in flexor digitorum profundus (FDP) in dig II-V,
      repair within 3 days after injury, injury in zone I or II, age over 16 years, ability of the
      patient to go through early mobilisation and signed informed consent. Exclusion criteria are:
      concomitant severe injury in the hand such as fracture, injury in a joint, extensor tendon or
      volar plate, soft tissue defects or crushinjuries, bilateral flexor tendon injuries, previous
      impared function in the finger, uncertainty of compliance to the rehabilitation protocol or
      the surgeon find the active mobilisation unsuitable for any reason. Concomitant injury to the
      flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS) or a digital nerv is accepted and not an exclusion
      criteria. A distal injury in zone I is usually not included because of the need for
      reinsertion. All tendons are sutured in the same way with an end-to-end suture.

      All the operations are done by specialists in hand surgery or experienced residents in hand
      surgery at the clinic. The FDP tendon is repaired with a four-stranded core suture with a 4-0
      Ti-cron (nonabsorbable braided polyesther) and a running epitendinous suture according to
      Silfverskiöld with a 6-0 Prolene (nonabsorbable monofil polypropylene). Any concomitant
      injury of the FDS tendon is repaired according to the surgeons preference. Any digital nerve
      is repaired with microsurgical instruments and a 8-0 or 9-0 S&T (non-absorbable polyamide
      monofilament).

      Rehabilitaion

      1-3 days after surgery the patient will be randomised to either passive mobilisation with
      rubber bands and active place-and-hold or to pure active rehabilitation at the hand
      rehabilitation unit in our clinic. The patients in both groups are closely followed by an
      occupational therapist for 12 weeks. Additional follow-up appointments are planned after 6
      and 12 months. Patients in both groups are allowed to do all kinds of normal activity after 3
      months and heavy manual work and gym training after 4 months.

      Active mobilisation The active mobilisation program is based on the two programs, Belfast
      (ref) and Billericay (ref). Our program is a mix between these two. On the first day of
      mobilisation (1-3 days after surgery) the dressings are changed and a dorsal splint with the
      wrist in neutral position and the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints in 60-80 degrees of
      flexion is made for the patient. Another removable volar plate keeping the fingers extended
      is used in addition to the dorsal splint between training sessions.

      The patient is instructed to flex the fingers passively with the other hand and then keep the
      fingers in flexion and do an active hold for 3 seconds. Then the fingers are extended
      actively as far as the splint allowes. This motion is done with 5 repetitions, 10 times per
      day with 1.5 hour resting period between sessions. Every second training session (i.e. every
      third hour) all fingers are flexed actively three times. After a week both the passive motion
      with place-and-hold and the true active motion is done with 10 repetions, 10 times per day
      with a restingtime of 1.5 hours between training sessions. Four weeks post surgery flexion
      and extension of the wrist is added with 10 repetitions, 4 times per day and joint-by-joint
      training for the injured finger with 3 repetitions 10 times per day in addition to the
      previous protocol.

      Passive mobilisation with place-and-hold Before the mobilisation starts the patients get
      their dressings changed and a new dorsal forearm plaster ending at the level of the proximal
      interphalangeal (PIP) joints with the wrist in neutral position and a dorsal block over the
      proximal phalanges creating an extensionblock for the MCP-joints of 60-80 degrees.
      Rubberbands are attached to all the fingernails and a small hook is fastened to the plaster
      to hang the rubberbands on creating a resting position for the fingers between training
      sessions. A night splint with the interphalangeal joints in extension is also made to protect
      the fingers and keep them in full extension when the patient sleeps.

      The patient is instructed to flex the fingers passively with the other hand one at a time and
      then keep the fingers in flexion and do a gentle squeeze, so called place-and-hold. Then the
      fingers are extended actively as far as the plaster allows. For four weeks the patient do
      this exercise with 10 repetitions, 10 times a day (7-8 repetitions on the first day) with a
      resting period of 1.5 hours between sessions. After four weeks the plaster is removed and
      replaced by a splint protecting the wrist in neutral position and the patient adds true
      active flexion of the fingers to the previous program with 10 repetitions 10 times per day.
      Six weeks post surgery the splint is removed and flexion and extension of the wrist is
      initiated.
    
  