
    
      Background The aging of the population associated with increased morbidity, on one hand, and
      technological advances providing life-sustaining treatments on the other, resulted in an
      increased number of mechanically ventilated patients in Internal Medicine wards. In a
      previous study the investigators found that about half of the hospitalization days in
      intermediate care units in Internal Medicine wards were utilized by older patients at the end
      of life. The mortality at 6 months from the time of admission was greater than 70%, unrelated
      to the type of treatment. The majority of the elderly patients surviving the acute stage were
      transferred to chronic long-term care hospitals. The Public Health System in Israel invests
      costly resources in providing care to mechanically ventilated patients in both acute and
      chronic care settings, in spite of unproved benefit on the quality of life and on life
      expectancy.

      Aims of the study

        1. Identification of patients and the factors affecting the decision-making process and
           outcome in mechanically ventilated patients in Internal Medicine wards in acute care
           hospitals.

        2. Development of a predictive model to classifying mechanically ventilated patients by
           outcome on the basis of patient characteristics on admission and the factors involved in
           decision-making.

        3. Assessment of medical resource investment according to the study model groups.

      Study hypothesis Identification of parameters predicting better outcome and potential for
      rehabilitation in elderly mechanically ventilated internal medicine patients, versus patients
      with poorer outcome who would need palliative care.

      Methods The study is a prospective observational study carried out in five Internal Medicine
      wards and the Medical Intensive Care Unit at the Rambam Health Care Campus in Haifa, Israel.
      All patients requiring mechanical ventilation will be included. Patients' medical and
      demographic data will be obtained from the hospital computerized record system. Data will be
      gathered regarding the events prior to ventilation and the indication for mechanical
      ventilation. In-hospital and post-admission outcome will be monitored. Mortality at 6 months
      will be obtained from the Israel National Population Registry. Descriptive statistical
      analysis will be performed, and multivariate logistic regression analysis will be applied to
      identify variables contributing to the need for ventilation and outcome.

      Importance of the study The approval of the 2005 Dying Patient Act in Israel, allowed for
      withholding of certain life-sustaining interventions at end of life. However, once an
      intervention such as mechanical ventilation has been commenced, the Law does not permit its
      withdrawing, making the decision to ventilate a patient irreversible. There is thus a clear
      need to improve the decision-making process related to undertaking mechanical ventilation in
      elderly internal medicine patients. In addition, the investigators believe that the study
      will highlight the issue and bring the policy makers to the establishing practical tools for
      health care professionals. The investigators also hope that the study will incite the general
      public attention to address the issue of advanced directives regarding undergoing invasive
      treatments such as mechanical ventilation at end of life. Finally, the investigators consider
      that adoption of a more evidence-based approach to undertaking mechanical ventilation, and
      consideration of patients' advanced directives, by health care providers in both community
      and in-patient settings, will lead to a better utilization of health resources and
      improvement of end of life of care.
    
  