
    
      This study is designed to evaluate patients with suspected or identified novel immune
      disorders, with a focus on abnormal immune homeostasis potentially due to defects in
      activation or apoptosis. Blood relatives of enrolled patients will also be evaluated.
      Affected individuals may have Mendelian gene defects involving mostly single or occasionally
      multiple genes. These patients may have signs and symptoms suggestive of clinically
      significant lymphocyte homeostasis disorders. However, some selected patients manifesting
      autoimmunity, autoinflammatory conditions, end-organ dysfunction, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)
      and cytomegalovirus (CMV) viremia, frequent infections, allergies, or laboratory
      abnormalities consistent with immune defects of research interest to the Laboratory of
      Clinical Immunology and Microbiology may also be studied under this protocol at the
      discretion of the Investigators.

      This protocol will facilitate the discovery of the role of genetic pathways and modes of
      inheritance associated with pathophysiological events leading to immune system dysregulation,
      particularly disorders of immune cell homeostasis. A better understanding of the genetics as
      well as biochemical and molecular basis of complex immune disorders could also lead to the
      development of novel therapeutic targets and approaches.

      Patients will undergo clinical evaluations that include history and physical examinations,
      blood sampling, radiological exams, genetic testing, skin biopsy, and other medically
      indicated procedures. Genetically related family members of patients may also be screened and
      evaluated for clinical, in vitro, and genetic correlates of immune abnormalities. Patients
      and blood relatives unable or too sick to travel to NIH Clinical Center (CC) may be evaluated
      through mail-in blood samples. Patients and their relatives will remain enrolled on this
      study to observe the natural history of the disorder and obtain blood, saliva, skin biopsy,
      or other specimens at periodic intervals. This study aims to enroll up to a total of 500
      patients and their family members.
    
  