
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) occurs after experiencing a traumatic event or events.
      PTSD is a public health problem that causes a great deal of suffering. This study will
      examine whether three six to eight-hour long sessions of methylenedioxymethamphetamine
      (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy scheduled three to five weeks apart can be safely administered
      to participants with PTSD, and whether combining a fully therapeutic dose of MDMA with
      psychotherapy, when compared with a low ("active placebo") dose of MDMA, will reduce PTSD
      symptoms, with symptoms measured three times during the study. People who receive the low
      dose of MDMA have the opportunity to take part in a second "open label" study continuation,
      wherein the participant will undergo three MDMA-assisted sessions, with the participant and
      the researchers knowing that a full dose of MDMA is being administered. People who receive
      the full dose of MDMA, and any person who received low-dose MDMA and does not undergo the
      open-label study continuation will have PTSD symptoms measured six and twelve months after
      the third session. People who take part in the open label study continuation have their PTSD
      symptoms checked six and 12 months after the third Phase II MDMA-assisted session.

      MDMA is a substance possessing unique effects that make it well suited to intensive
      psychotherapy. MDMA may belong to a new class of drugs, called entactogens, that produce
      feelings of closeness to others, empathy, well being, and insightfulness. Currently, MDMA is
      scheduled (illegal) in the US and Switzerland and cannot be used outside of research studies
      like this one. Anecdotal reports of therapy conducted before MDMA was made illegal suggest
      that MDMA-assisted psychotherapy may benefit people with PTSD, and there is an ongoing
      placebo-controlled study of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in people with crime or war-related
      PTSD occurring in the US.

      This study will examine MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in 12 individuals aged 18 years or older
      diagnosed with PTSD, with PTSD symptoms not improving after trying at least one treatment.
      Eight of 12 participants will be assigned to receive the full dose of MDMA, and four will be
      assigned to receive a low or "active placebo" dose of MDMA during each of three experimental
      sessions. People will be assigned to full or low-dose MDMA "by chance," as by flipping a
      coin.

      The study will last approximately four and a half months. In addition, people assigned to
      receive full-dose MDMA will have their PTSD symptoms measured six and 12 months later. The
      study involves up to eleven ordinary psychotherapy visits, without any MDMA, and three low or
      full-dose MDMA-assisted sessions. One psychotherapy session is scheduled 24 hours after each
      MDMA-assisted session.

      PTSD symptoms will be measured at the start of the study, three weeks after the second of
      three low or full-dose MDMA sessions, three weeks after the third low or full-dose MDMA
      session (approximately six weeks after the second session), two months after the third
      experimental session, and six and 12 months after either the third experimental session, or,
      if enrolled in Phase II, six and 12 months after the third open-label MDMA-assisted therapy
      session. Participants will undergo EEG (measuring brain waves) in combination with ERP
      (evoked response potential) technique before and after MDMA-assisted therapy that aim at
      spotting specific changes in brain function and structure that might be related to problems
      with early information processing, for which people with PTSD are known to have difficulties.
    
  