
    
      -  On arrival to Pediatric Emergency Center, patients will be attended by a pediatric
           specialist on call who will take history and perform full physical examination. Patients
           will be assessed for eligibility to the study based on the inclusion criteria.

        -  Guardians of eligible patients will be approached with the study design, objectives and
           risks; Patients will be included after obtaining a verbal and assigned written consent.

        -  A chest radiograph and Magnesium level in serum will be requested for all study patients
           upon recruitment.

        -  The observation physician will complete the data collection sheet that will include the
           patient's demographics, physical examination, bronchiolitis clinical severity
           score,oxygen saturation, chest radiograph findings and Magnesium level.

        -  Treatment will be delivered to enrolled patients as currently practice in PEC(Nebulized
           epinephrine 1:1000 1ml in 5 ml of 5% hypertonic saline, every 4 hours until discharge,
           for all patients and if there is history of Bronchial Asthma in mother, father or full
           sibling. And/or history of Eczema in the Child ,patients will start on dexamethasone
           1mg/kg orally stat.(max-10 mg/dose). Then 0,6 mg/kg orally once daily starting from
           second day of admission for 4 days).

        -  All patients will be randomized to receive either Magnesium sulfate intravenous single
           dose over 1 hour or placebo. And it will be given in the same time with currently
           practice treatment

        -  Epinephrine nebulization can be given on PRN basis up to a maximum of every one hour, at
           a dose of 0.5 mg/kg (min 2.5mg/dose and max 5 mg/dose) mixed in 5 ml of 5% hypertonic
           saline.•

        -  Bronchiolitis severity score (BSS) will be recorded at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16,20,24,36,48,60,72
           hours, and on discharge.

        -  Vital signs will be recorded at 0, 2, 4 hours and then every 4 hours from the
           administration of study medication.

        -  All patients will be followed up for two weeks post discharge by a phone call asking
           about the general condition, relapse of symptoms, or need for readmission.
    
  