
    
      Today's world is characterized among other things by a progressive increase in the aging
      population, due to a decrease in the birth rate and an increase in life expectancy. In
      developed countries, the number of older people is increasing, largely due to significant
      advances in health sciences and new life habits. The practice of physical activity is rapidly
      becoming a constant among the population (as its many health benefits are becoming known) and
      increasingly among the elderly population. As there are no previous studies in our country
      that observe and relate different physical and mental aspects in older active population that
      complies with the concept of "successful aging", it has been decided to carry out this
      research to try to detect the benefits and deficiencies present in the condition health of
      people considered active and over 65 years. From the results obtained, recommendation
      strategies from physiotherapy can be defined and the effects that the practice of physical
      activity has on different aspects of the person's health will be shown. Our hypothesis of the
      present study is that active older people who frequently engage in physical activity have
      good mental and physical health, as well as good respiratory condition and quality of life.

      Objective: Describe an active population over 60 years old, which complies with the concept
      of successful aging, in order to know its characteristics both at a physical and mental
      health level and to be able to make recommendations from physiotherapy.

      In addition, analyze the state and the different respiratory variables in an active elderly
      population, know the state of mental health, detect signs related to anxiety or depression,
      know the quality and possible sleep disorders. Also analyze and relate physical health and
      mental health, and know the level of quality of life in this population group.

      Material and methods Study design. Descriptive study developed at the University of Valencia.
      Participants. Active people over 60 years of age recruited from two associations from the
      city of Valencia, Spain will be part of the study.

      Pain was assessed using the Visual Analogue Scale, the level of physical activity performed
      using the IPAQ questionnaire, quality of life using the SF-12v2, sleep quality using the
      Pittsburg questionnaire, and mood using the depression scale and Goldberg's anxiety, as well
      as functional tests to assess respiratory status.
    
  