
    
      Control of blood glucose levels is beneficial during pregnancy, however, the ability to
      effectively monitor patient's blood glucose levels is challenging and time consuming for
      patients and care providers. Patients must keep track of their own glucose levels and take
      the initiative to check blood glucose multiple times per day. Traditionally, patients record
      their glucose levels in a logbook, which they bring with them during an office visit or use
      to report their glucose levels over the phone. Non compliance and factitious reporting are
      not uncommon. Obstetricians and or diabetes program staff spend hours communicating with
      patients to obtain and record glucose values therefore alternatives to phone calls are
      needed.

      Investigators performed a prospective randomized cross over study comparing a conventional
      voicemail (control) system for home glucose reporting with a cell phone/internet reporting
      system (Confidant). The primary outcome measure was compliance with home blood glucose
      fingerstick reporting. Compliance was determined by the number of home glucose fingersticks
      reported / expected (%). The secondary outcome was patient satisfaction. Subjects were
      participants in the Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children's diabetes in pregnancy
      program known as "A Sweeter Choice". IRB approval was obtained before starting the study and
      all subjects received informed consent. The study was funded by Hawai'i Medical Service
      Association, a medical insurance company in Hawaii. The Confidant equipment was supplied by
      Hookele Personal Health Planners, LLC. None of the Ho'okele or Hawaii Medical Service
      Association staff were involved in data collection or analysis. Study subjects were
      randomized to Confidant or the control system at the entry into the diabetes program during
      consultation with the Maternal Fetal Medicine physician. After randomization, subjects
      performed the assigned monitoring system for 3 weeks. After three weeks, they switched to the
      other monitoring system. A satisfaction survey was completed after three weeks on the second
      system was completed.
    
  