
    
      African American men have higher diagnosis and death rates from prostate cancer than any
      other ethnic group. After treatment for prostate cancer, African American men also report
      slower recovery, including physical symptoms (e.g., sexual dysfunction, urinary incontinence)
      that can persist well beyond the immediate post-treatment period. Despite the evidence that
      African American men have poorer outcomes following prostate cancer treatment, very little is
      known about how to improve quality of life and enhance recovery in this group of survivors.

      This study will test the effectiveness of an 8-week group intervention for African American
      men who have been treated for prostate cancer. The group intervention is based on 1) the
      cognitive-behavioral theoretical approach to improving adjustment to cancer and 2)
      masculinity theory as it relates to coping strengths and preferences in men. In this group
      intervention African American prostate cancer survivors will be taught a variety of coping
      skills for managing both the physical and emotional challenges of living with prostate
      cancer. The coping skills training groups will consist of 6-8 survivors and will be conducted
      in both medical center clinic settings and community settings (e.g., churches). Each group
      session will be co-led by an African American psychologist and an African American male lay
      person. We will test the effectiveness of this coping skills intervention for improving
      survivors' quality of life in 4 areas: 1) distress related to sexual, urinary, and bowel
      symptoms; 2) self-confidence for managing symptoms; 3) overall emotional functioning; and 4)
      overall physical functioning. The effect of the coping skills group intervention in these 4
      areas will be compared to a comparison intervention in which African American men will
      receive basic education about prostate cancer, but will not participate in coping skills
      training. The recruitment goal for this project is 154 African American men treated for early
      stage prostate cancer.

      Due to the comprehensive nature of the coping skills training intervention (i.e., a variety
      of coping skills targeting both physical and emotional challenges of prostate cancer), we
      expect coping skills training to be significantly more effective than cancer education.
      Ultimately, findings from this study could fill a significant gap that exists in the research
      literature regarding our understanding of how to help African American men achieve the
      fullest possible recovery following prostate cancer treatment.
    
  