
    
      Study design:

      The study will involve two distinct parts (flow chart):

        1. In-hospital assessment of effectiveness and tolerability of 10 & 20 mg levocetirizine
           vs. 100 & 200 mg hydroxyzine in subjects to be weaned off corticosteroid treatment.

        2. Subsequent ambulatory treatment of the same patients with 20 mg levocetirizine alone and
           15 mg levocetirizine + 50 hydroxyzine at night

      Protocol description Patients with chronic urticaria treated with systemic steroids are
      traditionally admitted to the Clinic of Allergy and Asthma in Sofia to try to wean them off
      this class of drugs. Hospitalized patients will be invited to take part in the study and will
      sign an informed consent. They will be assessed by standard questionnaire and by objective
      assessment of the urticarial lesions, QoLQ will be filled in, discomfort due to urticaria,
      day time somnolence and night time sleep quality will be assessed on a visual analogue scale.
      Systemic steroids will be withheld and patients would be given 10 mg levocetirizine on Days 1
      & 2; after a new assessment of quality of night time sleep and day time somnolence, 100 mg
      hydroxyzine will be given on Days 3 & 4. The cycle will be repeated on Days 5 & 6 and Days 7
      & 8 with 20 mg levocetirizine and 200 hydroxyzine respectively. At this point patients will
      be discharged and randomized to two treatment arms: levocetirizine 20 mg per day and
      levocetirizine 15 mg + hydroxyzine 50 mg as evening dose for 5 days. Diaries will be given to
      patients for assessment of daily SS, day time somnolence score, quality of night time sleep,
      facial tissue swelling, rescue medication with oral prednisolone, adverse events, intake of
      any other medications. After 5 days the patients from arm 1 and 2 will be crossed over to the
      alternative treatment. QoLQ questionnaire will be filled out at onset, at cross over (day 5)
      and at the end of the 10 day treatment period. On completion of the study subjects will be
      asked to state there preference for one treatment or the other.
    
  