
    
      The goal of this study is to evaluate two sets of interventions to increase acceptance of
      hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccination in patients attending sexually transmitted disease (STD)
      clinics. The 1st specific aim is to assess the effect of message-framing on vaccine
      acceptance. Framing theory suggests that positively framed messages (i.e., benefits of
      getting vaccine) are more effective than negatively framed messages (i.e., dangers of not
      getting vaccine) in stimulating preventive health behaviors. Research on Framing Theory and
      engagement in health behaviors suggests also that the effects may be moderated by other
      attitudinal factors, including perceived risk of the behavior and degree of involvement in
      the message. The 2nd aim is to evaluate the effect of provider-based interventions. Prior
      research suggests that recommendations by health providers are very important in patients'
      decisions regarding acceptance of health care procedures. Patients (18 years and older) will
      be recruited and followed from Chicago and Indianapolis STD clinics during routine medical
      visits. An audio computer-assisted self-interview (A-CASI) will cover demographics, risk
      behaviors, and perceived risk associated with vaccination. Subjects then will be randomized
      to receive a gain-framed, loss-framed, or information only message regarding HBV immunization
      (also delivered by A-CASI). Upon completion of the message-framing intervention, subjects
      will complete additional attitude questions via A-CASI. Upon completion of the A-CASI
      subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two provider intervention conditions: 1. vaccine
      offered or 2. vaccine recommended. For both conditions free HBV immunization will be provided
      by a nurse practitioner. Subsequently, postcard reminders will be sent and phone call
      reminders made for follow-up appointments for those receiving the first and second doses of
      vaccine. The primary outcome measure is HBV vaccination.
    
  