
    
      Study Design A prospective randomized double blind study will be conducted to assess the
      effect of a single preoperative dose of gabapentin on postoperative opioid consumption within
      the first 72 hours when compared to oral placebo in patients undergoing rhinoplasty at The
      Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center.

      Preoperative Period After assessing patients' eligibility on the day of the surgery and
      written informed consent is obtained, subjects will be randomized into two groups: placebo
      group (group I) and gabapentin group (group II).

      Pain level will be assessed and recorded at baseline using the verbal NPRS. A single dose of
      study medication will be administered within 2 hours before scheduled surgery time. Patients
      randomized to group I will receive matched oral placebo whereas patients randomized to group
      II will receive 900 mg of oral gabapentin. Once provided by pharmacy, the study medication
      will be administered by a blinded nurse in the preoperative area.

      Intraoperative Period General anesthesia with desflurane and fentanyl will be provided in all
      patients. Other anesthetic procedures including intraoperative monitoring, muscle relaxation,
      endotracheal intubation, mechanical ventilation, fluid management, and the use of intravenous
      dexamethasone will be carried out in accordance with standard procedures. Ondansetron (4 mg)
      will be used as PONV prophylaxis in all patients 30 minutes before the end of the surgery.
      Moreover, an orogastric tube (OGT) will be used for stomach emptying at the end of the
      surgery and before the emergence of anesthesia.

      Postoperative period Closure time will be recorded as T0. The time elapsed from PACU arrival
      until the first opioid dose (either oral or IV) will be recorded. Once in PACU, patients will
      receive IV fentanyl as pain rescue medication if required and PACU length of stay will be
      also recorded. After patients are considered stable based on clinician assessment and
      willingness to start oral intake, a treatment with oral acetaminophen 650 mg scheduled every
      6 hours and oral oxycodone (5-10 mg) as needed (PRN) will be initiated for all patients.

      Anesthesiologists and researchers evaluating postoperative outcomes will be blinded. The
      verbal NPRS will be used to assess postoperative pain level at PACU arrival, and every 30
      minutes until hospital discharge. After discharge, pain levels will be recorded by patients
      in their diary at T6, T12, T24 (6, 12, and 24 hours after T0 respectively), and before
      requiring breakthrough medication (oxycodone) until postoperative day (POD) 7.

      Follow-up phase Patients will be discharged home as per standard of care with oral
      acetaminophen 650 mg scheduled every 6 hours and a prescription for oral oxycodone 5-10 mg
      every 4 hours as needed (PRN). At discharge, the patient will be instructed to record his
      oral opioid consumption (oxycodone) and NPRS scores before each oxycodone dose until POD 7
      (see attached diary).

      A follow-up visit will be matched with the standard postsurgical visit at POD 7 in order to
      collect the diary, and count the remaining pills from the oxycodone bottle. Adverse events
      (AEs) including nausea and vomiting will be assessed and documented during the whole study
      participation.
    
  