
    
      An intertrochanteric (ITF) trochanteric fracture of the femur is an exclusively extra
      capsular fracture in which the fracture line extends from the greater trochanter to the
      lesser trochanter. Usually, it is an isolated fracture, related to osteoporosis, which occurs
      due to low-energy trauma such as a fall during gait. It is the most common fracture of the
      proximal femur. Its incidence has increased significantly over the past decades and is
      expected to double in the next 25 years, with an important global economic impact . It
      affects women in the seventh and eighth decades of life, an age group older than femoral neck
      fractures. For this reason, the mortality of intertrochanteric fractures is twice that of the
      femoral neck.

      The treatment is surgical, in which the objective is the stable internal fixation and the
      patient's early ambulation. The most used materials are plates with dynamic compression
      screws (Dinamic Hip Screw-DHS) and intramedullary nails (specifically cephalomedullary nails
      or Proximate femoral nail (PFN). Patients who have suffered this fracture are at high risk
      for cardiovascular, pulmonary, infections and thrombosis. About a third of patients die in
      the first year after the injury, approximately 50% become incapable of walking alone or
      climbing stairs and 20% need permanent home care.

      Functional outcomes and treatment mortality are related including factors perioperative
      anemia and blood loss. In order to prevent blood loss, many strategies have been taken, such
      as closed or percutaneous fracture reduction and surgical approach with minimally invasive
      techniques such as fixation with short intramedullary nails (PFN). Even so, even with these
      precautions, blood loss in this surgical procedure appears to be greater than expected, with
      blood loss of the order of 2100ml. It was also observed that surgeons underestimate the
      amount of blood lost in the perioperative period, having estimated a median difference of
      1473ml between the apparent blood loss and the one that actually occurred with the use of
      cephalomedullary nails. Blood loss in ITF is greater than in femoral neck fractures and more
      often requires blood transfusions.

      Blood loss management and the inherent risks of anemia can be circumvented with blood
      transfusion. However, blood transfusion is not without risks and complications, such as
      hypersensitivity and hemolytic reactions, cardiac overload, infectious diseases. Homologous
      transfusions are associated with prolonged hospital stay, increased costs and increased
      patient morbidity and mortality. Some surgeries may need to wait for the blood supply to be
      replenished and patients in need of phenotyped blood find it even more difficult and may wait
      days to weeks before finding their proper blood type.

      So, alternatives have been used to avoid the use of blood such as saline solutions, use of
      erythropoietin and antifibrinolytic agents . Tranexamic acid (TXA) is a drug that interferes
      with fibrinolysis, in use for more than 50 years in surgery, particularly in cardiac surgery.

      Only recently, TXA has sparked interest in orthopedic surgeries. Then it has been used in
      spine surgery, and joint replacement, without reports of complications. Despite extensive
      studies on its use in elective orthopedic surgeries, and its high safety profile, there are
      few studies regarding its use in orthopedic trauma surgery. Studies have shown the
      effectiveness and safety of TXA at FIT, but presented different forms of administration
      (intravenous, topical, infiltrative) . Despite promising results to contain bleeding in
      elective orthopedic surgery and fractures, in daily practice, TXA is not very popular,
      especially in fractures, and has not been used routinely by all doctors. Studies have not
      been found in the literature about the topical use of TXA compared to intravenous use in FIT.
    
  