
    
      Mortality and morbidity events (reversible ischemic neurological deficit, ischemic and
      hemorrhagic stroke, systemic embolism, any bleeding, prosthesis valve thrombosis and death)
      were evaluated in an exploratory manner. The details of the trial design have been previously
      described.8 The trial protocol was approved by the local ethics and research committee in the
      city of Salvador-Brazil, and written informed consent was obtained from all patients. An
      independent data and safety monitoring board closely monitored the trial. All the members
      contributed to the interpretation of the results, wrote the first version of the manuscript
      and approved all versions, made the decision to submit the manuscript for publication, and
      vouch for the accuracy and completeness of the data reported and the fidelity of this article
      to the study protocol.

      Patients eligible for inclusion in the study were 18 to 64 years old, underwent mitral and/or
      aortic bioprosthesis valve replacement at least 3 months prior to entering the study and had
      documented AF postoperatively in addition to exclusion of atrial thrombus or valve prosthesis
      thrombosis by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). Non-contrast brain computed tomography
      (CT) without hemorrhage or findings of acute cerebral infarction on the last 2 days of
      screening was also necessary.

      Patients were randomly assigned to receive dabigatran or warfarin by a computer generated
      list of random numbers performed to 1:1 ratio between the groups. Following that, the
      allocation sequence was concealed from the researcher enrolling participants in sequentially
      numbered, opaque, black, sealed envelopes. After randomization, patients had study visits
      scheduled at 7 days (via telephone) and at 30 days (personally) with a monthly follow-up for
      90 days. After this, non-contrast brain CT and TEE were repeated. The former was executed to
      document possible cerebral events with no clinical expression and the latter to analyze the
      incidence of intracardiac thrombi, new dense spontaneous echo contrast (SEC) or its
      resolution, in addition to thrombosis or dysfunction of valvular prosthesis.
    
  