
    
      The sample of the study will consist of literate individuals who applied to Ankara Hacettepe
      University Faculty of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation
      Department and were diagnosed with stroke. The number of cases in the study will be
      determined as 5 to 10 times the number of items in the questionnaire, and 65-130 individuals
      will be included.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Having a definite stroke diagnosis

        -  Those who have stable post-stroke systemic findings

        -  Mini-mental test score of 24 and above

        -  Those who can walk 10 meters unsupported

        -  Those who passed 2 months after stroke.

      Criteria for exclusion from the study:

      - Having musculoskeletal problems that affect the mobility of the individual.

      The study will use ABILOCO, which has been validated for individuals with stroke. Permission
      was obtained from Gilles D. Caty, the development of the questionnaire, to conduct
      translation and validity and cultural adaptation stduies into Turkish. In the study, firstly,
      the original English version of the questionnaire will be translated into Turkish by two
      professional translators independent of the study, and then it will be translated back into
      its original language English by two native English speakers who do not have a medical
      background. Translators will be brought together to discuss the two obtained versions of the
      questionnaire. The latest version of the questionnaire will be translated into the native
      language of the inventory and its compliance will be checked. Mini-Mental Test will be
      applied to determine the cognitive status of the participants. Berg Balance Scale and Timed
      Get Up and Go Test will be applied for mobility assessment. After that, the ABILOCO
      questionnaire will be applied to the participants. In order to test the reliability of the
      survey, the survey will be repeated 7 days later. Informed consent will be obtained from each
      participant regarding their voluntary participation in the study and their sociodemographic
      information will be recorded.
    
  