
    
      The proposed trial is a single arm, two stage trial looking for an efficacy signal in the
      neoadjuvant setting in patients with PTEN-null tumors. The active therapy is a combination of
      androgen deprivation therapy, darolutamide, and ipatasertib. Patients will be treated for 6
      months prior to prostatectomy, since previous studies have shown that pCR+MRD rate is higher
      with 6 months of ADT + abiraterone (24%) than 3 months (4%) (Taplan ME et al. J Clin Oncol.
      2014;32(33):3705-15). Since the combination has not been evaluated before, a lead-in cohort
      in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer will be performed to evaluate safety
      and drug-drug interaction.

      The lead-in cohort will enroll 6 patients to assess the safety of ipatasertib and
      darolutamide. Ipatasertib has already been evaluated in combination with the AR pathway
      inhibitors abiraterone and enzalutamide, where 400 mg was found to be safe. Therefore
      patients will receive the expected final dose of darolutamide 600 mg BID and ipatasertib 400
      mg daily. Toxicities will be monitored for 28 days, and blood samples will be drawn for
      pharmacokinetic (PK) studies. If one or fewer patients experience a DLT the trial will
      advance to the neoadjuvant setting. If two or more patients experience a DLT at 400 mg, the
      dose will be reduced for already enrolled patients and another 6 patients will be enrolled to
      evaluate darolutamide 600 mg BID and ipatasertib 200 mg daily.

      PK evaluations will continue for a total of 6 months. Enrollment in the neoadjuvant cohort
      can proceed before PK studies are complete.

      Patients will have response evaluated at 12 weeks, including PSA response and radiographic
      response per modified PCWG3. If there is progression on bone scan alone, patients should have
      confirmatory bone scan in at least 6 weeks later. Patients will continue on therapy until the
      time of progression.
    
  