
    
      Theoretical Background: COPD research and practice has focused predominately on evaluating
      and treating the sensory component of dyspnea. However, dyspnea (like pain) is a complex
      symptom with sensory and affective components. Current dyspnea scales are limited in scope by
      only measuring the sensory component of dyspnea, and have high respondent and data collection
      burden and/or high measurement error. Only sensory dyspnea to date has been used to classify
      COPD severity. The DMQ-CAT addresses the limitations of other dyspnea scales by using
      state-of-the-art item banking method techniques to provide a tailored multidimensional
      dyspnea assessment using only a minimal number of items. The 71-item DMQ-CAT captures four
      distinct dyspnea constructs: intensity, anxiety, activity avoidance, and self-efficacy to
      evaluate outcomes of COPD pharmacologic, pulmonary rehabilitation, and cognitive-behavioral
      therapy. The DMQ-CAT showed evidence of minimal ceiling and floor effects, acceptable Rasch
      model fit statistics, high internal consistency reliability, good accuracy compared to the
      total item pool, and good to excellent concurrent and known-groups validity. The relative
      sensitivity to change, responsiveness, and predictive validity of the DMQ-CAT is not
      currently known.

      Hypotheses: The DMQ-CAT has superior sensitivity to change and responsiveness compared to
      other widely used COPD dyspnea scales. The DMQ-CAT has superior predictive validity compared
      to other dyspnea measures to predict acute COPD exacerbation incidence and severity.

      Study Design: To achieve Aims 1 and 2, the investigators will use a prospective observational
      design and a target sample of 110 pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) outpatients with COPD. The
      investigators will use distribution-based statistics to compare the sensitivity to change of
      dyspnea instruments including: effect sizes, standardized response means (SRM), standardized
      error of measurement (SEM), and the percentage of participants exceeding the minimal
      detectable change (MDC90) from baseline to discharge from PR. The investigators will estimate
      the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) for the DMQ-CAT and compare the percentage
      of participants exceeding MCID thresholds using established MCIDs for dyspnea instruments.
      For Aim 3, the investigators will use a retrospective observational design to conduct
      secondary analyses from existing data of 240 patients with COPD. The investigators will use
      odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) and the area under the receiver operator
      curve (ROC) to compare the predictive validity of different dyspnea measures.
    
  