
    
      Study Design

      This is a multicenter, single arm, 48-week open-label pilot study of DRV/R & ETR in acute HIV
      infection. Study sites will be members of the Duke-UNC Acute HIV Infection Study Consortium.
      If baseline resistance is detected after treatment begins (e.g. evidence of pre-existing
      baseline resistance (genotypic or phenotypic) that may adversely affect the efficacy of the
      study regimen), the patient may elect to alter treatment as per best clinical practice. The
      new regimen will not be provided by the study, but will be obtained for the participant
      through available clinical resources.

      After patients are identified with acute HIV infection, they will be offered the opportunity
      to participate in the study. Patients will also be offered the opportunity to co-enroll in
      CHAVI 001 and 012, studies that follow the virological and immunological response of patients
      with AHI, regardless of the initiation of ART. An overall consent form will be signed for
      study participation, and separate informed consents with signatures will be obtained for
      optional studies. Patients will be eligible for participation after signing the overall
      consent - agreeing to participate in studies of other compartment specimens is not required
      for enrollment. At the initial visit, patient eligibility will be confirmed with appropriate
      laboratory testing (see "STUDY POPULATION"). When eligibility is verified, entry laboratory
      studies will be obtained, and the participants will be started on DRV/r, and ETR. All
      participants will be followed at regular intervals thereafter as specified in the schedule of
      evaluations. Participants meeting criteria for virologic failure will be offered the
      opportunity to switch to the best available regimen as selected by their HIV provider.

      Hypothesis

      Combination therapy with DRV/R & ETR will suppress plasma viremia and improve immunologic
      function in antiretroviral (ART)-naïve, acutely HIV-infected (AHI) patients, and will limit
      replication in HIV-1 cellular compartments.
    
  