
    
      The volunteers will stay overnight in the Rheumatology Centre; 24-hour Research Facility on
      two occasions (Night A and Night B) 12-16 days apart. This slight flexibility will allow some
      leeway in arranging residency nights. In general the investigators will aim for 14 days.
      After Night A, each volunteer will be randomized (in pre-prepared sealed envelopes) to take
      one tablet morning or evening. Half the patients will take active standard release
      prednisolone in the morning. The other half will receive active TRT Prednisone 7mg to be
      taken each evening at 22:00 until the day after Night B. All study medication will then be
      discontinued and standard therapy (prednisolone 15mg each morning) commenced. Patients will
      be reviewed after 2 weeks to ensure expected clinical response and to measure IL-6 and other
      cytokines in the blood sample that is also needed to check the acute phase response.

      On Night A and Night B, volunteers will attend the Rheumatology Centre at 15:00.

      First, standard assessment tools will be used by the research doctor to assess the state of
      the patient's condition.

      These assessments will be:

        -  Morning stiffness (minutes)

        -  Pain (visual analogue scale)

        -  Patient's opinion of condition

        -  Clinician's opinion of condition

        -  Health Assessment Questionnaire

        -  BRAF-MDQ fatigue scale and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.

      An intravenous (IV) cannula will be inserted into the elbow area. At least one hour after the
      IV cannula is placed, but usually at 16:30, a blood sample (2ml) will be taken through the IV
      cannula and the cannula flushed. At 22:30 the main lights will be switched off and the
      volunteer encouraged to sleep. In total, 20 samples will be taken from the cannula over 24
      hours.

      The investigators will calculate mean and standard deviation (or non-parametric analysis if
      the data are not normally distributed) for blood cytokines for each time point. These mean
      and standard deviations will be compared for pre- and post-TRT prednisone samples.
    
  