
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility of the concurrent chemoradiotherapy regimen of
      paclitaxel and vinorelbine with standard chest radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer. II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose limiting
      toxicities of this regimen in this patient population. III. Determine the radiologic response
      rate of induction chemotherapy with carboplatin and gemcitabine in this patient population.
      IV. Evaluate the pathologic response rate in patients undergoing resection. V. Evaluate the
      time to progression, overall survival, and quality of life in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of vinorelbine. Patients receive induction
      chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 followed by gemcitabine IV
      over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses. At 2 weeks
      following completion of induction chemotherapy, patients receive vinorelbine IV over 10
      minutes followed by paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes weekly and radiotherapy daily for 5
      consecutive days a week on weeks 1-6. Following initial induction chemotherapy, patients with
      stable or regressive disease may receive an additional 2-4 courses of carboplatin and
      gemcitabine at investigator's discretion. At approximately 2-6 weeks following completion of
      chemoradiotherapy, patients with resectable/operable disease undergo surgical resection.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of vinorelbine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 3
      of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity. Quality of life is assessed in all patients.
      Patients are followed at 1 month.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 38-47 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-18
      months.
    
  