
    
      Vascular stains, commonly called "port wine birthmarks," are vascular anomalies that affect
      0.3-0.5% of newborns; they impact quality of life due to soft tissue overgrowth, nodularity
      and life-altering, stigmatizing disfigurement. Laser treatment is the standard of care and
      relies on photocoagulation of vessels. Yet less than 25% are reported to clear entirely; the
      reason for this lack of response is poorly understood. Recently, mosaic mutations in genes
      that control cell-cycle regulation including GNAQ, GNA11, PiK3CA and others were elucidated
      as a genetic cause for these birthmarks. This finding has transformed our fundamental
      understanding of their pathophysiology. It provides a molecular explanation for laser
      resistance, as these genes share oncogenic pathways that result in synchronous, tightly
      regulated cellular proliferation and growth. Most importantly, this discovery has unlocked
      the potential to utilize pharmacologic blockade of activated downstream pathways to improve
      outcomes.

      This proposal aims to create a targeted laser algorithm for vascular stains with genotyping
      and deep, paired clinical phenotyping. In a small subset of patients with confirmed
      GNAQ/GNA11 genotyping, the investigators will utilize single cell spatial transcriptome
      profiling of affected tissue to drive drug discovery. Upon completion of this project, the
      investigators will have refined genotype-phenotype correlations enhanced by novel imaging of
      targeted tissue, all of which will accelerate precision-based treatments to prevent
      disfigurement and improve quality of life. These results will provide critical data for
      implementation of clinical trials that will shift treatment paradigms from a single,
      ineffective destructive treatment modality to a targeted pharmacologic intervention coupled
      with light.

      The investigators hypothesize that clearance of port wine birthmarks will require: 1) A
      precision-based approach including optimal laser dosimetry informed by novel angiographic
      imaging, genotype, and 2) pathway specific-targeted pharmacologic blockade of activated
      pathways informed by investigation of downstream effectors. The long-term goal is to shift
      treatment paradigms from a single ineffective destructive modality to a targeted laser source
      coupled with targeted topical therapy.

      Aim 1: Correlate genotype with clinical phenotype

        -  1.1 Correlate genotype with comprehensive phenotyping on available participants. When
           stratified by participant age, the hypothesis is that genotype will influence vessel
           size, with greater cell-cycle activation associated with larger median vessel diameter
           and depth on OCT.

        -  1.2 Correlate clinical phenotype with dynamic optical coherence tomography (OCT). The
           investigators hypothesize that participant age will be the greatest predictor of median
           vessel size and depth on OCT.

        -  1.3 Collect both quantitative and qualitative outcomes in participants treated with OCT
           to evaluate the participant experience utilizing this adjuvant modality in treatment.

        -  1.4 Integrate OCT data to create a targeted laser algorithm by age and/or genotype to
           optimize photo-coagulation of mutated cells.

      Aim 2: Determine the molecular mechanism of facial vascular stains to develop
      pathway-specific therapies

        -  2.1 In 4-6 children with confirmed GNAQ/GNA11 mutations, perform biopsies from affected
           and normal tissue, collect blood and saliva samples, to facilitate targeted high-depth
           next generation sequencing (NGS)

        -  2.2 Identify novel downstream genotype-specific targets using unbiased spatial
           transcriptomic analysis through single cell genotyping with targeted evaluation of 3
           pathways for which topical inhibitors are currently in development (PiK3CA, mTOR, and
           MEK/ERK).

      Research Design:

      Once informed consent has been obtained, a visual skin exam will be done by the study
      dermatologist to document the cutaneous findings and photographs of the affected area(s) will
      be taken for this study. The photographs will be used to determine the genotype-phenotype
      correlations and will be shared with the coordinating center.

      Photographs will be stored electronically in a secure HIPAA compliant manner according to
      each site's policies.

      At the time of enrollment or at a subsequent visit, but only once during participation in the
      study, subjects can agree to provide any of the following non-medically necessary samples for
      genetic studies: blood sample, saliva sample, skin punch biopsy (normal skin or affected
      skin), surgical tissue specimens, paraffin-embedded tissue samples (from previous surgeries).
      Collection of any of these samples is optional.

      Clinical phenotyping of participants will be augmented through use of dynamic OCT to
      characterize the mean diameter and depth of blood vessels. OCT will be performed at baseline
      and prior to each standard of care laser treatment. Anatomic landmarks for choice of OCT
      placement will be decided by the study physician, with the goal to image the most prominent
      area of the stain. In a subset of subjects, OCT measurements will also be taken post standard
      of care laser treatment.

      A questionnaire will be completed at each visit by the participant and by the parent/guardian
      of participants ages 8-17 years. The questionnaire will ask how the participants and/or their
      parent/guardian feel about the results of the laser treatment and how they feel about using
      OCT in addition to their standard treatment.
    
  