
    
      In recent years, a number of investigators have shown that combining signal transduction
      agents with ionizing radiation results in significant antitumor effects without an increase
      in normal tissue toxicity. There are numerous lines of evidence that Histone deacetylase
      (HDAC) inhibitors have been shown to enhance the radiosensitivity of tumor cells in vitro and
      in vivo 1-6. Vorinostat (Zolinza, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid - SAHA) a potent histone
      deacetylase, has recently been approved for clinical use for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. It
      has the potential to inhibit tumor growth and proliferation7-13, tumor angiogenesis14 and
      enhance radiation response15 with minimal toxicity. This phase I study, is based on the range
      of efficacy of Vorinostat and its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. This study will
      evaluate the safety of combination of Vorinostat and daily-fractionated radiation therapy.
      This information is critical for any combined future combined modality trials that involves
      radiation therapy to the brain.

      Vorinostat was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on 6-Oct-2006 for the
      treatment of cutaneous manifestations in patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) who
      have progressive, persistent or recurrent disease on or following two systemic therapies.

      Based on preclinical, clinical efficacy and safety data, it is anticipated that Vorinostat in
      combination with radiation therapy can be administered safely and will be tolerated in
      patients with brain metastases. In addition, within the recognized limits of a Phase I
      clinical trial, this study may provide an assessment of the anti-tumor activity of Vorinostat
      in combination with radiation therapy in patients with brain metastases.

      The present study will investigate the safety, tolerability and spectrum of side effects of
      Vorinostat in combination with radiation therapy. As such, this study will characterize the
      dose limiting toxicities (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of in combination with
      radiation therapy in patients with brain metastases.
    
  