
    
      The goal of a one-way tracheotomy tube speaking valve is to allow cognitively intact
      individuals who require a tracheotomy tube communicate with their own voice. All non-verbal
      communication strategies have shortcomings. Lip reading is unreliable, communication boards
      are simplistic, writing very laborious, and computerized augmentative communication systems
      too costly. This inability to communicate effectively prevents optimal patient participation
      in their plan-of-care. Verbal communication, therefore, plays an integral role in
      psychological functioning, social interactions, and overall medical care.

      The primary criteria for determining success or failure of any one-way tracheotomy tube
      speaking valve is how well it allows for adequate voice intensity greater than ambient room
      noise to achieve both audible voice production and intelligible speech. The first purpose of
      this study is to investigate voice production and speech intelligibility abilities associated
      with the Blom low profile voice inner cannula and the Passy-Muir one-way tracheotomy tube
      speaking valves. It is hypothesized that there will be no significant differences between the
      two speaking valves regarding physiologic parameters, voice production, or speech
      intelligibility capabilities.

      There are conflicting reports in the literature regarding the relationship between a
      tracheotomy tube and swallowing success. Some authors report an improvement in swallowing
      success when the tracheotomy tube is occluded while others report no change in aspiration
      status based on occlusion status of the tracheotomy tube. Recently, it has been reported that
      there was no causal relationship between the tracheotomy tube and aspiration status. There is
      a paucity of research, to date, reporting on movement of the hyolaryngeal complex based upon
      occlusion status of a tracheotomy tube or presence of a tracheotomy tube. The second purpose
      of this study is to investigate how the Blom low profile voice inner cannula and the
      Passy-Muir one-way tracheotomy tube speaking valves impact on swallowing behavior and
      movement of the hyolaryngeal complex during routine diagnostic modified barium swallow
      evaluations.
    
  