
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the rate of complete remission (CR) after induction therapy with the combination
      of "7+V" (vosaroxin and standard dose infusional cytosine arabinoside [ara-C]) for patients
      with newly diagnosed, previously untreated acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Frequency of grade 3-5 adverse events related to administration of "7+V".

      II. To evaluate for the presence of minimal residual disease (MRD) remaining after "7+V"
      induction and/or re-induction.

      III. To determine the CR/CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) rate after one and/or
      2 cycles of "7+V" induction.

      IV. To determine the time to neutrophil and platelet recovery following "7+V" induction.

      V. To assess disease-free survival (DFS) at 1 year (yr) of patients achieving CR/CRi after
      "7+V" induction.

      VI. To assess overall survival (OS) at 1 yr of all patients receiving protocol-defined
      therapy.

      VII. To determine the correlation of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) comorbidity
      index and Wheatley Index scores with disease response, DFS and OS.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. To describe the mutational burden of this cohort of AML patients.

        -  II. To correlate genomic aberration with response rate, DFS, and OS.

        -  III. To determine the number of patients treated with vosaroxin who eventually go to
           allogeneic HSCT.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive vosaroxin intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 4 and cytarabine IV continuously
      on days 1-7 (Induction-I). Patients with residual leukemia and for whom a second course is
      indicated in the judgment of the investigator may undergo a second course of treatment
      (Induction-II) 14-57 days after day 1 of Induction-1

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  