
    
      Background and Rationale: Dentofacial deformities in the maxillofacial skeleton often require
      surgical intervention to correct aesthetic and functional deficiencies (Naran, Steinbacher,
      and Taylor, 2018). Often, patients suffer a number of postoperative complications, including
      postoperative pain and muscle spasms (Phillips, Blakey, and Jaskolka, 2008). While
      post-operative analgesics are used, regimens are often unsatisfactory in their ability to
      alleviate patient discomfort (Raschke et al. 2018). Botulinum toxin type A variants (BoNT-A;
      including Botox®) are becoming an increasingly used intervention to treat muscle-related
      disorders in the head and neck region, including migraines, myofascial pain, and
      temporomandibular joint disorders (Walker & Dayan, 2014; Dodick et al, 2010; Mimeh, Fenech,
      Myers, & Ghanem, 2019; Khalifeh et al., 2016, Machado et al., 2020). This occurs by inducing
      a flaccid muscle paralysis, which alleviates tension-related discomfort (Kwon et al., 2019).
      Thus by injecting Botox® into the muscles surrounding the surgical area preoperatively,
      patients may experience a relief in tension-related muscle pain and better jaw function
      during recovery from surgery. In addition to its great safety profile, where side effects are
      either very minimal or exceedingly rare, Botox® may serve as a great supplemental option to
      current postoperative analgesic regimens (Dressler et al., 2015, Yeh et al., 2018).

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to investigate whether preoperative
      injection of Botox® into the temporalis and masseter in patients undergoing bilateral
      sagittal split osteotomies (BSSO) will improve pain scores and spasms in the immediate 2
      week, as well as 6 week, postoperative periods. Additionally, patients will be followed 5
      years from the time of surgery to look for indicators of relapse, including infection and
      hardware failure.

      Research question: Can injecting Botox® into facial muscles 2 weeks prior to orthognathic
      surgery result in decreased pain and muscle spasms postoperatively?

      Methods: The investigators plan to do a pilot study involving patients undergoing BSSO to
      evaluate postoperative pain scores and muscle spasms. There is a lack of evidence
      investigating post-operative pain management in orthognathic surgery using Botox®, thus the
      studies outlined in this proposal will serve as a pilot project. However, to guide sample
      size determination, another study investigating incobotulinumtoxinA, one of the variants of
      botulinum toxin with a similar potency profile to Botox® (Scaglione, 2016), was used. This
      product has been used as a therapeutic treatment for temporomandibular disorders to manage
      myofascial pain (Patel, Lerner, and Blitzer, 2017). For these studies, based on previous
      experiences, a pain difference of 15% was determined to be clinically significant. Assuming a
      normal distribution, a continuous pain outcome, with an ⍺-level of 0.05, and a power of 80%,
      the investigators estimate 32 patients/group will need to be enrolled to capture this
      difference.

      This will be a double-blinded study. The patients, principal investigators and trained
      observers analyzing the data will be blinded to the two groups. Half of the patients will
      receive BoNT-A injections (Botox® Therapeutic by Allergan, Inc), with the other half
      receiving 0.9% normal saline injections as a control cohort. Injections for both cohorts will
      be done two weeks preoperatively. Patients will be randomly designated to one of the two
      groups by a research assistant at Kingsway Oral and Maxillofacial surgery not named to the
      investigative team. Patients will be randomized into two groups using a 2:2 randomized block
      design. A computer-generated algorithm developed the randomization sequence which allowed for
      allotment of each patient into either group 1 (indicating Botox® injection) or 2 (indicating
      saline injection). Patients will not be informed of the group they belong to, only that they
      will be injected with either Botox® or saline; the surgical assistants will prepare either
      the Botox® injection or the 0.9% normal saline injection. The injection will be given to the
      surgeons performing the procedures with no knowledge of which patients will be getting which
      injection.

      BSSO will be performed by Dr. Clayton Davis, Dr. Kevin Lung, and Dr. Matt Fay according to
      Kinsgway Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery clinical protocols. Patients will be asked to
      complete a numerical response scale (NRS) daily for 14 consecutive days, starting on
      postoperative day 1. Each day, the highest pain rating will be recorded as a whole number on
      a 0-10 scale. In the same 2 week timeframe, patients will also be asked to track any muscle
      spasms daily in the form of a "yes/no" question. At the 6 week follow-up appointment,
      patients will be asked to rate their pain at the current time on the NRS, and will be asked
      about further muscle spasms in the 2-6 week postoperative period in the form of a "yes/no"
      question. In order to track pain scores and muscle spasms, a paper questionnaire will be
      distributed to all patients. In addition to scoring pain daily on the NRS, patients will be
      asked to track: the time of the most severe pain, medications that were taken to help with
      the pain, pain intensity 1 hour after medication was taken, location of the pain, activities
      that led to onset of pain, and occurrence of muscle spasms. At the 2 week follow-up
      appointment, patients will bring back their paper copy of the questionnaire. Hardware failure
      and infection will be documented in the patient's chart, and will be viewed retrospectively
      study 5 years from now in the form of chart reviews of all study participants.
    
  