
    
      The GLUT1 Deficiency Syndrome (GLUT1-DS) is a debilitating, proteiform neurometabolic
      disorder caused by an impairment in the glucose transporter GLUT1 at the cell surface.
      Patients suffer from seizures, movement disorders and intellectual disabilities. A timely
      diagnosis is of prime importance as this haploinsufficiency can be improved by the so-called
      ketogenic diet.

      By diagnosing GLUT1-DS early, based on symptoms associated with GLUT1-DS, healthcare
      providers can prescribe the Keto diet therapy early in the disease progression, which could
      prevent impairment of central nervous system function caused by the disease. Therefore, an
      early diagnosis of GLUT1-DS for its treatment is crucial.

      Currently, the disease is very difficult to diagnose correctly and in a timely manner. The
      current diagnosis practice requires a lumbar puncture in order to determine if
      hypoglycorrhachia occurs. The diagnosis result is then supported by the detection of a
      heterozygous pathogenic variant in SLC2A1 gene. This diagnosis procedure is time consuming,
      expensive, and requires a geneticist's data interpretation. Currently, ketogenic diet therapy
      is the most efficient therapy for GLUT1-DS.

      METAglut1 is a first-in-kind IVD device used to aid in the diagnosis of the GLUT1 Deficiency
      Syndrome (GLUT1-DS) by quantifying the cell surface expression level of the glucose
      transporter 1 (GLUT1) on circulating human red blood cells. The METAglut1 IVD is primarily
      intended for use in pediatric patients older than 3 months, of both sexes, of any ethnic
      origin. The METAglut1 IVD may also be used to aid in the diagnosis of GLUT1-DS in adults with
      late onset symptoms.

      The METAglut1 IVD is authorized for marketing in the European Union pursuant to the CE mark
      and is currently being distributed in France.

      The study aims to validate the diagnostic performances of METAglut1. It will last for 2
      years, more than 40 centers will participate in the study across France. Up to 3,000 patients
      with symptoms compatible with GLUT1-DS will be included prospectively; each of them will be
      tested for METAglut1, in parallel and blindly of the reference strategy. The METAglut1 test
      is performed by Laboratoire CERBA (Saint-Ouen l'Aumône, France). A retrospective cohort of
      already diagnosed patients will also be analyzed to add more data. Concordance analysis with
      the glycorrhachia, the first biochemical dosage involved in the reference strategy, will be
      performed, and overall diagnostic performances of METAglut1 calculated.
    
  