
    
      Part I This is a lead-in dose-finding, open-label, non-randomised study of OPB-51602 in
      patients with advanced refractory solid tumours who have biopsy-amenable lesions at study
      entry. Using a starting dose of 10mg per week, an accelerated dose titration escalation
      followed by a 3+3 design will be employed until MTD and recommended weekly dose are
      determined. Following this, an expansion cohort of 10 patients will be enrolled to establish
      safety of the recommended phase II dose. Additionally, it is also planned to explore the
      efficacy of the agent in an enrichment cohort of approximately 10 metastatic NPC patients.
      One treatment cycle is defined as a period of 28 days. Tumour biopsies will be performed at
      baseline while blood sampling for circulating biomarkers will be performed on days 1, 2, 3,
      8, 22 and upon completion of OPB-51602 dosing. Pharmacokinetic sampling will be done on Cycle
      1 Days 1, 8 and 22. Safety assessments will be performed weekly till week 8, bi-weekly till
      week 16, then monthly thereafter and response assessments will be performed every 8 weeks.
      The number of subjects estimated to participate in this study will depend on the number of
      cohorts enrolled.

      Part II This is a single-centre, open-label non-randomised phase II study evaluating
      OPB-51602 in stage III-IVB NPC conducted in the window period prior to definitive
      chemoradiotherapy. Eligible patients will receive OPB-51602 on a weekly basis (Day 1, 8, 15)
      at the recommended dose determined in part I for a total of 15 days prior to definitive
      chemoradiotherapy. Response assessment will be performed after OPB-51602 dosing on day 15
      using PET/CT scans and clinical tumour measurements, while other radiologic assessments will
      be performed on the completion of chemoradiotherapy. Safety assessments will be performed at
      weekly intervals until day 22 or until toxicities related to the study treatment have been
      resolved. Tumour biopsies will be performed at baseline and day 15 while circulating
      biomarker studies will be performed on days 1, 2, 3, 8, 15 and upon completion of
      chemoradiotherapy. There is no mandated rest period between the administration of study drug
      and definitive chemoradiotherapy. The decision to proceed with chemoradiotherapy is at the
      discretion of individual investigators, provided the subject has recovered or is recovering
      from all significant toxicities of the study drug. Chemoradiotherapy should be in accordance
      with the institutional standard and induction chemotherapy is not permitted. Proposed
      alternative treatment regimens must receive the approval of the Principal Investigator.
    
  