
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Demonstrate an overall survival (OS) advantage in patients with intermediate-risk
           prostate cancer treated with dose-escalated radiotherapy (RT) with versus without
           short-term androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT).

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether the addition of ADT to dose-escalated RT versus RT alone improves
           clinical failures, biochemical failure by the "nadir +2", freedom from failure, rate of
           salvage ADT, and prostate cancer-specific mortality in these patients.

        -  Estimate the magnitude of benefit of ADT with respect to OS in patients treated with
           different RT modalities (i.e., external-beam radiation therapy alone vs low-dose rate
           brachytherapy boost vs high-dose rate brachytherapy boost).

        -  Compare acute and late treatment adverse events of these regimens and correlate these
           events with the presence or absence of pre-existing comorbidity as documented by the
           Adult Comorbidity Evaluation 27 assessment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of radiotherapy. Patients are
      stratified according to number of risk factors (1 vs 2-3), comorbidity (ACE-27 grade ≥ 2 vs <
      2), and radiotherapy (RT) modality (dose-escalated external-beam RT [EBRT] vs EBRT and
      low-dose rate brachytherapy boost vs EBRT and high-dose rate brachytherapy boost). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo EBRT* once daily on days 1-5 for about 9 weeks (44 treatments).
           Some patients instead receive EBRT with high-dose rate or low-dose rate brachytherapy
           implant on days 1-5 for about 5 weeks (25 treatments). NOTE: *Type of RT is at
           discretion of treating physician and may include either 3D-conformal RT or
           intensity-modulated RT.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive androgen-deprivation therapy comprising luteinizing-hormone
           releasing-hormone (LHRH) agonist (leuprolide, goserelin, buserelin, or triptorelin)
           subcutaneously or as an injection every 1 to 3 months AND an oral antiandrogen therapy
           (flutamide 3 times daily or bicalutamide once daily) for 6 months. Beginning 8 weeks
           after the first LHRH injection, patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  