
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the effect of IVIg associated to conventional
      immunosuppressive treatment in 15 stable transplant recipients with post-transplant de novo
      HLA-DSA and histological humoral lesions.

      The study will include 2 periods:

        -  Treatment period,

        -  Follow-up period. The treatment will start the day of inclusion (M0): Privigen will be
           given as 2 g/kg for 2 days/month for 6 months (maximum dose: 80 g/day).

      Evaluation at the end of treatment will take place on month 6 (M6). Evaluation at the end of
      follow up will take place on month 12 (M12).

      Blood and urine samples will be collected on day of inclusion (M0), before each infusion of
      Privigen, at M6 and M12 for biological analysis (serum creatinine, glomerular filtration
      rate, proteinuria).

      Blood samples will be collected on day of inclusion (M0), at M6 and M12 for immunoassay
      (HLA-DSA mean fluorescence intensity).

      Blood sample will be collected on day of inclusion (M0) to provide a DNA bank. Blood samples
      will be collected on day of inclusion (M0), before each infusion of Privigen and at M6 for
      IgG dosage.

      Blood samples will be collected on day of inclusion (M0), before each infusion of Privigen,
      at M6 and M12 to provide a serum bank.

      Blood samples will be collected on day of inclusion (M0), before each infusion of Privigen,
      at M6 and M12 for haematology, blood chemistry and Coombs test.

      Histological characteristics (kidney biopsies) will be performed on M0 and M6. The M6 biopsy
      is specifically requested by the protocol and differs from the usual practice, where it is
      usually performed at M12 post transplantation.

      Infectious and clinical events (deceased patients, graft loss, acute biopsy-proven rejection
      episode and infectious diseases) will be recorded during the follow-up period.

      Histology of for-cause biopsies will be performed according to center practice. We recommend
      a graft biopsy for patients with acute allograft dysfunction (20% increase of creatinine)
      without current evident causes of graft dysfunction.

      The maximum study duration for a subject, between inclusion and follow-up visits, will be 12
      months and the estimated length of time needed to complete the entire study (from enrolment
      of the first subject to completion of the last subject) 18 months.
    
  