
    
      The research plan is to investigate how acute physical therapy can play a big role in
      lowering 30-day hospital readmission in patients discharged with acute decompensated heart
      failure (ADHF). Several factors will be used to investigate and predict 30-day hospital
      readmission. Such factors are (1) functional mobility; 2) psychosocial attributes; (3) number
      of follow ups with providers; (4) adherence to home exercise program; (5) and participation
      in a supervised exercise program. Functional mobility will be measured by four different
      functional outcome measurements such as 5 meter walk test (5mWT), 30 seconds sit to stand
      test (30STS), six minute walk test (6MWT), and time up and go test (TUG). The psychosocial
      attributes will be measured by three different, pen and paper, self-survey questionnaires
      namely Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire-12 (KCCQ12), Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale (HADS), ENRICHD Social Support Instrument (ESSI). Moreover, once the patient returns
      home, two phone surveys will be conducted (every two weeks) for a period of 30 days of
      hospital discharge as a follow up.

      For the outcome measurements, the 5mWT is a simple test to measure individual's gait
      (walking) speed. The 30STS is a simple and easy test to complete in assessing functional
      lower extremity strength. The 30STS asks individual to stand up (assuming erect posture as
      much as possible with or without hands support) as many as possible from a regular chair with
      arm rest within 30 seconds timeframe. The 6MWT is simple and practical test is to measure
      aerobic capacity by measuring distance of an individual's ability to walk for 6 minutes. The
      TUG is to measure the time in seconds for a person to rise from sitting from a standard arm
      chair, rise, walk 10 feet, walk back to the previous arm chair, and sit down. The objective
      of the TUG test is to classify patient's fall risk. In addition, the functional mobility,
      basing on the functional outcome measures conducted, will be further assessed at the end of
      physical therapy service at the hospital by using Global Rating of Scale (GROC). The GROC is
      a self-survey using 5 point Likert scale, measuring how patient perceives the overall degree
      of change of improvement or perhaps a lack of improvement.

      For the Psychosocial Measures, the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ)-12 is a
      shorter version of the original KCCQ tool. The objective of this test is to quantify
      self-measurement of physical function, symptoms, social function, self-efficacy and
      knowledge, and quality of life as it relates to their own heart failure diagnosis. The
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is a self-reported questionnaire designed to
      measure the levels of anxiety and depression that an individual is experiencing. The
      objective of this tool is to serve as a screening tool to identify individuals who may suffer
      from anxiety and depression. The ENRICHD Social Support Instrument (ESSI) is a seven-item
      self-report survey that assesses patient's belief of their social support attributes
      (emotional, instrumental, informational, and appraisal).
    
  