
    
      BACKGROUND With a rapidly aging population, osteoarthritis is expected to become the 4th
      leading cause of global disability by 2020. Established guidelines for knee osteoarthritis
      strongly advocate lifestyle changes, such with exercises and weight loss as first line of
      treatment, whilst reserving surgery as the last resort. Our current model of care is
      doctor-centric and inefficient leading to suboptimal use of allied health intervention for
      effective lifestyle and behaviour changes resulting in potentially, unnecessary surgery.
      Redesigning the model of care by moving away from costly surgical treatment through the
      optimization and synergizing of proven non-surgical treatments is key to deliver value-based
      care.

      AIMS AND HYPOTHESIS Primary Aim and Hypothesis. Evaluate the clinical effectiveness (pain,
      function and quality of life) at 12 months of a personalized, community based 3-month
      multidisciplinary program (Orthopaedics, Physiotherapist, Dietitian and Psychologist) as
      compared with usual care for patients with knee osteoarthritis. The investigators hypothesize
      that patients with knee osteoarthritis who undergo a personalized, community based 3-month
      multidisciplinary program will have better pain, function and quality of life scores at 12
      months post initiation of program compared to patients who undergo usual care.

      Secondary Aim. Evaluate the cost effectiveness of a personalized, community based 3-month
      multidisciplinary program (Orthopaedic, Physiotherapist, Dietitian and Psychologist) for
      patients with knee osteoarthritis. Qualitative assessment of the acceptability, feasibility
      and scalability of such a program

      METHODOLOGY The study will be conducted as a single centre, single-blinded, gender
      stratified, block permutated randomized controlled trial using a mixed method approach
      (quantitative and qualitative), comparing a proposed new multidisciplinary personalized
      community-based model of care and the current model of care.

      Patients with suspected knee osteoarthritis who are referred from the Polyclinics in the
      primary healthcare setting to the Tan Tock Seng Hospital Orthopaedic Specialist Outpatient
      Clinic. Patients will then be evaluated based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria and
      subsequently invited to join the study if eligible. Consent for participation into the study
      will be obtained prior to randomization. Randomization will be done via gender stratified
      permutated block randomization.

      ECONOMIC EVALUATION An economic evaluation from a societal perspective will be undertaken to
      determine the cost effectiveness of the intervention. The incremental cost effectiveness
      ratio of this multidisciplinary non-surgical community-based program for knee osteoarthritis
      compared to routine care will be determined. Cost data will be collected via questionnaires
      and hospital databases to estimate both the direct medical, direct non-medical and indirect
      cost. Indirect cost of health-related productivity loss due to knee osteoarthritis will be
      calculated using a human capital approach. The primary measure of health benefit will be
      Quality of Life Years measure using the EQ-5D.

      QUALITATIVE COMPONENT The qualitative component of our study will employ several qualitative
      methods such as focus group discussions and individual interviews with a variety of subjects
      including both patients and stakeholders. The focus will on identifying the potential
      barriers and facilitators to implementing and upscaling the intervention.
    
  