
    
      The treatment of carious lesions with risk for progression has traditionally been done with
      caries removal and restorative treatment of the affected teeth. In primary teeth, different
      treatments for deep carious lesions have been described. Complete excavation aims to removing
      all infected and demineralised dentin with a high risk of pulpal exposure, postoperative
      complications and thus the risk of the teeth being lost. In many cases, treatment also
      involves pain and suffering for the patient, which can lead to dental fear among children.

      In latest years there has been a growing evidence for the possibility of controlling the
      cariogenic biofilm in the lesion by isolating the infected tissue from the oral cavity with
      an isolating restoration and leaving infected tissue under the permanent restoration. The
      methods are considered to be able to slow down or arrest the caries progression in primary
      teeth so that the teeth exfoliate without causing pain or infection. When carious tissue is
      isolated from the oral environment deprives the residual bacteria from carbohydrates and has
      thus been shown to have an antibacterial effect and to stop further progression of the lesion
      [4-5]. Partial, i.e. one-step incomplete or selective excavation is one biological method
      that seals carious dentin under a definitive restoration, omitting any re-entry. This can
      thus be a treatment choice for the primary teeth.

      An overview comparing different biological methods for caries excavation of deep dentin
      caries in primary teeth, such as partial or stepwise excavation shows that they work as well
      as traditional methods performing complete caries excavation but have the benefits of
      reducing the risk of iatrogenic pulp damage [1-4]. However, partial excavation compared with
      complete excavation in deep carious lesions in primary teeth has not previously been tested
      under practice-like conditions. If the study shows that the treatment is effective in
      clinical practice and in the hands of multiple operators, it will change the routine
      treatment of dentin caries in primary teeth, thus increasing the survival of teeth and
      fillings, as well as reducing the risk of unwanted injury to the pulp and pain and discomfort
      to the children.

      Objectives and Hypothesis: The primary purpose of the study is to investigate the
      sustainability of filling and the tooth survival after two different methods of excavation of
      dentin caries in primary molars.

      The primary hypothesis is that there is no difference in tooth or filling survival after
      partial caries excavation compared to complete caries excavation in primary molars.

      The secondary purpose of the study is to investigate the therapist's knowledge, experience
      and treatment attitude and choice of treatment method in primary caries excavation and how a
      participation in the study affects the therapist.

      The secondary hypothesis is that the therapist's knowledge, experience and treatment
      attitudes and choices are not affected by a participation in the study.

      The study aims to testing a newly started Practice-Based Research Network (PBRN) within the
      discipline of pediatric dentistry in the Stockholm city county in Sweden and the county of
      Östergötland. Thus, the scientific question will be tested under an effectiveness setting
      including practitioners interested in participating in the PBRN by signing up for
      participating in this particular study. The study has a prospective multi-center, two arms
      randomized controlled clinical trial design.
    
  