
    
      Determining when a fracture has united can be very difficult. Plain radiographs are easy to
      obtain but are notoriously inaccurate for determining union. CT scans are more helpful, but
      are more costly and inconvenient. Artifacts from the metal implants often mask the visibility
      of the bone structure. In addition, the accuracy of CT scans for determining non-unions is
      not known. CT scanning will identify a nonunion when a clear persistent fracture line
      separates the fragments. Unfortunately, the scans often reveal some areas where bone has
      bridged the fracture, and other areas where the fracture line remains. Ultimately, no one
      knows the amount of bridging necessary to stop motion between the fragments. Often the best
      indication of fracture healing is the resolution of pain. However, patients' pain tolerance
      varies greatly. It is clear that our specialty needs better techniques to determine fracture
      union. This is particularly important since the market is introducing many new drugs that
      purport increased rate of fracture healing. If there are no standards to evaluate fracture
      healing, there is no way to determine drug efficacy.

      Radiostereometric analysis (RSA) is a highly accurate, precise, safe and objective technique
      that uses radiographs to measure very small displacements and relative motion over time. It
      has been used successfully for some time to evaluate small changes in the position of
      prosthetic joints. There is some indication that this technique can also be used to evaluate
      healing by determining when motion between the fragments stops. A limited number of phantom
      model RSA in-vitro studies have proven useful for measuring the rigidity of different types
      of osteosyntheses methods. However, RSA has so far only been applied in a few in-vivo studies
      to evaluate fracture healing.

      Osteosynthesis of distal femur fractures is challenging. Fractures are reduced through a
      large skin incision and often patients face non-union or union in a varus or valgus deformity
      after a long convalescence. That said, increased fracture fixation is now achievable through
      the newly invented locked angle screw plate system. The Synthes product, Less Invasive
      Stabilization System (LISS) plate is one example of this new system. The exact time of
      fracture healing, however, remains uncertain. No RSA in-vivo studies have been published
      among patients with distal femur fractures - but one RSA in-vitro study on 18 phantom distal
      femurs demonstrates RSA to be a relatively simple way to collect and analyze the relative
      motion between fragments fixed with the LISS.8 Given this, it should be possible to evaluate
      fragment motion in distal femur fractures stabilized using the LISS plate in order to
      evaluate healing.

      At the time of surgery, sets of up to 9 RSA beads will be implanted on sides of the main
      fractures lines with the use of the inserter instrument and the image intensifier. In AO/OTA
      type 33A fractures, two sets will be implanted - one in the femoral shaft and one in the
      distal femoral epiphysis. In AO/OTA type 33C fractures with an extra fracture line through
      the epiphysis, three sets will be implanted - one in the femoral shaft, one in the main
      lateral condyle segment and one in the main medial condyle segment. No beads will be planted
      in comminuted bone fragments. Patients will be evaluated during outpatient follow-up visits
      standard for this fracture (2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year after surgery.)

      The purpose of this study is to use RSA to evaluate fracture healing in distal femoral
      fractures osteosynthezed using the LISS.
    
  