
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Every study cycle will be 6 weeks. You may receive up to 4 cycles of blinatumomab. Each cycle
      will start around 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after your stem cell transplant.

      In each cycle, you will receive blinatumomab as a continuous infusion by vein for 4 weeks,
      followed by a 2 week "rest period" during which you will not receive blinatumomab.

      You will need to remain in the hospital for the first 2 cycles so that you can be checked on
      for side effects.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive blinatumomab for up to 1 year. You will no longer be able to receive the
      study drug if the disease comes back (if you do not have ALL), if the disease gets worse (if
      you have a small amount of ALL), if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Study Visits:

      Before each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam. As part of the physical exam, you will be checked for
           graft versus host disease (GVHD, when transplanted donor tissue attacks the tissues of
           the recipient's body).

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn to learn the effectiveness of the stem cell
           transplant.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspiration to check the status of the disease and
           for cytogenetic testing.

      Once a week during each cycle, blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      End of Study Visit:

      About 2 weeks after your last dose of blinatumomab:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn to learn the effectiveness of the stem cell
           transplant.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspiration to check the status of the disease and
           for cytogenetic testing.

      This is an investigational study. Blinatumomab is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome (Ph) negative B-ALL that has returned after
      treatment. Its use in patients with Ph positive B-lineage ALL is investigational.

      Up to 30 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  