
    
      Summary of research proposal Tuberculous pericarditis is one of the most severe forms of
      infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, causing death or cardiac disability in nearly half
      of those affected in spite of antituberculosis chemotherapy. Attenuation of the inflammatory
      response in tuberculous pericarditis may improve outcome by reducing the likelihood of
      cardiac tamponade and pericardial constriction. A meta-analysis of all randomized controlled
      trials of corticosteroids for tuberculous pericarditis showed a trend towards reduction of
      mortality, but the studies were too small to confirm any effect on survival. Concern remains
      that corticosteroids might increase the frequency of opportunistic infections and cancers in
      patients infected with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). In addition to the promising
      but inconclusive evidence on adjunctive steroids, there is preliminary evidence suggesting
      that repeated doses of Mycobacterium w immunotherapy may reduce the inflammation associated
      with extrapulmonary tuberculosis and increase the CD4 cell count in people infected with HIV.
      These early observations remain to be tested in a large randomized trial with the hard
      endpoint of mortality.

      The Investigation of the Management of Pericarditis in Africa (IMPI [pronounced as
      'ee-mp-ee', for Zulu warriors]) Trial will assess effectiveness and safety of oral
      prednisolone or placebo and Mycobacterium w immunotherapy or placebo in 1400 patients with
      tuberculous pericardial effusion. This trial will also determine the feasibility of
      conducting a large-scale multicentre clinical trial in patients with tuberculous pericarditis
      in sub-Saharan Africa.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that patients with suspected tuberculous pericarditis randomized
      to adjunctive oral prednisolone for 6 weeks will have a 30% reduction in mortality compared
      to placebo, and that patients randomized to Mycobacterium w injections for 6 months will have
      a better survival compared to placebo.

      Objectives: The primary objectives of the IMPI Trial are: a) to determine the effectiveness
      of oral prednisolone and Mycobacterium w immunotherapy in reducing the composite outcome of
      death, constriction or pericardial drainage for cardiac tamponade in patients with
      tuberculous pericardial effusion, b) to assess the safety and interactive effects of the
      co-administration of prednisolone and Mycobacterium w immunotherapy, and c) to demonstrate
      the feasibility of conducting a study in patients with tuberculous pericardial effusion in
      sub-Saharan Africa, and establish the infrastructure for conducting the full-scale IMPI trial
      in an internal pilot phase of the first 200 participants.

      If the internal pilot phase is positive, all the patients will be rolled-over into the
      full-scale IMPI trial. The first occurrence of death will be recorded to improve estimates of
      outcomes for the full-scale trial. Secondary outcomes of the full-scale trial will include:
      1) constriction, 2) rate of occurrence of cardiac tamponade requiring pericardiocentesis, 3)
      rate of resolution of pericardial effusion, 4) improvement in functional class.

      Study Design: IMPI is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled 2x2 factorial pilot trial
      that will enroll 1400 patients from multiple centres in Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria,
      Sierra Leone, South Africa, Uganda and Zimbabwe. Patients with tuberculous pericarditis who
      fulfill the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to receive oral prednisolone or
      placebo for 6 weeks and Mycobacterium w injection or placebo for 6 months. Patients will be
      followed closely during the intervention period (at weeks 2, 4, 6, and months 3 and 6).
      Six-monthly follow-up will be performed thereafter for up to two years. The recruitment of
      the 1400 patients will be performed over 54 months, with a minimum follow-up period of 6
      months for the last participants recruited in the trial. The Population Health Research
      Institute at McMaster University will manage and coordinate the study in association with the
      IMPI Project Office that is located in the Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital,
      Cape Town, South Africa.
    
  