
    
      Project goals and their impact on societal challenges:

      Objective 1: The first goal of the project is to identify objective stress markers that can
      be obtained easily and non-invasively in preterm infants during NICU hospitalization. This
      will include the development of novel techniques to measure stress related heart rate
      variability (HRV) and EEG maturation, as well as sleep stage markers. On a societal and
      economical level, reliable measures of the degree of distress in a hospitalized preterm
      infant will enable the evaluation of the direct effects of stress-reducing interventions such
      as NICU architecture changes and early intervention programs in cost benefit analyses. (Work
      package 1)

      Objective 2: Second, the investigators aim to study the emotional and bonding processes in
      parents of preterm infants. Parental distress in terms of depressive symptoms, anxiety,
      perceived stress and parent-infant bonding will be measured at multiple time points. This
      will lead to the validation of psychometric instruments in the specific population of parents
      of preterm infants. Also, the investigators will investigate the effect and predictive value
      of the course of parental depression, anxiety and stress on children's developmental outcome
      and on parent-infant bonding and attachment. Knowledge about the short and long term risks of
      parental emotional distress are important to implement sufficient and tailored support to
      parents. (Work package 2)

      Objective 3: Third, studies on epigenetic changes due to prenatal stress are still scarce in
      humans. Recently, preliminary evidence was found that prenatal stress affects the methylation
      state of the NR3C1promotor regions (Hompes et al., 2013). In this study, the investigators
      will include a cohort of mothers experiencing profound prenatal stress due to preterm labor,
      which will complement the earlier work that has been carried out in a low-risk population.
      The investigators expect more profound changes in methylation state of the NR3C1 and other
      promotor regions in this cohort. The methylation of oxytocin receptor genes will also be
      studied in relation to attachment and bonding. On a societal level, knowledge about the
      impact of adverse maternal psychological well-being during pregnancy on the epigenome is
      important, for example to justify prevention campaigns. (Work package 3)

      Overall objective: An important overall goal of the project is to develop a Perinatal Stress
      Calculator that combines the values of the different neonatal, endocrinological,
      psychological and physiological stress-related parameters to predict differences in
      psychomotor, cognitive, behavioural, and emotional development (Work package 5). This
      prospective longitudinal study design will enable the investigators to use the perinatal
      stress calculator to study the relation between the perinatal stress parameters and later
      developmental disabilities such as motor impairment, cognitive deficits, and language delay
      but also social and behavioural problems such as attentional deficits and emotional
      self-regulation dysfunction (Work package 4). The investigators will not only be able to
      weigh perinatal infant characteristics in the model, but also parental characteristics such
      as distress, resilience and personality as well as bonding and attachment measures. On a
      societal and economic level, the results of the project will be important for health policy
      decision-making. Improved prediction of the developmental trajectory of preterm infants could
      lead to earlier and targeted interventions to decrease maladaptive outcomes.
    
  