
    
      Background:

      Elderly patients (≥65 years of age) constitute an increasing population in emergency
      departments (EDs) in many countries. These patients are largely different from younger
      patients and undoubtedly need different approaches in acute care. Commonly used triage
      systems are not validated in elderly patients. We hypothesize that this factor contributes to
      a lack of recognition of patients at risk for adverse events or death.

      Aim of the study:

        -  At first, we will try to identify early risk factors associated with adverse outcome
           such as age, the premorbid state (comorbidity, living status and cognitive/functional
           state), medication use, vital signs, and number of previous visits to the ED.

        -  Secondly, we will investigate the discriminating power of several triage and risk
           stratification scores. In our study, we will retrieve and validate the following triage
           and risk stratification scores: The Manchester Triage System (MTS) triage score, the
           Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) score and the
           Identification of Seniors At Risk-Hospitalised Patients (ISAR-HP) score for all
           hospitalized patients. Furthermore, we will calculate four well-known disease specific
           stratification scores: The Glasgow-Blatchford Bleeding (GBS Score) for patients with an
           upper gastrointestinal bleeding, the Abbreviated Mortality ED Sepsis (abbMEDS) score and
           Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score and the Confusion, Urea,
           Respiration, Blood pressure, Age >65 years (CURB-65) score.

        -  Thirdly, we will investigate the predictive value of the clinical impression of
           professionals (doctor/nurse) and the disease perception of patient/companion.

        -  Fourth, we will investigate the predictive value of laboratory tests (routine tests and
           biomarkers like lactate, N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP),
           high-sensitivity troponin (hs-TnT), procalcitonin (PCT) and d-dimer.

        -  At last, we intend to develop a clinical prediction model for short-term mortality and
           test the predictive ability of this model for the other adverse outcomes/endpoints. This
           model will be validated in an external cohort.

      Study procedure:

      The design is a multi-center prospective observational cohort study. The study will take
      place in Zuyderland MC in Heerlen and Maastricht UMC+ in the Netherlands. On presentation to
      the ED the patients will be given information about the study and informed consent will be
      signed. The patient or family member/companion, the nurse and the doctor will be asked to
      fill out a questionnaire in the ED (5 questions for patient/family and 9 questions for doctor
      or nurse). These questions will be used for evaluation of the clinical impression of the
      doctor/nurse and disease perception by the patient/companion. At the ED, 2 extra venous
      samples and one arterial blood gas sample will be taken in patients participating in the
      study in Zuyderland M.C. Blood gas analysis will take place immediately and the results will
      be presented to the attending doctor. Analysis of the biomarkers from the venous blood
      samples will take place after a few weeks and the results will be blinded in this study.
      Routine laboratory test will be analyzed in both hospitals. During the days and weeks after
      inclusion, data will be obtained from patients medical records. During the days and weeks
      after inclusion, data will be obtained from patients medical records. All patients will be
      followed up for 30 days and if possible for one year.
    
  