
    
      Septic shock still represent a major cause of admission in intensive care unit, incidence of
      severe sepsis is increasing, even in western countries, due to aging populations and
      comorbidities. Definition of septic shock was revised in 2016 by a task force, which
      emphasizes the need for future iterations. Indeed, there are no simple clinical or biological
      criteria ton diagnose septic patients with high risk of shock, or to prognose its severity.
      C-reactive protein (CRP) and procalcitonin (PCT) are the wider biomarkers used to monitor
      septic patients. But they do not correlate with sepsis severity and moreover do not
      distinguish unequivocally between infection and noninfected systemic inflammatory response
      syndrome (SIRS). Each microorganism has number of PAMPs, cell wall components
      (lipopolysaccharide endotoxin, peptidoglycan, outer membrane vesicles), flagella, mannan…
      High levels of these pathogen fragments are released in the bloodstream during sepsis. They
      trigger release of inflammatory cytokines that drive the sepsis cascade. Mannose binding
      lectin plays a pivotal role in innate immunity, binding with surface sugars of wide range of
      pathogens and their fragments. Thus MBL promotes opsonophagocytosis and activates the
      lectin-complement pathway. Fc-MBL, an engineered version of MBL has been developed to capture
      microorganism and treat sepsis. An ELISA, using Fc-MBL was developed to measure PAMPs in
      whole blood during sepsis. This assay will use Fc-MBL ELISA to quantify PAMPs during septic
      shock, to improve diagnostic and monitoring. But also, identifying patients with high levels
      of PAMPs for dialysis-like sepsis therapies.

      PAMP's level will be compared to clinical, biological, microbiological and therapeutic
      outcomes. Its sensitivity will be evaluated by its kinetic among a septic shock (defined with
      Sepsis-3 criteria) and by correlation with CRP (C-Reactive Protein) and PCT (Procalcitonin).
      Its specificity will be evaluated by comparing its levels during septic and non-septic
      shocks.
    
  