
    
      GI inflammation may indicate a number of complications or diseases, one of which is
      inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), now the second most prevalent inflammatory disorder in the
      world. Symptoms of the disease include severe abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, persistent
      fever, weight loss, and significant malnutrition. There is also an increased risk of colon
      cancer. If left untreated, the disease is debilitating. Prompt intervention may reduce the
      amount of immunosuppressive therapy that is required to control the disease, but by the time
      the patient becomes symptomatic, the inflammatory response is difficult to suppress and much
      of the damage has already been done. It is therefore important to closely monitor patients
      with IBD. The location, extent, and severity of the inflammation are of primary consideration
      for correct diagnosis and treatment. However, no inexpensive and non-invasive procedure
      exists in protocol for the assessment of these factors of IBD. A non-invasive diagnostic that
      can detect the onset of inflammation and measure the extent of inflammatory involvement would
      be a valuable tool for the evaluation of patients with IBD.

      Endoscopy, barium contrast X-ray studies, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), and transabdominal ultrasound (US) are currently the most common procedures
      used by gastroenterologists. The preferred manner of investigating GI inflammation includes
      endoscopy with biopsy, as only endoscopy can confirm the presence of inflammation. However,
      this procedure is highly invasive and limited to areas accessible to the endoscope. There are
      also limited but real risks associated with endoscopy. In addition, the cost of such a
      procedure may be prohibitive, or a qualified professional inaccessible, for some patients.
      Barium contrast X-ray studies remain the best way to visualize stricture and fistulae in the
      small intestine, but do not provide insight into the degree and extent of active
      inflammation. Repeated X-rays in chronic and younger patients also contribute to risk of
      irradiation. CT and MRI are the gold-standard for imaging extra-intestinal inflammatory
      disease, but fail in their ability to identify active inflammation. There have recently been
      many studies attempting to improve these means of assessing GI inflammation.

      Transabdominal US presents a non-invasive means of imaging internal organs that imposes no
      significant health risks or undue discomfort upon the patient. The use of abdominal US for
      the evaluation of IBD was implemented as early as 1979, where wall thickening of the terminal
      ileum and cecum, with accompanying inflammatory changes in the mesentery, yielded
      recognizable patterns in both longitudinal and transverse images.11 These initial
      ultrasonographic images lacked sufficient resolution to provide a sensitive measure of
      disease activity, but technological advances in high frequency US have greatly improved
      resolution over the past twenty years. Still, the location and chronicity of certain
      conditions may decrease the efficacy of this imaging technique, making endoscopy the
      preferred method of investigation of GI problems. At present, there are several research
      groups actively investigating the application of US for the management of IBD. The combined
      results of these studies, in addition to the relatively wide availability, low cost, and easy
      use of US equipment, support the rationale for developing US into a useful tool for the
      evaluation of IBD.

      Contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEU) is the main strategy for improving US quality. One
      contrast agent that has been studied in the imaging of inflammation, but which has not yet
      been human-tested for improvement of US quality in inflammation due to IBD, is microbubbles
      (MB). MB contrast agents are FDA-approved, and are becoming a common clinical tool for the
      enhancement of US imaging of cardiovascular hemodynamics around the world. Unlike tissue
      signal, which is produced by US reflection, the strong signal generated by MB is produced by
      radial oscillation of the MB in the acoustic field. Current MB used for perfusion imaging
      have lipid or albumin shells and contain high-molecular weight gases (perfluorocarbons,
      sulfur hexafluoride), which contribute to their high intravascular stability by preventing
      outward diffusion of gas. MB are generally 2-4µm in size - smaller than average capillary
      dimension - and passes unimpeded through the microcirculation. They are also hemodynamically
      inert, and behave similar to red blood cells in vivo. In animal models the acoustic
      properties of activated Definity® (Perflutren Lipid Microsphere) injectable suspension, were
      established at or below a mechanical index of 0.7 (1.8 MHz frequency). In clinical trials,
      the majority of the patients were imaged at or below a mechanical index of .08.

      There are two ways that microbubbles might contribute to a strong signal in areas of
      inflammation in the small intestine or colon. The first is directly through neoangiogenesis
      and the increase in blood flow to the site. Defined as the growth of new blood vessels,
      neoangiogenesis is important to the pathogenesis of both Crohn's disease and ulcerative
      colitis. An expanded microvascular bed in the mucosa and submucosa of IBD patients with
      active inflammation has been confirmed, and is consistent with the high levels of integrins
      characteristic for proliferating endothelium (e.g. IL-8, bFGF, and VEGF) found in the
      microvessels of tissue affected by IBD. The hope is that the increased blood flow in actively
      inflamed IBD will be correlated with a stronger US signal from the increased concentration of
      MB flowing through the site.

      The second way microbubble CEU may be effective at identifying active inflammation is an
      indirect effect of new microvasculature. Neoangiogenesis is thought to contribute to
      pathogenesis by fostering the recruitment and activation of an increased number of leukocyte
      into the inflamed mucosa. It has been observed that both albumin and lipid shell MB used for
      echocardiographic studies are phagocytosed intact by activated leukocytes, some of which are
      adherent to the inflamed endothelium of small intestine or colon. These phagocytosed MB
      retain a percentage of their acoustic properties, enabling US to image inflammation
      non-invasively in an in vivo setting. Incorporation of specific lipid moieties into the
      microbubble shell increases retention and phagocytosis by activated leukocytes.

      An investigation of the efficacy of microbubble contrast agents in imaging GI inflammation is
      the first step towards such targeted imaging and tissue-targeted therapy.
    
  