
    
      This is a phase II randomized, multi-institution, open-label, patient and HRQOL endpoint
      assessor blinded study evaluating the ability of neurovascular element sparing SAbR to
      decrease erectile dysfunction. The study procedure is to reduce 2-year Expanded prostate
      cancer index composite (EPIC) sexual domain score decline by 50% (-20 to -10), there by
      improving potency preservation. This reduction is usually expected to observe in patients
      undergoing the treatment stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SAbR) to 40-45 Gy with
      rectal spacer +/- sparing of at least one side's neurovascular structures using
      dose-painting.

      Primary Endpoint:

      • The Expanded prostate cancer index composite (EPIC) health-related quality of life (HRQOL)
      instrument includes a sexual function domain, which is used to produce a composite score of
      0-100 from 9 questions related to ability to achieve an erection with or without aids and
      participate in intercourse. The primary endpoint will be the mean 24-month decline in EPIC
      sexual function domain composite score.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Acute Genitourinary (GU) and Gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity is defined as grade 1-5
           toxicity occurring prior to 270 days from the start of protocol treatment. It is graded
           based on CTCAE v4.0.

        -  Delayed GU and GI toxicity is defined as grade 1-5 toxicity occurring prior to 270 days
           from the start of protocol treatment. It is graded based on CTCAE v4.0.

        -  Non GU and GI toxicity up to six months post treatment.

        -  Biochemical failure Radiation therapy oncology group-American Society for Therapeutic
           Radiology and Oncology (RTOG-ASTRO) definition (also known as Phoenix definition) -
           Thus, when the Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) rises by more than 2 ng/ml above the
           lowest level (nadir) achieved after treatment, biochemical failure has occurred and the
           date of the failure is recorded at the time the nadir plus 2 ng/ml level is reached.
           Patients should be followed for a minimum of 5 years on this study to evaluate this
           endpoint.

        -  Overall survival

        -  Disease-specific survival

        -  Clinical progression including local/regional and distant relapse

        -  HRQOL questionnaires for genitourinary, gastrointestinal, and hormonal domains (EPIC and
           SF-12)

        -  Dosimetric comparison of neurovascular element sparing with rectal spacer on this
           protocol versus without spacer in prior SAbR phase I-II protocol treated patients at
           UTSW

        -  Dosimetric comparison of neurovascular element sparing according to quality of spacer
           placement (maximum spacer distance at mid-gland and at apex), as assessed by study P.I.
           using simulation MRI images.

        -  Biopsy positivity in area of dose sparing (i.e. PTV2-PTV1). To be evaluated only those
           patients in BCR who merit per clinician judgement a biopsy.

      Sample Size: To enroll 120 patients (60 patients in each treatment arm).

      The sample size is estimated, first, assuming that neurovascular element sparing SAbR
      (experimental arm intervention) will result in a mean 24 month decline in EPIC (HRQOL
      instrument) sexual domain composite score of -20, as compared to a decline of -10 in a
      standard SAbR without neurovascular element sparing. A total sample size of 102 patients (51
      patients in each treatment group) achieves 80% power to detect this difference of 10 in EPIC
      sexual domain composite score decline at 24 months after treatment, with an equal standard
      deviation of 20 in both groups and at a two-sided significance level of 0.10, using a
      two-sample t-test (effect size 0.50).

      An attrition rate of EPIC sexual domain questionnaire completion at 2-years of 15% is
      anticipated, based upon yields from multi-center prospective trials in prostate cancer
      radiotherapy with EPIC HRQOL endpoints. A total of 120 patients will be accrued to account
      for this 15% attrition rate.

      Statistical Analysis: For the primary endpoint, a two-sided two-sample t-test will be used to
      compare EPIC sexual function domain score composite declines at 24 months from treatment
      between experimental SAbR arms with and without neurovascular sparing. Our sample size of 60
      patients in each arm gives a calculated 80% power to detect a difference of 10 (considered
      the minimally important difference for sexual domain) at a two-sided significance level 0.10,
      assuming an equal standard deviation of 20 in both groups and allowing for 15% attrition in
      survey completion. Secondary endpoints and their analysis methodology is further specified in
      the protocol.
    
  