
    
      4.5 million Veterans are over age 65 and an increasing number are living with chronic and
      serious illness. Most older Veterans and their surrogate decision makers will eventually face
      complex, ongoing decisions over the course of chronic illness. These decisions are difficult,
      especially for the 50% of older Veterans with limited health literacy. The old paradigm of
      advance care planning has focused on making decisions about life- prolonging procedures
      (e.g., resuscitation) by completing advance directives. Yet, this old paradigm is
      problematic. The forms are difficult to understand and often culturally insensitive. They
      also fail to prepare patients with concrete skills, such as how to identify one's values and
      communicate with surrogates and clinicians. The investigators have published a new paradigm
      of advance care planning that focuses instead on preparing patients to communicate with their
      surrogates and to actively participate with clinicians in making the best possible
      in-the-moment decisions. The new paradigm seeks to ensure that complex, ongoing decisions are
      based on a comprehensive set of considerations including the current clinical context,
      evolving goals, and patients' and surrogates' needs. To do this effectively, Veterans need to
      prepare. However, an easy-to-use, culturally-appropriate preparation guide does not exist.
      The investigators have created an easy-to-understand (5th grade reading level) preparation
      guide based on the investigators' new paradigm called PREParation, Activation, Reflection,
      and Engagement in advance care planning or PREPARE. PREPARE is designed to teach Veterans
      preparation skills including how to choose a surrogate and discuss surrogate decision making,
      clarify personal values for specific health states, and ask clinicians questions to make
      informed choices. The aims of this study are: (1) to conduct a randomized control trial to
      determine the efficacy of PREPARE to engage older Veterans with chronic illness in
      preparation skill behaviors (i.e., did they choose a surrogate, clarify their values, ask
      clinicians questions); (2) to determine the efficacy of PREPARE to activate Veterans and
      clinicians within clinical encounters (i.e., did Veterans ask clinicians questions or discuss
      preparation topics and did clinicians respond) and to improve satisfaction with decision
      making; and (3) to obtain input from Veterans, surrogates, and clinicians about
      implementation of PREPARE within the VA. To achieve Aim 1, 205 Veterans will be randomly
      assigned to the intervention (PREPARE materials plus an advance directive) and 205 will be
      assigned to the control group (advance directive only). Veterans in the PREPARE arm will view
      the easy-to-understand, multi-media PREPARE website during the study interview and then take
      home PREPARE materials in photo booklet and pamphlet format to ensure universal access to the
      information. The primary outcome is Veteran-reported engagement in preparation skill
      behaviors at 3 and 6 months, which will be measured with standard cognitive behavioral
      measures. For Aim 2, activation within the clinical encounters will be measured with
      validated quantitative analysis techniques of audio-recordings. Satisfaction with decision
      making will be measured with validated, self-reported measures. For Aim 3, the investigators
      will ask Veterans randomized to the PREPARE arm and their surrogates and clinicians how best
      to implement PREPARE within the clinical setting. The investigators will use standard
      parametric or non-parametric statistical tests to assess group differences, will control for
      demographic or other variables that differ between randomization groups, and adjust for
      potential clustering by clinician. For Aims 1 and 2 the investigators will assess differences
      in engagement and satisfaction by race/ethnicity, literacy, and gender. The research team has
      extensive experience testing literacy-appropriate, multi-media health education materials in
      randomized trials. The study team is poised to test the efficacy of PREPARE, and findings
      from this study will pave the way for multi-site effectiveness testing and widespread VA
      dissemination of PREPARE.
    
  