
    
      Glaucoma is defined as progressive neuropathy of the optic nerve. It is an important cause of
      irreversible blindness worldwide. Lowering the intraocular pressure is the only proven
      treatment for this neurodegenerative disease. However, there is ongoing research looking at
      another modifiable risk factor that affects the development and progression of this disease.
      There is growing evidence that vascular dysfunction plays a role in the pathogenesis of
      glaucoma. Low ocular perfusion pressure (OPP), which is expressed as the difference between
      mean arterial pressure and intraocular pressure (IOP), has been hypothesized to lead to
      glaucomatous optic neuropathy via ischemic damage to the optic nerve. The Barbados Eye Study
      showed that reduced OPP at baseline was associated with a three-fold increased risk of
      glaucoma development. Evidence has also shown that optic nerve hypoperfusion may contribute
      to the progression of glaucoma.

      Ginkgo biloba (Ginkgoacease) is a tree species that has been used in traditional medicine for
      several hundred years to treat various diseases. There have been recent studies that have
      examined its medicinal properties in treating age-related cognitive disease and neuronal
      degeneration resulting from ischaemic events. Studies examining systemic vascular ischemic
      diseases have shown a beneficial effect of ginkgo Biloba extract (GBE) on systemic arterial
      occlusive diseases. There is also preliminary research examining the effect GBE has on optic
      nerve head perfusion in patients with glaucoma. There is a study that examined the effects of
      antioxidants including GBE on ocular blood flow in patients with glaucoma using doppler
      ultrasound. When compared with patients receiving placebo, patients after antioxidant therapy
      containing GBE were shown to have increased peak systolic and/or end-diastolic blood
      velocities in all retrobulbar blood vessels, reduced vascular resistance in the central
      retinal and nasal short posterior ciliary arteries, increased superior and inferior temporal
      retinal capillary mean blood flow, an increased ratio of active to nonactive retinal
      capillaries. In the area of optic nerve head perfusion studies, fluorescein angiography has
      also been used in investigating alteration in blood flow in glaucomatous versus normal eyes.
      However, utility in clinical practice is limited by the qualitative nature of the test and
      the risk for adverse events. While color Doppler ultrasound is greatly limited in terms of
      resolution and can be openly used to examine large vessels of the eye. New development in
      ocular imaging has shown that OCTA can provide reproducible and quantifiable information
      about the microvasculature of the optic nerve and peripapillary retina in patients with
      glaucoma and can do so in a rapid and non-invasive manner avoiding some of the limitations on
      doppler ultrasound and fluorescein angiography.

      GBE Egb761 is a standardized GBE that's used in most published research on the effect of
      ginkgo Biloba. It is a standardized GBE used in evidence-based medicine and clinical
      investigations ensuring clinical standardization and a safe manufacturing process. It has
      much of the toxic ginkgolic acid removed leaving behind the active components of flavonoid
      glycosides and terpene lactones. In general, GBE is well tolerated with a low side effect
      profile. Several systematic reviews on research using GBE (daily dose of up to 600 mg) report
      no statistical difference in side effects with GBE compared with placebo. There have been
      some concerns regarding the bleeding risk while on ginkgo supplementation. However,
      randomized placebo-controlled studies in healthy volunteers have not shown any changes in
      bleeding time, coagulation parameters, or platelet function. Multiple studies have reported
      minimal adverse effects (AEs) of GBE within a specific prescribed dosage range. Overall, GBE
      continues to be a well-tolerated supplement with a low side effect profile. Systematic
      reviews of the Cochrane databases, PubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Google Scholar, report no
      statistically significant difference in AEs between 80 and 600 mg of GBE and placebo.
    
  