
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the acceptability and feasibility of delivering
      Narrative Exposure Therapy to homeless individuals with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. This
      includes assessing the feasibility of recruiting sufficient numbers of participants,
      conducting a randomized trial in the shelter system and achieving adequate participant
      follow-up rates.

      Study procedures will take place at shelters served by the Royal Ottawa Mental Health
      Centre's Psychiatric Outreach Team and Inner City Health, which are: The Shepherds of Good
      Hope, The Salvation Army, The Mission, Cornerstone Housing for Women, and other locations
      served by The Royal Ottawa's Psychiatric Outreach Team and Inner City Health.

      Homeless individuals who meet criteria for PTSD will be offered, in addition to usual care,
      six sessions of Narrative Exposure Therapy either with or without the option of receiving
      services from a genealogist to supplement the process of exploring their life narrative. A
      total of 24 participants will be recruited into this study and will be randomized in a 1:1
      allocation. At the start of their involvement in the study, participants randomized to
      receive genealogical services will be provided with the option to access services from a
      professional genealogist, to trace their family history. Participants will be made aware of
      the fact that new family information will be revealed through this process, and also be
      informed of the standard methods that will be used to extract this information which could
      involve research through publicly available historical records or voluntary DNA testing.

      The primary outcomes for this study are acceptability - the investigators would deem the
      interventions acceptable if 50% of people approached consented to be randomized; and
      feasibility - the investigators would deem the study feasible if the planned sample size was
      recruited over a period of six months. Secondary outcomes include changes from baseline on
      relevant rating scales of symptoms, housing status, quality of life; and follow-up of
      participants three months from enrollment. This study will inform mental health treatment of
      this chronically underserved population.
    
  