
    
      After obtaining written informed consent and collecting baseline scores (T0), each patient
      was randomly assigned to one of the two groups and began taking sachets containing Psyllium
      fiber 3.5 g / day for Active group (A) and inert compound for Placebo group (P).

      Sachet content was assigned by software randomization, written on a list and sealed in an
      envelope, which was opened only after the study was completed.

      Post-operative instructions for both groups included only analgesic therapy (Ketorolac 10 to
      30 mg b.m. if needed). Patients were also asked to stop any former laxative and to continue
      on a normal diet.

      Each patient was re-evaluated at 7 ± 3 (T1), 60 ± 5 (T2) and 180 ± 15 (T3) days after surgery
      (Table 2).

      A fluoroscopic colpocystodefecography (with patient sitting upright) was obtained before
      surgery and between 60-180 days postoperatively in order to assess comparability of the two
      groups and exclude negative organic outcomes that could affect functional results.

      Medical events were investigated while checking each patient, with special regard to
      defecation urgency. From the data collected on concomitant medications, we extrapolated those
      related to laxative intake.

      The treatment was considered accomplished in patients who had taken at least 70% of the
      product during each interval of follow-up.

      Statistical analysis was performed using the SPSS - PASW Statistics 18.0.0 (IBM ©, 2009).

      For the general and defecographic characteristics, the data are expressed in the form of mean
      ± standard deviation for continuous variables and absolute frequency (frequency percentages)
      for categorical variables. The differences between the two groups were calculated by
      two-tailed t-test or chi-square when appropriate.

      Scores for the assessment of clinical data are expressed as mean ± standard deviation and
      analysis of the differences in the two groups was performed using the two-tailed t-test. The
      analysis of not normally distributed variables was conducted using a non-parametric test
      (Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney).

      Analyses related to defecation urgency and use of laxatives were carried out using chi-square
      test and the data are expressed as absolute frequency (frequency percentage).

      For all tests, a value of p <0.05 was considered significant.
    
  