
    
      While medication adherence and transitions from hospitalization to home care play important
      roles in heart failure (HF) care, the majority of HF maintenance is by the patients in the
      home. Despite the availability of evidence-based guidance and treatments, many patients with
      HF do not achieve optimal outcomes. In prior work, patients with HF identified primary needs
      of improved access to food and nutrition education. Dietary recommendations for HF in
      clinical practice have historically emphasized the reduction of a single micronutrient
      (sodium) and fluid management, which oversimplifies the complexity between multiple dietary
      inadequacies, including micronutrient deficiencies, and HF pathophysiology. In addition,
      patients may have other comorbidities thus requiring further modification of the patient's
      diet. As a result, several innovative models for food services have emerged to address
      patient needs for improved healthy food access. Currently, select non-profit organizations
      across the U.S. deliver millions of medically-tailored meals (MTM) to patients with chronic
      illnesses, based on the premise that food can be as helpful as medicine in improving patient
      outcomes. Small studies assessing MTM in isolation have demonstrated reduced healthcare
      utilization and cost, however, no randomized trials have assessed the sustained impact of
      this intervention. The goal is to evaluate the feasibility of providing medically-tailored
      meals to patients with HF. Data from this study can be used to design further studies testing
      the effectiveness of MTM on improving outcomes for patients with HF.

      Meals on Wheels, a provider of meals to senior citizens across the country, has only recently
      begun piloting medically-tailored meals, and this presents the opportunity to work with the
      organization to test the feasibility of MTM in the Philadelphia region.
    
  