
    
      Obesity is a major risk factor for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), a condition characterized
      by repetitive respiratory disturbances, intermittent hypoxia, sleep fragmentation by frequent
      microarousals and low amounts of deep slow wave sleep (SWS). Today, more than 10 million
      American women suffer from OSA. OSA has been identified as an independent risk factor for the
      metabolic syndrome. Because OSA is more prevalent in men than in women, a disproportionate
      number of studies of OSA and its consequences have been conducted in men. Thus, OSA has been
      characterized as a disorder associated with gender-based health care inequity. Recent
      evidence, including data from our group, suggests that reduced amounts and intensity of SWS
      (i.e. slow-wave activity [SWA]) may play a pivotal role in the development of metabolic and
      cardiovascular disturbances in obese men and women, particularly those with OSA. This project
      will focus on sex differences in SWA and their relationship with daytime sleepiness and
      metabolic vulnerability in obese men and women with and without OSA. We propose to
      simultaneously characterize: 1. sleep-wake regulation; 2. measures of diabetes risk; 3.
      measures of cardiovascular risk; and 4. profiles of sex steroids, cortisol and adipokines in
      a. obese men without OSA, b. obese men with OSA before and after treatment with continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP), c. obese pre-menopausal women without OSA, and d. obese
      pre-menopausal women with OSA before and after CPAP treatment. The completion of these
      interdisciplinary studies will provide a unique data set contrasting in obese women versus
      obese men the relationships between sleep and the metabolic syndrome, OSA and the metabolic
      syndrome and the impact of CPAP treatment on the metabolic syndrome. This work will provide
      important insights regarding the pathophysiology of OSA and its adverse consequences in obese
      men and women, and the basis for the development of effective sex-specific prevention and
      treatment strategies.
    
  