
    
      This study is a multicenter, prospective observational study. The study period is 12 months.
      There are no investigational products to be followed or used in the study.

      Demographic data, stroke subtype, lesion localization, anthropometric measures will be
      recorded. Muscle in three different anatomical sites will be measured by CT following
      admission in patients included in the study.

      For anthropometric measurements, height, body weight, body mass index, waist circumference,
      triceps skin thickness and calf circumference values will be used.

      The muscle mass will be measured from the paraspinal muscles at the L3 vertebra level and
      from the muscles around the humerus and femur on the non-paralytic side of the extremities by
      CT.

      All patients will receive standard enteral nutritional support with a standardized calorie
      and protein-based protocol recommended by international guidelines. The choice of the
      commercial enteral product will be left to the investigator, without any encouragement or
      restriction for use of any commercial product.

      The enteral nutrition protocol will be implemented as follows;

        -  Nasogastric or nasojejunal access

        -  Continuous infusion

        -  Targeted daily calories - 25-30 kcal / kg

        -  Targeted daily protein - 1.2-1.5 gr / kg

        -  20 ml / h initial infusion rate

        -  Increase infusion rate by 10-20 ml / h in 8-12 hours

        -  Targeted calorie-protein requirement will be reached at the end of 72 hours.

      Patients will continue their routine follow-up in the neurology intensive care unit / stroke
      unit / neurology department. Daily enteral nutrition dose, complications attributed to
      enteral nutrition and systemic comorbidities will be recorded. Anthropometric measurements
      and muscle mass measurements with CT at three different locations will be repeated at the end
      of the second week (14 days ± 3 days) .

      The study will evaluate whether or not muscle mass develops 14 days after acute ischemic
      stroke. The end points of the study is deterioration of anthropometric measurements and loss
      of muscle mass demonstrated by CT at follow up. The differences between patients with and
      without muscle loss will be assessed from the the aspects of demographic characteristics,
      ischemic stroke subtype, comorbidities and the success attained in reaching enteral
      nutritional goals.
    
  