
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic idiopathic inflammatory condition of the
      intestine, which results in diarrhea, rectal bleeding, urgency, weight loss and abdominal
      pain. The natural course of IBD is characterized by activity outbreaks and periods of
      remission. In most cases, relapses in Crohn's disease (CD) and in ulcerative colitis (UC) are
      unpredictable and despite effective medical treatment, a degree of subclinical inflammation
      may persist in the bowel wall, contributing to a significant risk of relapse.

      Endoscopy has been used to monitor a disease but it is time-consuming, costly, invasive, and
      associated with certain risks of morbidity. Many patients are reluctant to undergo repeated
      endoscopic examinations, particularly when their disease is quiescent. Acute phase reactants
      have been used but their sensitivity and specificity in correlating to intestinal
      inflammatory activity are very low, and their capacity to predict disease relapse is poor and
      controversial. A number of fecal biomarkers have been evaluated for their utility for
      monitoring and predicting relapse in IBD but some of these biomarkers are also not specific.

      In IBD, altered fecal microbiota signatures have been consistently reported which included a
      reduction in biodiversity with lower proportions of Firmicutes and increases in
      Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes phylum members. In addition, disease remission and relapse
      are associated with microbial changes in both mucosal and fecal samples. In particular, a
      loss of species richness in Crohn's disease has been widely observed. Recently microbial
      biomarkers may differentiate between CD and UC. Furthermore, different microbial groups are
      associated with smoking habit and localization of the disease in CD and UC. It is however
      unclear whether changes in microbial profile including diversity and composition can predict
      disease relapse in IBD. We hypothesize that fecal microbial signatures in conjunction with
      fecal calprotectin may play a role in predicting relapse in IBD patients.
    
  