
    
      Late-life depression (LLD) is characterized both by affective symptoms and cognitive
      deficits. The co-occurrence of cognitive deficits in LLD is a clinically relevant phenotype
      characterized by significant disability and poor antidepressant response. Cognitive deficits
      can persist even with successful antidepressant treatment and increase the risk of depression
      relapse. Despite the clinical importance of cognitive deficits in LLD, there are no
      established treatments that specifically target cognition in this population. The lack of
      treatments that improve cognitive deficits in depression is a deficiency in current
      therapeutics.

      Modulation of the cholinergic system by nicotinic receptor stimulation may improve both mood
      and cognition in depressed elders. Clinically, transdermal nicotine improves mood in smokers
      and a placebo-controlled pilot trial in nonsmoking adults found that transdermal nicotine
      significantly improved mood. In a previous trial examining Mild Cognitive Impairment,
      transdermal nicotine safely improved cognitive function on tests of attention, episodic
      memory, and processing speed. These same cognitive domains are impaired in LLD. The
      investigators hypothesize that these effects on mood and cognition are mediated through
      nicotine's effect to increase cognitive control network activity and reduce default mode
      network (DMN) activity. This pattern of network activity during tasks demanding external
      attention is associated with better task performance. Furthermore, as seen in smokers,
      nicotine's effect on these networks reduces depression's bias to negatively valenced stimuli
      and decreases rumination.

      The central hypothesis is that in LLD, transdermal nicotine will safely improve depression by
      increasing activity in cognitive control regions and decreasing activity in DMN regions. This
      will result in a decreased attentional bias to and reactivity to negative stimuli. A
      secondary hypothesis is that transdermal nicotine will also improve subjective and objective
      cognitive performance through these same network effects.

      Primary Aim 1: To determine whether administration of transdermal nicotine over 12 weeks
      improves clinical symptoms in patients with LLD with subjective cognitive impairment (SCI).

      Hypothesis 1: Transdermal nicotine administration will result in reductions in depression
      severity measured by the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS; primary mood
      outcome). It will also result in improvement in broader assessments of depressive
      symptomatology, including anhedonia, apathy, fatigue, sleep, and rumination (secondary
      outcomes).

      Hypothesis 2: Transdermal nicotine administration will result in improvements in attentional
      performance on the Conner's Continuous Performance Task (CPT; primary cognitive outcome). It
      will also result in improvement in subjective and objective cognitive performance on other
      tasks measuring attention, episodic memory, working memory, processing speed, and executive
      function (secondary outcomes).

      Secondary Aim 2: To determine whether administration of transdermal nicotine over 12 weeks
      modulates canonical intrinsic functional network activity in LLD with SCI.

      Hypothesis 3: On repeat administration of the Posner task of external attention, transdermal
      nicotine administration will result in increased activity within the cognitive control
      network and decreased activity within the default mode network.

      Hypothesis 4: Transdermal nicotine administration will result in increased functional
      connectivity within the cognitive control network and decreased connectivity within the
      default mode network at rest.

      Hypothesis 5: Changes in intrinsic network activity / connectivity with transdermal nicotine
      administration will be associated with changes in mood symptoms and subjective and objective
      cognitive performance.
    
  