
    
      Simulation, including screen-based simulation, is employed in medicine to enhance competency
      and improve care. It has been practiced for centuries in its primitive form as uses of wax
      Venus or obstetrics dolls to teaching anatomical knowledge or know-how/gestures. Many
      benefits come from simulations as the capacity to practiced procedures without any risk to
      the patient, the possibility of trainees to commit errors and learn from these errors, the
      repeatability of scenario that can be different or presented to learners many times, and then
      the opportunity to improved technical and non-technical skills among learners. Specifically,
      screen-based simulation has many advantages as portability (easy to move), distribution and
      replicability (usable by many learners at differences places in the world), repeatability
      (people not faced frequently in their regular practice), even be remotely usable.
      Screen-based simulation appears in literature to be a complement of mannequin simulation.
      Indeed, since last years the development of computer science has made it possible to create
      new kind of simulators in the medical field for the acquisition of knowledge, know-how and
      technical gestures, more realistic and interactively rich.

      Debriefing is considered as a part of simulation-based training and cannot be separated of
      simulators. Debriefing improve professional practice, clinical skills and competences. It
      exists different debriefing methods: post simulation debriefing, in-simulation debriefing,
      verbal instructor debriefing, video-assisted instructor debriefing, self-debriefing or also
      multimedia debriefing. However, debriefing is considered by many as a communication between
      student/learner and teacher, after a situation (e.g. simulation), and about this experience.
      It is not just a feedback on performance but also a communication process about the impact of
      the experience or performance explanation.

      This study aims to evaluate the impact of a computer integrated debriefing of technical and
      non-technical skills on retention and performance of neonatal resuscitation management by
      trainee's midwives.

      Thirty student in midwifery in fourth year will participate. The study protocol is the
      following:

      Baseline knowledge questionnaire, randomization of the participants. Day one: Tutorial of the
      simulator, First scenario (+/- debriefing depending of the allocation group), second scenario
      (+/- debriefing depending of the allocation group).

      Day two (two month later): knowledge questionnaire, tutorial of the simulator, one scenario
      (+/- debriefing depending of the allocation group).
    
  