
    
      Abnormalities in the blood vessels in the lung are the hallmark of pulmonary hypertension.
      Links between increased free radical production, mitochondrial dysfunction and pulmonary
      hypertension have been studied but are poorly understood. The mitochondria of cells is the
      location where cellular energy is created and free radicals are atoms or groups of atoms with
      an odd (unpaired) number of electrons and can be formed when oxygen interacts with certain
      molecules. Once formed these reactive radicals can start a chain reaction, like dominoes.
      Their chief danger comes from the damage they can do when they react with important cellular
      components. Cells may function poorly or die if this occurs. The body produces free radicals
      in the normal course of energy production and in pulmonary hypertension, free radical
      production is found to be increased. To prevent free radical damage the body has a defense
      system of antioxidants. Coenzyme Q-10 is an antioxidant and it helps to protect cells from
      damage caused by the body's own free radicals. By providing oral supplementation of coenzyme
      Q-10, free radical levels will be decreased and cellular functioning in the pulmonary blood
      vessels may improve and even return to near normal functioning.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of coenzyme Q-10, an antioxidant, in the
      treatment of pulmonary hypertension. We will assess coenzyme Q-10 supplementation in the
      treatment of pulmonary hypertension by clinical measurements and blood levels of certain
      cellular components. We would like to assess the effects of coenzyme Q-10 on the pulmonary
      vessels by measuring the lung diffusing capacity (a breathing test) and exhaled Nitric Oxide
      (NO) (a substance in the body that relaxes or dilates blood vessels). We will also measure
      endothelial progenitor cells (cells from the bone marrow) from a blood sample; these cells
      are markers of measure of blood vessel formation and repair. We will also measure the
      activity of superoxide dismutase (a protein in cells that executes the breakdown of a free
      radical into oxygen and hydrogen peroxide) in the blood. In addition, we will measure levels
      of coenzyme Q-10 in the blood. Other markers of disease response to therapy will be done
      including physical exam, BNP level (a blood marker that correlates with heart function),
      6-minute walk and echocardiography (ultrasound of the heart). A total of 60ml (5 tablespoons)
      of blood will be drawn at each visit.
    
  