
    
      One third of patients with epilepsy continue to have seizures despite receiving antiepileptic
      medication. The application of low frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (rTMS) has shown promise for decreasing the frequency of epileptic seizures in drug
      refractory patients. The mechanism of action appears to be induction of long term depression
      (LTD) in the targeted cortex by the low frequency (0.5 Hz or 1 every 2 sec) pulses.
      Unfortunately, the electrical stimulation induced by available TMS coils is limited to the
      most superficial (gyral) regions of cortex, whereas epileptic foci may occur in sulci, and in
      deep as well as superficial cortex. The investigators have developed the ability to target
      currents to specific regions of cortex by aligning source and sink electrodes with flexible
      subsets of a 256 channel geodesic electrode array. A first step is accurate localization of
      the likely epileptic focus with 256 channel EEG. Detailed computational models of the
      electrical properties of head tissues allow optimization studies to select the best pattern
      of source-sink electrodes for that individual's head tissues and epileptic focus. The goal of
      the safety and feasibility trial is to test whether one week (5 days) of GTEN treatment can
      achieve a similar depression of the target cortical region as low frequency rTMS, with the
      decrease in excitability measured by suppression of epileptic spikes. This safety and
      feasibility trial has received an Investigational Device Exemption from the FDA for treating
      20 patients with focal neocortical epilepsy. Pulsed (emulating rTMS) current sequences will
      be evaluated. The GTEN system implements a number of advanced technologies that provide
      improved targeting compared to conventional rTMS or tDCS, including electronics for both
      pulsed and sustained delivery of current with 256 electrodes; double fault safety circuits;
      computational modeling of the electromagnetic properties of the patient's head tissue for
      GTEN targeting with medical grade software; a lidocaine electrolyte that minimizes pain of
      the pulsed or sustained current with up to 200 µA per electrode (2 mA total); and online
      safety monitoring for adverse EEG changes with the 256 dEEG array. Based on FDA feedback to
      date, success with these trials will allow us to progress to a pivotal clinical efficacy
      trial (with separate funding) to support a de novo 510k approval for GTEN treatment for the
      temporary suppression of seizures in patients with drug-resistant epilepsy.
    
  