
    
      IBS is a clinical entity characterized by abdominal pain and altered bowel movements. About
      20% of the western population is affected by IBS. Abnormal perception of visceral stimuli
      plays a paramount role in the pathogenesis of IBS related abdominal pain. Moreover,
      sensitization (modulation of intracellular mechanisms leading to exaggerated action potential
      discharge in response to a given stimulus) of nociceptive dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons
      by tissue mediators is a fundamental mechanism underlying abnormal pain signaling. Clinical
      management of IBS has consisted primarily of symptomatic management of the altered bowel
      movement pattern. Although these can also afford improvement in abdominal pain,
      pharmacotherapy directly targeting bowel hypersensitivity are limited. Tri-cyclic
      antidepressants have been used in small doses in selected IBS patients who have not responded
      to first line therapy, but anti-cholinergic side effects have limited their use. The low
      FODMAP diet is well described therapeutic intervention which also targets bowel
      hypersensitivity, and about 70% of patients respond to this intervention. However, predictors
      of response to the various IBS therapies are lacking, and treatment decisions are often made
      on a "trial and error" fashion.

      Assessment of bowel sensitivity has been reported using a barostat (an elastic balloon
      inflated manually by a syringe until rectal sensations are reported). Unfortunately, barostat
      device use has not been practical because considerable time is required to carry out the
      studies (up to 60 min). As such, barostat studies have been used mainly in research settings.

      The rapid barostat bag (RBB) is a novel handheld barostat device. It is quick and simple to
      use, and its polyethylene bag provides superior volume measurements than the elastic balloons
      currently in use. This test could ultimately provide a bedside measure in the clinic of
      patients and identify those who are hypersensitive and thus more likely to respond to
      therapies targeting this sensory disorder. Data on validation of the RBB method against the
      standard barostat system has been published, using healthy volunteers. However, no studies
      evaluating the use of the RBB to assess bowel visceral sensitivity have been published to
      date.

      Thus, there are 2 aims to this study:

      Aim 1. To evaluate bowel sensitivity in IBS patients, compared with healthy controls.

      Aim 2. To determine whether sensory thresholds measured in clinic at the time of the initial
      physical examination correlate with standard of care interventions, such as a low FODMAP diet
      or medication such as linaclotide.

      This new knowledge will afford the opportunity to gain new insights into the bowel
      hypersensitivity which characterizes IBS. The overall goal of this study will be to assess if
      IBS-mediated bowel hypersensitivity as assessed by the RBB can serve as predictor of response
      to IBS pharmacotherapy.

      Both healthy controls (n= 100) and IBS patients (n=100) will undergo anorectal studies using
      a Rapid barostat bag catheter. To test for stability of the response over time, IBS patients
      will be given the option of returning in one month time so these studies can be repeated.
      These studies will measure rectal perception to balloon inflation. The investigators will
      correlate the changes to IBS symptoms using the IBS severity scoring system questionnaire
      (IBS-SSS). The questionnaire will be administered twice for IBS patients who have consented
      to return for a second study visit, at each of the two RBB studies. The patients will also
      complete a validated anxiety and depression questionnaire (HAD scale). The symptom
      questionnaires will also be administered to the healthy controls, to prove that they indeed
      do not have symptoms of IBS. The Rapid Barostat Bag (Mui Scientific, Mississauga) will be
      used for these studies. It has been approved for clinical use by Health Canada. It is a
      computer driven volume displacement device. The device measures pressures and volumes
      (sampling rate 1-2mL/second) and is connected to a device that monitors sensations as 0= no
      pain,1=sensation, 2=urge, 3=discomfort.
    
  