
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of chemotherapy in patients with node positive breast cancer who
      do not have high recurrence scores (RS) by Oncotype DX.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS), distant disease-free survival (DDFS) and local
      disease-free interval (LDFI) by receipt of chemotherapy or not and its interaction with RS.

      II. To compare the toxicity across the treatment arms. III. To perform other assays or tests
      (in particular the prediction analysis of microarray [PAM50] risk of relapse score), as they
      are developed and validated that measure potential benefit of chemotherapy and compare them
      to Oncotype DX.

      IV. To determine the impact of management with Oncotype DX on patient-reported anxiety
      (co-primary Health-Related Quality of Life [HRQL] outcome) prior to screening, after
      disclosure of test results, and during the randomized trial.

      V. To determine the impact of Oncotype DX on the initial management cost of node-positive,
      hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative
      breast cancer.

      VI. To compare patient-reported utilities (e.g., quality of life [QOL]) for those randomized
      to chemotherapy versus no chemotherapy.

      VII. Using modeling and DFS information from the trial, to estimate the cost-effectiveness of
      management with Oncotype DX vs usual care.

      VIII. To determine the role of other assays (e.g., PAM50) as predictors of DFS, DDFS, and
      LDFI for patients randomized to chemotherapy versus no chemotherapy.

      IX. To determine the impact of treatment with chemotherapy versus no chemotherapy on
      patient-reported fatigue and cognitive concerns (secondary HRQL outcomes).

      X. To determine the impact of management with Oncotype DX on patient-reported decision
      conflict, perceptions regarding Oncotype DX testing, and survivor concerns prior to
      screening, after disclosure of test results, and during the randomized trial (secondary HRQL
      outcomes).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive a protocol-approved chemotherapy regimen based on the patient and/or
      physician preference. Patients then receive a protocol-approved adjuvant endocrine therapy
      comprising tamoxifen citrate, an aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole, letrozole, or exemestane),
      or both for 5-10 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive a protocol-approved endocrine therapy comprising tamoxifen citrate,
      an aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole, letrozole, or exemestane), or both for 5-10 years in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 4 years, and then yearly for 15 years.
    
  