
    
      1. Introduction and Study Rationale

           1.1 Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma Esophageal cancer is the seventh most common
           cancer in Korea, with almost 400,000 new patients diagnosed annually worldwide. There
           are large variations in the predominant histological type throughout the world but the
           majority of worldwide esophageal cancers are squamous cell carcinoma arising from the
           upper and middle thirds of the esophagus. Esophageal cancer is a highly virulent disease
           with a five-year survival rate of 10-15% . Metastatic esophageal carcinoma is an
           incurable disease with median survival duration of 6 to 8 months .

           1.2 5-FU plus Cisplatin (FP) combination chemotherapy Cytotoxic chemotherapy has been
           used to control tumor growth, improve quality of life and prolong survival although a
           survival advantage for chemotherapy over best supportive care alone in patients with
           metastatic cancer of the esophagus has not been proven in randomized trials. Although
           there is no standard chemotherapy regimen for metastatic esophageal cancer, various
           kinds of chemotherapy regimens have been used to alleviate symptoms caused by cancer and
           prolong survival and improve quality of life. Various phase-II trials have been
           performed to evaluate the effect of such chemotherapy. The activity of conventional
           single agent chemotherapy has been studied for cisplatin, 5-FU and mitomycin, which
           induced response rates of 15-30% . In most of these studies, the chemotherapy regimen
           consisted of a combination of cisplatin with another agent such as 5-FU or etoposide for
           both squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. The most commonly used chemotherapy
           regimen for patients with advanced esophageal cancer is a combination of 5-FU and
           cisplatin, with response rates ranging from 15% to 45%, however, the effect on survival
           remained undetermined.

           1.2 Capecitabine for esophageal cancer Capecitabine is a novel, orally administered
           fluoropyrimidine carbamate that is absorbed readily by the gastrointestinal tract and is
           metabolized by the liver, where it is converted initially to 5 -deoxy-5-fluorocytidine
           (5 -DFCR) and subsequently, to 5 -deoxy-5-fluorouridine (5 -DFUR). Designed to mimic
           continuous intravenous (CIV) 5-FU, oral capecitabine predominantly concentrates in tumor
           tissue . Capecitabine currently is approved as a single agent for the adjuvant treatment
           of stage III colon cancer, as first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer, and
           for metastatic breast cancer both as a single agent for patients and in combination with
           docetaxel. Whether oral fluoropyrimidines may be appropriately substituted, therefore
           making the therapy less burdensome to the patient and reducing the need for infusion
           catheters, is not fully investigated In patients with advanced esophagogastric cancer,
           capecitabine combinations have generally shown good antitumor activity and highlight the
           potential of capecitabine as a replacement of infusional 5-FU . Capecitabine has been
           investigated in combination with cisplatin and docetaxel in phase II trials in patients
           with advanced esophageal cancer with observed response rates of 47.1% and 46%,
           respectively . In a recent phase III trial comparing the efficacy of
           capecitabine/cisplatin (XP) versus FP in advanced gastric cancer, XP was not inferior to
           FP, in terms of progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and response
           rate (RR) . In our experience, the combination of capecitabine and cisplatin for
           esophageal cancer showed encouraging response rate (59%) with tolerable toxicities and
           convenience.

           1.3 Paclitaxel for esophageal cancer Paclitaxel in combination with cisplatin has shown
           favorable results for advanced esophageal carcinoma . A recent phase II study of
           bi-weekly administration of paclitaxel and cisplatin in 51 patients resulted in complete
           response in 4%, partial response in 39%, stable disease in 43% and progressive disease
           in 14% of patients, and a one-year survival of 43% . Several phase II trials have
           assessed combinations of taxanes (paclitaxel and docetaxel) and cisplatin and other
           agents, with response rates of 40-56% .

           1.4 Capecitabine plus Paclitaxel combination for esophageal cancer Capecitabine in
           combination with docetaxel has greater efficacy than single-agent docetaxel; the
           combination increased survival significantly compared with single-agent docetaxel (14.5
           v 11.5 months) in patients with metastatic breast cancer who experienced disease
           progression after anthracycline therapy . The most common treatment-related adverse
           events (TRAEs), with capecitabine 1,250 mg/m2 bid and docetaxel 75 mg/m2 were alopecia,
           hand-foot skin reaction (HFS), nausea, and fatigue. Neutropenia (15%) and HFS (11%) were
           the only grade 3 or 4 TRAEs that occurred in more than 10% of patients. In this trial
           the tolerable delivered dose of capecitabine for most patients was 950 mg/m2 bid for 14
           days. Lorenzen et al. treated 24 patients with capecitabine at a dose of 1000 mg/m2
           twice daily on Days 1 through 14 and docetaxel 75 mg/m2 on Day 1 of 3-week cycles. The
           RR was 46% and median survival was 15.8 months. However, the toxicity profile was high
           with two 2 treatment-related deaths, a high incidence of Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia (42%),
           and a high incidence of Grade 3 HFS (29%).

           There is a theoretical advantage to using paclitaxel on a weekly schedule in conjunction
           with capecitabine based on the duration of the upregulation of thymidine phosphorylase
           (dThPase) by paclitaxel in model systems. The metabolism of capecitabine to the active
           agent, FU, provides insight into the rationale for combining capecitabine with taxanes
           in this phase II study . The rationale for combining paclitaxel with capecitabine is
           based on the upregulation of dTHPase, which has been demonstrated in a model of athymic
           mice bearing capecitabine-resistant human colon cancer xenografts. Treatment with
           paclitaxel led to a 7.9-fold increase in intratumoral dThPase. An increase in dThPase
           activity occurred 4 days after treatment with paclitaxel and persisted for 10 days .
           These data led to the current concept for this clinical trial, using paclitaxel on days
           1 and 8 during a 14-day exposure to capecitabine in patients with MBC. Moreover, these
           agents have nonoverlapping toxicities and therefore can be combined with reasonable
           tolerability. It was anticipated that by allowing a week off from weekly paclitaxel
           therapy, the frequency of sensory neuropathy could be reduced.

           Given the high degree of efficacy of the docetaxel/capecitabine combination, but the
           significant toxicity observed with 1,250 mg/m2 bid capecitabine schedule, as well as the
           promising efficacy and safety observed with weekly paclitaxel/capecitabine in the phase
           I study by Uhlmann et al [27], we choose weekly paclitaxel for combination regimen with
           capecitabine. Practically, our study regimen is capecitabine plus paclitaxel(XT)
           combination chemotherapy.

           1.5 XP vs XT for esophageal cancer Based on the rationale and our experience, we are
           going to conduct randomized phase II trial for metastatic esophageal cancer to evaluate
           the efficacy and feasibility comparing XP with XT.

        2. Study Objectives

      2.1 Primary Objective: To evaluate response rate for each treatment group (XP vs XT) for
      metastatic esophageal cancer.

      2.2 Secondary Objectives:

        1. toxicity

        2. progression-free survival

        3. quality of life

        4. overall survival

        5. predictive marker study influencing response and survival

      3. Study Design 3.1 Randomization

        1. Timing of randomization: Randomization will be performed after inclusion of the patient

        2. Stratification factor: performance status (ECOG 0, 1 vs 2) & weight loss of 10% or more

      3.2 Overview of Study Design This study is a prospective, randomized, phase II study
      comparing response rate between patients with XP chemotherapy versus XT chemotherapy for
      patients with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.

      Chemotherapy regimen (XP):

      D1- D14 Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 bid p.o. D1 Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 + NS 150mL MIV over 1hr Pre &
      Post medication D0 N/S 1500 mL IV overnight hydration D1 DNK2 1000 mL IV over 2 hours, pre &
      post hydration (if Mg < WNL, mix MgSO4 1 amp) 5-HT3 antagonist 1 amp + dexamethasone 20 mg +
      D5W 100 mL MIV 20% Mannitol 70 mL IV full dripping, 30 mins before cisplatin D2-D5 5-HT3
      antagonist 1T QD D2-D3 Dexamethasone 8 mg PO bid D4-D5 Dexamethasone 4 mg PO bid every 3
      weeks

      Chemotherapy regimen (XT):

      D1- D14 Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 bid p.o. D1, D8 Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 + D5W 500mL MIV over 3hrs
      Pre & Post medication D1, D8 Solucortef 100 mg IV push before Paclitaxel Avil 1A + D5W 50mL
      MIV 30mins before Taxol Ranitidine 50mg IV + D5W 50mL MIV 30mins before Paclitaxel HT3
      antagonist 1A + D5W 50 mL MIV 30mins before Paclitaxel Followed by 1 week off every 3 weeks

      3.3 Study Duration and Dates The duration of this study is expected to be 36 months, with
      subject recruitment proposed to start in October 2008. The actual overall study duration or
      subject recruitment period may vary.

      3.4 Number of Patients/Assignment to Treatment Groups 94 patients will be recruited in total.
      Patients will be randomized to a treatment arm by permutated method. Chemotherapy should be
      started within 14 days after randomization.
    
  