
    
      It is the hypothesis that cancerous lesions in the prostate will have an increased amount of
      blood flow, and that the lesions identified under ultrasound with the benefits of
      contrast-enhanced imaging can be correlated to the MRI Findings in real-time. A study of 50
      patients who would be undergoing MRI/Ultrasound fusion would be selected to have contrast
      added to their procedure. The lesions identified on MRI would then be evaluated with
      contrast-enhanced ultrasound. The findings from the contrast study could then be correlated
      with the MRI findings. The rest of the prostate gland would also be assessed using the
      contrast agent for lesions not identified on the MRI imaging study. The pathology results
      could be correlated with both the contrast study and the MRI study both independently, and in
      conjunction with the two imaging modalities. If a correlation between highly suspicious
      lesions on the MRI and significant flow patterns under contrast can be established, then the
      sensitivity and specificity of contrast-enhanced ultrasound can be increased.

      While MRI / Ultrasound Fusion is being shown to increase prostate cancer identification and
      targeting for biopsy, it is a very limited modality due to the costs associated. Many sites
      will also not have access to an MRI unit, and the fusion system is prohibitively expensive,
      and requires specialized training to configure the system and modulate the images in
      real-time. However, ultrasound is an in expensive modality that is readily available. If the
      materials and methods in the utilization of contrast-enhanced ultrasounds can be correlated
      to MRI / Ultrasound fusion, better protocols can be developed for contrast-enhanced
      ultrasound. This more cost-effective method of identifying and targeting prostate cancer
      could then be exported to smaller communities who would otherwise still be carrying out the
      sextant biopsy model.
    
  