
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity profile of peptide vaccine comprising MART-1 antigen,
           gp100 antigen, and survivin antigen in combination with sargramostim (GM-CSF) emulsified
           in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) with or without low-dose aldesleukin in patients
           with stage II-IV melanoma.

        -  Determine the immunologic effects of two different doses of GM-CSF coemulsified with
           melanoma peptides in IFA in these patients.

        -  Determine the immunological effects of low-dose aldesleukin therapy administered after
           peptide immunization in these patients.

        -  Collect preliminary data on the impact of the vaccine on clinical outcomes in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage (II vs III
      or IV). Patients are sequentially enrolled into 1 of 4 different dose schedules.

        -  Dose schedule 1: Patients receive gp100 antigen, MART-1 antigen, survivin antigen, and
           sargramostim (GM-CSF) emulsified in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (peptide vaccine)
           subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Dose schedule 2: Patients receive peptide vaccine as in group 1. Patients also receive
           low-dose aldesleukin SC twice daily on days 7-20. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Dose schedule 3: Patients receive peptide vaccine as in group 1 except with a higher
           dose of GM-CSF. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Dose schedule 4: Patients receive peptide vaccine as in group 1 except with a higher
           dose of GM-CSF. Patients also receive low-dose aldesleukin SC twice daily on days 7-20.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 5 patients receive treatment at subsequent dose schedule until the maximum
      tolerated dose schedule (MTDS) is determined. The MTDS is defined as the dose schedule
      preceding that at which 2 of 5 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity within the first
      course.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  