
    
      Skeletal muscle is a critical organ for regulating glucose and insulin in the body as a
      whole, and post-spinal cord injury (SCI) adaptations in muscle severely undermine this
      capacity. Contemporary SCI rehabilitation for people with complete SCI does not intervene to
      protect the function of paralyzed skeletal muscle as a key regulator of metabolic
      homeostasis. Through its deleterious effects on multiple systems, metabolic disease is one of
      the leading sources of morbidity, mortality, and health care cost for this population.

      In the non-SCI population, pervasive, frequent, low-magnitude muscle contractions can
      increase energy expenditure by 50.3% above sitting levels. The loss of this component of
      muscle activity contributes to the energy imbalance and metabolic dysregulation observed in
      SCI. Subsidizing low-magnitude muscle contractions may offer an important metabolic stimulus
      for people with SCI. The significance of this study is that it builds on previous work
      demonstrating healthful transcriptional and translational gene adaptations in response to
      electrical stimulation training in SCI. These adaptations may initiate improvements in
      systemic biomarkers of metabolic health and improvements in secondary health conditions and
      health-related quality of life.

      In our previous work, we demonstrated that regular electrical stimulation of paralyzed muscle
      up-regulates PGC-1α, a key transcriptional co-activator for skeletal muscle and metabolic
      adaptation. Our previous work also indicates that electrical stimulation alters the
      expression of genes controlling mitochondrial biogenesis. However, we understand very little
      about the optimal amount of electrically-evoked muscle activity to deliver in order to
      promote positive metabolic adaptations. Long duration, low force contractions are likely to
      be most advantageous for promoting metabolic stability in people with chronic SCI, who also
      have osteoporosis and are unable to receive high force muscle contractions induced by
      conventional rehabilitation protocols. This study will intervene with a protocol of
      low-force, long-duration muscle stimulation designed to instigate systemic metabolic
      adaptations. In the proposed study we hypothesize that gene-level adaptations will yield
      tissue-level improvements in glucose utilization that facilitate systemic improvements in
      clinical markers of metabolic control, culminating in fewer secondary health conditions and
      enhanced health-related quality of life.
    
  