
    
      In France, the notion of autonomy concerning the patient's place in the healthcare system has
      been written into legal texts for several years (Loi Kouchner, 2002; Loi Leonetti, 2005; Loi
      Leonetti-Claeys, 2016, etc.) . In addition,government policies are trying to adapt a strategy
      for transforming the health system. One of the priorities is to place "the patient at the
      heart of the system ". This orientation of positioning the patient at the center of the
      healthcare system taken by the Government, proves the importance of a contemporary reflection
      on the subject of the patient's autonomy. This notion is also fully recognized in our society
      and in the medical field by caregivers. Indeed, it constitutes a fundamental right of respect
      for the patient to decide for himself - in particular at the level of his health - what seems
      to be suitable, his therapeutic plan, his care, etc. However, the notion of autonomy is
      polysemous and complex. There is no unambiguous definition given the existence of plural
      conceptions of autonomy, especially in the field of psychology. Thus, through the literature,
      it can be understood as a psychological state, a personality variable, an attitude, a value,
      even a standard (Auzoult, 2008).

      Given its omnipresence in public health, legislative, ethical, institutional as well as among
      caregivers, the investigators assume in our study that autonomy could be the object of social
      valuation and thus be understood as a shared norm. and conveyed. (Dubois & Beauvois, 2002).
      Norms are defined in particular as "cultural rules which guide behavior in a society" (Ross,
      1973). In this perspective, the investigators can rely on the results of the work of Sonia
      Hadj Cherif's thesis on the "representation of the autonomous patient in decision-making in
      the context of recurrence". In this questionnaire survey of physicians practicing in
      oncology, the participants were asked to perform a verbal association task inviting them to
      evoke the 5 words or expressions that came to their mind following the inductive word
      "autonomous patient". The most salient elements associated with autonomy were: a good general
      state, management of daily life, valid, capacity for comprehension, hygiene, cognitive
      capacities preserved, movement, etc., thus representing the "autonomous patient" as a patient
      with all of his physical, motor and intellectual capacities. It is thus a functional autonomy
      in which the recognition of the patient depends first of all on his capacity to act and to
      do, which seems to prevail in medical discourse. Based on these findings, it would be
      interesting to study the autonomy perceived by the patient himself.

      To do this, in our research, we will build a questionnaire intended for patients, the first
      part of which will be composed of a series of questions relating to the most significant
      associated words and their associated values for each patient to define his own
      representation of the "autonomous patient". The second part of the questionnaire will consist
      of three sub-questionnaires including items relating to patient autonomy. The items of these
      three questionnaires will be identical in all respects. Only the instruction requested from
      the patient will differ. In fact, patients will first of all be asked to respond as
      authentically as possible in order to situate their own perceived autonomy . Secondly, they
      will have to respond with a fictitious perspective of giving their doctor a favorable image
      of themselves. Finally, as a last step, they will have to give an unfavorable image of
      themselves to their doctor. These questionnaires will allow us to know whether cancer
      patients use different self-presentation strategies depending on whether they present to
      themselves, or to their doctor.
    
  