
    
      The usual approach group, after lung tissue biopsy, 300 double blind random group separated
      SCLC patients currently used the Combined Chemotherapy on Etoposide Injection plus
      Methotrexate Injection plus Topotecan Injection, it will try to look for the relationship
      between the ETOPOSIDE therapeutic efficacy and the Topoisomerase II SNP Genotyping, and the
      relationship between the ETOPOSIDE therapeutic safety and the CYP4503A4 SNP Genotyping, based
      on Oxford precisely sequencing drug targets' genes.

      The study approach group, after lung tissue biopsy, 300 double blind random group separated
      SCLC patients currently used the Combined Chemotherapy on Etoposide Capsule plus Methotrexate
      Tablet plus HYCAMTIN - Topotecan Capsule, it will try to look for the relationship between
      the ETOPOSIDE therapeutic efficacy and the Topoisomerase II SNP Genotyping, and the
      relationship between the ETOPOSIDE therapeutic safety and the CYP4503A4 SNP Genotyping, based
      on Oxford precisely sequencing drug targets' genes.

        -  1) Detect drug target whole gene precision sequence of everyone patient for all 600
           recruited double blind SCLC patients.

        -  2) Mutually compare everyone patient drug target whole gene precision sequence for total
           600 recruited double blind SCLC patients.

        -  3) Calculate drug target gene SNPs in all 600 recruited double blind SCLC patients.

        -  4) Correlate everyone patient drug target gene SNP to everyone patient drug efficacy.

        -  5) Correlate everyone patient drug target gene SNP to everyone patient drug safety.

        -  6) Mutually compare the usual approach group SNPs (300 double blind random group
           separated SCLC patients) with the study approach group SNPs (300 double blind random
           group separated SCLC patients).

        -  7) Confirm the relationship between drug target gene SNPs and drug efficacy.

        -  8) Confirm the relationship between drug target gene SNPs and drug safety.
    
  