
    
      AIM: To develop and standardize a cost effective methodology or algorithm for mRNA E6/E7 for
      HPV genotypes 16, 18, 31, 33 and 45 as compared to commercially available assays which can be
      incorporated to triage excess false positives from primary screening for cervical cancers.

      Objectives:

        1. Development and standardization of methodology /algorithm for mRNA E6/E7 testing for HPV
           genotypes 16, 18, 31, 33 and 45 using Real-time RT-PCR, in cervical samples.

        2. To compare the test performance of this HPV E6/E7 mRNA assay to HPV DNA by HC 2 as
           secondary screening test, with the reference standard of colposcopy with biopsy, to
           triage women found positive in primary screening by VIA , in a population based
           screening for cancer of cervix.

        3. To determine number of false positives in the primary screening test after testing VIA
           positives with a known high specificity secondary screening test (HPV-DNA HC II )
           compared to HPV E6/E7 mRNA testing.

      Study Population: Women in the age group of 30-65 years, who test positive on primary
      cervical screening test VIA will be enrolled for the proposed diagnostic tests along with
      reference standard of colposcopy with guided biopsy.

      Study Site: Women tested positive on primary screening test VIA with referrals for further
      diagnostic testing at TMH will be enrolled under the study for proposed diagnostic tests
      along with reference test at tertiary care facility , Dept. of Preventive Oncology, Tata
      Memorial Hospital in Mumbai.

      Sample Size To detect statistically significant difference in the test characteristics with
      95% confidence limits, 80 % statistical power and alpha =0.05, we require to have around 180
      cases of cervical intraepithelial neolplasia in the study.

      With a demonstrated prevalence of around 2% for detecting high grade CIN lesions from our
      urban and rural community based cervical screening programmes, we need to enroll around 9,000
      women from population based cervical cancer screening, to get 180 cases of cervical
      intraepithelial neolplasia

      Methodology:

      Women in the age group of 30-65 years undergoing routine cervical cancer screening through
      hospital ( Preventive Oncology screening clinic) and community based screening programs with
      abnormal test result using the primary cervical cancer screening test VIA will be recruited
      in the study. The primary screening test VIA will be administered by application of 5% Acetic
      Acid to the cervix and visualizing the cervix with the help of a halogen focus lamp. VIA will
      be considered to be positive if definite acetowhite lesions are visualized close to the
      squamocolumnar junction.

      Criteria for a positive VIA test are presented below:

      Positive VIA test:

        1. Opaque, dense, dull, definite, well defined aceto white lesions, touching the
           squamocolumnar junction or close to the external os.

        2. Strikingly dense acetowhite areas in the columnar epithelium.

        3. Condyloma and Leukoplakia occurring closer to the squamocolumnar junction turning
           intensely white after application of acetic acid.

        4. Growth on the cervix turning acetowhite.

      The screened women who are tested Screen Positive by the primary screening test VIA will
      become eligible for recruitment in the study . Screen positive women from the outreach
      community screening programs will be referred to TMH ( Preventive Oncology screening clinic)
      for further diagnostic verification.

      Participant Recruitment

      The study participants will be recruited from Hospital ( Preventive Oncology screening
      clinic) and community based screening programmes in Mumbai. Medical Social Workers will
      explain the details and the purpose of the study to participants attending the screening
      clinic. Apparently healthy women in the age group of 30-65 yrs with an intact uterus and no
      past history of cervical neoplasia will become eligible to participate in the programme. If
      they are fulfilling the inclusion criteria given above, a written informed consent in the
      vernacular language (either Hindi or Marathi) will be obtained from the participant and a
      unique participant identification number will be assigned to the eligible women. Information
      on socio demographic and reproductive variables will then be collected using a detailed
      questionnaire.

      Demographic, reproductive and sexual history data will be recorded at screening following
      informed consent..

      Screen positive women will be tested for the presence of oncogenic HPV types by Hybrid
      Capture-II (HC-II) and HPV E6/E7 mRNA testing as diagnostic test. In addition to the above
      two tests all the screen positive women will also further receive Colposcopy with guided
      cervical biopsy, the reference gold standard test.

      Colposcopy will be performed by trained doctors and the colposcopy impression will be noted
      down along with a punch biopsy from the aceto white area on the cervix detected by the
      primary screening test VIA. Biopsy specimens will be fixed in 10% formalin and will be
      processed and reported by the pathology laboratory at the Tata Memorial Centre.

      The reference standard for final disease status will be histology.

      Post Test Counseling :

      At the end of all testing procedures post test counseling will be done by the Doctor and
      Medical Social Worker to explain the significance and the results of the testing procedures
      performed. The importance of follow up visit to understand the results of HPV/ mRNA E6/E7 and
      cervical biopsy will be explained to the women.

      Follow up and Treatment:

      Treatment for opportunistic and reproductive tract infections (RTI) will be provided. Women
      with High grade lesions (cervical precancers ) HSIL will be recommended to seek treatment
      with cryotherapy or LEEP (Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure) or by cold knife
      conization at the Tata Memorial Centre Mumbai.

      Total Project Period: Three years:

      Proposal submission, training, participant recruitment, data collection and analysis,
      including follow-up of cases at the end of enrollment period
    
  