
    
      An estimated 40-85% of 2.4 million Americans infected with HCV remain unaware of the
      infection. Further even amongst those aware of the HCV status, the vast majority do not get
      linked to care or are offered the option for treatment. Busy emergency department (ED)
      settings, which provide care to 140 million individuals each year, have recently been
      demonstrated to be a key venue for large-scale HCV testing, with outcomes from several large
      cities showing rates of disease of upwards of 10%. Significant challenges remain however, as
      linkage to care (LTC) from EDs has proven particularly elusive. National ED HCV LTC rates
      typically range from 20-40%, which dramatically restricts the overall impact on patient
      outcomes. Varied and complex factors contribute to these challenges but include both
      individual patient level factors, as well as social and health care infrastructure barriers.
      One critical but potentially mutable factor associated with gaps in LTC, that has yet to be
      systematically evaluated for ED populations, is the role of patient's comprehension of the
      'meaning' of patients' HCV diagnosis, which includes understanding the natural history of the
      disease, and the associated downstream health consequences of being infected. Placing HCV in
      the context of a patient based conceptual disease model provides a framework for studying
      knowledge gaps and misperceptions, which could be used to help improve patient engagement in
      care, and ultimately both clinical and public health outcomes. Leventhal's Common-Sense Model
      of Illness Representations provides a foundational framework for understanding an
      individual's belief and coping strategy to respond to his or her illness, with reliance on
      both concrete and abstract information (e.g. symptoms or acquired knowledge). For HCV,
      variables that may impact patient's engagement include a relative lack of urgency to receive
      care (due to the indolent nature of symptoms and often decades-long disease progression), a
      perception of ineffective treatment options (rooting from interferon therapy), and the
      perception of a relative low morbidity and mortality risk associated with HCV (versus e.g.
      HIV). Leveraging this Common-Sense Model theoretical framework, the investigators' research
      team proposes to design and evaluate the impact of a patient-centered HCV health belief
      conception framework for improving LTC interventions and the downstream HCV care continuum.
      Individualized risk information will be delivered in a patient-centric manner in the ED,
      gathering easily obtainable data that has proven to predict progression (i.e. Fibrosis-4
      score). The investigators propose to first conduct a series of 3 focus group discussion
      sessions for participants to provide constructive comments and suggestions on the prototype
      of the personalized HCV educational app which has been blueprinted and is currently under
      development. This will be followed by development and pilot testing of a personalized
      patient-centered tablet-facilitated HCV educational program app, focusing on improving
      patient knowledge regarding HCV in real-time (including using and ED-based fibrosis staging
      service from precision medicine perspective). The patient informed staging service will
      include an estimated non-invasive Fibrosis-4 score; a serum fibrosis marker index (includes
      age, platelet count, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
      values). The investigators hypothesize that providing individualized HCV disease progression
      staging information to ED patients, along with a structured educational LTC program to
      HCV-infected patients during patients' ED visit, will significantly change patient's health
      beliefs and perceptions of HCV, and motivate patients to achieve improved rates of LTC,
      retention in care, anti-viral treatment, and sustained virologic response along the HCV care
      cascade.
    
  