
    
      After diagnosis of infection and informed consent, patients will be taken to the operating
      room. After anesthetization, patients will be randomized to either an articulating spacer or
      static spacer. Randomization will be performed by prepared opaque envelopes administered by a
      nonparticipant in the study. After a complete debridement of devitalized tissue, explantation
      of infected components and any associated cement, either an articulating or static spacer
      will be placed. All spacers will be formed using 3.0 g of Vancomycin and 1.0 g of Tobramycin
      for each 40 g packet of cement. Articulating spacers will be formed of antibiotic-impregnated
      cement using the Stage One system (Biomet, Warsaw, IN) sized to fit the endosteal and
      acetabular bone defect. Static spacers will be hand-made with a rod of antibiotic-impregnated
      cement and cement beads of sufficient quantity to fill the acetabulum.

      Post-operatively, all patients will be made touch-down weight bearing protected with a walker
      or crutches. At the time of reimplantation, the joint will be aspirated and multiple cultures
      obtained along with intraoperative histopathological analysis to evaluate for persistent
      infection.

      Data collected preoperatively will include age, gender, laterality, etiology of hip
      degeneration, comorbidities, Harris Hip score, infecting organisms and Paprosky femoral and
      acetabular bone loss classification. The Harris Hip score has been used extensively in the
      study of revision hip arthroplasty and has been found to be reliable and valid and will be
      determined preoperatively and at all follow-up visits.

      Data collected at the time of implant removal and reimplantation will include operative time,
      blood loss, surgical approach, and need for an extended trochanteric osteotomy. Radiographs
      performed immediately following and just prior to reimplantation will be reviewed to
      determine if the spacer utilized has caused bone loss; bone loss to the cut bony surfaces
      will be confirmed intraoperatively. At each follow-up visits radiographic appearance, the
      Harris Hip Score, dislocation events, recurrence of infection, and the need for revision or
      reoperation of any kind on the hip will be determined.

      All portions of this study will be part of conventional care except for randomization and
      collection of the Harris Hip Score. Which type of spacer is used currently depends upon the
      judgment of the attending surgeons and both are used routinely.

      The primary outcome variable will be Harris Hip Score. A power analysis was conducted with
      the assistance of Dr. Mario Moric at Rush. Using the standard deviation of Harris Hip Scores
      from Hsieh and colleagues (2004) and Fehring and colleagues (1999), the largest previous
      studies reporting such data, Dr. Moric estimated 56 patients, 28 patients per group, would be
      needed to detect a clinically relevant difference of ten points. To account for attrition,
      our target total sample size will be 80 patients.
    
  