
    
      Evidence-based treatments (EBTs) for depression are often not available to persons needing
      them; this is particularly true of psychotherapies. Even when available, EBTs are often
      poorly delivered at less-than-optimal quality. High direct and indirect costs also limit the
      availability of EBTs. Together these barriers contribute to suboptimal treatment of
      depression in the community. In a preliminary step toward addressing these quality
      shortcomings, the investigators propose to conduct a blended efficacy- effectiveness
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) of high fidelity, Internet-delivered cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) for depression, extending our previous research to maximize treatment
      availability and quality as well as to reduce costs. Over a 36-month recruitment period, the
      investigators will enroll 1,800 adults seeking care for depression from 3 rural healthcare
      clinics, 3 safety net federally qualified healthcare centers (FQHCs), and 2 non-profit HMOs.
      Participants will be randomized to: (a) a treatment as usual (TAU) control condition,
      typically antidepressants and/or psychosocial services; (b) TAU plus Pure self-help Internet
      CBT for depression, consisting of access to the Internet site without any contact with
      therapists; (c) TAU plus Guided self-help Internet CBT, consisting of access to the Internet
      site plus brief, periodic telephone contacts with therapists; or (d) a Stepped-Care Internet
      CBT condition, starting with TAU + Pure self-help CBT and progressing to Guided self-help CBT
      if adequate progress is not observed early on. Participants will be followed for one year.
      The primary hypothesis for which the study is powered is that Guided self-help CBT will
      result in greater depression symptom improvement than Pure self-help CBT. The investigators
      also expect secondary analyses to reveal this pattern of results: Guided CBT > Pure CBT >
      TAU. The investigators will conduct cost-effectiveness analyses (CEA), as the investigators
      project substantial differences in the direct costs of each study arm. The investigators will
      also examine TAU healthcare utilization (medications, visits, etc) from electronic medical
      records (EMR), billing systems, and participant report. The investigators hypothesize that
      cost per depression free days (DFDs) and quality- adjusted life years (QALYs) will be lowest
      for Pure CBT, relative to Guided and Stepped-Care CBT and TAU. The investigators also
      hypothesize that cost per unit of improvement in QALYs and DFDs will be better for
      Stepped-Care compared to Guided CBT. Additional aims include exploratory examination of
      secondary outcomes, and predictors and moderators of outcomes among the interventions. The
      investigators also will collect quantitative and qualitative data on patient, provider, and
      organizational factors that may impede or facilitate implementation of these interventions,
      to help prepare for future dissemination efforts. Finally, in this reapplication the
      investigators have added a non-research Reach Estimation Phase to better estimate acceptance
      and retention rates under conditions that closely match real-world dissemination
    
  