
    
      Following admission to Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, the clinical team will approach the
      parents of patients admitted with respiratory failure and introduce the research project. It
      is unlikely that parents will be have the capacity to provide meaningful full consent at this
      stage, as admission will be as an emergency. Therefore a two staged approach is proposed.
      Clinicians will act as gatekeepers to the parents. Parents/ patients deemed suitable for
      recruitment by clinicians will be provided with a brief explanation of the scan, and
      introduced to the researcher. Parents/patients may be deemed unsuitable should there be
      communication issues, legal issues (such as children in care) or clinical issues (where
      clinicians feel the patient is unlikely to survive and the research would be intrusive). With
      the parent's permission (documented in the research paperwork), scan data will collected from
      the patient. However, this will not be analysed or downloaded until after the second stage of
      consent. At a time deemed appropriate by the clinicians (based on clinical experience, this
      is expected to be within 24 hours of arrival) the researcher will provide a full explanation
      of the research and formally record parental consent on an approved form. At this point data
      generated will be downloaded and analysed. Should the parents refuse no more data will be
      collected. The measurements of brain blood flow will be taken using small probes located
      either side of the head. These will be held in place by either tape or a tubular bandage.
      Using an ultrasound images of the blood vessels (and flow) in the brain will also be measured
      at the same time. These measurements will be taken for 5-10 minutes on each occasion.
      Depending on treatment pathway, the data will be collected as follows: Measurements will be
      taken before treatment starts (in ECMO only). When the child is going onto treatment (during
      cannulation (ECMO) or intubation conventional)).

      One hour after treatment has begun (ECMO only) 24 hours after treatment has started and then
      on a daily basis for the duration of treatment. During the weaning period where the patient
      is being prepared to come off treatment.

      When the patient is being took off treatment (de-cannulation/extubation). One hour after they
      have been took off treatment. 24 hours after treatment has stopped. Not all the time points
      at which data will be collected will be applicable in every case.

      Parents can withdraw consent at any point until data is analysed. No identifiable data will
      be recorded, apart from the consent forms.
    
  