
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Obtain pilot data demonstrating the potential for increased benefit when complementing
           conventional steroid therapy with adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) in
           patients with brain radionecrosis.

        -  Estimate the magnitude of benefit of HBOT using objective measures of neurologic
           function, radiographic imaging, and standardized quality of life measures in these
           patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the effect of HBOT on cerebral revascularization using
           perfusion MRI in these patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of performing a large-scale, randomized, controlled study
           (particularly with regard to patient recruitment and retention) comparing HBOT with
           conventional steroid therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, randomized, controlled study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (conventional care only): Patients receive baseline steroid therapy comprising
           oral dexamethasone 4 times daily. Steroid doses are either increased or decreased per
           standard protocol during the 90-day treatment period. Patients who demonstrate
           neurological deterioration at each evaluation (as evidenced by a decrease in Karnofsky
           performance status score) receive escalating doses of dexamethasone until the maximum
           daily dose of 32 mg is reached. Patients who reach the maximum daily dose of
           dexamethasone are removed from the study. Patients also receive anticonvulsant therapy
           during study therapy.

        -  Arm II (conventional care and hyperbaric oxygen therapy [HBOT]): Patients receive
           conventional care as in arm I*. Patients also undergo HBOT once daily, 5 days a week,
           for 90 days (60 treatments total).

      NOTE: *Patients in arm II who reach the maximum daily dose of dexamethasone are not removed
      from the study.

        -  Cerebral revascularization study: Five patients from each arm are randomly selected to
           undergo perfusion MRI before treatment and within 1 week after completion of study
           therapy to determine the proportion of cerebral neovascularization in each arm.

      Patients are evaluated during study by standardized physical examinations, positron emission
      tomography scans, perfusion MRI, complete neurologic assessment, and standardized,
      health-related quality of life measures at baseline, at 30-day intervals during treatment, at
      the end of treatment, and at 1, 2, and 4 months after completion of study therapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 1, 2, and 4 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  