
    
      Uterine fibroids are benign uterine masses with a prevalence of 70-80% by age 50 in the
      population. They can cause heavy menstrual bleeding, pelvic discomfort, and may impair
      fertility. Surgical removal of uterine fibroids (myomectomy) is commonly offered to women who
      wish to preserve fertility. Myomectomy is often done through laparotomy (open myomectomy),
      and is often associated with major surgical blood loss and blood transfusion. A recent
      Cochrane review of interventions to reduce intra-operative blood loss at myomectomy reported
      a mean estimated blood loss of 151-1047 mL in the non-intervention group, and a 20% rate of
      blood transfusion. This rate is particularly alarming in this young female population, as
      blood transfusion confers immediate and long-term risks, including the development of red
      blood cell antibodies which may be detrimental in future pregnancy.

      Perioperative anemia and intraoperative blood loss have been associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. Patients with mild to moderate pre-operative anemia (hemoglobin in
      the range of 80-120 g/L) have an increased association with severe adverse outcomes.
      Paradoxically, transfusion of red blood cells has also been associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality in perioperative patients. Thus, both anemia and one of its primary
      treatments are associated with adverse outcomes. While these outcomes have not been clearly
      defined in gynecological surgery, patients facing myomectomy are often severely anemic and
      can suffer severe blood loss for which red blood cell transfusion is the only therapy.
      Therefore, any approach that reduces both pre-operative anemia and acute intraoperative blood
      loss may result in improved patient outcomes.

      Clinical pathways to reduce surgical blood loss have demonstrated efficacy in the orthopaedic
      literature. Successful strategies include avoidance of pre-operative anemia and the
      intra-operative use of a synthetic antifibrinolytic agent (tranexamic acid), with significant
      reductions in blood loss and transfusion rates during orthopaedic surgery. Similarly, there
      is evidence in the gynaecologic literature for interventions to reduce major blood loss and
      blood transfusion at myomectomy (Table 1), including vaginal misoprostol, vaginal
      dinoprostone, intramyometrial vasopressin, intravenous tranexamic acid, pericervical
      tourniquet, and fibrin sealant patch. However, there is currently no standardized
      intra-operative blood conservation pathway, and clinical practice is variable among
      clinicians. To address this knowledge translation gap, this study aims to develop an
      intra-operative pathway designed by a multi-disciplinary team of researchers and end-users to
      reduce major blood loss and transfusion rates at open myomectomy.
    
  