
    
      This project is a cluster-randomized study comparing different implementation strategies. The
      study will comprise clinical settings in primary health care (PHC) and in senior residential
      care.

      Participating clinics will be recruited strategically with regard to catchment area and
      population structure, to achieve such a large diverse participation as possible.

      Participant to the balance training will be recruited through the participating clinics, from
      primary care facilities in the vicinity of the clinics involved and by advertisement in local
      papers in the communities. Participants reporting their interest to partake in the study will
      be telephone-interview and informed about the project and checked for eligibility.
      Thereafter, they will be called to baseline testing.

      The investigators plan to involve 30 different PHC and thereby 360-480 participants in
      balance training (two groups with 6-8 participants per semester from each clinic during 2
      semesters).

      In two previous randomised controlled studies performed by the research group in Stockholm
      county regarding group balance-training for older adults at risk of falling the investigators
      received a large number of people reporting interest by announcement, i.e. approximately 500
      subjects. However, most of them were excluded because they had not a verified diagnosis of
      osteoporosis, which was one of the inclusion criteria's in those two studies.

      The group based balance-training program is well described in a published ´Rehabilitation in
      practice´- article and was developed based on well-established principles of exercise and on
      the knowledge that balance control relies on the interaction of several physiological
      systems, as well as interaction with environmental factors and the performed task. It
      includes exercise with dual- and multi task performance, i.e. performance when a person's
      attention is divided between a motor and a cognitive task, as this is a natural component of
      daily activities, but may increase the risk of falling especially in older adults. As
      training adaptions are specific for the system trained, this program follows the principle of
      specificity in that it is based on exercises targeting various systems for postural control
      aiming to improve balance performance in specific situations that can occur in daily life,
      such as regaining postural stability after perturbation or being able to suddenly avoid an
      obstacle, with retained balance, while simultaneously walking and answering a question.
      Furthermore, it is progressive as the exercises can be performed at different levels (basic,
      moderate, and advanced), making it progressively challenging for each individual throughout
      the whole program. The training is conducted as an individually tailored group program. The
      12-week balance training program will be performed two times per week for one hour each. The
      training will be lead by physiotherapists or trained leaders. After the balance training the
      participants will get recommendations for continued physical activity and training, i.e.
      "Physical activity on prescription".

      For the implementation a participatory approach will be used, where the different settings
      will be engaged in an early phase. For evaluation the model by Proctor et al., will be
      followed. The implementation strategies will include 1) a contract with each setting, 2)
      meetings with the head of each setting, 3) discussion with physical therapists and leaders in
      the setting, 4) education of the physical therapists and leaders who will be trainers and 5)
      coaching of the trainers.

      Implementation outcomes will include:

        -  Acceptability of evidence-based treatments among health providers will be assessed by
           investigating the attitudes towards the balance program with a questionnaire, focus
           groups and interviews.

        -  Feasibility the extent to which a new treatment can be successfully used and carried out
           in the clinical setting will be assessed by investigating how the balance program fits
           in in clinical practice with focus groups and interviews.

        -  Fidelity includes five dimensions, i.e. adherence to the program protocol, quality of
           delivery, program component differentiation, exposure to the intervention and
           participant responsiveness to the program will be investigated by observations,
           check-lists and assessments on individual level (see below).

        -  Cost will be assessed by a health economic evaluation of the program.

        -  Sustainability will be assessed using both quantitative and qualitative methods and
           include measures on compliance/fidelity to the training program.

      Assessments on individual level will include fall-related concerns, health related quality of
      life, balance performance, gait, physical activity, muscle strength for lower extremities and
      number of falls and compliance to training.

      The assessments on individual level will be performed at the PHC by the regular
      physiotherapist. All participants will be assessed before and after the training period (3
      months after inclusion) and at three to six, twelve eight-teen and twenty-four months, i.e.
      two years after inclusion. During the follow-up period, i.e. three, six, twelve, eight-teen
      and twenty-four months, the assessments will consists of sms-track system and by postal
      survey with questionnaire regarding fall-related concerns, heath related quality of life,
      physical activity and adherence to training regime.
    
  