
    
      This double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing patient-reported pain and
      pain medication/narcotic use between patients randomized to treatment (ropivacaine) or
      placebo (saline) delivered via paravertebral block to the mastectomy site. Candidates will
      have chosen to have a mastectomy on one side immediately followed with tissue expander
      placement breast reconstruction.

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to ropivacaine- (treatment) or saline-(placebo) paravertebral
      blocks in a double-blinded design. Patient-specific surgical details will be recorded
      intraoperatively. Following the surgery, post-operative pain, pain medication/opioid use, and
      the occurrence of adverse events (AEs)/serious adverse events (SAEs) will be assessed on Days
      1, 2, and 3. A clinic visit occurs on Day 7 when additional data are collected (updated
      medical history, pain medication/opioid use, AEs/SAEs, and study questionnaires. Using two
      pain scales, the Patient Pain Assessment Questionnaire (Appendix A) and Subjective Pain
      Survey (Appendix B), the post-operative pain will be compared between treatment and control
      groups. Differences in opioids use between groups at different time points will also be
      assessed as a more objective measure of post-operative pain.

      Long-term quality-of-life/health outcomes assessments will be done on post-operative Day 90
      (±14 days), Year 2 (±14 days), and Year 4 (±14 days). The Year 2 and Year 4 follow-ups are
      included as tertiary endpoints to capture differences in chronic pain, and patients will be
      asked to complete the same questionnaires as at the Day 90 follow up.

      The investigators hypothesize that post-operative static pain scores will be lower in
      ropivacaine patients vs. placebo patients in women undergoing mastectomy and immediate
      reconstruction with placement of tissue expanders. We believe that post-operative moving pain
      scores, opioids use, nausea, and sleep interference will be likewise improved. We further
      hypothesize that this decreased post-operative pain may lead to improvements in long-term
      health outcomes as measured by validated questionnaires. In the presence of clear need and
      lack of published studies regarding this precise patient population, it is important to
      determine if paravertebral blocks do reduce post-operative pain, and improve opioids use,
      nausea, sleep interference, and length of hospital stay in patients undergoing immediate
      tissue expander breast reconstruction.
    
  