
    
      Aortic stenosis is one of the most common cardiology diseases. If untreated, symptomatic
      aortic stenosis rapidly leads to death. Most of the time, this disease affects old fragile
      people for whom conventional surgery is countered or very risky. That is why Trans aortic
      valve implantation has been developed since 2002, first to treat rejected patients from
      conventional surgery, then to treat high surgical risk patients and nowadays probably
      intermediate surgical risk patient. Indeed, thanks to prodigious technical and human
      progress, procedure induced complication have clearly decreased. But TAVI related
      complications are still recurrent and the investigators are searching a way to decrease them.

      One of them could be image fusion, since it may decrease radiation exposure and contrast
      agent use correlated to acute kidney failure. It may also improve valve placement position,
      and the investigators know that many rhythmic (atrio-ventricular block) and valvular
      (significant aortic regurgitation) complications are partially due to placement mistakes. So
      the investigators hope that image fusion will decrease these complications.

      The investigators will include 40 prospective and consecutive patients. Inclusion criterion
      will be all major patients admitted in Nantes CHU for transfemoral aortic valve replacement
      with SAPIEN® 3 valve. Exclusion criterion will be women of childbearing age without
      contraception, impossible written consent, judiciary protected people. After inclusion,
      patients will be divided into two groups: the 20 first included will be control group, the 20
      following patients will be the fusion group. For control group TAVI procedure will be the
      usual one, for fusion group the procedure will be the usual one with addition of computed
      tomography 3D images fusion with fluoroscopy 2D images. The only difference during all
      patient medical care will be the addition of image fusion in fusion group. Before and after
      procedure, both groups will have the usual medical monitoring and the appropriated medical
      interventions to participants case.

      Main evaluation criterion will be radiation exposure, measured by dose area product (DAP).

      Secondary evaluation criterion will be procedural as:

        -  contrast agent volume used (mL),

        -  procedure duration (min),

        -  subjective usefulness of image fusion evaluated on a 0 to 3 scale

        -  procedure failure : death, more than one valve implantation, valve dysfunction (mean
           trans-valvular gradient > 20 mmHg or moderate to severe aortic regurgitation) These
           criterions will be evaluated immediately after procedure.

      The investigators will also evaluated procedure induced complications as:

        -  de novo pacemaker implantation

        -  de novo left bundle branch

        -  non minor vascular complication on VARC-2 definition

        -  major bleeding (BARC 3 or 5)

        -  acute kidney failure (AKIN 2 or 3)

        -  significant aortic regurgitation ≥ 2/4 These complications occurrence will be evaluated
           after 1 month follow up, during the usual following consultation with echocardiography.

      Then differences between will be tested with appropriated statistical methods.
    
  