
    
      Patients fulfilling inclusion criteria are invited to the trial after informed consent for
      baseline and follow-up investigations.

      Baseline investigations Day 1 Patients are given a questionnaire. They are given blood
      pressure monitoring, (ABPM Medical 90217 ambulatory blood pressure monitor, Spacelab) for 24
      hours a starting at 8-9 AM. They are also given sleep apnea recorder (Embletta, X 10 system,
      Embla systems, ResMed) for ambulatory use during the following night, and a container for
      urinary sampling during the night (urine norepinephrine).

      Day 2 Fasting on arrival. Return of the 24-h blood pressure recorder, the sleep apnea
      recorder and the urine sampling container.

      Blood samples at 08.15 am after resting for 15 minutes. Arterial stiffness is measured using
      arterial pulse wave velocity, radial artery applanation tonometry and office blood pressure.
      After resting, the measurements starts at 8.30 AM in a room with a temperature of 24°C. Pulse
      wave velocity (Vicorder, Skidmore Medical, Bristol, UK) is measured in the supine position.
      The augmentation index is derived from pulse wave analysis obtained from radial artery
      applanation tonometry on the right arm (SphygmoCor, AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia).

      Lung function and exhaled NO measurements, ECG. Breakfast at around 10.00 am. CPAP time
      counter check Patients are then randomized with a ration of 1:1 to continue with CPAP or not
      for the following 5 nights.

      Follow-up measurements Day 6 They are given blood pressure monitoring, (ABPM Medical 90217
      ambulatory blood pressure monitor, Spacelab) for 24 hours a starting at 8-9 AM. They are also
      given sleep apnea recorder (Embletta, X 10 system, Embla systems, ResMed) for ambulatory use
      during the following night, and a container for urinary sampling during the night (urine
      norepinephrine).

      Day 7 Fasting on arrival. CPAP time counter check Return of the 24-h blood pressure recorder,
      the sleep apnea recorder and the urine sampling container.

      Blood samples at 08.15 am after resting for 15 minutes. Arterial stiffness is measured using
      arterial pulse wave velocity, radial artery applanation tonometry and office blood pressure.
      After resting, the measurements starts at 8.30 AM in a room with a temperature of 24°C. Pulse
      wave velocity (Vicorder, Skidmore Medical, Bristol, UK) is measured in the supine position.
      The augmentation index is derived from pulse wave analysis obtained from radial artery
      applanation tonometry on the right arm (SphygmoCor, AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia).

      Lung function and exhaled NO measurements, ECG. Breakfast at around 10.00 am. Trials ends and
      patients are told to continue with CPAP as usual.
    
  