
    
      Surgical resection is the main treatment for potentially curable solid organ cancer. However,
      long-term survival after cancer surgery is far from satisfactory. Quite a number of patients
      develop tumor metastasis and/or recurrence after surgery, which are associated with poor
      long-term outcomes. The development of tumor recurrence and/or metastasis after surgery is
      mostly dependent on the balance between the anti-tumor immune function of the body and the
      ability of implantation, proliferation and neovascularization of the residual cancer cells.

      Studies showed that anaesthetic techniques and drugs may influence the cellular immune
      function and long-term outcomes. For example, it was found that ketamine and thiopental, but
      not propofol, suppresses natural killer (NK) cell activity; all three drugs caused a
      significant reduction in NK cell number; isoflurane and halothane inhibit interferon
      stimulation of NK cell cytotoxicity; nitrous oxide interferes with deoxyribonucleic acid,
      purine, and thymidylate synthesis and depresses neutrophil chemotaxis; opioids have been
      shown to suppress cell-mediated and humoral immunity.

      Considering the potential harmful effects of general anesthesia/anesthetics, there is
      increasing interest on the effect of regional anaesthesia. Retrospective studies
      investigating the relationship between epidural anesthesia and outcomes after cancer surgery
      provide different results. In a meta-analysis of retrospective studies, regional anesthesia
      was associated with improved survival, but had no effect on the occurrence of cancer
      recurrence/metastasis. The investigators hypothesize that epidural anesthesia may produce
      favorable effects on long-term survival in the elderly who undergo major surgery for cancer
      under general anesthesia. However, there are no sufficient evidences in this aspect.
    
  