
    
      The energy burning capacity of brown adipose tissue (BAT) makes it an attractive target for
      antiobesity therapies. Sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is the classical regulator of BAT;
      however, recent findings show a pool of novel BAT activators that sidestep the need for
      stimulating the SNS. Of interest is that both SNS and non-SNS BAT activators are sensitive to
      physical exercise, which opens new horizons and opportunities to study the potential effect
      of exercise-based therapeutic interventions. Moreover, a new protein released by
      exercise-stimulated skeletal muscle, irisin, seems to play a key role in the browning program
      in white adipose tissue. Most of the available evidence comes from animal studies, which is
      sometimes difficult to infer to human physiology. To determine whether a controlled physical
      exercise program is able to facilitate BAT maintenance and function, stimulating pre-existing
      brown precursors and inducing the specific gene program to favor white-to-brown adipocyte
      transformation in humans is of clinical relevance.

      The primary objective of the ACTIBATE randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to quantify the
      dose-effect of different exercise intensities, i.e. no exercise, moderate-intensity and
      vigorous-intensity, on BAT activity and mass (primary outcome), and on energy expenditure,
      thermogenic response to a test meal, shivering threshold, and cardiovascular disease risk
      factors, in young adults. The investigators will also obtain biopsies from white adipose
      tissue and skeletal muscle to analyse the expression of genes encoding proteins involved in
      the thermogenic machinery. The intervention groups will train 4-5 days/week (60 min per
      session) for a 24-week period.

      With the final aim of making the exercise program transferable to society, the basis for the
      specific exercise dose in ACTIBATE is the physical activity recommendations for adults
      proposed by the World Health Organization. Since there is no information regarding the ideal
      exercise model to activate and recruit BAT, a major objective of ACTIBATE is to evaluate
      various exercise intensity levels that fall within the current public health recommendations
      to test whether higher intensity levels provides more benefit than the standard
      moderate-intensity level. ACTIBATE will combine both aerobic and resistance training.
    
  