
    
      This study is a single-blind randomized clinical trial conducted in Côte d'Ivoire. This study
      aims at providing evidence on the efficacy and safety of ascending oral albendazole dosages
      in children and adults infected with T. trichiura and hookworm. In preschool-aged children
      (2-5 years) (i) 200 mg, (ii) 400 mg and (iii) 600 mg; in schoolchildren (6-12 years) and
      adults (≥ 21 years) (i) 200 mg (only for hookworm infections), (ii) 400 mg, (iii) 600 mg and
      (iv) 800 mg will be administered and efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetic parameters will be
      assessed.

      The primary objective is to determine the dose-response based on cure rates of albendazole in
      preschool-aged children (2-5 years), school-aged children (6-12 years) and adults (≥ 21
      years) infected with T. trichiura and hookworm.

      The secondary objectives of the trial are to determine the efficacy based on egg reduction
      rates of albendazole in preschool-aged children, school-aged children and adults, to
      determine an exposure (including length of time that the drug concentration is above the MIC,
      Cmax, AUC)-response correlation of albendazole in preschool-aged children, school-aged
      children and adults, to evaluate the safety and tolerability of albendazole in preschool-aged
      children, school-aged children and adults, and to determine the efficacy against concomitant
      soil-transmitted helminthiasis (Ascaris lumbricoides).

      After obtaining informed consent from individual/parents and/or caregiver, the medical
      history of the participants will be assessed with a standardized questionnaire, in addition
      to a clinical examination and venipuncture to examine biochemical parameters in the blood
      carried out by the study physician before treatment. Enrollment will be based on two stool
      samples that will be collected, if possible, on two consecutive days or otherwise within a
      maximum of 5 days.

      All stool samples will be examined with duplicated Kato-Katz thick smears by experienced
      laboratory technicians. Randomization of participants into the treatment arms will be
      stratified according to intensity of infection. All participants will be interviewed before
      treatment, 3 and 24 hours and 3 weeks after treatment about the occurrence of adverse events.
      Children and adults will be sampled using finger pricking for micro-blood sampling at 0, 1,
      2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 24 hours post-dosing.

      The primary analysis will include all participants with primary end point data (available
      case analysis). Supplementary, a per-protocol analysis and an intention-to-treat analysis
      will be conducted. CRs will be calculated as the percentage of egg-positive subjects at
      baseline who become egg-negative after treatment. Differences among CRs will be analysed by
      using crude logistic regressions and adjusted logistic regressions (adjustment for age, sex,
      and height).

      Geometric and arithmetic mean egg counts will be calculated for the different treatment arms
      before and after treatment to assess the corresponding ERRs. Bootstrap resampling method with
      2,000 replicates will be used to calculate 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for differences in
      ERRs. Noncompartmental and nonlinear mixed-effects (NLME) modeling will be used to determine
      PK parameters.
    
  