
    
      This study is a retrospective multicenter trial conduct from January 2015 to December 2020 in
      10 centers. All the procedures were performed by the (---- number of surgeons). Morbid
      obesity was preoperatively diagnosed according to the International Federation for Surgery of
      Obesity (IFSO) guidelines. Patients were collected in a electronic database and categorized
      according to the following parameters:

        -  Distance of resection margin from the pylorus (>5 cm / <5 cm)

        -  Bougie size (>34 French, <34 French)

        -  Distance of resection margin from the gastroesophageal junction (>…cm/<...cm)

        -  Staple line reinforcement (Yes/No - If yes, the reinforcement technique will be
           reported)

        -  Intraoperative leak testing (Yes/No - If yes, the test used will be reported)

        -  Number and size of trocar used and access closure technique (Yes/No - If yes, the
           technique will be reported) The study protocol was approved by the regional Ethics
           Committee. 2.2 Inclusion criteria Inclusion criteria were morbid obesity defined as BMI
           40 kg/m2 or BMI>35 with comorbidity and age between 25-60 years old. Obesity-related
           comorbidities included Type 2 Mellitus Diabetes (T2MD), hypertension, hyperlipidemia,
           bronchial asthma, osteoarthritis and degenerative joint disease.

      2.3 Exclusion Criteria Patients with endocrine disorders causing obesity (as hypothyroidism
      and Cushing disease), pregnancy or lactation, psychiatric illness, or recent diagnosis of
      malignancy, inflammatory bowel disease, Barrett ́s esophagus, and GERD with esophagitis
      scored as or greater than grade B, a large hiatal hernia (>3 cm) were excluded from the
      study.

      2.4 Study Outcomes The primary aims of the present retrospective multicentric study is to
      evaluate intra and peri and post operatory morbidity and mortality rates (< 30 and >30 days)
      of patients undergone Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy, and the correlation of the latter
      rates with different surgical measures. Secondary aims is to evaluate the strategy for the
      treatment of the complication, and if there is a correlation between morbidity/mortality and
      the volume of the Bariatric Center.

      2.6 Blinding Process Physicians and staff who will collect the data and those who will
      evaluate the endpoints will all be unaware of the patients allocation. Patients will be
      collected in an electronic database with consecutive numbers without the possibility of
      identifying the center of origin until the final evaluation of the study endpoints. As the
      blinding process for the operating surgeons is not feasible, they are not involved in data
      collection and evaluation of results.

      2.5 Pre-operative evaluation Preoperative evaluation included anthropometric measurements
      (height in cm, weight in kg, Body Mass Index (BMI) in kg/m2), comorbidity evaluation
      [Glycated Hemoglobin(A1c), C-peptide, stimulated C-peptide, Electrocardiography (ECG),
      echocardiography, lower limbs US color-doppler study, thyroid function profile]. All patients
      were evaluated for the presence/absence of Gastro Esophageal Reflux Disease before surgery
      through a preoperative upper endoscopy with an eventual esophageal biopsy. The presence of
      helicobacter pylori is also investigated with for a rapid urease test on an antral specimen.

      2.7 Surgical Technique The patient is placed in a split leg position with the surgeon located
      in between the patient's legs. Closed pneumoperitoneum was established using our standard
      technique of Verres needle insufflation in Palmer site and optical insertion of a 12-mm port
      at a supraumbilical site (10-15 cm from umbilicus) Two further 15-mm and 12-mm ports were
      placed respectively in the left and right ipocondrum as working ports. A subxiphoid track was
      created using a 5-mm port for placement of a liver retractor. In patients with higher body
      mass index who have severe visceral obesity, additional trocars can be added for retraction
      of the omentum or big fatty livers, to optimize the exposure to reach the left crus. Once the
      left crus is reached, an optimal exposure of the hiatus is mandatory to find incidental
      hiatal hernias and a complete dissection of the left crus performed to prevent retained
      fundus. The greater omentum was opened close to the stomach wall in some part in between the
      fundus and the antrum to have greater curvature completely detached from the stomach; this
      dissection starts at 2 cm or _____proximal to the pylorus and continued along the greater
      curvature to the left crus. Posterior adhesions if present, were carefully divided. The left
      gastrophrenic ligament was divided to expose the angle of His to identify the complete hiatus
      and fundus. A bougie was positioned before starting resection of the stomach. Researchers use
      a 36French bougie or --------- Researchers have chosen cartridges Black at the antrum level
      and finished with a purple cartridge. Researchers always checked the posterior wall before
      firing. Once Researchers have reached the proximal stomach, the stapler has to be positioned
      1 cm lateral to the left of the angle of His to avoid inclusion of esophageal tissue.
      Methylene blue test is performed routinely.

      2.8 Post-operative evaluation Regarding the primary endpoints, intraoperative complications
      (i.e. splenectomy, bleeding, positive leak test if performed) and type treatment are
      collected and recorded. Perioperative complications (<30 days) considered are mortality,
      morbidity (i.e. leak, bleeding, occlusion, pneumonia, vascular complications, portal
      pulmonary-splenic embolism) and type treatment. Postoperative complications (>30 days)
      considered are morbidity, mortality (i.e. leak, embolism, Incisional trocar hernia, other)
      and type treatment Regarding the secondary endpoint, in case of gastric fistula onset its
      diagnosis method (clinical, instrumental) and its management (timing, surgical or endoscopic
      - endoprosthesis, pigtails, clips-) or both) are collected and recorded. In case of
      postoperative bleeding, its diagnosis method (clinical, instrumental) and its management
      (timing, Surgical, medical) are collected and recorded.

      3.6 Statistical Analysis Continuous data are expressed as median and interquartile (25-75th)
      range or mean and Standard Deviation (SD), unless otherwise indicated. Differences between
      preoperative and postoperative parameters were compared by Wilcoxon paired rank test. Median
      time of follow-up was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Multivariable analysis was
      conducted through a forward-backward stepwise Cox regression based on Akaike Information
      Criterion (AIC) considering age, gender, % Excess Weighth Loss, Body Mass Index and
      treatment.

      For all tests, the cut-off for statistical significance was set at p= 0.05. Statistical
      analysis was performed using R v3.5.0.
    
  