
    
      The role of biofilm in causing wound infections and preventing healing is unclear.
      Preliminary data suggests that persistent biofilm following excisional debridement may
      re-inoculate clean wounds leading to infection. Additionally, this data also suggests that
      persistent biofilm leads to chronic wound inflammation. Novel wound gels have been developed
      which claim to disrupt biofilm and kill biofilm producing bacteria. Patients presenting with
      a chronic wound will be randomized to receive treatment with a novel anti-biofilm solution
      BlastX™(benzalkonium gel) or standard of care. All patients presenting with a chronic wound
      (>4 weeks duration) will be assessed for eligibility in the study. If eligible, subjects will
      be randomized into Cohort A (debridement, NS irrigation, SOC topical wound treatment), Cohort
      B (debridement, benzalkonium irrigation, SOC topical wound treatment), Cohort C (debridement,
      NS irrigation, and benzalkonium topical wound treatment) of Cohort D (debridement,
      benzalkonium irrigation, and benzalkonium topical wound treatment). Subjects will receive
      this treatment until the wound is completely healed or they are exited from the study.

      Infection of chronic wounds is a multifactorial process involving the interplay between host
      factors, the condition of the wound, and the number and virulence of bacterial species that
      flourish and critically colonize in the tissue. 1 It is widely recognized that the
      microorganisms colonizing in these wounds are biofilm producers. 2, 3, 4, 5 Biofilm is a
      polymeric slime layer made up of polymeric sugars, microbial and/or host DNA, microbial
      proteins and host molecules that encapsulate microorganisms.5 This limits the reach of the
      host immune system and antibacterial agents. Biofilm formation has been associated with the
      emergence of a diverse group of opportunistic pathogens, such as Staphylococcus aureus and
      Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which contribute to recurrent infections by modifying environmental
      parameters.4

      Excisional debridement is the standard of care for chronic wound management and has shown to
      be effective against biofilm. However, studies have shown that biofilm formation recurs
      within 24hrs of debridement. Common topical wound preparations contain silver, iodine, honey,
      or chlorhexidine; none of which have shown efficacy against biofilm.1 Recent studies have
      reported that when targeting and disrupting the wound biofilm matrix, wound healing outcomes
      are improved and there is a significant decrease in biofilm-related infections. 3, 5 To date,
      there is no widely accepted topical agent which targets biofilm.

      Preliminary and invitro studies have shown benzalkonium chloride to be an effective agent to
      disrupt biofilm and prevent recolonization. An example of a commercially available
      formulation of benzalkonium chloride is Benzalkonium gel wound gel and Benzalkonium solution
      wound irrigation. There is insufficient clinical data suggesting whether a biofilm focused
      approach is superior or inferior to standard of care treatment. In order to determine the
      clinical efficacy of a biofilm-focused approached against current stand of care treatment,
      this study outlines a clinical study evaluating the outcomes of patients treated with
      Benzalkonium gel and Benzalkonium solution compared to standard of care wound gel and
      irrigation.
    
  