
    
      Over twenty percent of women will experience a major depressive episode in their lifetimes, a
      prevalence that reflects a greater risk than is found among men. Perimenopause is commonly
      defined as a time of hormonal fluctuation that typically occurs in women 40-55 years of age
      with changes in menstrual patterns. It has been demonstrated that women may be at a
      particularly high risk for depressive symptoms during perimenopause. Hormone replacement
      therapy, particularly estrogen, may help with mood symptoms in the perimenopause. However,
      hormone replacement therapy (HRT) has become increasingly controversial in light of the
      findings of the Women's Health Initiative study. In that study, HRT was associated with an
      increased risk of some serious health problems without many of the benefits which had been
      previously attributed to HRT. Since the report of these results, HRT use has declined and
      other agents such as antidepressants have been used as an alternative treatment for
      depression in perimenopausal women.

      Optimal treatments for depression must be safe and effective, with ideal treatments also
      providing other health benefits as well. Omega-3 fatty acids are nutritional compounds with
      widely established health benefits. Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid
      (DHA) are omega-3 fatty acids found in fish and marine sources. Mood disorder studies have
      supported a role for omega-3 fatty acids in the treatment of depression. In a study from
      1998, it was demonstrated in a cross-national study that the risk of major depression is
      inversely associated with per capita fish consumption. Several other studies have
      demonstrated that in depressed subjects, there is a lower total omega-3 fatty acid content in
      the membranes of red blood cells and plasma (liquid part of the blood) when compared to
      control subjects. Treatment data from studies of major depressive disorder also support a
      role for omega-3 fatty acids, especially when omega-3 fatty acids are used as an adjunctive
      treatment, i.e., fatty acids are administered along with another therapeutic compound during
      treatment of major depressive disorder.

      It has also been demonstrated that the use of antidepressants such as fluoxetine, paroxetine,
      and venlafaxine for treatment of hot flashes and citalopram for the treatment of hot flashes
      and mood in perimenopausal women are more effective than placebo. However, antidepressant
      medications are associated with significant side effects and as of late, have come under
      increased scrutiny by the U.S. FDA, the psychiatric, and general medical community due to the
      ongoing controversy regarding a possible increased risk of suicidality after the initiation
      of antidepressant treatment. While there is not complete agreement on the mechanism of action
      for omega-3 fatty acids, like antidepressants, overall data suggests that omega-3 fatty acids
      may be beneficial for treatment of perimenopausal depression. However, unlike
      antidepressants, omega-3 fatty acids are naturally occurring substances, which may appeal to
      many individuals suffering from perimenopausal depression. Omega-3 fatty acids have known
      benefits for cardiovascular health. Therefore, the current study is designed to examine the
      effectiveness and tolerability of the study drug, Omacor, (omega-3 fatty acid ethyl esters),
      in the treatment of major depression in perimenopausal women.

      Subjects that take part in this voluntary study will undergo 6 clinic visits during the
      8-week study period. The first visit may last up to 3 hours, with all other clinic visits
      lasting approximately 45 minutes. Once the consent form has been read and signed, subjects
      will be enrolled in the study. At the first visit, medical and psychiatric histories will be
      reviewed. All participants will undergo the standardized protocol for establishing
      depression, the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID), in addition to being rated
      by symptom rating scales that include the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the Hamilton
      Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D (17-item). All participants will also undergo an entry
      interview that will include a psychiatric and substance use history (including data regarding
      use of alcohol, tobacco, and illicit substances). During the initial exam, vital signs
      (height, weight and blood pressure) will also be recorded for all participants. In addition,
      all subjects that are enrolled must have had a gynecologic exam within the past year, or if
      not, will be given a referral for such an exam. Blood (approximately 3 teaspoons) will be
      drawn for routine laboratory testing (thyroid function tests (TFTs) and complete blood count
      (CBC)) and a lipid profile. Blood will also be drawn (approximately 3 teaspoons) at the last
      visit for the purpose of repeating the lipid profile. Subjects will also complete the Greene
      Climacteric Scale (GCS), which is used to quantify the severity of perimenopausal somatic
      symptoms, including hot flashes.

      As this study will be examining omega-3 fatty acids, subjects will not be eligible to
      participate in the study if they are taking omega-3 fatty acid supplements. In addition, once
      enrolled in the study, all participants will be asked to avoid taking additional omega-3
      fatty acids or enhanced food products and will need to avoid increasing or decreasing the
      amount of fish that they normally eat during the entire time of the study.

      Once all interviews and medical screens are finished, all participants will receive the study
      medication (Omacor). The study drug will be supplied in 1 gram capsules and participants will
      need to take two capsules at the same time every day. Thus, all subjects will be taking a
      total of 2 grams of Omacor per day.

      Questions about mood and perimenopausal symptoms will be asked at each visit. At each of
      these visits, the primary efficacy measures (CGI, HAM-D, and GCS) will be administered. The
      GCS will be completed at each visit to quantify the somatic symptoms of perimenopause.
      Subjects will also be asked the about number of missed doses each week.

      Telephone contact with investigators is permissible and will be available 24 hours/day for
      emergencies. All contacts will be documented in the participant's records.
    
  