
    
      The goal of the project is to test, implement, and disseminate real-world, scalable advance
      care planning (ACP) interventions among busy, primary care clinics across three UC Health
      systems. The study aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: With the input of primary care stakeholders (i.e., adults with serious illness,
      caregivers and clinical staff) at each site, determine the barriers, facilitators and best
      workflow plans to implement the three ACP interventions.

      Aim 2: Implement the three ACP interventions across primary care clinics using a cluster
      randomized design across three UC Health systems: distribution of an advance directive (AD)
      (arm 1), distribution of the AD plus prompting the patient to engage with the Prepare For
      Your Care website (arm 2), and the AD plus engagement with the Prepare For Your Care website
      plus a Care coordinator intervention to engage clinicians (arm 3).

      Aim 3: Compare the effectiveness of the three interventions on documentation of ACP
      (represented by an AD, POLST or out-of-hospital DNR form available in the medical record) on
      a population-based primary care cohort of seriously ill patients across three UC Health
      systems, and assess ACP engagement, quality of communication and goal-concordant care among a
      Research cohort subset of these patients.

      The investigators hypothesize that there will be a dose response of additive improvement from
      arm 1 to arm 2 to arm 3 on AD completion (primary outcome) at the population level and
      receipt of goal-concordant treatment at the Research cohort level.

      Seriously ill patients commonly receive treatments at the end of life that are inconsistent
      with or not guided by their values and goals. People with serious illness bear a considerable
      burden of suffering, and complexity of illness is strongly associated with increased
      hospitalization and healthcare utilization. Families of patients with serious illness who die
      often sustain substantial financial and emotional injury. Yet, this is not an irremediable
      result of advanced technology and an enlarging older population: ACP - the process of
      discussion of end of life care, clarification of values and goals, and embodiment of
      preferences through written documents and medical orders - is associated with less aggressive
      medical care near death and earlier hospice referral, which is then associated with better
      quality of life for patients and better bereavement adjustment for loved ones.

      Experimental evidence supports the premise that ACP improves the treatment choices made by
      and for people with serious illness. A systematic review concluded that ACP interventions
      increase completion of ADs, increase the frequency of discussions about care preferences and
      increase concordance between patient's preferences and end-of-life care received. An earlier
      review found that multicomponent interventions were more likely to result in AD completion,
      yet much of this work focused on hospitalized patients and patients with cancer. A systematic
      review of the effects of 113 ACP interventions found decreased use of life-sustaining
      treatment and increased hospice and palliative care, but concluded that more experimental
      designs and community studies are needed. Many of these reviews noted a lack of head-to-head
      comparison of ACP interventions and a need for structures to implement ACP in standard care.
      The Institute of Medicine IOM critiqued studied ACP interventions for being targeted as
      one-time decisions rather than being conceptualized as incorporated into the routine of care.

      A fundamental gap exists in whether and how ACP interventions can be implemented at a
      healthcare system level. Although ACP has shown the potential to help patients and clinicians
      achieve the "triple aim" of improving quality of care and patient satisfaction, improving
      population health and lowering costs by honoring patients' wishes, it has been slow to be
      prioritized in healthcare systems. Even among seriously ill patients, ACP remains uncommon.
      Although quality and efficiency are increasingly emphasized and several health systems are in
      early phases of adopting programs to improve ACP, few programs have successfully implemented
      ACP across their healthcare system. Implementing a system-wide program among a diverse
      patient population with primary care physicians (PCPs) who are already overburdened with the
      complex management of seriously ill patients remains a challenge.

      This project will implement three system-wide advance care planning interventions and compare
      their effect. This quality improvement project will be implemented at the level of the health
      system with no direct patient contact and collection of only deidentified data for evaluation
      of the effect of the interventions. A second project nested in the population-based quality
      improvement project will enroll and evaluate a Research cohort that will provide patient and
      caregiver level information about the effect of the three ACP interventions. These components
      will be conducted in an identical fashion at UCLA, UCSF and UCI.

      Using a computer algorithm developed and validated for this project, data from the electronic
      health record will be used to delineate a group of seriously ill patients cared for in
      primary care that require ACP and also identify whether these patients have ADs in the
      electronic health record in the past 3 years. All patients receiving primary care in the
      health system are eligible to be identified as seriously ill patients.

      The project will implement 3 real-world ACP intervention comparators using a clustered
      randomized trial design. The interventions are: (arm 1) distribution of an AD with a tailored
      message via MyChart in the electronic health record and/or postal mail, (arm 2) arm 1 plus
      access to the Prepare For Your Care website that is a publicly available decision support
      tool for ACP, and (arm 3) arm 2 plus patient engagement by a clinic-based facilitator who
      will tee up AD completion, Prepare website use and coordinate patient ACP interactions with
      primary care physicians. The interventions will continue over a 24-month period, with an
      evaluation at 12 and 24 months.

      Comparison of the 3 intervention arms will occur at the population level by collecting
      deidentified data from the electronic health record reflecting AD completion (existence of an
      AD or POLST or outpatient DNR order and the date of the document), vital status, and
      healthcare utilization (hospitalization, ICU use, ED use, and location of death).

      A Research cohort will be enrolled from the seriously ill population-based cohort that do not
      have an AD or POLST within the past three years by asking patients via mail, telephone, or in
      person whether they are willing to participate in an observational survey study. Interested
      patients will be asked to provide written informed consent to participate in up to 3 surveys:
      baseline, 12 months and 24 months. The surveys may be completed on a paper-and-pencil hard
      copy, completed by interview over the telephone, completed in person or completed over a
      secure web link, depending on patient preference. The surveys will ask about experience with
      and readiness for ACP, health status, preferences for healthcare and decision making, and
      demographics. If a patient is unable to be surveyed at month 12 or month 24, a caregiver will
      be approached for survey. If the patient dies, a caregiver will be asked to complete a survey
      about goal-concordant treatment, perceptions about care and satisfaction with care and
      communication. Patients will also be asked to consent to medical record review to evaluate
      documentation about ACP and measure goal concordant care. The principle outcome is AD
      completion at the population level using administrative data from the electronic health
      record.
    
  