
    
      STUDY DESIGN. An experimental, 1-group, single-centre trial will be conducted in which stroke
      patients will perform 2 RAGT sessions: 1) walking in the Lokomat according to regular RAGT
      settings and 2) walking in the Lokomat with different levels of guidance force (60%, 80% and
      100%).

      PATIENT RECRUITMENT. We aim to recruit 20 stroke patients in the St. Ursula Rehabilitation
      Centre in Herk-de-Stad, Belgium.

      RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS. Patients will be instructed to not consume food, alcohol,
      caffeine or nicotine at least 3h prior to the intervention. Usual medication intake will be
      allowed with small amounts of water.

      PROCEDURE. Patients will be tested in 3 RAGT sessions on 3 separate days. During the first
      session patients will walk in the Lokomat according to their regular therapy settings for a
      minimum of 20 minutes (i.e. minimum tolerable guidance force (GF), minimal tolerable body
      weight support (BWS) and maximum tolerable walking speed). During the second and third
      session patients will walk in the Lokomat with 2 different levels of guidance force (once 60%
      and once 100%) for a minimum 20 minutes each and with the same amount of body weight support
      and walking speed as in the first session. On a separate day before the intervention,
      patients will be seated for 10 minutes during which resting values (respiratory gases and
      heart rate) will be assessed (in order to measure their Resting Metabolic Rate). In addition,
      informed consent and baseline clinical demographic characteristics will be obtained. At the
      start of the intervention, a mouth mask, heart rate monitor and gait analysis system will be
      applied. After a seated resting period of 5 minutes, patients will walk for a minimum of 20
      minutes during which respiratory gases and heart rate will be monitored continuously. The
      Borg rating of perceived exertion will be registered every 3 minutes. The intervention will
      be terminated early when relative or absolute indications are presented as reported by the
      American Heart Association or when patients are unable to continue walking. Walking sessions
      will be controlled for time of day.

      RANDOMIZATION. The levels of GF will be randomised..

      MATERIALS. A flexible facemask (adult facemask, small/medium, Cortex, Germany), lightweight
      chest carrying gas analysis system (Metamax 3B, Cortex, Germany) and Bluetooth heart rate
      belt (Polar H7, Polar Electro, Finland) will be used to measure metabolic and
      cardiorespiratory parameters. At the start of each measurement, gas (room air and reference
      gas (17.4% O2 and 5.1% CO2)) and volume (3L syringe) calibrations of the breath-by-breath gas
      analysis system will be performed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS. Statistics will be performed using SPSS (IBM, Chicago, IL). The
      significance level will be set at 5%. Descriptive statistics will be calculated for baseline
      patient characteristics. Means and standard deviations will be calculated for continuous
      variables and frequencies and percentages for categorical variables. To investigate the
      effect of time and the effect of different levels of guidance force, repeated measures ANOVAs
      (within subject factors) will be analyzed. In case of significant differences, posthoc
      analysis will be interpreted. To investigate if the effect of guidance force is related to
      the patient's baseline level of GF (i.e. GF during regular therapy settings) correlational
      analysis will be performed and baseline GF will be considered as a covariate.
    
  