
    
      A total of 26 healthy adults and 15 adults who have recently experienced muscle atrophy from
      conservative treatment after an orthopedic lower leg/ankle/foot injury that did not require
      surgery but did require immobilization will participate.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) will be used to estimate how much damage occurs with the
      different levels of exercise. The investigators will be using a T2 MR which has been shown to
      be sensitive to injury of muscle damage.

      There will be four groups in this protocol as outlined:

      Healthy Muscle Group:

      Six subjects will be enrolled in this group. MRI measures will be performed at baseline and
      48 hours post-exercise, when the largest amount of muscle damage is typically observed. They
      will be tested for maximum strength of the dorsiflexors and then undergo an eccentric
      exercise protocol for both lower legs on the Biodex with varying loads. Approximately two
      days after the exercise protocol, the participants will have another MRI of the lower legs to
      assess any change in T2 relaxation time as a construct of muscle edema/damage.

      Stretch-Contract Pre-rehabilitation Group All subjects will be tested initially with an MRI,
      blood work for creatine kinase levels (CK), subjective report of pain, range of motion (ROM)
      of the lower leg/ankle, and maximum strength of the dorsiflexors. They will also receive the
      "stretch-contract" protocol on one leg consisting of the following: a 5 second passive
      stretch of the dorsiflexors, followed immediately by a 5 second active isometric contraction
      of the dorsiflexors, and a 5 second rest/relaxation period. This cycle will continue for a
      duration of ~5 minutes.

      Stretch-Contract Control Group All subjects will be tested initially with an MRI, blood work
      for creatine kinase levels (CK), subjective report of pain, range of motion (ROM) of the
      lower leg/ankle, and maximum strength of the dorsiflexors. This group will not receive the
      "stretch-contract" protocol.

      Muscle Atrophy These subjects will undergo MRI and strength testing at baseline and will also
      be assessed for CK levels, pain report, and ROM. They will then receive an eccentric loading
      paradigm for the dorsiflexor muscles of the involved leg using an isokinetic dynamometer with
      varying loads.

      All exercise testing will be performed on an isokinetic dynamometer by a physical therapist
      who has received extensive training for this piece of exercise equipment.
    
  