
    
      Objectives:

        1. To establish a community based cohort with risk factors for liver disease and
           stratification for liver disease severity using non-invasive biomarkers.

        2. To establish the incidence of liver and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in a
           community cohort.

        3. To explore the quantitative and qualitative indicators to potential alterations in
           patient lifestyle following stratification of liver disease to inform future
           intervention development.

        4. To evaluate novel blood markers of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis on a large cohort of
           primary care patients

      Study Configuration:

      Longitudinal Cohort Study with long-term follow up

      Setting:

      Primary Care, Nottingham

      Number of Participants:

      Prospective and consecutive recruitment in the East Midlands - approximately 500 patients per
      annum over a 4 year cohort inception period. Total anticipated cohort size 2,000
      participants.

      Description of Interventions:

        -  Serum blood sampling (AST:ALT ratio, and serum stored for future liver biomarker
           development)

        -  Transient Elastography (Fibroscan)

        -  Qualitative Interviews (limited to approximately 30 patients)

        -  Consent to longitudinal data follow-up and approach for future lifestyle intervention
           trials - consenting patients will be tagged on MRIS database.

      Duration of Study:

      48 month cohort inception with long term longitudinal follow up of cardiovascular and liver
      related outcomes and mortality data.

      Outcome Measures:

        1. Incidence of liver (cirrhosis) and cardiovascular disease (symptomatic coronary or
           cerebrovascular disease).

        2. All cause morbidity and mortality.

        3. Quantitative and qualitative lifestyle measures (including body mass index, exercise
           levels, alcohol consumption).

      Patients who decide to participate in the community cohort will not be required to perform
      any specific actions or attend study visits (unless for the reasons stated below). Usual
      clinical care (both liver-related and non-liver related) will continue during the study
      period.

      Patients will consent to long term longitudinal data follow-up using the Medical Research
      Information Service (MRIS) database. All patients enrolled in the community cohort will be
      prospectively tagged on MRIS. In particular, the investigators will request individual
      patient alerts on MRIS concerning prevalent cardiovascular disease events (angina, myocardial
      infarction and stroke), liver cirrhosis and cause of death.

      Patients will consent to undertake qualitative research to evaluate the process of community
      stratification. A purposeful sample of patients completing the community biomarkers pathway
      will be invited to participate in qualitative follow up of their experiences of the pathway
      and any subsequent lifestyle change. A researcher, trained in qualitative research methods,
      will perform a semi-structured interview, which will assess any lifestyle changes occurring
      following liver pathway stratification. Specifically, changes in alcohol consumption, diet
      and exercise will be explored and evaluated, with assessment of the relationship to liver
      pathway stratification (both investigation results and lifestyle advice offered during the
      pathway). Interviews will performed either face-to-face, in which case this will be performed
      at the Nottingham Digestive Diseases Biomedical Research Unit, or over the telephone - in all
      cases voice recording will occur to allow analysis of information provided. An example
      interview proforma to be utilized for these qualitative interviews has been provided
      separately.

      Patients will be consented to donate biosamples (including blood and urine) to the Nottingham
      Health Sciences Biobank on inception into the cohort. An appointment will be made at the NIHR
      Nottingham Digestive Diseases Biomedical Research Unit for witnessed written consent and to
      allow donation of biosamples. Samples will be collected by trained research nurses, who also
      form part of the research team. These biosamples will be utilized for future research into
      novel biomarkers of liver and cardiovascular disease, including proteomics and metabonomics.
      Where participants do not agree to the future use of the samples they will be destroyed in
      accordance with the Human Tissue Act, 2004.

      In the future, the investigators will plan trials assessing novel exercise and dietary
      interventions, and subsequent effects on patient lifestyle parameters and future
      cardiovascular risk. Patients forming the community cohort will consent for contact regarding
      these future trials; however individual trials will be subject to their own ethical approval
      and written consent.
    
  