
    
      Vitamin D is important for healthy bones. More recently, anti-inflammatory effects of vitamin
      D have been found in laboratory and animal studies and vitamin D may be beneficial for
      inflammatory diseases. Gingivitis is a common inflammatory disease of the gums that develops
      in response to bacterial components in dental plaque. The degree to which gingivitis develops
      in response to a given amount of plaque may vary between different individuals. With this
      study, we want to investigate whether oral supplementation with vitamin D can reduce the
      susceptibility to gingivitis in non-Hispanic Whites and African Americans.

      We plan to randomize 120 healthy volunteers (60 Non-Hispanic Whites, 60 Non-Hispanic Blacks)
      during the wintertime who will abstain from oral hygiene measures (brushing, flossing or
      antiseptic mouth rinses) for a period of 4 weeks to allow accumulation of plaque and
      development of gingivitis. These subjects will be randomly allocated to receive either oral
      supplementation with placebo, 500 IU, 2500 IU or 5000 IU vitamin D3 per day starting 8 weeks
      prior to the experimental gingivitis period for a total of 12 weeks. The development of
      gingivitis will be measured using clinical indices of gingival inflammation, inflammatory
      biomarker in gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) and GCF volume. Before and after completion of
      the experimental gingivitis phase, all subjects will receive a professional cleaning of their
      teeth to ensure complete resolution of inflammation.Blood samples will be collected at the
      screening examination, baseline, week 7, and after week 12 (end of trial) to determine serum
      levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone , serum calcium and to archive serum and
      plasma samples. In addition urine samples will be collected at baseline and weeks 4,7 and 12
      to determine calcium excretion and to archive urine samples for future analyses. Mandibular
      and maxillary Modified Gingival Index (MGI) Scores, Plaque Index (PI) scores, and GCF
      sampling to measure volume and assess for biomarkers (TNF-LPH, IL-1 beta, IL-2, IL-12) will
      be done at 8 and 12 weeks.

      Following recruitment and consent those subjects deemed eligible for further screening will
      then be referred to the BUMC GCRC in order to have two components of the screening procedure
      performed:Electrocardiogram and a blood draw to be sent to Quest for analysis of Vit D and
      PTH levels.

      The extent to which gingivitis develops during the 4-week period of plaque accumulation will
      be compared between the two experimental groups. Furthermore, we will evaluate the
      association between serum levels of 25-OHD and the development of gingivitis as well as serum
      markers of inflammation.
    
  