
    
      This study is a cluster randomized controlled trial (CRCT) to evaluate the efficacy of
      Wolbachia-infected Aedes aegypti mosquito release in reducing the burden of arbovirus (ARBV)
      infection in Brazil over three years. Children aged 6-11 years will be enrolled from 58
      clusters within Belo Horizonte, Brazil, and each cluster will comprise a school catchment
      area, and surrounding buffer. The study will aim to enroll 60 participants per cluster and is
      powered on the premise that at least 48 participants per cluster (calculations are based on a
      significance threshold of 0.05, power of 80%) will complete the trial. Clusters will be
      randomized to expose all enrolled children within the cluster to vector control efforts
      recommended by the Brazilian National Dengue Control Program (PNCD) or a combination of
      vector control efforts recommended by PNCD and the release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti
      mosquitoes. The release of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes will be determined and carried out
      by unblinded study personnel, and the prevalence of the Wolbachia-infected mosquito
      population in each cluster will be monitored throughout the study. Blood samples from
      participants will be obtained at baseline before the implementation of the strategies and
      during the low transmission season. Thereafter, annual samples will be collected after each
      transmission season for three seasons in the same time range. Samples will be tested for ARBV
      infection to determine transmission rates for each cluster. The primary hypothesis of this
      trial is that the introgression of Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes into local A. aegypti
      populations will lead to a decrease in human infection of dengue virus, zika virus, and/or
      chikungunya virus (collectively referred to as ARBV) in intervention clusters. The primary
      objective is to evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes plus
      standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the sero-incidence of ARBV infection compared
      to standard Aedes vector control measures alone. The secondary objectives are (1) to evaluate
      whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes plus standard Aedes vector
      control measures reduces the sero-incidence rate of ARBV infection, inferred from model-based
      reconstruction of serological dynamics compared to standard Aedes vector control measures
      alone; (2) to evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes plus
      standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the sero-incidence of flavivirus or
      chikungunya virus infection amongst individuals who are seronegative to each of these
      families of viruses, respectively, at study entry, compared to standard Aedes vector control
      measures alone; (3) To evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes
      plus standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the overall sero-incidence of flavivirus
      (dengue virus + zika virus) infection; (4) to evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected
      A. aegypti mosquitoes plus standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the sero-incidence
      of dengue virus infection; (5) to evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti
      mosquitoes plus standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the sero-incidence of zika
      virus infection; (6) to evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes
      plus standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the sero-incidence of chikungunya virus
      infection; (7) to evaluate whether release of Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes plus
      standard Aedes vector control measures reduces the sero-incidence of infection with a dengue
      virus serotype amongst individuals who are seropositive to another dengue virus serotype(s)
      at study entry, compared to standard Aedes vector control measures alone; (8) to evaluate the
      extent to which Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes replace uninfected adult A. aegypti
      in intervention clusters; and (9) to evaluate the contamination of control clusters by
      Wolbachia-infected A. aegypti mosquitoes released in intervention clusters.
    
  