
    
      The user sub-committee has a formal site on-boarding process. Participating sites will be
      encouraged to enter data on all patients meeting inclusion / exclusion criteria to reduce
      bias. Prospective / concurrent data collection will be encouraged, to support quality
      improvement activities.

      The company Dendrite will host the registry and ensure data security. Privacy protections
      will be in place, and no identifying information such as names will be entered into the
      registry. Data entered from sites into the registry is secured through encryption added to
      secure HTTP, done using Transport Layer Security. Stored data is also encrypted using
      InterSystems Cache database software.

      There is an ICRR program survey assessing structural CR indicators. The registry variable
      list for patient-level data was developed based on recommendations of the Core Outcome
      Set-STAndards for Development (COS-STAD), through a delphi process. The final variable list
      and data dictionary can be found here: https://globalcardiacrehab.com/ICRR-Governance.

      There are 10 program-reported variables and 16 patient-reported variables (some variables are
      assessed at multiple time points), assessed pre-program, post-program (dependent upon
      duration of each program) and each year from initial assessment (until patients expire or are
      unable to complete the assessments, which is ascertained by the program, or patient
      opt-out/withdrawal). Sites can arrange electronic data capture for the program-reported
      variables to contribute data to the registry, rather than manual electronic entry.

      Descriptive statistics (i.e. means and standard deviations for continuous variables and
      frequencies with percentages for categorical variables) will be used to describe the quality
      of care (outcomes below). For testing change in patient outcomes pre to post-program, paired
      t-tests will also be used for continuous variables and chi-square test for categorical
      variables.

      Univariate and multivariate approaches will be used to identify factors associated with
      outcomes, including the use of guideline-indicated therapies. Associations between patient
      characteristics and outcomes tested via logistic regression will be reported with odds ratios
      and 95% confidence intervals. Associations will be considered statistically significant when
      2-sided α is <0.05. Appropriate statistical corrections for repeated measures will be
      performed. To limit the influence of confounding, multivariate adjustment will be used,
      including propensity weighting, or other techniques. Risk adjustment (e.g., socioeconomic
      status, indication, comorbidities, age) will be undertaken.

      The registry has a data quality dashboard which displays by site completeness of data entry
      at each assessment point, to help reduce bias. The registry has in-built minimum and maximum
      values for continuous variables to reduce data entry errors. The data dictionary clearly
      defines each variable, and new sites are trained prior to start. The registry is being
      usability tested prior to launch, and piloted in Qatar. The research sub-committee will
      oversee a data quality process; Data audits may be supported by a registry database analyst /
      professional statistician.

      Patient perspectives were considered in the development of the variable list and outcomes. A
      registry page for patients is in development
      (https://globalcardiacrehab.com/ICRR-for-Patients). Patients have a voice on ICRR's user
      sub-committee. Patients providing data pre and post-program may receive a lay summary of
      their progress. Lay summaries of annual registry reports may be shared with interested
      patients.
    
  