
    
      Over 5 million Americans suffer from heart failure (HF), with an associated annual health
      care cost in excess of $33 billion. With 500,000 new cases developing each year, HF is the
      only major cardiovascular disease that is increasing in prevalence. Despite intensive medical
      therapy, symptom instability and clinical deterioration are common and lead to frequent
      physician visits, hospitalization, and ultimately death. HF symptoms, including dyspnea and
      fatigue, are a major source of distress for patients with HF, and often impose severe
      limitations on their daily activities. Depression also is common in HF patients, and its
      presence is associated with increased risk of hospitalization and mortality, independent of
      disease severity. There is growing evidence that behavioral management is a critical
      component of living with HF that can reduce hospitalizations and help optimize health status.
      Although previous studies have demonstrated that case-management programs are effective,
      benefits appear to be short-lived once ongoing care is reduced. Prior research from our
      laboratory and others has shown that coping skills training (CST), designed both to teach
      patients self-management skills and to cope more effectively with psychological distress
      associated with their medical condition, is effective for such chronic diseases as diabetes,
      ischemic heart disease, and lung disease. However, CST has not yet been evaluated as an
      intervention to facilitate self-management of HF. We propose a randomized clinical trial
      comparing a 16-week CST intervention with Extended (Standardized) Care in a study sample of
      200 HF outpatients, who are receiving medical treatment for HF according to current clinical
      practice guidelines. The CST intervention, delivered over the telephone, is designed reduce
      stress and depression and to improve aspects of health behavior that are related to HF
      outcomes, including symptom monitoring, medication adherence, dietary compliance, and
      physical activity. Before and following treatment, patients will be carefully assessed on
      important intermediate medical endpoints including HF disease biomarkers (B-type natriuretic
      peptide, ejection fraction, vascular endothelial function, autonomic regulation, and
      inflammatory activity), as well as on quality of life (QoL) indicated by both physical and
      psychosocial functioning. Effects of CST on clinical outcomes will be evaluated according to
      all-cause hospitalizations or mortality over a median follow-up period of 3 years. The data
      generated by the proposed study will provide important insights regarding the value of CST
      over and above usual medical care. If successful, we believe that the study findings should
      translate into initial recommendations for the incorporation of CST into self-management
      behavioral interventions as cost-effective approaches to enhance disease management, QoL and
      longevity in HF patients.
    
  