
    
      Background: Considering the great stress in the nurses caring for HIV/AIDS patients, the
      situation of more serious nursing shortage in China, and the acceptability, feasibility and
      efficacy of mindfulness-based interventions for reducing stress in health care professionals,
      here investigators propose a study of "Effect of Mindful Living With Stress (MLWS)
      Intervention for nurses caring for HIV/AIDS patients in China".

      Objectives: The primary objective of this proposed project is to assess whether a program of
      mindfulness-based stress reduction interventions developed based on Mindfulness Based Stress
      Reduction (MBSR), Mindful Awareness Practices（MAPs）and chinese culture will be effective at
      helping nurses caring for HIV/AIDS patients in China to reduce stress and burnout. Based on
      the efficacy of previous studies in reducing stress, investigators hypothesize that 'Mindful
      Living With Stress' will be an effective, feasible and affordable stress reduction program
      for nurses caring for HIV/AIDS patients in China.

      Methods: Nurses working in the AIDS department of the First Hospital of Changsha, China will
      be recruited for the study. The two steps to be implemented include: 1) conducting focus
      groups with nurses for the purpose of finalizing the design of the MLWS Intervention: A
      convenience sample of 10 nurses will be recruited and the final sample is expected to include
      6-8 participants who will attend two consecutive focus group sessions. The first focus group
      session will explore the experiences of nurses caring for HIV/AIDS patients and the second
      focus group session will discuss the design of the MLWS Intervention. The qualitative data
      will be analyzed after the focus group discussions and the findings will provide important
      information for development of the final manual for guiding the intervention, and 2)
      evaluating the effects of the MLWS Intervention in a group of nurses: A convenience sample of
      23 nurses will be recruited and the final sample is expected to include 16-18 nurses. The
      quantitative data from 5 measures assessing stress, burnout, mindfulness, anxiety and
      depression will be collected and analyzed at pre- and post- intervention. The qualitative
      data from an in-depth interview will be collected and analyzed at post-intervention.

      Implications: The results will provide valuable insights into the effect of MLWS Intervention
      on stress of nurses caring for HIV/AIDS patients in China. If the MLWS Intervention can be
      used effectively, it can also be popularized to many other health care professionals caring
      for HIV/AIDS in China in future.
    
  