
    
      Critical disease, e.g. life threatening septic shock triggered from infections with
      multiorgan failure, demands aggressive medical treatment in specialized intensive care units
      (ICU). Incidences and mortality of sepsis vary significant, depending on regional medical
      culture, diagnostic criteria and the time span and method of data collection.

      Common clinical appearance of critical disease is often life threatening low blood pressure,
      impaired consciousness up to coma, abnormal breathing patterns, and then subsequently
      secondary organ failures which further increases mortality. The influence of these
      'macro-haemodynamic symptoms', i.e. physiologic aberrations that can be assessed using
      standard patient monitoring systems, on the tissue micro-circulation where organ damage and
      finally cell death occurs, is only indirectly available for assessment. Basically, the coarse
      therapeutic approach to circulatory shock is to normalize macro-haemodynamic parameters,
      without any robust method to evaluate and monitor micro-circulatory effects. Thus, following
      current guidelines and clinical practice, it is sometimes not known for sure, on an
      individual basis, whether treatment and stabilization measures increase survival chances.

      Studies of the microcirculation have been performed using invasive micro-dialysis, direct
      orthogonal polarization spectral imaging and direct side-stream dark-field microscopy. The
      wide use of these methods is challenged by the fact that they are very expensive and demand
      extended operator expertise.

      The investigators think there is sufficient evidence to claim that further improvement in
      early diagnostic and therapy guidance of sepsis, septic shock and other critical disease,
      depends on increased knowledge of microcirculatory alterations, and widespread affordable
      technical solutions to detect and monitor the course of sepsis and other critical disease at
      the microcirculatory level.

      At the Norwegian University of Technology and Science (NTNU), Department of Circulation and
      Medical Imaging (ISB), new ultrasound technology has been developed by Professor Hans Torp,
      which may offer an operator-independent, affordable and non-invasive method to evaluate
      microcirculation in humans.

      In general, ultrasound is unique in that sense that it facilitates non-invasive imaging of
      anatomy and physiology. The unique with this new probe is the emittance of ultrasound waves
      from the whole cross-section of the probe surface.

      To describe the expected spectrum of microcirculatory impairment during different stages of
      sepsis, septic shock and comparable critical disease, firstly US registrations are needed
      from persons with known normal microcirculation. Then, registrations of normal
      microcirculation are needed in persons exposed to increasing amounts of circulatory stress.
      Finally, microcirculatory conditions will be observed in patients with critical septic shock.
      Thus, firstly healthy volunteers are included, then stabile patients undergoing major planned
      surgery, and finally patients in critical septic shock demanding advanced intensive care
      treatment and monitoring.
    
  