
    
      The Primary Objective of this study is to develop and validate the algorithm needed to detect
      upright posture with a waist 3-axis accelerometer. A Secondary Objective is to determine the
      performance reliability of posture detection of the thigh and waist accelerometers when
      exposed to activities of daily living (standing, walking, climbing stairs). We will test the
      primary and secondary objectives in normal subjects using a single study design. Studies for
      both objectives will be conducted simultaneously on each subject on a single study day.
      Normal subjects will wear a device with the waist accelerometer incorporated within the
      controller box.

      Subjects will be instrumented with the abdominal belt and controller box containing the waist
      accelerometer sensor. The external accelerometer sensor will be fixed with a Velcro around
      the thigh. In addition, subjects will wear two commercially available accelerometer sensors:
      1) the ActivPal on the thigh of the other leg, and 2) an external accelerometer attached to
      the back of the belt at the level of the waist. The ActivPal can detect the upright posture
      but cannot distinguish between supine and sitting. The sensor placed on the back will be less
      affected by belly size in case of obese subjects. Both sensors will be used as a reference
      and for comparison. We will record all accelerometer signals during different body positions
      and activities. The activities will include lying down, sitting, getting up and standing
      still, walking, and climbing up and down steps for about one minute each for a total of 15-20
      minutes per group of activities. Participants will perform 3 groups of activities. The order
      of activities within each group will be randomized. We might also ask you to perform ~3 small
      jumps to synchronize the sensors at the beginning, middle and the end of each set of
      activities.
    
  