
    
      Women diagnosed with breast cancer at or before the age of 40 experience greater distress and
      poorer quality of life than women diagnosed later in life. In addition to having to cope with
      the range of issues common to all women with breast cancer, young women face unique
      challenges such as loss of fertility, concerns for young children, and interruptions to
      early-stage careers. The presence of adequate social support is a mitigating factor for
      distress in young women, and spousal support in particular has been shown to play a crucial
      and distinctive role in determining how well a woman adjusts to breast cancer. Unfortunately,
      the evidence suggests well-spouses are significantly distressed themselves, and often fall
      short in their attempts to meet the needs of their ill partners despite generally good
      intentions. Consequently, researchers have recommended that psychosocial interventions be
      geared to couples. However, traditional counseling interventions may not appeal to younger
      couples with numerous responsibilities and time constraints.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility, process, and outcomes of an
      innovative online intervention tailored to the unique needs of young women and their
      partners. The primary goal is to improve partners' relationship functioning and capacity to
      work together as a team in relation to the illness. The secondary goal is to combat feelings
      of isolation by creating a community of similarly affected couples. The intervention will be
      delivered via a professionally moderated, password-protected website and entail: Information
      relevant to young couples with breast cancer; structured, interactive learning modules; and a
      discussion board. The online modality is particularly suited to the younger demographic
      targeted by this project because of its familiarity, comfort, convenience, and flexibility.

      A non-randomized, repeated measures analysis of variance design will be used to test the
      intervention. Seventeen couples will be recruited within the Greater Toronto Area.
      Questionnaires assessing relationship functioning, psychological adjustment, and quality of
      life will be administered to participants at baseline and at completion of the 7-week
      program. Qualitative data from the website and treatment satisfaction questionnaire will be
      analyzed thematically in order to improve the intervention and its delivery.

      The potential for this online intervention to fill a void in support options available to
      both young women with breast cancer and their partners is vast. Following completion of the
      project, not only will there be a demonstrable product in the website, but the investigators
      will have the knowledge with which to further test the intervention in a RCT. The ultimate
      impact of the proposed project will be the creation of an accessible, cost-effective,
      empirically validated tool that could help to improve the quality of life of all young
      couples coping with breast cancer, regardless of geographic location, in the years to come.
    
  