
    
      In recent years, the incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has been increasing
      in the world. It has become the fourth leading cause of cancer death, and seriously threatens
      human life. The surgical resection rate of PDAC is very low, only about 15% - 20% of the
      patients can receive surgical treatment at the first visit. But at present, surgical
      resection is still the only treatment that can make the PDAC patients survive for a relative
      long time. (CA Cancer J Clin. 2016;66(1):7) With the application of neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      in clinical practice, the treatment concept of PDAC has changed significantly. A growing
      number of studies show that neoadjuvant chemotherapy can significantly improve the radical
      resection (R0) rate of PDAC patients, and thus improve the prognosis (J Clin Oncol.
      2017;35(5):515; J Surg Oncol. 2019;120(6):976). Currently, according to the latest edition of
      the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines, patients with resectable
      pancreatic cancer (RPC) with high risk factors, borderline resectable pancreatic cancer
      (BRPC) with good physical condition, and locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) with
      tolerable general condition, should receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      With the development of pancreatic surgery, the mortality has decreased from 30% to 3-5%.
      Minimally invasive technique has the advantages of less intraoperative bleeding, less
      postoperative pain, less postoperative complications and relatively high cost-effectiveness.
      In other abdominal tumors, such as gastric and colorectal cancer, minimally invasive
      technique has been recommended as the first choice for radical operation (Gastroenterol Res
      Pract, 2017,2017:9278469; Surg Clin North Am, 2017,97(3):54). Minimally invasive pancreatic
      surgery is mainly composed of minimally invasive pancreatoduodenectomy (MIPD) and minimally
      invasive distal pancreatectomy (MIDP). With the progress of surgical technique, especially
      the maturity of laparoscopic or robotic vascular resection and reconstruction, MIPD becomes
      safe and feasible, and has been carried out in large pancreatic surgery centers. On the other
      hand, MIDP is the main indication of minimally invasive pancreatic surgery because it does
      not need digestive tract reconstruction, has no complex anastomosis, and involves less large
      vessels. Compared with open pancreatic surgery, MIDP has the advantages of less
      intraoperative bleeding and faster postoperative recovery, and there was no significant
      difference in the incidence of pancreatic fistula, total complication rate and mortality (Ann
      Surg. 2019;269(1):2; Updates Surg. 2020;72(2):387).

      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can help to reduce tumor stage, alleviate vascular invasion, improve
      R0 resection rate, control tumor micro-metastasis and reduce tumor recurrence and metastasis
      risk. With the recommendations of clinical guidelines, patients with PDAC receiving
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy is increasing. For these patients, how to choose the further
      surgical strategy and whether minimally invasive surgery is safe and effective compared with
      open surgery have not been reported.

      Therefore, we designed this multicenter randomized controlled trial to assess the safety and
      effectiveness of minimally invasive versus open radical pancreatectomy after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy for PDAC. This study will provide high-level evidence-based medicine for the
      choice of surgical strategy for PDAC after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
    
  