
    
      In adults a number of instruments have been developed that measure quality of recovery
      following surgery. The best of these, and the most extensively utilised in other studies, is
      the QoR-40 (quality of recovery questionnaire with 40 items) developed by Myles and
      colleagues. QoR-40 is a global measure of recovery incorporating five dimensions; patient
      support, comfort, emotions, physical independence and pain. They developed this questionnaire
      from their database of 10,000 patients who had been contemporaneously interviewed about their
      postoperative experiences. A recent meta-analysis found QoR-40 to be a high-quality
      instrument, sensitive to clinical change and appropriate for purpose.

      The only significant problem with QoR-40 is the time taken to complete it; an average of just
      over 6 minutes. In response to this the same group developed a shorter version, QoR-15
      (quality of recovery questionnaire with 15 items) incorporating elements from all five
      original domains. The QoR-15 has been validated in adults and correlates well with QoR-40 and
      takes only 2.5 minutes to complete. However, the average age of the test population was 56
      years (+/- 16 years) with a range from 18 to 85 years.

      QoR-15 has not been used previously in children, so in preparation for this study the
      investigators trialed it in ten children to assess its basic acceptability. The investigators
      also carried out more extensive cognitive interviews in 5 children to assess whether children
      interpreted the meaning of the questions as intended. As a consequence, minor modifications
      have been made to the wording of some questions. For example, a question about feeling able
      to return to work has been changed to a question about feeling able to return to school/
      college. The investigators also changed a question asking about the presence of moderate pain
      to a question about any pain, as children did not distinguish between moderate and mild pain
      and interpreted the original question as meaning low levels or any pain.

      The visual representation of the scoring scheme has also been modified, as children found the
      original QoR-15 scales confusing. This will not affect the final scoring or the weighting
      given to any question in any way, it simply makes the scoring easier for children to
      understand. This modified questionnaire has been termed the PaedQoR-15 and it is this version
      that will be assessed in our patient population.
    
  