
    
      This was an open, randomized, comparative multicentric, phase III study to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of rhCG in comparison with urinary hCG in the induction of final follicle
      maturation and early luteinization in 200 Chinese female subjects undergoing superovulation.
      The study was organized on an outpatient basis in subjects undergoing assisted reproductive
      technologies (ART). All subjects underwent pituitary down- regulation per each center's
      normal practice prior to and during stimulation of multiple follicular development. The
      subjects were randomized into 2 groups. One group received rhCG 250mcg and the other group
      received urinary hCG (Profasi®) 10,000IU. Each subject in both groups received a single
      injection of hCG when the follicular development was judged to be adequate. Oocytes were
      retrieved 36-38 hours after the hCG injection and fertilized in vitro. Not more than 3
      embryos or 2 blastocysts were to be replaced. Progesterone was administered daily according
      to center's normal practice, starting after the oocyte pick up and continuing until a
      negative pregnancy test or for the first 3 weeks of pregnancy if the subject was pregnant.
      The subject was followed up and the treatment outcome (negative pregnancy test or pregnancy)
      was recorded.

      A phase I sub-study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of single subcutaneous (s.c.)
      administrations of rhCG was conducted on 24 healthy Chinese female subjects in China. The
      subjects were randomized into 3 groups. Each group received a single dose of 250mcg or 500mcg
      or 750 mcg of rhCG. Blood samples were collected at predetermined intervals after the
      injection. Human chorionic gonadotropin serum levels were measured with the Serono MAIAclone
      and the in vitro bioassay MA-10. Safety was assessed by the incidence and severity of adverse
      events (AEs), including multiple pregnancy and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) and
      significant changes in laboratory values.
    
  