
    
      Overweight and excessive gestational weight gain (GWG) is associated with increased risk of
      high birth weight; furthermore there is increased risk of the child developing overweight,
      diabetes and other metabolic diseases in childhood or adulthood. The effect of reducing
      gestational weight gain while supplying optimized amount and sources of nutrients is not well
      investigated. Increased knowledge to the possibility and efficacy of preventing overweight
      and related diseases is necessary. Modification of protein source and increase in ratio of
      protein in relation to amount of carbohydrate and reduction of glycaemic index (GI) has in
      observational studies individually been linked to improved fetal body composition, metabolism
      and weight control later in life, and less weight gain and weight retention for the mother.
      The overall aim of APPROACH is to investigate how an optimal diet during pregnancy influences
      the programming of the offspring. This study will increase the knowledge of the effect of a
      specific nutrient composition and weight retention during pregnancy on growth and development
      during the foetal stage and until nine years off age, risk markers later metabolic diseases,
      especially diabetes and metabolic syndrome. APPROACH will be a dietary intervention
      investigating differences in responds to a high-protein, especially marine and dairy protein
      and low-GI diet versus a diet according to the Nordic Nutritional Recommendations. All visits
      and assessment will be performed by trained staff at Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev.
      Subjects will be women with expected delivery at Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics and
      all examinations of gestational development and foetal growth will take place her; assessment
      of the children will be performed at the Department of Paediatrics. A total of 390 obese
      (body mass index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2) pregnant women will be randomized to intervention or
      control and engage in the program from late first trimester or early second trimester to
      birth. After birth the children will be included in a prospective cohort according to
      maternal randomization and examined six times from delivery until the age of nine years.
      APPROACH will increase the knowledge of the effect of a nutrient composition with high
      protein for carbohydrate ratio and weight retention during pregnancy on growth and
      development during the foetal stage and until nine years off age, risk markers later
      metabolic diseases, especially diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Plasma lipids, markers of
      metabolic diseases, epigenetics and vitamin D status will be assessed at baseline and several
      times during pregnancy; and in both intervention and control group these data will increase
      the knowledge of the effect of supplementing with marine oils and vitamin D in pregnant
      women. Results from the intervention will be communicated to the general population and
      published in peer-relieved journals.
    
  