
    
      Statement of the Research Problem/Purpose/Objectives Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a
      neurological disorder that causes complex developmental difficulties within the first three
      years of life. Preschool children diagnosed with ASD typically have pervasive deficits in
      social interaction and communication, and the occurrence of repetitive and restrictive
      behaviours. Parenting a preschool child with these characteristics, coupled with the
      devastating impact of their child receiving a diagnosis of ASD, creates high levels of
      parental anxiety, stress, depression, and general mental health difficulties. Given the
      seriousness of the child's diagnosis and the compromise in parenting and family functioning,
      families are referred to formalized treatment programs that provide support for both the
      child and parents. However, with the recent rise in Autism prevalence rates Manitoba parents
      now wait up to a year to receive formalized government funded treatment services for their
      child and family. This delay in formalized service has critically important consequences for
      the child, the family, and society.

      To bridge this gap in service, parents could be afforded the opportunity to participate in a
      cost efficient self-directed online training and support program specific to parents in
      Manitoba. Given that there is consistent evidence to support the effectiveness of parent
      training and involvement once a child has entered a formalized treatment program, the
      potential effectiveness of parent training and support while waiting for a formalized
      treatment program should also be considered.

      Research on the efficacy and effectiveness of on-line self-directed Autism parent training
      programs is extremely limited. Additionally, there is a lack of knowledge regarding the
      appropriate content, timing, and duration of a training program for parents of newly
      diagnosed children with ASD and conflicting evidence on the interactional effects between
      parent training and levels of parenting stress during this time period.

      The primary purpose of this study is to address the training and support requirements of
      parents of preschool children newly diagnosed with ASD, by developing and evaluating the
      effectiveness of a self-directed on-line ASD parent training and support program. The
      secondary purpose is to assess the interactional effects, of a self-directed on-line ASD
      parent training and support program, and parent stress, on parent and child outcomes. It is
      predicted that if parents receive on-line training and support they will increase their
      parenting knowledge and skills, reduce their levels of stress, and create better engagement
      and communication outcomes for their child, in comparison to parents who do not receive the
      training and support.

      Methods: The experimental study will use a randomized, masked, waitlist control design that
      compares an intervention treatment group to a waitlist control group. After meeting criteria
      and consent requirements for participation in the study, all families will participate in
      pre-measures. Families will then be randomized to either a treatment group or a waitlist
      control group. After pre measures the treatment group parents will receive access to the
      on-line self-directed training and support program for a 4-month period. After this time
      period both groups will then be re-assessed on the Parent and Child outcome measures and then
      the Waitlist Group will be given access to the on-line self-directed training and support
      program.

      Procedure. After a family has been assessed as eligible for the study, and have signed
      consent forms to participate in the study, they will be given an appointment time to attend
      the nursery setting for pre-measures. One parent will be asked to engage in free play with
      their child similar to how they would at home (using a standardized set of toys). The parent
      will be video recorded playing with their child for a ten-minute period, and then asked to
      answer the three questionnaires. This procedure will occur at baseline (Time 1, within 2
      months of diagnosis), and after the treatment period (Time 2, at least four months after the
      baseline measure). After base-line measures, families will be randomly assigned to the
      treatment group, and the waitlist group, using a random numbers table and a pre-arranged
      opaque envelope system. Treatment group parents will then be given access to participate in
      the on-line self-directed parent training and support intervention between Time 1 and Time 2,
      and the waitlist group parents will be given access to the intervention after Time 2. Parents
      will be given codes to access the on-line resources to ensure their anonymity to other
      participants. The codes will also allow the principle investigator to track when parents
      access the on-line training and support and when they have completed the on-line training.
      When treatment group parents have completed the on-line training (and after at least a
      four-month period has elapsed since the baseline measure) the parent and child will be
      invited back to the nursery setting for Time 2 measurements.

      Additionally, after a four-month period the matched waitlist group parent and child will be
      invited back to the original setting for Time 2 measurements, after which they will be given
      access to the on-line training and support. Families that signed consent forms and then
      dropped out, will also be given access to the on-line training and support, at this time. The
      personnel used to administer, score and input the data for the questionnaires, and
      observational measures, will be masked as to the participant's group assignment and time of
      measure. All data will contain only the code with no specific participant identifiers. All
      digital video recordings, questionnaires, observations sheets, and participant code sheets
      will be kept in a locked cabinet in the office of the main investigator and on a password
      protected secured government server. Inter-observer agreement will be used in the observation
      measures of the parent's intervention techniques and the child's measures of engagement and
      communication. For these observational measures, personnel will be trained by the primary
      investigator. Inter-observer agreement will be used in a training procedure until personnel
      meet or exceed 80% agreement on each measure for two consecutive observation trials.
      Additionally, after all observation data has been collected, a random sample of 20% of the
      data for each measure will be scored by two personnel, and inter-observer agreement will be
      reported.

      The independent variable is the on-line self-directed parent training and support program.
      Each on-line module contains multi-media presentations (written material, graphics, and
      video's), links to additional materials found on the internet, summaries of key information,
      small quizzes that help parents focus on important material and an accompanying parent
      workbook. In addition, parents are directed in Module 2 to an on-line parenting support and
      information sharing forum exclusive to the parents in the training program. Through the
      on-line forum parents can access a professional autism specialist and other parents involved
      in the study, and are able to ask questions, answer questions, provide comments, discuss
      issues, and in general receive support and give support to others.

      Four specific hypotheses will be tested for statistical significance. The first hypothesis
      is: Parents in the treatment group will have significantly higher Family Support, Knowledge
      and Intervention Techniques scores, and significantly lower Stress scores at Time 2, compared
      to the control group. This hypothesis will be tested individually for each measure using an
      Analysis of Covariance design (ANCOVA) to test for differences between groups while adjusting
      for any initial difference.

      The second hypothesis is: Children of parents in the treatment group will have significantly
      higher scores in Engagement and Communication at Time 2 compared to children of parents in
      the control group. This hypothesis will be tested individually for each measure using an
      Analysis of Covariance design (ANCOVA) to test for differences between groups while adjusting
      for any initial difference.

      The third hypothesis is: Parent's perceived level of stress will moderate the treatment
      effects on Parent outcomes measures of Knowledge and Intervention Techniques at Time 2.
      Specifically, it is hypothesized that there will be a negative (inverse) correlation between
      Parent stress scores at Time 1 and Parent Knowledge and Intervention Technique scores at time
      2 (the higher the parent's stress score at Time 1, the lower the parent's Knowledge and
      Intervention Technique scores at Time 2). Additionally, it is hypothesized that there will be
      a negative (inverse) correlation between the parent's change in stress scores from Time 1 to
      Time 2 to parent's Knowledge and Intervention Technique scores at Time 2 (as parents
      perceived level of stress decreases from Time 1 to Time 2 parent's Knowledge and Intervention
      Technique scores will increase at Time 2). Correlations will be conducted using Pearson's
      product-moment (r) calculations.

      The fourth hypothesis is: Parent's perceived level of stress will moderate the treatment
      effects on Child outcomes measures of Engagement and Communication at Time 2. Specifically,
      it is hypothesized that there will be a negative (inverse) correlation between Parent stress
      scores at Time 1 and Child Engagement and Communication scores at time 2 (the higher the
      parent's stress score at Time 1, the lower the Child Engagement and Communication scores at
      Time 2). Additionally, it is hypothesized that there will be a negative (inverse) correlation
      between the parent's change in stress scores from Time 1 to Time 2 to the Child's Engagement
      and Communication scores at Time 2 (as parents perceived level of stress decreases from Time
      1 to Time 2 the Child's Engagement and Communication scores will increase at Time 2).
      Correlations will be conducted using Pearson's product-moment (r) calculations.

      Process for Seeking Consent Initial screening for patients that meet the criteria will be
      done by the Developmental Pediatricians at the Child Development Clinic. When patients are in
      the SSCY Centre for a counsel with their Pediatrician, the Pediatrician will provide the
      families of all those who meet the inclusion criteria with a study advertisement containing
      the PIs contact information. Parents who phone the Principal Investigator to find out more
      about their participation in the study will be given the option of meeting the Principal
      Investigator at an office in the SSCY Centre or at their home, or at a place of their
      choosing. The Principal Investigator will explain the study and the consent form at that
      time. Parents will be told that they do not need to decide immediately and that they have the
      option of reviewing the study documentation and consent forms with others, and at their
      convenience. They will also be given a phone number to call if they have any further
      questions.
    
  