
    
      Lupus is an autoimmune disease affecting mainly young women (9/1). Lupus nephritis (LN)
      occurs in 30% of patients and is associated with end stage renal disease (ESRD) in 17 to 25%
      of cases after 10 years. Overall, nearly 7% of lupus patients will develop ESRD due to LN.
      Historically, the 5-year survival after LN was below 20%. Nowadays, 45% of patients suffer
      from multiple relapses that are associated with an intermediate risk of ESRD. When ESRD
      occurs, lupus activity decreases progressively to reach a stable extinct state. At this stage
      it is possible to stop all medications to control lupus, without any flare of lupus activity.
      Lupus extinction following ESRD corresponds to a state of complete remission. Obtaining such
      a result before ESRD would prevent the damages of active lupus to several organs and side
      effects of immunosuppressive therapy. Understanding the mechanisms responsible for lupus
      extinction following ESRD is an innovative approach to decipher lupus pathophysiology.

      The objective of this study is to identify the mechanisms responsible for lupus extinction in
      ESRD (candidate pathways) and to propose new therapeutic options targeting those candidates.

      There is an important need for treatment innovation for systemic lupus and LN. A large number
      of biotherapies have been developed recently based on the known pathophysiology of the
      disease. Despite important efforts made by the medical community, many research groups, and
      pharmaceutical companies, randomized clinical trials (RCT) failed to validate innovative
      treatment strategies for several decades. This project proposes the identification of new
      treatment solutions through explorations in a field free of previous investigation in that
      aim.

      A detailed knowledge of lupus extinction is required to understand its pathophysiology. This
      study will detail the timeframe of, and the factors associated with lupus extinction after
      ESRD. Moreover, previous investigations had been conducted separately in different projects
      and mainly provided descriptive results. Then a global and integrative strategy of research
      will be built in an attempt to embrace the subject as broadly as possible and maximize the
      opportunities to obtain successful outcome. The project will investigate specific hypotheses
      that were developed from the investigators' experience and based on the expertise of the
      consortium, both in lupus and immune dysfunction and in ESRD and uremic toxins. The addition
      of a "without a priori" approach by a systematic screening of gene expression associated with
      lupus extinction in haemodialysis will allow the investigators to propose a large panel of
      potential candidates to investigate further. Altogether, identifying the causes responsible
      for lupus extinction following ESRD is an innovative approach to discover new therapeutic
      targets. The investigators hypothesize that mimicking LN extinction due to ESRD provides a
      unique opportunity to propose new strategies to treat active lupus and LN before ESRD. The
      mechanisms responsible for lupus extinction are unknown. Lupus extinction depends on the
      duration of ESRD. Accumulation of several toxins that kidneys would normally eliminate in the
      urine is a hallmark of ESRD. Such toxins are called "uremic toxins" since they accumulate
      during "uremia" (ESRD). They affect biological systems such as fertility and immunity that
      are both closely related to lupus pathophysiology.

      The investigators hypothesize that studying lupus extinction after ESRD will provide novel
      therapeutic targets to extinct lupus before ESRD. To this end, they propose to investigate
      several non-exclusive hypotheses based on previous findings: the sexual dysfunction
      hypothesis and the ESRD-associated immune cells dysfunction hypothesis. In parallel, they
      will conduct an open screening of new mechanisms underlying the lupus extinction through the
      characterization of the differential gene expression profile associated with lupus extinction
      in patients on chronic haemodialysis, comparing gene expression of dialysis patients with
      extinct lupus versus patients with still active lupus at the time of the study.

      They first propose a comparison of active and extinct lupus in patients with ESRD. Lupus
      patients on chronic haemodialysis in Ile-de-France (n=75) will be recruited for the
      biological and clinical comparison between patients with persistent lupus activity to those
      with extinct lupus. These dialysis patients have been identified from the national REIN
      registry, which prospectively collects data for all incident patients undergoing renal
      replacement therapy (dialysis or kidney transplantation). A specific authorization was
      obtained from the Scientific Board of the REIN Registry at Agence de la Biomédecine).
      Additionally, patients with active lupus prior to treatment and no ESRD will serve as a
      "positive control" group (n=45) for markers of cellular activation and blood transcriptomic
      profile during lupus nephritis.
    
  