
    
      The primary aim of this study is to examine whether lower-risk activities displace
      participation in higher-risk behaviors during COVID-19. Investigators will test this aim by
      promoting specific activities that are expected to be low-risk when it comes to COVID-19
      transmission and assessing impacts on participants' activity choices.

      There will be two study groups, Group 1 and Group 2, each of which will complete 3 online
      surveys and will be provided with information on lower-risk activities to do during COVID-19.
      Random assignment to groups will occur after the completion of a baseline survey. Group 1
      will receive free access to a local hiking challenge after completing their baseline survey
      and an information sheet with current CDC-recommended activities after post-test. Group 2
      will receive the same resources, but in the opposite order. Therefore, surveys administered
      at midpoint (~6 weeks) and post-test (~12 weeks) will allow for a test of the effects of
      providing access to the hiking challenge on outcomes of interest.

      If participants choose to sign up for the hiking challenge, they receive a list of local
      hikes/nature walks, accompanying maps, scavenger-hunt-like activities (finding a certain
      landmark on each hike), and the opportunity to earn prizes and engage with other hikers on
      social media. The primary outcome will be the activities in which participants engage. An
      adapted version of the Pleasant Activities list (Koks) will be used to assess activities
      participants have engaged in during the past 30 days at baseline, midpoint (~6 weeks), and
      post-test (~12 weeks). Current CDC guidance will be used to code activities as lower- and
      higher-risk anticipating the creation of an aggregate frequency of activities in each of the
      following categories: activities done outdoors alone or with members of the household (lower
      risk), activities done indoors alone or with members of the household (lower risk),
      activities done outdoors with others not in one's household (moderate risk), and activities
      done indoors with others not in one's household (higher risk). Adults' participation in
      different types of activities will also be summarized generally, in addition to specific
      activities of interest (e.g., the lower risk activities that are being targeted, like hiking;
      and activities that have received attention as being particularly higher risk, like indoor
      restaurant dining). Investigators will also examine impacts of the provision of the hiking
      challenge on secondary outcomes, including reported stress and sleep.

      The study has the potential to shed light on displacement of higher-risk activities through
      promotion of lower-risk activities that could serve as substitutes. It also allows for an
      assessment of the impacts of the local hiking challenge on aspects of well-being.
    
  