
    
      This is an observational and prospective study involving approximately 30 healthy lactating
      mothers whose preterm infant(s) is/are hospitalized at Neonatal Intensive Care Unit from the
      Hospital Santa Casa de Misericordia after childbirth. Lactating mothers should have enough
      milk to provide enough maternal milk their infant(s) require plus additional collection of
      samples (3mL). After consenting to the study, milk from lactating mothers of preterm infants
      in the local ICU will be analyzed daily from the moment they express sufficient milk volume
      beyond their child's requirement until discharge (from 4th day of admission until 15th day of
      hospitalization ). Three mL of sample milk will be collected every morning and analyzed,
      according to hospital routine. Characteristics of subjects and details of their premature
      children, such as gestational age, birth weight (BMI) and birth details (causes of preterm
      birth, delivery, complications, etc) will be collected by applying a questionnaire on the
      first day of analysis. The nutritional composition of the last meal before the milk sample
      collection and also a three no consecutive nutrition questionnaire daily intake will be
      evaluated.

      The determination of the macronutrient content will be made from the use of Human Milk
      Analyzer MIRIS (MIRIS HMA), Uppsala, Switzerland, properly calibrated. The analyzer is based
      on the adopted infrared (IR) technology in combination with a patented technology. Sample
      collection, storage and analysis, as well as equipment conservation, will be carefully
      followed according to MIRIS protocol. Information about effectiveness, feasibility and
      equipment costs will also be evaluated. The data obtained by the HMA will be compared to the
      nutritional composition of human milk and nutritional needs of preterm found in the
      literature and included in the main guidelines
    
  