
    
      The purpose of this clinical investigation is the clinical evaluation and accuracy of
      HeartSciences MyoVista High-Sensitivity (hsECG) 12 lead Electrocardiogram devices, for
      patients presenting with cardiac chest pain and/or Non ST-segment Elevation Myocardial
      Infarction (NSTEMI). To assess the early intervention of N-STEMI patients and determine if
      clinical outcomes can be improved. In addition, assessment will be made on the MYOVISTA's
      indices, numerical values, and sensitivity/specificity for early detection of cardiac
      dysfunction/disease, namely Coronary Artery Disease (CAD). The Primary objective to ascertain
      efficacy of the MyoVista and evaluate its usefulness in expediting patients that require
      further investigation/procedure by way of angiography, thus improving the patient care
      pathway. This clinical investigation will answer an important clinical question, i.e. can
      outcomes in 'high-risk' N-STEMI patients be improved with the intervention of MyoVista 12
      lead Electrocardiogram in the detection of heart disease/diastolic dysfunction, compared to
      current standard practice?This clinical investigation anticipates that outcomes are improved
      in 'high-risk' patients when early detection and diagnosis is made using the MyoVista. The
      clinical investigation should therefore determine whether there is a need for a change in
      patient management, specifically those patients presenting as N-STEMI. This will allow for
      earliest intervention, with the results and data of this clinical investigation informing
      National/International guidelines, practice and healthcare service provision. The Primary
      endpoint will be the acute reperfusion/revascularization of target coronary vessels by way of
      Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) with specified follow-up at six (6) and twelve (12)
      months, with twelve (12) month being the specified termination of the clinical investigation
      plan.This clinical investigation is a prospective, single-centred Pilot study. The total
      investigation duration is expected to be approximately 2 - 3 years.
    
  