
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D), one of the most prevalent incurable diseases of childhood, is
      associated with serious risk of morbidity and mortality due to the development of micro- and
      macrovascular complications. Complications can be prevented by treatment that achieves
      physiological or near physiological levels of glucose. Despite innovations in management over
      the past three decades, pediatric patients of African ancestry (AA) have had persistently
      higher HbA1c than patients of white, European ancestry (EA). Higher HbA1c in AA patients is
      associated with both higher acute and chronic morbidity and mortality compared to EA
      patients. Thus, racial disparity in glycemic outcome and the development of complications is
      a major unresolved challenge of current clinical pediatric diabetes treatment.

      Multiple factors contribute to high-risk levels of mean blood glucose (MBG) in pediatric AA
      patients compared to EA. AA patients have less access to insulin pumps, perform glucose
      testing less often, have less contact with diabetes management staff, and may have difficulty
      relating to management staff due to cultural and socioeconomic differences. Greater
      occurrence of hypoglycemia is another obstacle to achieving optimal glucose control. These
      considerations have led us to hypothesize that an intervention targeting this group of major
      management obstacles will sustainably reduce MBG to levels comparable to EA patients without
      increased hypoglycemia. The investigators propose that an advanced hybrid closed loop (AHCL)
      pump system combined with frequent enhanced home video management conferencing (TECH) with
      the study CDE nurse coordinator will facilitate improvement of MBG and HbA1c, increase time
      in glycemic goal range, have minimal occurrence of hypoglycemia, and improve patient
      satisfaction with management.

      Part 1: The investigators will first pre-test the intervention approach in ten participants
      using a combination of an advanced hybrid closed loop (AHCL) pump system + home video
      conferences with the study CDE nurse coordinator to enhance home management. Basic inclusion
      criterion will be self-identification as African American ethnicity, having T1D,
      8.5<HbA1c<12%, age 10-17 years. The field trial will be for a 4 week period. THe
      investigators will use feedback and experience during the "field trial" from patients,
      parents and the study coordinator to refine the intervention and reduce patient problems with
      the technology, enhance its effectiveness improve participant adherence to management. This
      information will help guide/refine the design and use of the technologies in a randomized
      intervention trial (Part 2). Participants may choose to continue using the technologies after
      the initial 4 week Field Trial period for up to 6 months. AHCL must be returned at the end of
      participation.

      Part 2: The investigators will conduct a randomized intervention trial in a factorial four
      group design comparing outcome measures in participants assigned to the combined
      AHCL+conferencing, versus use of AHCL or conferencing alone versus usual care. Basic
      inclusion criterion will be self-identification as African American ethnicity, having T1D,
      8.5<HbA1c<12%, age 10-17 years. Outcome measures will be assessed at 3 and 6 month study
      visits. The major outcome metric will be HbA1c. In addition mean blood glucose (MBG), time in
      range, frequency of hyper/hypoglycemia, quality of life and treatment satisfaction will be
      compared between groups, Participation will be concluded at the 6 month visit. AHCL must be
      returned at the end of participation.
    
  