
    
      New research suggests that exposure to a light flickering at 40Hz may promote gamma brain
      wave activity through the photic entrainment phenomenon. These waves have the potential to
      activate critical cleaning cells in the brain that could eliminate beta amyloid plaques. The
      most recent research on light therapy for Alzheimer's disease appeared in the journal Nature
      in 2017, entitled "How flashing lights and pink noise might banish Alzheimer's, improve
      memory and more" (the full article can be freely accessed at:
      https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-02391-6) and in 2016, entitled "Gamma frequency
      entrainment attenuates amyloid load and modifies microglia" (the article abstract can be
      accessed at: https://www.nature.com/articles/nature20587). Researchers from MIT found that
      shining a strobe light into the eyes of mice with a rodent version of Alzheimer's disease
      encouraged protective cells to phagocytize the harmful proteins that accumulate in the brain.
      The perfect rate of flashes was determined to be 40 per second. Exposure to the flashing
      light for an hour (light therapy) led to a noticeable reduction in beta amyloid levels the
      next day in regions of the neocortex and hippocampus. When done every day for a week, beta
      amyloid levels were greatly reduced.

      In addition, there is a significant body of evidence that computerized brain training
      (cognitive therapy) improves the memory of patients with Alzheimer's and dementia, which
      could help avert some symptoms of cognitive decline.

      The synergistic combination of light and cognitive therapy utilized in AlzLife has the
      potential to improve the brain's function better than either of these therapies alone. This
      project will test the ability of a novel iPad App ("ALZLIFE") that delivers light therapy at
      40 Hz combined with cognitive therapy to improve cognition, function, and quality of life in
      Alzheimer's disease.
    
  