
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the complete response rate of the ibrutinib plus rituximab combination
      followed by venetoclax in newly diagnosed young mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety profile of the ibrutinib plus rituximab combination followed by
      venetoclax in newly diagnosed young MCL patients.

      II. To evaluate the progression-free survival and overall survival time of the ibrutinib plus
      rituximab combination followed by venetoclax and hyper-fractionated cyclophosphamide,
      vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and dexamethasone (hyper-CVAD) in newly
      diagnosed young MCL patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Developing a novel biomarker for minimal residual disease (MRD) assay using the
      circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) assay on a customized capture
      sequencing gene panel for MCL using serial plasma samples collected in this trial.

      OUTLINE:

      PART I: Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and receive
      rituximab intravenously (IV) over 4-8 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 1 and on day 1
      of cycles 3-12. Patients also receive venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28 of cycles 5-12. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PART II: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups depending on risk status.

      GROUP I:

      COMBINATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive rituximab IV over 6 hours on day 1, dexamethasone
      PO or IV on days 1-4, cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours twice daily (BID) on days 2-4, and
      doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours and vincristine sulfate IV over 15-30 minutes on
      day 5 of odd-numbered cycles (1 and 3). Patients also receive rituximab IV over 6 hours on
      day 1, methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 2, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours BID on days 3-4
      of even-numbered cycles (2 and 4). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive ibrutinib and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28, and
      rituximab IV over 4-8 hours on day 1 of every other month. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up
      to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP II: Patients receive combination chemotherapy as in group I. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients also receive maintenance therapy as in group I.

      GROUP III: Patients receive maintenance therapy as in group I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 4 months for
      2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for up to 5 years.
    
  