
    
      It is unclear whether it is feasible to perform submaximal exercise testing using cycle
      ergometry to measure aerobic capacity in patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA) undergoing
      total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Individuals prior to TKA surgery experience increasing knee
      pain and are progressively restricted in their activities of daily living (ADL), sports and
      work, which negatively affect their aerobic capacity. This causes severe deconditioning,
      which is more prominent in patients with more severe knee OA. As part of usual care before
      TKA procedure, patients are screened for risk factors for delayed recovery by measuring
      physical functioning. Although various practical performance-based tests are performed,
      measuring aerobic capacity is included nowhere. Therefore, a walking test will be replaced by
      cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) using cycle ergometry, which is the gold standard for
      measuring aerobic capacity.

      A higher aerobic capacity prior to TKA surgery is assumed to be prognostic for a better and
      faster postoperative recovery. The first step is to explore whether it is feasible to perform
      a submaximal CPET prior to TKA surgery using cycle ergometry in patients with knee OA. When
      the feasibility criteria are met, the possible prognostic value of preoperative aerobic
      capacity on postoperative recovery can be investigated in a subsequent prospective cohort
      study.

      Primary objective: to investigate the feasibility of submaximal CPET in patients with knee OA
      three to six weeks prior to TKA surgery in the MUMC+ regarding three domains: 1) recruitment
      rate of participants who are representative of the target study population; 2) feasibility of
      CPET procedure; and 3) acceptability and suitability of CPET. These domains are
      operationalized with five feasibility criteria.

      Secondary objective: to explore the aerobic capacity of the study population, individuals
      with knee OA scheduled for TKA surgery, using submaximal parameters (VO2 at the VAT and OUES)
      and compare their aerobic capacity with normative values.

      This cross-sectional study will be conducted at the Maastricht University Medical Center
      (MUMC+). CPET will be performed three to six weeks before the TKA surgery following the
      preoperative screening. The study will include 15 to 20 participants.
    
  