
    
      It is planned to enroll 55 patients in this study, which is designed as a longterm
      questionnaire-based multicenter survey. Patients have to give their written consent prior to
      the study. Patients of the Clinical Division of Orthodontics at the University Clinic of
      Dentistry in Vienna as well as of a private practice will be included in order to increase
      the results' significance. All patients will be examined beforehand in order to exclude other
      pre-orthodontical treatment. After a short briefing about the aligner procedure and the
      therapeutic alternatives, each patient is selected for the aligner treatment with
      lnvisalign®. At this stage the chosen patient will be informed about the survey. The patient
      will receive the written consent form and the patient information form to think about at
      home. Should the patient consider to take part in the study, the signed forms must be
      returned at the following appointment. The patient will now receive the details about the
      different questionnaires and the estimated time per questionnaire (approximately 10 mins).

      Before the first treatment the patient is asked to fill out the first OHIP G 14 (Tq 0) and
      the first aligner-questionnaire (Ta 0). The participants will be categorized by gender' age
      and level of education (compulsory school degree, higher school certificate, apprenticeship,
      university degree). Patients who have already been treated with aligners will not be included
      in the study. The routine-made initial and final scans of the patients will be evaluated
      according to the criteria of the orthodontic PAR (peer assessment rating) index. lnclusion
      criteria:

        -  Invisalign® "full" aligner treatment

        -  Invisalign® "lite" aligner treatment

        -  Adult patients (18 years and older)

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Previous aligner treatment

        -  Combined orthodontic and orthognathic surgical treatment

        -  Combined bracket and aligner treatment

      The OHIP G 14 (Oral Health lmpact Profile G 14) questionnaire is an established and validated
      tool to evaluate the patients' quality of life. OHIP G 14 is the German version of OHIP (Oral
      Health lmpact Profile) 14. OHIP-14 is a short form of the oral health impact profile whose
      theoretic framework was based on a World Health Organization's International Classification
      of lmpairments, Disabilities and Handicaps relating health and its sequence in a hierarchy of
      different outcome levels. OHIP-14 has 7 conceptualized domains (2 items per domain):
      functional limitation, physical pain, psychological discomfort, physical disability,
      psychological disability, social disability and handicap. Patients are asked to rate how
      frequently they experienced an oral health impact (as described by each item). The response
      to each item is scored on a s-point Likert scale: 0, never; 1, hardly ever; 2, occasionally;
      3, fairly often; and 4, very often or every day. Summary OHIP-14 scores can range from 0 to
      56, and domain scores can range from o to 8. A higher oHlP-14 score indicates poorer oral
      health related quality of life (4-6) The OHIP questionnaire will be handed out to the
      patients before the treatment begins (Tq 0), at the first check-up after beginning of
      treatment (Tq Co1) - (usually 4 weeks after treatment) - and semi-annually afterwards (Tq6Mo,
      Tq12Mo' Tq18Mo' Tq24Mo, Tq3OMo) and at the end of treatment (Tq final). In order to simplify
      the questionnaires and spare pages, both questionnaires (OHIP G 14 and aligner questionnaire)
      will be merged into one questionnaire sheet, if applicable (at time points T0. T6 and
      Tfinal). Aligner-questionnaires will be handed out before (Ta0), after 6 months of treatment
      (Ta6) and at the end of treatment (Ta final). As there are no existing and comparable
      templates aiming at the study objectives, we designed the questionnaire according to a study
      on patients' perspectives on dental implant and bone graft surgery. lt is planned to explore
      how the patients' expectations change before, during and after treatment. Furthermore, each
      patient can evaluate his/her experiences with the aligner therapy after 6 months (most of the
      supportive procedures such as interproximal enamel reduction, wearing intermaxillary
      elastics, bonding of attachments will latest be started by then) and at the end of the
      treatment. The patients will be asked specific questions concerning aligner-treatment before,
      during and after the aligner-treatment.

      Patients will get a reminder of the second and last aligner-questionnaire at one previous
      appointment. The estimated answer duration is going to be mentioned again' The patients are
      asked to fill out the third aligner-questionnaire on the day of the last appointment of
      active aligner therapy or within 8 weeks after the treatment Further, it is planned to
      correlate the patients' expectations concerning the treatment process/-success, their
      willingness for seeking a second opinion and their acceptance of different treatment
      modalities (interproximal enamel reduction, intermaxillary elastics) to the reported quality
      of life, the level of education, the grade of the PAR index at the beginning of treatment, as
      well as to gender and age.

      The questionnaire will be arranged into the following sections:

        1. Patient expectations will be asked at three different time points (before, during and
           after therapy) for their expectations at:

        2. Patient experiences will be asked at two different time points (during and after
           therapy) concerning:

        3. Patient preferences and acceptances will be asked at three different time points
           (before, during and after therapy) concerning:

        4. Patient willingness to seek a second opinion will be explored at three different time
           points (before, during and after therapy) in consideration of:

      Power calculations were done using the usual formulas for the paired t-test, adjusting for
      the planned use of non-parametric analysis by using the asymptotic relative efficiency (ARE).
      Assuming a SD (standard deviation) of 3.0 (from Liu 2011), a minimal sample size of 33 is
      needed to achieve a power of 0.95, to detect a clinically meaningful change of 2 in OHIP at
      significance level 0.05. Accounting fot 40% expected drop out due to the long-term character
      of the planned study, we arrive at a final sample size of 55 [33(1 - 0.4 dropout]. Due to the
      preliminary character of the questionnaire, there is no previous experience (clinical or
      otherwise) to base any sample size calculations on. Considering the fact that compared to the
      standardized and general OHIP, the questions in the new questionnaire are more detailed and
      tailored to the treatment these specific patients receive, we expect the power for this new
      questionnaire to be at least equal to the one computed for OHIP. Proportional odds mixed
      model will be used for OHIP questionnaires and for aggregate scores of aligner
      questionnaires, with covariate age, gender, level of education, reported quality of life and
      the grade of the PAR index at the beginning of treatment.
    
  