
    
      Xerostomia is the biggest and chronic side effect of the RT for head and neck cancer. To
      treat xerostomia different approach should be followed at the same time: to increase existing
      saliva flow or replace lost secretions, to control the state of oral health, to control
      dental caries and to treat possible infections18.

      When residual secretory capacity is present, it is advisable to regularly stimulate the
      salivary glands by mechanical or gustatory stimuli as supportive oral care.

      The salivary flow can be stimulated by the use of sugarless chewing gum or xylitol/sorbitol
      candy or through parasympathomimetic drug such as pilocarpine. Pilocarpine is a natural
      alkaloid that activates cholinergic receptors, authorized to treat xerostomia. Due to its
      main mechanism of action, pilocarpine has some muscarinic side effects19, especially
      vomiting, sweating, headache, increased urinary frequency, wheezing, watery eyes, nausea and
      gastrointestinal intolerance, hypotension, rhinitis, diarrhea, and visual disturbances.
      Pilocarpine has also some use restrictions that make it not prescribable to certain patients
      (patients with asthma, high blood pressure, heart diseases and in therapy with β-blockers
      cannot use pilocarpine because this drug is a nonselective antagonist of muscarinic receptors
      and, therefore, it can interfere with the cardiac and respiratory functions).

      Acupuncture seems to alleviate radio-induced xerostomia but it mechanism of action is not
      totally clear and systematic reviews indicate its efficacy as doubtful20,21.

      Other products are under investigation and their efficacy in xerostomia due to RT is still
      unclear.

      Aqualief® is a food supplement based on carnosine and hibiscus. These two ingredients are
      mixed in specific proportions to form a pH buffering system which maintains the pH of the
      oral cavity at the proper value which is required for the regular secretion of saliva.

      Aqualief® is designed as a mucoadesive tablet that will adhere to the cheek internal side, to
      have a prolonged action. It is expected to gradually release the ingredients over a period of
      at least two hours.

      Aqualief® is being tested in a clinical study on 70 subjects with grade 1-2 xerostomy
      enrolled at the Dental Clinic of the University of Insubria. The study is currently ongoing
      therefore results are not yet available.

      The aim of this clinical study is to evaluate if Aqualief® can be efficacious in the
      increasing of the saliva production in patients suffering for xerostomia as consequence of
      previous RT for head and neck cancer.

      To this purpose, this double blind cross over study has been designed: 100 patients will be
      treated for 8 days with Aqualief®/placebo and then, following a 10 days wash-out period, for
      further 8 days with placebo /Aqualief®.
    
  