
    
      This was an open-label, uncontrolled, and multi-centered phase II clinical trial for
      evaluation of the clinical efficacy and hemodynamics and safety of nesiritide. The study was
      conducted in hospital setting and all patients exhibited symptoms of acute decompensated
      heart failure, requiring treatment with intravenous drug administration. The total duration
      was 180 days, including a screening phase, an open treatment phase (24 hours in all) and a
      safety follow-up phase (day 30 and day 180). Screening phase: Right heart floating catheter
      was placed for patients with acute decompensate heart failure who met the inclusion criteria
      while not the exclusion criteria to measure pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. The results
      should be =20 mmHg. Open treatment phase: Nesiritide was administered by intravenous
      injection at a dose of 2 µg/kg for 60 second, followed by intravenous infusion at a dose of
      0.01 µg/kg for 24 hour. All the patients were monitored for hemodynamics for 24 hour. Safety
      follow-up phase: On day 30, all the patients were required to return to the study center for
      follow-up. Information about death, severe adverse event, re-hospitalization and serum
      creatinine was collected. On day 180, all the patients were followed up by telephone.
      Information about death and severe adverse event was collected. Pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressure will be measured at 15 minutes, 1 hour, 3 hour and 24 hour, compared with baseline
      value. Nesiritide is white to off-white sterile lyophilized lump or powder, supplied in
      transparent 5 mL glass vials. The investigational drug was administered via infusion pump.
      Infusion rate was adjusted according to body weight. The drug was administered directly via
      venous cannula or the nearest injection port to the venous cannula for 60 second. The dosage
      of nesiritide was 2 µg/kg. The infusion rate of nesiritide was adjusted to 0.01 µg/kg/min
      (cannot exceed 0.01 µg/kg/min).
    
  