
    
      Infection by the novel SARS-CoV-2 virus (also known as COVID-19) has tremendous social
      impact. Most of Western societies are at major or part lock-down whatever brings
      unpredictable financial and societal consequences. The urgent need for the reversal of this
      situation can only be met through the generation of an immune defence shield to protect the
      society from COVID-19. Many efforts for the development of a vaccine are under way without
      any specific outcome so for.

      The stimulation of trained immune responses seems the only alternative to bridge the gap from
      the turn-on of the society until the entrance of a specific vaccine in the market. Trained
      immunity stands for the non-specific raise of defense shield for severe infections coming
      once tissue macrophages recognize a universal pathogen. The concept was successfully tested
      in healthy volunteers that were vaccinated with placebo or BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin)
      vaccine. These volunteers were injected 14 days latter a tri-valent influenza A vaccine.
      Volunteers previously vaccinated by BCG developed significantly greater titers against
      hemagglutinin A of the influenza A virus whereas their circulating monocytes were more potent
      for the production of interferon-gamma.

      It is proposed that this BCG vaccination triggering trained immune responses may play a role
      of protection against the COVID-19 pandemic. A solid background on this rationale came
      recently from the interim analysis of the ACTIVATE trial. ACTIVATE (A randomized Clinical
      trial for enhanced Trained Immune responses through Bacillus Calmette-Guérin VAccination to
      prevenT infections of the Elderly) was a prospective randomized open-label controlled trial
      conducted among patients hospitalized at the 4th Department of Internal Medicine of ATTIKON
      University General Hospital in Greece. The protocol was approved by the National Ethics
      Committee of Greece and the National Organization for Medicine of Greece (EudraCT number,
      2017-000596-87; ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03296423). The trial is conducted and funded by the
      Hellenic Institute for the Study of Sepsis. In this trial hospitalized elderly patients were
      vaccinated on the day of hospital discharge with single doses of placebo or BCG. Every
      patient is under follow-up for 12 months. The last visit of the last patient is scheduled for
      August 2020. An interim analysis took place on April 29th 2020 by an independent committee of
      experts. The full interim analysis focused on the study primary endpoint that was the
      comparative time to a new infection between the two groups of treatment. Infections counting
      against this primary endpoint were respiratory or viral infections necessitating medical
      treatment, community-acquired pneumonias, hospital-acquired pneumonias, intraabdominal
      infections, urinary tract infections, soft tissue infections and bloodstream infections.
      Analysis revealed 53% decrease of the incidence of new infections in the BCG group compared
      to the placebo group. This decrease reached 80% for all respiratory tract infections.
      Multivariate analysis showed that most of benefit was for patients with coronary heart
      disease (CHD) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This interim analysis clearly
      enhances the concept that BCG can be protective against COVID-19.
    
  