
    
      The trial is funded by Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology-Beijing Xisike Clinical Oncology
      Research Fundation. The trial is prepared to be registered on the clinicaltrail.gov.

      Quality assurance plan: Every participant is enrolled or excluded by two practiced
      investigators. And two investigators participate in all steps of the trail, including the
      record of the data, which is compared by the investigators. If the data is consistent, the
      investigators would record the data; if not, the data would be checked and decided by the two
      investigators. All the steps and data are site monitored and audited by the staff of research
      and financial department of Affliated Hospital of Qinghai University.

      Data check: The investigators compare data entered into the registry against predefined rules
      for range or consistency with other data fields in the registry.

      Source data verification: The investigators assess the accuracy, completeness, or
      representativeness of registry data by comparing the data to external data sources, including
      medical records and electronic case report forms.

      Data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of each variable used by the registry,
      including the source of the variable, coding information, and normal ranges if relevant.

      Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities, such as
      participants recruitment, data collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for
      adverse events, and change management. All registry operations would be done according to
      specific steps, and by two practiced investigators.

      Sample size assessment to specify the number of participants or participant years necessary
      to demonstrate an effect. According to the formula to differ advantages and disadvantages,
      the investigators need at least 60 participants to take part in the trail. The investigators
      can recruit about 20 participants every year according to previous experiences, so the
      investigators should recruit at least for three years.

      Plan for missing data: The investigators would collect as much data as possible, and the
      investigators exclude the participants who cannot cooperate on recruitment. And the
      investigators manage situations according to statistical principles where variables are
      reported as missing, unavailable, non-reported, uninterpretable, or considered missing
      because of data inconsistency or out-of-range results.

      Statistical analysis plan: Statistical analyses would be performed by using SPSS software,
      version 13.0 (SPSS Inc., IL, USA). Survival analysis would be performed using Kaplan-Meier
      methodology. Fisher's exact test would be used to analyze the efficacy of treatment. Cox
      proportional hazards model would be used for multivariate analysis. The level of significance
      is defined as P < 0.05.
    
  