
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for
      further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. This study will
      examine the safety and efficacy of axi-cel in participants who either currently or previously
      had had central nervous system involvement of their lymphoma.

      The name of the study drug involved in this study is axi-cel. Axi-cel is a chimeric antigen
      receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy that is manufactured using a person's own white blood cells. A
      virus is used to introduce a gene that creates a protein (called a CAR) on the surface of T
      cells, a type of blood cell that fights infection and can eliminate cancer cells. The CAR on
      the T cells may bind to and kill cells that express CD19, a molecule that is found on B-cell
      lymphomas. CAR-T cells (including axi-cel) designed to target CD19, a protein present on B
      lymphocytes have been used to treat patients with CD19+ tumors. This adoptive cell therapy
      (ACT) approach has shown significant and durable clinical benefits in the treatment of CD19+
      tumors. Axi-cel has been FDA approved for the treatment of relapsed and refractory aggressive
      B cell lymphomas that occur outside the central nervous system and have recurred after two or
      more prior therapies.

      Participants will receive two chemotherapy medicines, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. These
      drugs are not intended as direct cancer treatment but instead to help axi-cel work with less
      interference from immune system cells.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      leukapheresis, evaluations and follow up visits.

      Participants in this study will be divided into groups (cohorts) based on the type of disease
      they have and treatment history.

        -  Cohort 1: Participants with relapsed/refractory primary CNSL (PCNSL) and secondary CNSL
           without evidence of lymphoma outside the central nervous system

        -  Cohort 2: Participants with relapsed/refractory lymphoma outside the central nervous
           system, with either active, or previously treated, involvement of the central nervous
           system by the lymphoma

      Participants will receive study treatment once and will be followed for up to 15 years.

      It is expected that about 18 people will take part in this research study.

      Kite Pharma, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing
      axi-cel.
    
  