
    
      TEAhM will be conducted in four senior nutrition centers in the state of Ohio. Using these
      facilities as field centers, we will recruit 144 older, hypertensive adults who receive
      nutrition assistance at these centers. Wright State staff will obtain permission from
      enrolled participants in the intervention centers to contact primary care physicians for the
      purpose of obtaining recommended intervention protocols and defining referral criteria for
      changes in blood pressure treatment. We will install telehealth kiosks at two of the four
      nutrition centers. Participants who enroll at the two centers with kiosks will be considered
      "intervention participants" and those who enroll at the two centers without the kiosks will
      be considered "control participants." The kiosks will enable participants to conduct
      self-monitoring of their blood pressure at the nutrition facility. Blood pressure data from
      intervention participants will be sent to a central server managed by Healthanywhere, the
      telehealth partner in this project. Nurse-researchers from WSU will receive email alerts
      about out of range blood pressure measures, monitor blood pressure readings once a week, and
      make referrals for medical care according to criteria defined by participants' primary care
      physicians at the time of enrollment. Control and intervention participants will receive
      educational materials on general wellness that are publicly available.

      Demographic information, background health, comfort with technology, and baseline blood
      pressure measures will be collected at baseline in on paper forms by WSU nurse researchers.
      Follow up blood pressure measures and other health utilization measures and reported health
      events will be collected from both intervention and control facilities during follow-up phone
      contacts with study personnel every two months. Blood pressure will be measured for all
      participants at the end of the study.
    
  