
    
      Oxaliplatin is a chemotherapy drug that causes the death of cancer cells and other actively
      dividing cells by interfering with Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) function. Gemcitabine prevents
      cells from making DNA and Ribonucleic acid (RNA) that are necessary for cell growth, thus
      disrupting the growth of the cancer cells, which causes the cancer cells to start to die.

      After the screening portion of the study, if you are eligible to begin study treatment, you
      will come to M. D. Anderson at least every two weeks (14 days) for treatment. Each 14-day
      period of treatment is called a "cycle" of therapy. You will receive at least 3 cycles of
      therapy (6 weeks) unless side effects become intolerable or the disease progresses.

      When you begin treatment, you will have a small tube (central venous line) inserted into a
      large vein under the skin of the chest or through a vein in the arm for administration of
      oxaliplatin and gemcitabine. The central venous line will remain in place the entire time you
      are taking part in this study. Both drugs must be given at M. D. Anderson. On Day 1 of each
      cycle, you will receive gemcitabine injected into a vein over 2 hours. On Day 2 of each cycle
      you will receive oxaliplatin injected into a vein over 2 hours. This drug schedule will be
      repeated every 2 weeks.

      You will first be asked to fill out several questionnaires that deal with your quality of
      life. These will help the researchers understand how the study drugs affect your quality of
      life including your pain level, fatigue (tiredness) level, appetite, and ability to perform
      everyday tasks, in spite of whether there is any shrinkage of the tumor. It will take about
      30 minutes to an hour to complete the forms. You will also be asked to complete a
      questionnaire (one time only) that asks questions about why you decided to take part in this
      study.

      During the first cycle of therapy, blood (about 2 1/2 teaspoons) will be collected once a
      week for routine tests. Before each new cycle of therapy, you will have a complete physical
      exam, urine will be collected, and blood will be drawn (about 2 ½ teaspoons) for routine
      tests. You will be asked to tell the study doctor about all medications you have taken since
      you started taking the study drugs and any health problems that you may have experienced. You
      will also have either computed tomography (CT) scans or an Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      of the tumor(s) every 6 weeks and at the end of the study.

      All tests before each new cycle of treatment and when treatment stops must be done at M. D.
      Anderson. Extra tests may be done during the study if your doctor feels it is necessary for
      your care. Every 6 weeks for as long as you are on study, you will also be asked to fill out
      the questionnaires that help study doctors understand your quality of life. It will take
      about 30 minutes to an hour to complete the forms.

      If you experience intolerable side effects, treatment may be delayed, stopped, or you may
      receive smaller doses of the treatment. You may continue to receive treatment on this study,
      unless the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects. If this
      happens, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options
      with you.

      When you stop taking part in the study for any reason, you will have blood (about 3
      teaspoons) collected for final routine tests. You will have one more physical exam and either
      a CT scan or a MRI to check on the status of the disease. You will also be asked once more to
      fill out the questionnaires that help assess your quality of life. It will take about 30
      minutes to an hour to complete the forms.

      Once you stop receiving study treatment, you will be contacted by phone every three months
      for the rest of your life to check on how you are doing and any symptoms you may be
      experiencing.

      This is an investigational study. Oxaliplatin is FDA approved for treatment of advanced
      cancer of the colon or rectum, and gemcitabine is FDA approved for the treatment of advanced
      cancer of the pancreas. However, the combination of the two drugs for treatment of cancers
      with unknown primaries is still considered investigational. Up to 81 people will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  