
    
      The goal of this proposal is to assess the feasibility of using a randomized waitlist study
      to acquire pilot data on a targeted clinical cohort of children with CP evaluating the
      effectiveness of AFO-FCs as compared to TSAFO during daily life. Individual joint and
      combined kinematics and kinetics will be examined for potential mechanisms of action as well
      as daily walking performance, balance and satisfaction with the AFO-FC in 30 ambulatory
      children with spastic diplegia CP, ages 4-9 years, with bilateral crouch or equinus gait
      pattern, comparing gait in TSAFO to the AFO-FCs.

      Aim 1: Examine the effect of AFO-FC on individual joint kinematics, overall gait deviations
      and walking speed as compared to the TSAFO in children with CP. Multiple gait deviations
      (e.g. crouch or equinus) in CP result in slow, inefficient walking [14]. We hypothesize that
      the individualized ankle angle, leg segment alignment, and footwear profiles of the AFO-FCs
      will optimize lower limb joint kinematics, decrease overall gait deviations facilitating
      longer step lengths (improved stance stability), with resultant increased gait speed as
      compared to TSAFO. Instrumented gait analysis will assess gait speed and calculate changes in
      joint specific kinematics with the Gait Variable Score (GVS) and overall combined gait
      kinematics with the GDI.

      Aim 2: Examine the effect of AFO-FC on daily walking activity, balance, mobility, and
      satisfaction as compared to the TSAFO in children with CP. We hypothesize that the AFO-FC
      will positively affect community walking activity levels, balance, physical activity and
      satisfaction as compared to the TSAFO. Walking activity will be captured by the StepWatch
      accelerometer; balance by the Pediatric Balance Scale; physical activity by the PROMIS®
      Pediatric Physical Activity and the Activities Scale for Kids (ASKp); and satisfaction with
      device by the Orthotic and Prosthetic Users' Survey (OPUS).
    
  