
    
      Covid-19 pneumonia is a spesific disease dispate its similarity to ARDS. There are nomorous
      of studies that MPV/PLT ratio can predict the mortality, morbidity and the progress of ARDS.
      Depending on the similarity of ARDS, MPV/PLT ratio might predict the clinical progress of
      Covid-19 pneumonia. We retrospectively recruited150 patients admitted to our institute -a
      tertiary center- with Covid-19 pneumonia to our study. Clinical based defining research, by
      March-May 2020, the patients over 18 years old who were in either intensive care or ward
      scanned retrospectively. The laboratory tests, chronic diseases , age and gender has been
      collected from the written resources and electronic data retrospectively.

      the patients who are diagnosed with Covid*19 pneumonia will be divided into two groups. The
      ones in the ward will be considered as mild clinical course, and the ones in the intensive
      care unit will be considered as severe clinical course. there will be an additional non Covid
      individuals as a control group, which will consist 52 patients each. The ratio of MPV to PLT
      will be calculated using admission hemogrames of these groups, and the significance of the
      statistical differences on determining the prognosis of the disease will be discussed.

      Gpower 3 for Mac Os (Faul, F., Erdfelder, E., Buchner, A., & Lang, A.-G. (2009). Statistical
      power analyses using G*Power 3.1: Tests for correlation and regression analyses. Behavior
      Research Methods, 41, 11491160.) was used for istatistical power analysis.It was done using
      ANOVA test between at least two independent groups. In order to provide enoughsample
      magnitude power, which is 0.8, it was calculated that each group should have 52 patients
      which makes at total of 156.

      The normal distribution of data will be evaluated using Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Parametric
      ones will be used in normal distrubitions, non-parametric ones will be uused in abnormal
      distrubitions. Between the independent groups, MPV/PLT ratio will be calculated using ANOVA
      test. Categoric data will be compared by Pearson ki square test and the p values less than
      0.05 will be considered as significant.

      we aim to have an opinion about Covid 19-pneomonia prognosis at the admission of hospital.
    
  