
    
      Upper aerodigestive tract (UADT) carcinomas (oral cavity and pharynx (63%), larynx (17%) and
      esophagus (20%)), are frequent in France with 25.000 new cases annually estimated in 2000,
      representing 13% of men cancer (3rd rank). Five-year specific survival rate is approximately
      50% (11.000 deaths per year) and has not improved in over three decades, primarily due to the
      advanced stage at presentation. UADT cancers are also associated with profound disease- and
      treatment-related morbidity, with alterations in speech and feeding functions, aesthetic
      disability, with familial and social consequences.

      The high-risk population is well characterized. A synergistic effect of tobacco smoking and
      alcohol drinking increases the risk of developing a carcinoma by more than 100 fold. Each
      year, 30.000 alcohol drinkers are treated in alcohol addiction clinics and could benefit from
      cancer detection. Nonrandomized pilot studies have showed that a UADT cancers screening trial
      could be undertaken in these clinics.

      Study design: prospective randomized trial comparing an observation group and a screening
      group. Subjects in the screening group will undergo annual screening test including head and
      neck clinical examination with a fiberoptic nasolaryngoscopy and an oesopharyngeal brush
      biopsy with cytological examination during a 3-years period. In case of a positive test,
      patients will undergo head and neck panendoscopy and/or digestive flexible endoscopy and/or
      biopsy. After the screening period, subjects will be followed during 2 additional years by
      annual health questionnaires. Subjects of the observation group will be followed during 5
      years by annual health questionnaires. Recruitment will be performed in alcohol addiction
      clinics and screening tests and confirmation exams in the closest specialized head and neck
      clinics.

      The primary objective is to demonstrate a decrease in the UADT cancer mortality after a
      screening strategy, including head and neck clinical examination with a fiberoptic
      nasolaryngoscopy and an oesopharyngeal brush biopsy with cytological examination repeated
      annually during 3 years. Subjects will be followed during 5 years. A sample size of 10.000
      subjects in each group allows the detection of a 33% reduction in the specific mortality
      rate, with a power of 80% and with a one sided a-risk of 5%.
    
  