
    
      In the current study the investigators aim to assess safety of PQ, in particular the risk of
      acute haemolysis, when given together with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHAP) in G6PD
      deficient individuals. Forty male participants with haemoglobin levels (≥11g/dL), reduced
      G6PD enzyme function, and aged ≥10years will be sequentially enrolled into two dosing cohorts
      consisting of 20 individuals and doses of 0.25 and 0.4 mg/kg PQ in combination with a full
      three-day course of DHAP. Participants will first be assigned to the lowest open cohort;
      enrolment in the next cohort is initiated after tolerability and short-term safety is
      demonstrated at the preceding lower dose. Furthermore, the investigators will include 3
      control groups into the first cohort: i) 10 male participants aged ≥10years with normal
      haemoglobin levels (≥11g/dL) and a reduced G6PD enzyme function will receive DHAP only, ii)
      10 male participants with normal haemoglobin levels (≥11g/dL) and normal G6PD enzyme function
      will receive 0.25 mg/kg PQ in combination with a full three-day course of DHAP, and iii) 10
      male participants with normal haemoglobin levels (≥11g/dL) and normal G6PD enzyme function
      will receive 0.4 mg/kg PQ with DHAP.

      Enrolment and group assignment Individuals who agree to participate for screening and meet
      all inclusion criteria, will be invited for enrolment. During this, participants and/or their
      carers will be informed again about the objectives and practical consequences of
      participation in the current study and asked to sign an informed consent form. The
      possibility of withdrawal from the study, at any time and without any declaration of the
      reason will again be pointed out.

      After enrolment, participants will be assigned to the lowest-dose open cohort, with enrolment
      in the second cohort initiated after tolerability and short-term safety is demonstrated at
      the preceding lower dose (this enrolment to the second cohort accounts for G6PD deficient
      participants only). Within each cohort, the first 2 participants of the intervention group
      are treated and monitored for 6 days for immediate side-effects and haematological
      abnormalities before the rest of the participants of that particular intervention group are
      enrolled and treated. Once safety of these first 2 participants is confirmed, the next 4
      subjects are enrolled and treatment for the next 4 subjects is initiated on day 2 of the last
      treated participant of the preceding 4 subjects. The last two groups for each intervention
      group comprise 5 individuals, making a total of 20. After inclusion of the intervention group
      of the first cohort (n=20) is completed (follow-up day 14 of last participant in that group),
      a 10-day safety observation period is installed before enrolment of the intervention group of
      the second cohort is initiated.

      Interventions and evaluation Clinical follow-up of participants and sampling will be done
      twice daily for the first 4 days (days 0, 1, 2 and 3) and once daily on days 4, 5, 7, 10, 14
      and 28. At each time-point participants will be examined clinically (except for day 28) and a
      structured questionnaire is used to determine the occurrence of side effects. Furthermore,
      laboratory safety parameters are measured, including haematology, biochemistry, and urine
      dipstick for haemoglobinuria/urobilinogen. Five individuals from each intervention group
      (total of 10) will also be asked to provide seven venous blood samples (of less than 1 mls
      each) on days 0, 1 and 2 to study pharmacokinetics of PQ in G6PD deficient individuals
    
  