
    
      Symptomatic pelvic organ prolapse is common and 13%1 to 19%2,3 of women undergo surgical
      repair. Reconstructive pelvic surgery is broadly divided into procedures that rely on
      existing native tissue versus the use of graft augmentation, either with synthetic or
      biologic materials. Native tissue vaginal repair, while associated with the lowest rate of
      surgical complications,4 has a high rate of recurrent prolapse. A recent randomized trial of
      uterosacral versus sacrospinous ligament fixation for POP demonstrated a 30% recurrence rate
      at 2 years.3

      Abdominal sacrocolpopexy (SCP) is considered to be the most durable operation for advanced
      pelvic organ prolapse with reoperation rates of less than 5%.5-7 Minimally-invasive
      techniques of SCP, such as robotic-assistance, are associated with improved recovery times
      and less cost than abdominal SCP without a demonstrable difference in efficacy.8,9 While
      traditionally reserved for women with vaginal vault prolapse, SCP is increasingly considered
      as a primary surgical option for women who present with uterovaginal prolapse in an attempt
      to improve longer-term surgical outcomes. The optimal management of the uterus and cervix in
      these cases is unclear.

      Rationale for total versus supracervical hysterectomy with concomitant SCP

      While supracervical hysterectomy and concomitant SCP are associated with lower rates of mesh
      exposure,10-12 potential negative consequences of a supracervical hysterectomy include
      morcellation of unanticipated uterine malignancy,13 cervical stump prolapse/elongation,
      cyclic vaginal bleeding, and reduced anterior vaginal support (Myers EM, Matthews et al., in
      press). When conducting a supracervical hysterectomy, power morcellators are the most common
      method used to extract the amputated uterine corpus. The potential risks of power
      morcellation were recently highlighted by the FDA safety notification which focused on the
      potential to disseminate fragments of an undiagnosed uterine leiomyosarcoma throughout the
      abdomen, which negatively impacts prognosis
      (http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/Safety/AlertsandNotices/ucm393576.htm). With these recent
      developments the focus has shifted towards performing total hysterectomy for delivery of an
      intact specimen through the vagina.

      Vaginal mesh exposure has been a problematic complication with both abdominal SCP and
      minimally invasive SCP. Widely disparate rates of mesh exposure ranging from 0%14 to 27%15
      have been reported. A systematic review of ASCP outcomes in 2004 reported an overall rate of
      3.4%,6 and a recent meta-analysis of robotic-assisted SCP reported an overall rate of 2%.16
      Some consistent risk factors for mesh exposure are non-Type 1 polypropylene mesh (knitted,
      small-pore mesh materials) and smoking.17,18 Some studies have identified total hysterectomy
      as a significant risk factor. In an evaluation of patients enrolled in the CARE trial, 6% had
      evidence of mesh exposure at 2 years, with concomitant hysterectomy presenting almost a
      5-fold increased risk.18 The rate at 6 years rose to 10.5%. 5 More than 50% of subjects in
      this trial, however, had a non-Type 1 polypropylene mesh. Akyol et al. demonstrated a 2-fold
      increased risk (12%)19 and Bensinger et al. a 7-fold increased risk (8.2%)20 of concomitant
      total hysterectomy. In contrast, 4 retrospective studies in which Type1 polypropylene mesh
      was used revealed no increased risk of mesh erosion with concomitant total
      hysterectomy.14,21-23 These widely discrepant rates of mesh exposure may be related to
      surgical technique, graft material and/or suture materials used for mesh attachment.

      Rationale for need to study suture material for mesh attachment during SCP

      The effect of suture on mesh exposure may be as significant as concomitant hysterectomy or
      mesh type. At UNC, we reported on mesh exposure using a permanent suture for mesh attachment
      during SCP with and without concomitant total hysterectomy, with rates of 8% at 1 year.24
      There is some evidence that a delayed absorbable suture may reduce the risk of mesh or suture
      erosion. In a retrospective review comparing braided permanent suture to delayed absorbable
      monofilament suture for SCP mesh attachment, rates of mesh exposure were reduced in the
      absorbable suture group (3.7% vs 0%), with no associated POP recurrence.25 Similarly, in
      another retrospective review, when delayed absorbable monofilament suture was used for SCP
      mesh attachment in 67 women undergoing total abdominal hysterectomy and SCP, no mesh
      exposures were noted at a median follow up of 27 months.26 The use of permanent sutures for
      vaginal mesh attachment has historically been advocated as a means to reduce POP recurrence
      risk; yet, no prospective study has definitively answered this question. The tradeoff of
      using a permanent suture may be an increased risk of mesh or suture exposure, as a permanent
      suture that has breached the vaginal epithelium may serve as a nidus for bacterial seeding,
      theoretically increasing the risk of mesh exposure. As SCP appears to be a more durable
      procedure for women with advanced uterovaginal prolapse, there is an urgent need to identify
      the ideal method of vaginal mesh attachment that minimizes the risk of mesh-related
      complications while maintaining effectiveness of the POP repair.

      Choice of mesh material

      Upsylon™ (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA) is a pre-formed Y-mesh that is light-weight (25
      g/m2), composed of Type I polypropylene material, with a pore size of 2.8 mm2 and surface
      area ration of 1.11. It was FDA approved in 2012. The mesh is blue in color that may aide in
      the ability to detect even small areas of mesh exposure and erosion. No data currently exist
      regarding the performance of this particular mesh product in SCP. It is lighter in mesh
      weight than the IntePro™ y-mesh (American Medical Systems, Minneapolis, MN), which we
      previously used in the comparative trial of robotic to abdominal SCP in which our mesh
      exposure rates were 8%.

      The primary aim of this randomized trial, therefore, is to test the hypothesis that use of
      the Upsylon™ mesh with a delayed absorbable suture for mesh attachment at the time of
      robotic-assisted total laparoscopic hysterectomy and SCP will reduce the risk of vaginal mesh
      and/or suture exposure compared to a permanent monofilament suture. Secondary aims will
      include an evaluation of the effect of this light-weight mesh and absorbable suture on
      prolapse and quality of life outcomes and surgical complications at 1 year after surgery.
    
  