
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) represents the only viable cure for
      children who suffer from a wide variety of rare, serious non-malignant diseases, such as
      Fanconi Anemia, Hurler syndrome, and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. A major obstacle to
      the success of HSCT is morbidity and mortality from graft versus host disease (GVHD), driven
      by donor T cells recognizing and reacting against disparate host antigens. This trial is
      being conducted as a step toward testing the long-term hypothesis that the costimulation
      blockade agent abatacept can be added to a standard post-transplant GVHD prophylaxis regimen,
      cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil, to improve disease-free survival after unrelated
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) using reduced intensity conditioning for
      children with non-malignant diseases (NMD). This study will have the following Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim #1: To conduct a multicenter pilot assessing the tolerability of abatacept
      (n=10). Patients will receive four doses (10 mg/kg IV on days -1, +5, +14 and +28), a
      schedule well tolerated by adolescents and adults with hematologic malignancies in a previous
      pilot. Abatacept will be combined with cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil.

      Specific Aim #2: To examine the immunological effects of abatacept in this setting.

      Three reduced intensity conditioning regimens that have been shown to be effective in
      achieving sustained engraftment in patients with non-malignant diseases are available for
      use, depending on the patient's disease:

        -  Patients with Fanconi anemia will receive fludarabine, low dose cyclophosphamide, and
           anti-thymocyte globulin.

        -  Patients with severe aplastic anemia will receive low dose total body irradiation,
           fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and anti-thymocyte globulin.

        -  Patients with other NMD will receive either the low dose total body irradiation regimen
           or an alemtuzumab, fludarabine, thiotepa, and melphalan regimen.
    
  