
    
      In future time the number of old people will significantly increase in Germany because of the
      demographic change taking place. The health care of the large number of old people will
      probably lead to a lack of physicians and an inefficient health care system. One strategy to
      tackle the problem could be telemedicine. Telemedicine makes it possible to provide
      know-ledge from experts to local hospitals and practices which otherwise need to send
      patients with serious and complex diseases to specialized trans-regional health centers. In
      this multicenter, prospective, non-interventional study hospitals and practices in NRW are
      supplied via a telematics platform with expert know-ledge from the university hospitals RWTH
      Aachen and Münster. The communication occurs via highly encrypted audio/video conference
      systems and a certified data exchange platform "Fallakte+".

      In total 40.000 outpatient and stationary patients should be treated with telemedical
      support. Registered doctors will be involved in already existing practice networks to
      evaluate the potential for transfer and to ensure the sharing of know-ledge beyond the
      borders of individual sectors. The aim of the study is to improve the treatment quality of
      regional hospitals and practices and to increase the efficiency of the care of relevant
      patient cohort in the field of infectiology and intensive care with the main focus sepsis as
      those patient groups especially often require professional expertise for a successful
      therapy.

      In the beginning of the study participating hospitals and practices are randomly distributed
      into four clusters (cluster randomization). The different clusters all start with the control
      phase but enter into the intervention phase at different times (stepped-wedge design). During
      the control phase data of patients with infection and intensive care patients routinely
      treated without the support of telemedicine are documented and the patients are asked to
      complete a questionnaire regarding health-related quality of life (SF36) directly after
      treatment and at two time points in the follow-up. The collected data will be later compared
      to data obtained in the same way from patients treated with telemedical support and evaluated
      regarding differences in the quality of treatment, therapeutic process and the satisfaction
      of the patients with telemedicine.

      If the study shows that the treatment quality and therapeutic process of patients with
      infectious diseases or need for intensive care is improved by telemedicine, the telematics
      platform can be expanded and used by other specialized fields and users in future time.
    
  