
    
      Screening and Recruitment

        -  Identify and recruit 20 participants from the University of Mississippi Medical Center
           General Internal Medicine/Hypertension and Family Medicine Clinics.

        -  Participants must be currently taking allopurinol for the treatment of gout and be on a
           stable dose of allopurinol for at least 2 months.

        -  Any antihypertensive medications must be at stable doses for at least 2 months.

        -  The identified patients will be invited to participate in the study.

      Provide Consent

        -  IRB approved comprehension survey will be administered to participants in determination
           of competency to provide consent.

        -  The "Consent to Participate in Research" information will be discussed with each
           participant and consent acquired.

        -  Materials can be taken by the potential participant to review and consent provided at a
           later date.

      Data collection

        -  After consent is provided, study personnel will evaluate blood pressure (BP).

        -  Participants will undergo 24-hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitor (ABPM). The normal
           fee for ABPM will be waived.

        -  Participants will then discontinue allopurinol and initiate febuxostat at a comparable
           dose. Febuxostat will be provided to all participants at no cost.

             -  If receiving < 300 mg allopurinol daily, will provide febuxostat 40 mg daily.

             -  If receiving > 300 mg allopurinol daily, will provide febuxostat 80 mg daily.

        -  After at least 4 weeks of febuxostat, the participant will repeat 24-hour ABPM. The
           normal fee for ABPM will be waived.

        -  After completion of the febuxostat portion of the study, participants will receive a
           compensation of $50 at the end of the study. Compensation will only be provided to those
           who complete the entire study.

      Results

        -  Data collection will be added to participant's permanent medical records.

        -  Results for individual participants will be discussed with the participant as well as
           their primary care provider.

        -  The decision to remain on febuxostat or resume allopurinol will lie with the primary
           care provider.
    
  