
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with previously-untreated chronic phase chronic
      myelogenous leukemia (CML) attaining major molecular response by 12 months of treatment with
      dasatinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive early
      chronic phase CML achieving a complete cytogenetic response after dasatinib therapy.

      II. To evaluate the durations of hematologic, cytogenetic and molecular response to
      dasatinib.

      III. To define the time to progression and overall survival for patients with CML in early
      chronic phase treated with dasatinib.

      IV. To evaluate the toxicity profile of dasatinib in patients with CML in early chronic
      phase.

      V. To evaluate the probability of developing c-abl oncogene 1, non-receptor tyrosine kinase
      (ABL) mutations for patients with CML in early chronic phase treated with dasatinib.

      VI. To analyze differences in response rates and in prognosis within different risk groups
      and patient characteristics.

      VII. To assess correlation between trough concentration and pleural effusion. VIII. To assess
      the inhibition of platelet function and assess correlation between drug concentration and
      degree of platelet inhibition.

      IX. To assess the effect of dasatinib therapy in bone metabolism as determined by changes in
      serum alkaline phosphatase (bone specific isoenzyme), and trabecular bone volume.

      X. To evaluate symptom burden in patients with CML receiving dasatinib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To investigate the plasma/serum levels of specific micro ribonucleic acids (miRNAs) in CML
      patients receiving dasatinib as initial therapy for CML in chronic phase (CP).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) for up to 15-18 years.

      ARM B: Patients receive dasatinib PO twice daily (BID) for up to 15-18 years.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  