
    
      Supraspinatus tendinosis is a degenerative process of tendon. It can be caused by external
      trauma episode and imbalanced of self-repair process. It can cause patients with shoulder
      pain when shoulder over head exercise and heavy lifting. It can also influence the sleep
      quality due to pain symptoms of shoulder. Usually these patients had limited response to
      medication and physical modality. Moreover, it can cause shoulder tear or rupture, which can
      disability with aging. Prolotherapy is an injection therapy for chronic painful
      musculoskeletal conditions. It involves the injection of small volumes of an irritant agent,
      most commonly a hyperosmolar dextrose solution, at multiple painful tendon and ligament
      insertions where they connect to bone, over several treatment sessions. The injection of an
      irritant solution initiates an inflammatory cascade at the site of injection, which causes
      fibroblast proliferation and subsequent collagen synthesis, resulting in a stronger tendon or
      ligament. Hyperosmolar dextrose appears to be the most commonly used agent today, with
      morrhuate sodium used slightly less often. There is promising recent evidence for
      prolotherapy, with hyperosmolar dextrose in treating painful tendinopathies. The aim of this
      study is to hypertonic injection in supraspinatus tendinosis patients about clinical and
      ultrasound image presentation. We conducted a double blinded randomized controlled trial for
      60 participants with chronic shoulder pain for 3 months with supraspinatus tendonsis. In
      study group, one injection with 20% dextrose water was injection in supraspinatus tendon and
      control group received normal saline and Lidocaine. SPADI, VAS and ultrasound data were
      obtained before intervention and 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 12 weeks after injection after
      intervention. The ANOVA and independent t test are applied for analysis by SPSS 20.0 with P
      value less than 0.05 as statistical significance.
    
  