
    
      Hypertension is present in 26.7% of the U.S. adult population between ages 20 to 74 (National
      Center for Health Statistics, 2006). The prevalence increases with age. Sixty-seven percent
      of adults aged 60 years or older have hypertension, a rise from 58% just ten years earlier
      (Ostchega, Dillon, Hughes, Carroll, & Yoon, 2007). Uncontrolled hypertension increases the
      risk for heart attack, stroke, congestive heart failure, and kidney disease (Chobanian et
      al., 2003; Stamler, Stamler, & Neaton, 1993; Vasan et al., 2001). Maintaining a normal blood
      pressure has been shown to be associated with a greater probability of living to age 85, and
      of living to age 85 without major health concerns (Terry et al., 2005). The most common
      treatment for managing hypertension involves the use of antihypertensive medications. These
      medications have been shown to effectively lower blood pressure (BP) and prevent the
      development of serious sequelae (Chobanian et al., 2003). Unfortunately, failure to adhere to
      antihypertensive medication regimens can impede the effectiveness of therapy.

      Studies have reported levels of medication adherence among the elderly ranging from 26% to
      59% (Botelho & Dudrak, 1992; van Eijken, Tsang, Wensing, de Smet, & Grol, 2003). Adherence to
      a medication regimen requires a set of behaviors that include obtaining the medication;
      timely administration of the correct drug, dose, and route; and persisting with taking the
      medication as long as the medication is needed. Success at these behaviors can be hampered by
      many of the changes often seen with age. Sensory loss, disturbances in memory and cognition,
      depression, and lifestyle changes such as retirement can disrupt routines or affect skills
      previously used to maintain medication adherence (Brown et al., 2005; Conn, Taylor, & Miller,
      1994; Coons et al., 1994; Gehi, Haas, Pipkin, & Whooley, 2005; Schlenk, Dunbar-Jacob, &
      Engberg, 2004; Vik, Maxwell, & Hogan, 2004). Effective community-based interventions are
      needed to equip health care providers with tools to improve antihypertensive medication
      regimen adherence among their older patients. Many interventions have been tested to improve
      medication adherence in hypertension, but few addressing the unique needs of older adults. Of
      those that have been tested, there has been great variation in outcomes and ability to
      translate interventions into clinical practice.

      This exploratory randomized controlled trial will test an 8-week behavioral intervention to
      improve medication adherence in older adults with hypertension.
    
  