
    
      Background and Proposed Research Importance

      Coronavirus disease 2019 is an infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2. COVID-19 causes life threatening complications known as Cytokine Release
      Syndrome or Cytokine Storm and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. These complications are
      the main causes of death in this global pandemic. Over 1000 clinical trials are on-going
      worldwide to diagnose, treat, and improve the aggressive clinical course of COVID-19. The
      investigators propose the first, and so far, only gene therapy solution that has the
      potential to address this urgent unmet medical need.

      Rationale

        1. There are striking similarities between the damaged lung environment of COVID-19 induced
           ARDS and the tumor microenvironment (exposed collagen from tissue destruction by
           invading tumor or by the virus-induced immune response, and presence of activated
           proliferative cells (cancer cells and tumor associated fibroblasts or activated T cells,
           macrophages and pulmonary fibroblasts in COVID-19);

        2. DeltaRex-G is a disease-seeking retrovector encoding a cytocidal dominant negative human
           cyclin G1 as genetic payload. The DeltaRex-G nanoparticles has a navigational system
           that targets exposed collagenous proteins in injured tissues, thus increasing the
           effective drug concentration at the sites of injury, in the vicinity of
           activated/proliferative T cells evoked by COVID-19. The DeltaRex-G then enters the
           rapidly dividing T cells and kills them by arresting the G1cell division cycle, hence,
           reducing cytokine release;

        3. Intravenous DeltaRex-G has minimal systemic toxicity due to its disease-seeking
           properties that limits the biodistribution of DeltaRex-G only to areas of injury where
           exposed collagenous proteins are abnormally found; and

        4. DeltaRex-G is currently available in FDA approved "Right to Try" or Expanded Access
           Program for Stage 4 cancers for an intermediate size population. To gain this approval,
           FDA requires DeltaRex-G to have demonstrated safety and efficacy in early clinical
           trials.

      Study Design This is a dose-seeking phase 1/2 study using escalating doses of DeltaRex-G
      given intravenously for 7 days in a hospital setting, with a randomization schema at the MTD.

      The study will include up to three cohorts with increasing DeltaRex-G doses as shown below.
      The study will employ the standard "Cohort of Three" design (Storer, 1989). Three patients
      are treated at each dose level with expansion to six patients per cohort if DLT is observed
      in one of the three initially enrolled patients at each dose level. If no DLT occurs in 3
      patients, escalation to the next dose level will be permitted. The maximum tolerated dose is
      defined as the highest safely tolerated dose, where not more than one patient experienced
      DLT, with the next higher dose level having at least two patients who experienced DLT. No
      intra-patient dose escalation will take place.

      Patients within the same cohort of 3 will be treated in a staggered manner, i.e., the next
      subject will receive the product only after the previous subject has completed administration
      of all doses and has been evaluated on Day 14 (or one week after last DeltaRex-G infusion) to
      assess safety. At the MTD, after 3 subjects in same cohort have been evaluated with no DLT,
      subjects in the same cohort may be treated simultaneously.

      Patients who do not complete the 7-day treatment will be replaced except if patient developed
      DLT.

      Randomization Schema:

      At the highest dose level or when MTD is determined, nine (9) additional patients will be
      randomized to the treatment arm + standard of care (SOC) vs. standard of care alone (n = 6
      patients DeltaRex-G and 3 SOC in each group). Patients will be matched according to
      symptomatology (e.g. SpO2 >94% at the time of screening), age (within 10 years or at least
      less than or greater than 65 years), race (black vs non-black), and gender.

      Dose of DeltaRex-G: Escalating doses of DeltaRex-G i.v daily for 7 days:

      Number of Pts. Dose Level Dose, cfu Max.Volume/24 hrs

      3-6 I 1 x 10e11 200 ml 3-6 II 2 x 10e11 200 ml 3-6 III 3 x 10e11 200 ml

      Monitoring Plan:

      Patient's clinical status including need or duration of mechanical ventilation therapy,
      change in oxygen saturation, blood counts, lung, liver and kidney function and vital signs,
      proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, IL-12, and tumor necrosis factor α, CRP, LDH,
      D-Dimer, serum ferritin, chest X-ray are monitored as specified in the protocol and as needed
      in hospitalized patients during the treatment period, one week later, and every month for 6
      months.

      Analysis of Primary Endpoint Safety analysis will be performed. The study will employ the
      standard "cohort of three" design. Three patients are treated at each dose level with
      expansion to six patients per cohort if DLT is observed in one of the three
      initially-enrolled patients at each dose level. The maximum tolerated dose is defined as the
      highest safely tolerated dose, where not more than one patient experienced DLT, with the next
      higher dose level having at least two patients who experienced DLT. No intra-patient
      escalation will take place.

      Dose limiting toxicity, maximum tolerated dose, incidence and severity of adverse events and
      significant laboratory abnormalities is the primary endpoint. Safety analysis will be
      performed on all patients.

      Patient incidence of all treatment-related AEs will be tabulated by system organ class and
      preferred term. Tables of fatal adverse events, serious adverse events, treatment-related
      AEs, and adverse events leading to withdrawal from investigation product will also be
      provided. Summary statistics will be provided for total number of doses, average dose
      administered, and duration of each treatment.

      Analysis of Secondary Endpoint Efficacy analysis will be conducted. Change in clinical status
      such as duration of fever, respiratory destress, pneumonia, cough, sneezing, diarrhea will be
      documented. ECOG score, mortality, length of hospital stay, duration of respirator therapy,
      duration of intensive care unit stay, and changes in cytokine pattern will be compared to
      historical controls.
    
  