
    
      Abstract

      At the Department of Highly Specialized Neurorehabilitation/Traumatic Brain Injury,
      Rigshospitalet (satellite department at Hvidovre Hospital), approximately 100 patients (pt.)
      are admitted with severe brain damage every year. From 2015 to 2017, 305 pt. were admitted.
      Out of the 305 pt., 162pt. (53%) had traumatic brain injury (TBI), 48pt. (16%) had apoplexy,
      35pt. (12%) had other diagnoses (infections, tumors and almost drowning, etc.), 20pt. (7%)
      had spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and 24pt. (8%) had brain damage as a result of
      cardiac arrest.

      TBI is a leading cause of injury-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. According to the
      Global Burden of Disease Study (2016), there were 27,08 million new cases of TBI globally in
      2016. In Denmark, there were 17.302 new cases of TBI in 2016. Clinical studies have
      repeatedly shown major changes in cerebral energy metabolism after TBI. The secondary brain
      injury leads to metabolic cellular dysfunction, cerebral edema, and a complex injury cascade.
      The injury spread includes processes such as inflammation, edema, free radical damage,
      oxidative damage, ischemic injury, cerebral glucose metabolism disorder, and ion-mediated
      cell damage. Much of the neurological dysfunction that occurs in acute TBI also occurs in
      apoplexy, SAH and cerebral ischemia.

      A very important adaptive metabolic response after brain injury is the utilization of
      alternative cerebral energy substrates, including lactate, but also ketone bodies (KB) such
      as β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) and acetoacetate (AcAc). In addition to having a central role in
      the regulation of cerebral energy metabolism after brain injury, KB has other important
      neuroprotective properties, including attenuation of oxidative stress, apoptotic cell death,
      and microglial activation. Increasing KB metabolism through fasting or diet-induced ketosis
      promotes brain resistance to stress and injury, and attenuates acute cerebral injury.
      Therefore, supplementing with KB, e.g. through the use of a ketogenic diet (KD) with added
      medium chain fatty acids (MCT), has emerged as a potential non-pharmacological
      neuroprotective therapy.

      KD has been used for many years for the treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and
      studies done on adults show promising results, but experience from several studies shows
      major compliance issues. KD has been shown to reduce cerebral edema and apoptosis, as well as
      improve cerebral metabolism and behavioral outcomes in TBI rodent models, but clinical human
      trials on adults with TBI are lacking. Apoplexy animal models show positive effects on
      pathological and functional outcomes of KD intervention or exogenous ketone administration.
      The only human trial of KD and apoplexy shows that KD is safe and tolerated by patients with
      acute apoplexy. Our hypothesis is that diet-induced ketosis will reduce the extent of
      secondary brain damage. The purpose of the trial is to investigate whether an intervention
      with a ketogenic diet supplemented with MCT is feasible for 6 weeks on hospitalized pt. with
      severe brain damage. This is the pre-study for a controlled study.
    
  