
    
      Primary Aims:

        1. Is to determine if the Dolores One device can significantly improve the ease of
           communication as measured by the Ease of Communication

        2. Is to determine if the Dolores One device can significantly improve the intelligibility
           of communication as measured by the Intelligibility section of the Frenchay Dysarthria
           Assessment (FDA).

      Design:

      This study will be a prospective study using a convenient cohort of 55 adult patients, who
      was using NIMV, to pilot the effectiveness of the Dolores One to improve verbal
      communication. There will be no randomization and no control group. The design is a pretest /
      posttest mixed method in which the Easy of Communication Scale and the Intelligibility
      section of the FDA will be administered at base line and repeated once the Dolores One has
      been set up on the patient.

      Methodology:

      The respiratory therapists who are working in the Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) and 10
      West will complete the initial screening for potential subjects based upon the study's
      eligibility criteria. The floor respiratory therapist will notify the Principle Investigator
      (PI) of a potential subject. The PI will either verify that the patient meets the eligibility
      criteria or will contact another member of the study team to verify eligibility, medically
      appropriateness to participate and consent the patient. To screen for medical appropriateness
      and minimize risk a member of the study team will have a conversation with medical team to
      determine medical stability as defined as patient having stable vitals on NIMV as defined by
      medical team parameters and nursing orders for the individual patient and on stable NIMV
      setting for 30 to 90 minutes as per respiratory therapy guidelines.

      Once the consent has been obtained, the Speech Language Pathologist (SLP) will be notified
      and will obtain the data regarding the parameters of the NIMV and document current vital
      signs, which is standard practice for patient safety. Then the speech therapist will complete
      the baseline communication assessment using the Ease of Communication Scale and the
      Intelligibility section of the FDA. The Ease of Communication Scale is a self report 10 item
      questionnaire in which the subject rates their ability to communication while on NIMV. It is
      on a 5 item Likert scale and a total sum is recorded. For the Intelligibility Section of the
      FDA, the speech therapist will use a random table to select 5 short sentences or phrase in
      which there is a key word. The speech therapist will ask the subject to speak these phrase
      out loud. A volunteer staff member, who is unfamiliar with the list of possible sentences
      provided in the FDA, will be asked to write down the sentences the subject speaks. The SLP
      will score the intelligibility as a yes no response based upon the accuracy of the key word.
      Intelligibility will be reported as a percentage of correct responses. The statements will be
      randomized to decrease familiarity as well as there are over 140 nurses and 15 nurse aides
      and other various staff that work on these units that the speech therapist may obtain to as a
      volunteer. The volunteer pool is sufficient to decrease the likelihood of the volunteer being
      familiar with the statements to bias the test results. If a staff member who is assigned for
      daily care for this subject is unavailable, or unable to volunteer at time of testing, the
      Speech therapist will ask another staff member of the unit who has been educated regarding
      the study, to assist.

      After preliminary data collection has been completed, the SLP will place the Dolores One on
      the patient and adjust sensor position and device volume to achieve optimal voice output. The
      SLP will position the Dolores One on either side of the neck to assure comfort and effective
      sound. It will not be applied to any area of skin rash or lesion. The device can be removed
      at any time and reapplied when the patient would like to speak. The Dolores One will be left
      with the patient to have the opportunity to use the device to communicate with their health
      care team and visitors for the next 24 to 36 hours. The speech therapist training session
      will take approximately 10 minutes to train the subject on the use and to practice prior to
      the therapist leaving.

      The SLP will return between 24 and 36 hours from initial data collection, verify medical and
      NIMV stability, record vitals, obtain NIMV parameters, and repeat the Ease of Communication
      Scale and the Intelligibility Section of the FDA. After testing, this concludes the subjects
      participation in the study.

      Other data that will be collected include, age, race, gender, unit location, NIMV Manufacture
      brand, NIMV setting: Fraction of Oxygen (FiO2), Positive End Expiratory Pressures (PEEP),
      inspiratory pressure, minute ventilation, and patient vitals (heart rate, blood pressure,
      respiratory rate and oxygen saturation), leak percentage , and primary diagnosis. This data
      will be collected at the time pre and post application of the Dolores One prior to completing
      the Ease of Communication Survey and the Intelligibility Section of FDA.

      Prior to the start of this study the unit will receive education regarding the study and the
      general use of the Dolores One. Providers will be notified by providing educational materials
      in the team report rooms and will notify the attending as well as the medical director for
      the units

      Separate training regarding the study, use of the Dolores One and screening criteria will be
      given to the respiratory therapy department via their hand off meetings. This has been
      approved by respiratory leadership. The Respiratory Therapist (RT) will be provided with the
      eligibility criteria to improve screening process.
    
  