
    
      The role of chemotherapy for gliomas has been recently reappraised by the advent of
      temozolomide, especially for glioblastomas, and further investigation is now being directed
      to unveiling its optimal indications, dosing protocols, and the most relevant prognostic
      factors. Meanwhile, the management of anaplastic gliomas of WHO grade 3 (anaplastic
      astrocytomas, anaplastic oligodendrogliomas, and anaplastic oligoastrocytomas) is currently
      largely based on surgery followed by radiotherapy, of which prognosis remains still dismal
      with the median survival of 2-5 years. To date, the benefit of chemo for WHO grade 3 gliomas
      is unclear of modest at best with conventional cytotoxic agents, and the role of temozolomide
      for these entities still is not elucidated. Moreover, WHO grade 3 gliomas are now known to
      consist of heterogeneous groups of different histologic features, biological behaviors, and
      prognoses. Accordingly, relevant molecular markers are appreciated with the growing body of
      data that showing their implications on response to therapy and survival, including
      codeletion of chromosome 1p/19q, methylation status of methylguanine methyl transferase
      (MGMT), and isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutation.1,4-6,11 Among those, codeletion of
      chromosome 1p/19q is considered the most important marker of prognostic significance in WHO
      grade 3 gliomas.

      One recent Korean prospective cohort study showed the potential survival benefit and safety
      of concurrent chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide followed by adjuvant temozolomide for WHO
      grade 3 gliomas. In this study, however, the role of molecular markers such as codeletion of
      chromosome 1p/19q and MGMT methylation could not be determined because of small number of
      patients available. These results prompted this Korean group to project a randomized phase 2
      screening trial examining the efficacy of concurrent chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide
      followed by adjuvant temozolomide for WHO grade 3 gliomas without codeletion of chromosome
      1p/19q. The basic concept of the present clinical trial is "a subgroup with expected worse
      prognosis according to the status of chromosome 1p/19q, i.e. one without codeletion of
      chromosome 1p/19q is to be managed more aggressively", to investigate the role of
      temozolomide. An aggressive therapy (surgery + concurrent chemoradiotherapy with temozolomide
      followed by adjuvant temozolomide) will be compared to the conventional arm (surgery +
      radiotherapy only) in terms of its efficacy and safety for WHO grade 3 gliomas without
      chromosome 1p/19q codeletion. The prognostic significance of methylation status of MGMT and
      IDH1 mutation as molecular markers will be also assessed in each arm as key secondary
      analysis. Until now, there have been no such trials examining the efficacy and safety of
      temozolomide for WHO grade 3 gliomas based on prospective molecular stratification.
    
  