
    
      Varicose veins of the legs effect between 20 and 40% of the adult population in the UK.
      Approximately 100,000 operations performed per year for varicose veins. Failure to treat
      varicose veins results in 10 to 20% of patients deteriorating to skin damage or leg
      ulceration. Recurrence rates following surgery vary that have been reported up to 70% at 10
      years.

      The commonest causes of recurrence are reported to be:

        -  neovascularisation (new vessel growth after treatment)

        -  missing veins at the initial operation

        -  perforator vein incompetence

        -  de novo reflux due to normal deterioration with age

      Recent studies have shown that leg varicose veins can be caused by pelvic venous reflux and
      that pelvic venous reflux is a cause of recurrent varicose veins. Previous published work
      from our own unit has shown that approximately 20% of women who present with varicose veins
      of the legs and who have had children previously have pelvic venous reflux on duplex
      ultrasound that contribute to the venous reflux in the legs, causing the varicose veins.

      Furthermore, a recent retrospective study from our own unit has suggested that failure to
      treat pelvic venous reflux before treating leg varicose veins is a major cause of recurrent
      varicose veins in up to a quarter of women.

      However, despite this circumstantial evidence, there is no evidence to prove whether the
      treatment of pelvic venous reflux confers any advantage on these patients in terms of
      reduction in recurrence of their varicose veins in the future.

      The treatment of pelvic venous reflux is currently by coil embolisation of the veins under
      x-ray control. This procedure clearly has an additional cost over and above that of treating
      the legs. Therefore it is essential to know whether the treatment of the pelvic veins in
      these patients is any effect in reducing the recurrence of leg varicose veins.

      To examine whether the addition of coil embolisation has significant benefits for patients,
      female patients presenting with primary leg varicose veins with a duplex proven contribution
      from pelvic venous reflux will be randomised to:

        1. transjugular coil embolisation of pelvic veins followed by endovenous treatment of leg
           recurrent varicose veins or

        2. endovenous treatment of leg recurrent varicose veins alone

      The impact of demographic factors, the severity of patient's symptoms(Aberdeen questionnaire,
      CEAP and VCCS scores)and treatment history will be explored in addition to the type of
      treatment received.

      Patients will be followed up at six weeks, six months, one year, two years, three years, four
      years and five years.

      Assessments will be quality-of-life scoring (CIVIQ), symptom severity (Aberdeen
      questionnaire, CEAP and VCCS scores), patient satisfaction and clinical examination including
      clinical photographs, duplex ultrasonography.

      In the presence of recurrent varicose veins, the source of these will also be classified
      through the use of duplex ultrasonography.
    
  