
    
      Only the superficial lymph nodes are accessible to physical examination, and assessment of
      deeper nodes, such as those in the abdomen, requires radiological imaging. As a result,
      abdominal CT and PET scanning of patients with a history of malignancy or concerns for a new
      diagnosis of cancer is an important diagnostic test. As well as looking for distant
      metastasis, the images are carefully assessed for evidence of intra-abdominal
      lymphadenopathy, which can be a marker of new or recurrent cancer. If such nodes are
      identified, they often require a biopsy for further evaluation.

      The lymph nodes located in the abdomen or the retroperitoneum are not easily accessible for
      percutaneous biopsy, often requiring an abdominal exploration which can be done either
      laparoscopically or via laparotomy. The laparoscopic approach represents a better approach
      that is associated with reduced surgical risks and complications as well as a quicker
      recover. In fact in many cases, the laparoscopic approach can be done as a day surgery
      procedure.

      Although non-invasive imaging technologies such as computed tomography (CT) scanning,
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning can be
      useful in the diagnosis of lymphadenopathy, they often provide an estimate of the location of
      the nodes, and exact localization of the lymph node of interest can be challenging. The
      surgeons rely on anatomical landmarks which can be distorted during laparoscopy and to help
      reduce the rate of false negative lymph node biopsy, the surgeons often perform
      intra-operative histological assessment of the lymph nodes (Frozen Section) which can be time
      consuming and in itself associated with diagnostic errors. The uncertainty about the exact
      location of the node of interest often leads to extensive surgical dissection, biopsy of
      multiple nodes, and sometimes repeat surgery. During the dissection, care must be taken to
      avoid injury to the neighboring structures, such as blood vessels, nerves or adjacent organs.
      In cases, where an intra-operative dissection occurs, or lymph nodes can not be identified,
      the laparoscopic surgery is converted to open surgery.

      Using the unique capabilities of the AMIGO suite, investigators aim to test intra-operative
      image guidance to help them identify diseased intra-abdominal lymph nodes, allowing for more
      precise and safer surgeries. The improved accuracy will allow investigators to perform
      surgeries with minimal dissection and reduced complications while improving biopsy rates and
      enhancing ability to accurately stage intra-abdominal malignancies.
    
  