
    
      The Computer Program:

      In this study, researchers will interview cancer patients receiving palliative care, their
      caregivers, and doctors and nurses who work in palliative care.

      The computer program will be designed to help doctors and nurses monitor the symptoms of
      patients. The program will also be designed to help doctors and nurses make decisions about
      how to care for patients.

      Interview Session:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be interviewed by a research staff member.
      The study chair may also attend the interview. The interview will be held at the Palliative
      Care outpatient clinic.

      The interview session will be done in 3 steps, which are described below. Each step will take
      about 10 minutes.

      First, you will read questionnaires about patient symptoms. These questionnaires are drafts
      of the ones that will be included in the software program.

      You will then look at a draft of the computer program's layout.

      Last, you will be interviewed. You will be asked to discuss your experiences as a patient or
      caregiver in reporting symptoms and health status to doctors and nurses. You will also be
      asked to discuss what might make the program more usable.

      During the interview, you may also be asked to answer sample questions on the draft
      questionnaires and discuss how readable you think the questions are. For example, you will
      discuss your opinion about the font size, text placement, and color scheme.

      Study Data:

      The interview session will be audio-taped. To protect your confidentiality, only your first
      name will be used during the interview session. Patients and their caregivers will also be
      interviewed separately to protect privacy.

      Patient responses will not be disclosed to caregivers, and caregiver responses will not be
      disclosed to patients. The patient's palliative care doctor will be told, however, if
      patients or caregivers show signs of emotional difficulties.

      When the audio recording is transcribed (typed) by the research staff, all names will be
      coded so that no one can be identified by name. The audio recordings will be stored in
      password-protected files that are available only to the study chair and staff.

      After the results of the study are published, the audio recordings will be destroyed by the
      study staff.

      Length of Study:

      Your study participation will be over after the interview session.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 26 participants will be enrolled in this study. This includes up to 9 patients and 9
      caregivers in this part of the study, and up to 4 doctors and 4 nurses in a second part of
      the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  