
    
      Rates of MTCT of HIV have dramatically decreased in resource-rich countries since the
      introduction of antiretroviral (ARV) prophylaxis; increased prenatal care, HIV testing, and
      counseling; elective cesarean delivery; and avoidance of breastfeeding. In resource-limited
      countries, however, MTCT of HIV continues to be a widespread problem. In these parts of the
      world, ARV prophylaxis is too expensive and too difficult to adequately administer; mothers
      often do not receive proper prenatal care; cesarean delivery may pose risks to the mother and
      and her infant; and due to the lack of safe, affordable, and socially acceptable
      alternatives, HIV infected mothers breastfeed their infants. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of TDF in HIV infected pregnant
      women and their infants.

      Participants in this study will be enrolled through 12 months after delivery. During the last
      trimester of pregnancy, HIV infected women will be screened for eligibility. Women will be
      enrolled into the study upon presentation at the study site for delivery. Standard of care
      with ARVs for prevention of MTCT will be offered to all women and their infants both inside
      and outside of the study; however, such ARVs will not be provided by this study.

      There will be four cohorts in this study:

        -  Cohort 1 women will receive a single dose of TDF (SD TDF) during active labor. Cohort 1
           women will be hospitalized at the delivery facility through Day 3 postpartum.

        -  Cohort 2 women will not receive any TDF. Cohort 2 women will be hospitalized at the
           delivery facility through Day 7 postpartum. Their infants will receive TDF at birth and
           on Days 3 and 5 after birth.

        -  Cohort 3 will not begin enrolling women until data safety evaluations of Cohorts 1 and 2
           are completed. Cohort 3 women will be hospitalized at the delivery facility through Day
           7 postpartum. Women in Cohort 3 will receive SD TDF during active labor, and their
           infants will receive TDF at birth and on Days 3 and 5 after birth.

        -  Cohort 4, which was added to the study based on a review of data from the other cohorts,
           will be similar to Cohort 3, except that infants will receive daily TDF for the 7 days
           after birth. Researchers believe this higher and more frequent dosing of TDF in infants
           will help them meet the target TDF concentration specified in the protocol.

      There will be seven study visits for women at study entry (Day 0), Day 2, between Days 5 and
      7, at Weeks 6 and 12, and at Months 6 and 12 postpartum. Medical history, a short physical
      exam, and blood collection will occur at all visits. In Cohorts 1, 3, and 4, blood collection
      for PK studies will occur prior to receiving TDF and seven times post-dose.

      There will be eight study visits for infants, which will occur within 24 hours of birth; on
      Day 3; between Days 5 and 7; at Weeks 6 and 12; and at Months 6, 9, and 12. Medical history,
      a physical exam, and blood collection will occur at all visits. Infants will have x-rays to
      assess bone health at Day 3 and Month 3, except in Cohort 4, which will not include x-rays of
      infants. Infants of Cohort 1 will have blood collection for PK studies at birth and four
      times after birth. Infants of Cohorts 2 and 3 will undergo blood collections for PK studies
      at birth, Day 3, and Day 5. Blood collection at these visits will occur before receiving TDF
      and 2 and 10 hours after receiving TDF. At birth, an additional collection will occur 18 to
      24 hours after receiving TDF, and on Day 5, two additional collections will occur--at 18 to
      24 hours and at 36 to 48 hours after receiving TDF. Infants of Cohort 4 will have blood
      collection for PK studies at birth and after their fourth and seventh doses of TDF.
    
  