
    
      All IMH outpatients who have been referred for psychotherapy will be invited to take part in
      this research. Participants will be recruited from triage, outpatient clinics, emergency
      services and referrals from therapists. In specific, participants under the iCBT and group
      CBT (for e.g. PsychUp) treatment arms will be recruited from the Psychology Department from
      triage and those under individual therapy will be recruited from the Psychotherapy
      Department.

      After indicating interest to participate in the study, potential patients will be contacted
      to explain the purpose of the study and its procedures, obtain informed consent to take part
      in the study as well as brief them on how to log on and access and complete questionnaires.

      Participants will be placed into the study arms (i.e. iCBT, group CBT or individual therapy)
      based on the intervention program each has been allocated to. Some participants will also
      form a Delayed Waitlist group. Other participants will form the Treatment as Usual (TAU)
      group. Participants in the Waitlist group will be recruited from those referred for
      psychotherapy and who are not assigned to either group or iCBT and not planned for
      psychotherapy at IMH for 8 weeks or more from the point of consent. Participants in the
      Treatment as Usual (TAU) group are individuals who are not assigned to psychotherapy at IMH.
      They will be recruited from outpatient services and emergency services at IMH.

      The Waitlist and Treatment as Usual Groups will serve as the control groups.

      For all groups, psychiatric and medical history, pharmacological and other non-psychological
      interventions will first be obtained at baseline in order to control for other treatment
      effects. Such medical records would be accessed via c-Doc; data will be obtained from
      information management and the IMH diagnostics. SAP data at IMH, including demographic data,
      postal code, diagnosis, race, clinician names (but not limited to), will be collected for
      this study.

      For the psychotherapy arms (iCBT, group CBT, and individual therapy), assessments will be
      conducted from baseline across the course of participants' psychotherapy interventions as
      well as into follow-up. A baseline battery will be completed before the start of therapy. The
      baseline battery includes vulnerability measures, around half of which will serve as the
      independent variables and the other half will be used to assess outcome, during their first
      visit (i.e. triage). This series of baseline measures will take approximately 50 min to
      complete. For iCBT, group CBT and individual therapy, there will be study visits after each
      session of therapy, whereby participants will be asked to complete a series of additional
      measures. The series of weekly measures will take approximately 15 min to complete. Any
      measures that the therapists use regularly when sending out the measures will be left out and
      the therapist can request for the outcomes to be either emailed or uploaded on C-doc for
      their reference. After the last session, participants would complete a post-intervention
      battery besides the post-session measures. The series of post-intervention measures, to be
      completed above the weekly measures on the last therapy session, will take approximately 45
      min to complete.

      Mechanisms of change: Process-outcome in Individual Therapy In 30 clients undergoing frequent
      individual therapy (ideally once a fortnight or more), in addition to the quantitative
      measurement of outcome, consent will be taken to allow audio with or without video recording
      of their sessions. Their therapist will also provide consent for recording of sessions.
      Sessions will be recorded by their therapist. Sessions will be subsequently transcribed and
      coded with scales to assess alliance-building, interventions, and emotional work. Initial
      coding will use the comparative psychotherapy process scale, the facilitative interpersonal
      scale, and the emotional arousal scale according to a coding manual by trained raters.

      For every 3 months for two years (if consented to), participants may complete the follow-up
      measures. For iCBT and group CBT, therapy sessions would take place weekly for 8 weeks. For
      individual therapy, therapy sessions take place approximately once every fortnight, with 8
      sessions in total, according to the agreed-upon schedule.

      Buccal swabs will be obtained from consenting participants at baseline and post-therapy to
      conduct genome-wide association scanning to construct polygenic risk scores for prediction of
      response to therapy and assess epigenetics as a vulnerability factor pre-post therapy.

      Timeline and list of measures for waitlist and group TAU (refer to appendix): For
      waitlist/TAU, assessments will be completed at Week 0, Week 4, Week 8 and for follow-ups (see
      attached Gantt chart).

      Participants in the waitlist/ TAU groups will not undergo buccal swabs.

      Participants in the waitlist arm would be individuals who have been referred for
      psychotherapy but would not be undergoing therapy for at least 8 weeks from the point of
      recruitment into this study, and hence will serve as the control group. It is highly likely
      that a considerable proportion of participants in the waitlist group would eventually undergo
      therapy within the period of study follow up (up to 2 years). In this case, the data
      collected from such participants from before they begin therapy would first be retained, and
      such participants would also subsequently be recruited into the psychotherapy arm of the
      study, where they would complete all procedures of the study.

      In the event that TAU participants are referred for psychotherapy over the duration of the
      study, the data collected from such participants from before they begin therapy would first
      be retained, and also subsequently recruit them into the psychotherapy arm of the study.

      Baseline and post-intervention measures will be completed online.

      For post-session/ follow-up measures online, Pragmatic Tracker, an official online platform
      used by the Institute of Mental Health for administering scales to therapy patients, will be
      utilized. Any measures that the therapists use regularly will be left out when sending out
      the measures and the therapist can request for the outcomes to be either emailed or uploaded
      on Cdoc for their reference.

      For all groups, psychiatric and medical history, pharmacological and other non-psychological
      interventions will first be verified during follow-up in order to control for other treatment
      effects. Such medical records would be accessed via c-Doc. Data will be obtained from
      information management and the IMH diagnostics.

      Like the therapists, the triage psychologists will also be given a background information
      form during triage review that probes their experience as a triage officer and general client
      expectations (Therapist/Triage Officer Background Information Form). It is hypothesized that
      such evaluations by the triage psychologists may affect treatment outcome. For TAU and
      Waitlist, the patient's clinician will assist in completing the GAF.

      Incidental findings are not anticipated for any patients from this study. Only DNA will be
      extracted after the collection of the buccal swabs, which would not reveal any incidental
      findings of potential health and reproductive importance. However, the possibility that a
      genetic test will be developed in the future that can use the collected data and predict the
      development of a disease in later life with certainty, and which becomes apparent from the
      study's analyses, cannot be excluded. This is considered to be unlikely as the study only
      looks at common genetic variants in this study. The study informs participants of the
      potential to uncover incidental findings in future research in the ICF, and provide for
      re-identification of participants in such cases.

      There will not be any incidental findings for the therapists as there will not be any
      biological/clinical tests that the therapists themselves will complete that may reveal
      potential health or reproductive importance.

      Hard copies or soft copies of scales may be administered at all time points or may be
      administered over the phone, depending on the preference on the participants and licensing
      permissions. Scales will be made available for completion online wherever possible, except
      for scales such the Anxiety Sensitivity Index (only allowed to be administered on paper) and
      EQ5D-L5 (on phone/ paper). Online modes of administration include Pragmatic Tracker, REDCAP
      and QuestionPro. QuestionPro and REDCAP are research platforms also used by IMH/SICS and have
      the function of scheduling surveys at several time points.
    
  