
    
      Hepatitis B virus (HBV) affects approximately more than 350 million people worldwide, leading
      to a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from an asymptomatic carrier state to
      self-limited acute infection or fulminant hepatitis to chronic hepatitis with progression to
      cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma and poses a serious public health problem in endemic
      counties like China. Current available therapeutic remedies such as interferons and
      nucleotide/nucleoside analogues are far from satisfactory, for their therapeutic efficacies
      are limited by the high economic cost with the less tolerable adverse effects or the lack of
      viral eradicative effect for its long term control of the virus in most of the patients.
      Viral persistence has been associated with a defect in the development of HBV-specific
      cellular immunity. Strategies to boost or to broaden the weak virus-specific T-cell response
      of patients with chronic hepatitis B have been proposed as a means of curing this persistent
      infection. HBV envelope- and nucleocapsid-based vaccines, new formulations for recombinant
      vaccines and DNA-based vaccines are currently being assessed in clinical trials, among which
      DNA vaccine represents a promising immunotherapeutic approach that can induce T-cell mediated
      antigen specific immunity, owing to its de novo intracellular antigenic protein expression
      and synthesis.

      In clinical trials, although HBV DNA vaccination developed protective antibody responses and
      antigen-specific CD8 T cells in healthy hepatitis-naive human volunteers, the detectable
      HBV-specific IFN-γ secreting T cells and decreased serum HBV DNA levels only in some chronic
      HBV carriers vaccinated with HBV PreS2/S DNA vaccine were limited. One resolution for the
      main obstacles of the new technique development is to enhance the transfection efficiency of
      plasmids into host cells; the other is to improve the immunogenicity of DNA vaccine by
      driving the naïve T cell responses towards the Th1 profile. To tackle the first problem of
      low transfection rate of DNA vaccine, the investigators had applied the in vivo
      electroporation (EP) for potency enhancement of HBV DNA vaccine, which dramatically improved
      the host cell transfection of the plasmids and enabled the DNA vaccine the investigators
      prepared to elicit both humoral and cellular immune responses in the large body weight
      animals like rabbit and nonhuman primates. In order to achieve the second goal of
      immunogenicity improvement of HBV DNA vaccine for its therapeutic usage, the investigators
      had designed and constructed the Th1 type cytokines (interleukin-2 and interferon-γ) fusion
      protein expression gene plasmids (pFP), in attempt to direct Th1 bias in favor of cellular
      immunity augment when being used in combination with HBV DNA vaccine. Both tactics in the
      form of the dual-plasmids DNA vaccination mediated by EP have been investigated to be safe
      and efficient to improve the transfection and enhance the immunogenicity of DNA vaccine to
      the host in both animal models and in phase I,II trials of healthy volunteers and CHB
      patients.

      In order to study the immunotherapeutic effects of EP-mediated dual-plasmids HBV DNA vaccine,
      the investigators plan to conduct a clinical trial, approved by Chinese State Food and Drug
      Administration (license number: 2006L03542) with written informed consent from each patient.
      The trial is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled one in CHB patients with baseline
      ALT more than 2 times the ULN, for whom antiviral treatment is indicated and who were under
      the simultaneous lamivudine (LAM) chemotherapy.
    
  