
    
      CIPN is a common complication of many effective cytotoxic agents that can negatively impact
      patients' treatment course and quality of life. The incidence of CIPN in cancer patients
      receiving multidrug regimens is estimated at 38%, with frequencies approaching 100% with
      certain known neurotoxic drug classes. Taxanes (e.g., paclitaxel, docetaxel) and
      platinum-based agents (e.g., oxaliplatin, cisplatin, carboplatin) in particular, are two
      commonly used chemotherapy classes that are associated with a high incidence of CIPN.
      Symptoms of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy include distal extremity numbness,
      tingling and pain. Chronic, cumulative symptoms can severely impact quality of life and
      result in dose reductions and/or drug discontinuation in up to 30% of patients.

      Consumers use cannabis products for various reasons including pain, stress, anxiety, and
      insomnia. The neuro-modulatory effects of phytocannabinoids, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and
      cannabidiol (CBD) in particular, have been documented at both the molecular and clinical
      level. The endocannabinoid system consists of CB1 receptors and CB2 receptors that act as an
      inhibitory G-protein within the central and peripheral nervous system, respectively. Several
      animal models have demonstrated the role endocannabinoids play in neuropathic pain
      development by showing enhanced neuropathic pain with CB1 receptor deletion and reduced
      manifestations of neuropathic pain with CB2 receptor overexpression. The therapeutic
      properties of cannabis-based products have also been illustrated in several randomized
      double-blind trials that have shown significant pain relief versus placebo in the treatment
      of neuropathy related to diabetes, spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, and HIV associated
      polyneuropathy. Studies specifically looking at the role of CBD in chemotherapy-induced
      neurotoxicity have shown a neuroprotective effect of CBD in mouse models. Studies have
      demonstrated that a 14-day dosing regimen of CBD prevented the onset of paclitaxel-induced
      mechanical and thermal sensitivity.

      These intriguing results suggest that cannabinoid agents could potentially reduce the
      severity and duration of CIPN in the clinical setting.
    
  