
    
      The primary aim is to describe by principal component analysis and compare the gut microbiota
      between subgroups of paediatric-onset (n=75), elderly-onset CD patients (n=75) and control
      subjects (75 paediatric control and 75 elderly control subjects matched on age) without an a
      priori approach of high throughput sequencing of bacterial DNA. As it has been shown that the
      type of IBD-associated dysbiosis depends on ileal involvement, Paediatric-onset and
      elderly-onset CD patients will be stratified according this parameter.

      The secondary aims are:

        -  (I) Find specific bacteria involved in paediatric- and elderly-onset patients using PLS
           Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA) that is a classical PLS regression (with a regression
           mode) but where the response variable is categorical.

        -  (II) Search for an association between bacterial dysbiosis and different genetic
           backgrounds in patients according to age at CD onset (paediatric-onset vs elderly-onset)
           and in control subjects;

        -  (III) Quantify of bacteria with invasive properties (E. coli, including
           adherent-invasive E.coli, Shigella, Salmonella, Yersinia, Campylobacter), and fecal
           fungal flora (Candida albicans, in particular) and their association with genetic and
           serological profiles according to age at CD onset and in control subjects; this study
           will include the comparison of the gut microbiome between subgroups of paediatric-onset,
           elderly-onset CD patients and control subjects.

        -  (IV) Study of environmental risk factors using a questionnaire to be submitted to CD
           patients and control subjects.

      The results would provide a better knowledge of the etiopathogenic ways in CD and would
      downstream open the way towards clinical trials focused on specific microbiota disorders
      according to age at CD onset. This project will help to decipher the potential involvement of
      specific bacteria in the physiopathology of CD. This could lead to the development of new
      therapeutic strategies either using optimized current treatments targeting bacteria. Data
      from clinical trials which for the great majority rarely include paediatric patients and set
      an upper limit for study eligibility at 65 years of age are thus focusing on adult-onset
      disease. Thus the potential specificities of paediatric- and elderly-onset diseases are not
      taken into account. A better knowledge of characteristics of CD at the extreme of life will
      be important to set up innovative clinical trials including specific therapeutics adapted to
      patients where disease occurred at the extreme age of life, especially as these patients did
      not benefited of specific trials. The ultimate goal is a better quality of care delivered to
      paediatric- and elderly-onset CD patients.
    
  