
    
      Rationale: Interpersonal skills, encompassing communication and empathy, are key components
      of effective medical consultations and represent physician core competences that are most
      desired by patients. High-quality communication relates with enhanced patient satisfaction,
      greater adherence to treatment, better health outcomes, and decreased risk of malpractice
      claims. Many organizations have therefore implemented structured training programs to improve
      physician communication skills in North America and Europe. Yet limited evidence exists on
      the effectiveness of these programs in improving physician interpersonal skillsMost studies
      used unvalidated instruments that may not accurately reflect interpersonal skills, were
      underpowered to detect clinically meaningful differences in interpersonal skills due to
      relatively limited sample size, lacked a control group, or used a study design that was prone
      to evaluation bias. In addition, few studies examined whether these training programs
      dedicated to improve physician communication skills altered patient satisfaction therapeutic
      alliance or modified physician self-efficacy and professional achievement.

      The "Four Habits Model" is a training program that has been developed within the US Health
      Maintenance Organization Kaiser Permanente and implemented for teaching effective
      communication to thousands of clinicians in this organization over the two last decades. The
      Four Habits Model refers to basic medical interview tasks that are organized within four
      dimensions, namely, Invest in the beginning, Elicit the patient's perspective, Demonstrate
      empathy, and Invest in the end. Since its development, the Four Habits Model has been
      successfully implemented outside the Kaiser Permanente system, in various settings in North
      America and Western Europe.

      Our research team recently carried out the cross-cultural adaptation of the Four Habits
      Coding Scheme (4-HCS) scale into French. The 4-HCS is a standardized instrument designed to
      assess physician communication skills from an external rater's perspective, relying on the
      conceptual framework of the Four Habits Model.

      The investigators hypothesize that the implementation of a multifaceted training program
      based on the Four Habits Model improved physician interpersonal skills without altering
      consultation duration, increased patient satisfaction and therapeutic alliance, and modified
      physician self-efficacy and professional achievement.

      Primary objective: To determine whether the implementation of a multifaceted training program
      relying on the conceptual framework of the Four Habits Model improved the communication and
      interpersonal skills for hospital physicians during consultations compared with control
      physicians receiving no intervention.

      Secondary objective:

      To compare study arms with regard to:

        -  mean duration of medical consultation

        -  For patients:

             -  patient satisfaction with the consultation

             -  therapeutic alliance

        -  For physicians:

             -  4-HCS subscale scores

             -  Professional achievement

      Methodology: Prospective, randomized (with a 1:1 allocation ratio), controlled, open-label,
      two parallel arms, superiority interventional trial in one study site. The unit of
      randomization is the physician. Randomization will be performed by minimization, taking into
      account the status (attending versus non-attending) and specialty (medical versus surgical)
      of the physician.

      Timeline:

        -  Pre-intervention trial period: The participating physicians will be invited to videotape
           medical consultations with at least four consecutive patients (consenting to the
           research) over a 3-month period. The video-recorded consultations will be independently
           evaluated by two raters using the 4-HCS scale

        -  Randomization: Physicians will be randomly assigned to study arms

        -  Intervention: Physicians in the intervention arm will receive the training program
           consisting of two half-day group workshops with a review of the skills needed to build
           effective patient relationships and a discussion of difficult consultations. Physicians
           in the control group will not receive any specific intervention at this stage.

        -  Post-intervention trial period: The participating physicians in the two study arms will
           be invited to videotape medical consultations with at least four consecutive patients
           (consenting to the research) over a 3-month period Personalized feedback will then be
           given on the acquisition of skills of the physicians in the intervention arm.

      Number of subjects:

      224 consecutive patients included (112 per arm) nested within 28 physicians (14 per arm). A
      sample of 56 patients included by 14 physicians in each arm would confer a power greater than
      80% to show an average difference of 7.5 points in the 4-HCS score (alpha risk of 0.05 in
      bilateral situations). Each arm of the trial will include 56 pre-intervention and 56
      post-intervention patients, for a total of 224 patients.

      Randomization:

      To ensure allocation concealment, participating physicians will be randomized at the end of
      the pre-intervention study period. A third party will generate allocation sequence, with a
      1:1 ratio, using minimization stratified by physician specialty (i.e., medical versus
      surgical) and attending status (i.e., attending physician versus non-attending physician).
      The investigators will use the software RStudio with package Minirand.

      Blinding:

      In this open label trial, the participating physicians will not be blinded to allocation.
      Only the physicians who will rate video-recorded consultations and the statistician will be
      blinded to study arm.

      Statistical analysis of data:

      A statistical analysis plan (SAP) will be developed prior to database lock, reviewed by the
      principal investigator and an independent statistician, and approved by the steering
      committee. Any post-hoc or unplanned analyses not specified in the SAP will be clearly
      identified as such in the final statistical report (FSR) and manuscripts for publication. No
      formal interim analysis is planned.

      Analysis populations A statistical analysis plan (SAP) will be developed prior to database
      lock, reviewed by the principal investigator and an independent statistician, and approved by
      the steering committee. Any post-hoc or unplanned analyses not specified in the SAP will be
      clearly identified as such in the final statistical report (FSR) and manuscripts for
      publication. No formal interim analysis is planned.

      Analysis populations The intention-to-treat (ITT) population will consist of all observations
      for participating physicians who have been randomized. Patients and physicians will be
      analyzed in the study arm assigned by randomization. The per-protocol (PP) population will
      consist of all observations for randomized physicians without any major deviation from the
      protocol (non-compliance with the multifaceted training program) and evaluable. The numbers
      of patients and physicians in ITT and PP populations will be presented by study arm
      throughout a CONSORT-style flow-chart extension for cluster randomized trials.

      Baseline characteristics Baseline and demographic characteristics will be summarized for both
      ITT and PP populations. Baseline patient and physician characteristics will be compared
      between the two study arms.

      Analysis of the primary outcome The primary outcome analysis (i.e., 4-HCS overall score) will
      be conducted within the ITT population and, for sensitivity reason, repeated within the PP
      population. For this purpose, the investigators will use a difference-in-differences
      approach, with a two-sided alpha level of 0.05. To account for patient clustering within
      participating physicians, the investigators will analyze 4-HCS overall score using
      random-intercept linear regression model for continuous dependent variable.

      Analysis of the secondary outcomes. The analysis of secondary outcomes will be exploratory in
      nature. Inferential comparisons for participating physicians between study arms will be
      performed using the Student t or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for unpaired data for continuous
      outcome variables. To account for patient clustering within participating physicians, the
      investigators will analyze secondary outcome measures using random-intercept linear
      regression model for continuous dependent variable. All tests of secondary outcome analyses
      will be performed on both ITT and PP populations at a two-sided alpha level of 0.05.

      Subgroup analysis. No subgroup analysis is planned for the primary and secondary outcome
      measures. Missing data. The completeness of study data will be reported for baseline
      characteristics and outcome variables. The investigators will perform multivariate imputation
      using chained equations (MICE) for replacing missing primary and secondary outcome values

      Study feasibility:

      The investigators identified the American multidimensional Four Habits Coding Scheme (4-HCS)
      scale, which produces a composite score of the quality of interpersonal skills that can be
      used in initial or continuing education. No instrument for measuring interpersonal skills was
      available in French. Therefore, the investigators proceeded with the cross-cultural
      adaptation of this scale. The cross-cultural adaptation of this scale was used to evaluate
      simulated filmed consultations of approximately 200 students from the Grenoble Faculty of
      Medicine during the period 2017-2018. This experiment allowed for the verification of the
      feasibility of the evaluation of interpersonal skills via this scale and made it possible to
      constitute a sufficient sample of videos to validate the psychometric properties of the
      scale.

      Thus, this tool can be used in initial or continuing education for the evaluation of
      interpersonal skills and allows for the measurement of the progression of these skills within
      the framework of an intervention aimed at improving them.

      Interest of the study:

      The intervention should increase the physician's skills in establishing a caregiver-patient
      relationship and in managing difficult consultations, particularly those with high emotional
      load, without significantly altering the duration of the consultation. The proposed trial
      should document the effect of this intervention on specific patient (satisfaction,
      therapeutic alliance) and clinician (professional fulfillment) outcomes.
    
  