
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety of a regimen incorporating fludarabine phosphate (fludarabine),
      high-dose cytarabine, filgrastim-sndz, gemtuzumab ozogamicin and idarubicin hydrochloride
      (idarubicin) in patients with untreated inv(16) or t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. Evaluate the complete remission rates achieved in this population with this regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the proportion of patients with untreated inv(16) or t(8;21) AML who, having
      entered complete remission (CR) on this regimen, remain alive in CR two years from CR date.

      II. Assess whether the quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) results can be used in
      detecting relapse in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

      REMISSION INDUCTION: Patients receive filgrastim-sndz subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD)
      beginning on day -1 and continuing until blood count recovery. Patients also receive
      fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-5, cytarabine IV over 4
      hours on days 1-5, gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 1, and idarubicin
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 3 and 4. Patients not in remission after their first
      induction therapy may repeat remission induction therapy.

      POST-REMISSION THERAPY: Patients receive filgrastim-sndz SC on day -1, fludarabine phosphate
      IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3, cytarabine IV over 4 hours on days 1-3, gemtuzumab ozogamicin
      IV over 2 hours on day 1 of courses 1 or 2 and 5 or 6, and idarubicin hydrochloride IV over
      30 minutes on days 2 and 3 (day 2 only of courses 3-6). Treatment repeats every 4-6 weeks for
      up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      FURTHER MODIFICATION OF POST-REMISSION THERAPY: Patients older than 60, with significant
      comorbidities, experiencing life-threatening complications, prolonged cytopenias, or not
      achieving complete molecular response may receive decitabine IV daily for 5 days after
      discussion with the principal investigator. Treatment repeats every 4-6 weeks for up to 12
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  