
    
      Introduction: Over the past 20 years, Bangladesh has heavily invested in improving the health
      and nutrition status of its adolescent population, however despite this investment,
      adolescents remain a vulnerable group. A recent large scale survey found that 26% of
      adolescents were stunted and 36% had low BMI(1). Nationally, 31% of married adolescent girls
      between the ages of 15 to 19 years were found to be underweight and another 13 percent were
      stunted (2). Adolescent women's sexual and reproductive health (SRH) knowledge is also a
      concern in Bangladesh, as unmarried adolescents have little access to SRH services (3).
      Adolescent health status is further exacerbated by high fertility rates with two-thirds of
      Bangladeshi women married before their eighteenth birthday while almost half of women are
      under 19 years at the time of their first pregnancy (4). Furthermore, data from the
      Bangladesh Integrated Households Survey 2017 reports that more than half of the children born
      to women under 15 were stunted while only 51% of married adolescents were using modern
      contraceptives (5). Statistics are worse in southern Bangladesh, particularly in Khulna
      Division, where the average age at first marriage is 15.5 years, with more than 8%
      experiencing birth intervals of less than 24 months and 32% of married adolescents age 15-19
      years not using any form of contraceptive (5).

      Adolescents are an important target group as they have the potential to contribute to society
      and earn income for their full adult life in addition to the intergenerational impact of
      undernourished teens having undernourished children, adversely impacting the health of future
      generations as well as long term human capital (6). Adolescents face risks as they move from
      adolescence to adulthood including poor nutritional status, inadequate (SRH) knowledge,
      insufficient education, early marriage, early pregnancy and social stigma (1,7). Lack of SRH
      has a direct impact on health and nutrition. For the past several decades, various
      organizations including the National Nutrition Services (NNS) in the Directorate General of
      Health Services (DGHS) under the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Women and Child Affairs
      (MoWCA); Non-Governmental Organizations; and Civil Society Organizations have undertaken
      initiatives to address issues related to ensuring the overall wellbeing of the adolescents.
      Such interventions have often been fragmented with limited scalability, sustainability and
      replicability. Since the improvement of adolescent nutrition in multifaceted, these efforts
      lacked a full-service delivery approach that would enable a comprehensive and systematic
      multisectoral engagement. Moreover, detailed evidence regarding the long-term effectiveness
      of such efforts in reaching their overarching goals is limited. The Ministry of Women and
      Children Affairs (MOWCA) has initiated the Adolescent Club Program of Bangladesh to
      mainstream SRH education through a club-based intervention to empower adolescents but which
      is limited to improving SRH knowledge(8).

      In 2019, Helen Keller International in collaboration with the Mount Saint Vincent University,
      Canada (MSVU) initiated a three year research project in Debhata Sub-District of the Satkhira
      District in Khulna Division, funded by the International Research and Development Center
      (IDRC) Canada to increase production of diversified and nutrient-rich food, increase income
      generation from transferred assets, access to income, and access to improved knowledge and
      awareness on nutrition and adolescents along with essential nutrition actions and essential
      hygiene actions. SRH information is also included to improve outcomes including self-efficacy
      and agency to delay child marriage. These activities are underscored by a transformative
      approach to gender equality at the household and community level to improve intra-household
      communication and respect and intra-community equality and inclusion.

      Objectives: To establish whether a gender transformative enhanced homestead food production
      (EHFP) model can improve household food security, diet, nutrition, income, and sexual and
      reproductive health outcomes to delay child marriage among Bangladeshi girls.

      Specific objectives:

        1. Test the effect of an integrated gender transformative Enhanced Homestead Food
           Production (EHFP) model on household food security

        2. Assess the impact of household and community level interventions on adolescent dietary
           quality, nutritional status and prevalence of anemia.

        3. Identify the threshold of income generated through EHFP that influences family decisions
           to delay child marriage.

        4. Identify the determinants of adolescent empowerment and participation in household
           decision-making through EHFP.

        5. Inform and contribute to evidence-based policy and decision making related to nutrition,
           health, income generation, SRH and delayed age of marriage.

      Methodology: The investigators propose to investigate the efficacy of a gender-transformative
      Enhanced Homestead Food Production (EHFP) program to prevent child marriage, and in turn,
      adolescent pregnancy-induced malnutrition among girls aged 13-15 years in a high-risk area
      for child marriage, Khulna Division, southern Bangladesh. Since marriage between 13-15 years
      leads to early pregnancy, which can have severe health consequences for both mothers and
      newborns including malnutrition, morbidity, mortality and motivate disempowerment of girls
      and women, it is important to address this age group.

      The investigators will conduct a cluster-randomized controlled trial in which n=1200 girls
      age between 13 to 15 years in after-school Adolescent Clubs will participate in a 24-month
      program teaching women's empowerment through hands-on workshops.

      The research will divide participants into two groups: EHFP group and control group.

      The EHFP Group will receive Helen Keller's EHFP model-which involves homestead food
      production, nutrition and WASH education and gender transformative sessions. The control
      group will not receive the above. Both groups will receive interventions related to parental
      awareness sessions, community awareness-raising activities, adolescent group sessions
      involving awareness on the benefit of delayed marriage and empowerment, SRH and basic
      life-skill trainings. It is hypothesized that the addition of the EHFP program will provide
      increased production and consumption of nutrient rich foods, increased income of the
      households through the sale of surplus produce, and increased self-efficacy and decision
      making by adolescents due to increased knowledge and skills- resulting increased food
      security and nutrition and ultimately delay of child marriage. A formative research will be
      conducted in a participatory approach with adolescents and their parents to contextualize the
      SBC messages and strategies.

      Location: The intervention will be placed in Debhata sub-district of Satkhira district in
      Khulna Division. Since other sub-districts of Satkhira District are already under covered by
      the Nobo Jatra (the new journey) project implemented by World Vision with the funding support
      from USAID where the improvement of adolescent nutrition is a major component, investigators
      decided not to select these sub-districts covered by other similar type of project to avoid
      any sort of distortion in the trial.

      In this cluster randomized controlled trial, blinding will not be possible during study
      delivery; participants and field staff will know whether a participant is in a control or
      EHFP cluster. For cluster randomization, 74 Adolescent Clubs (clusters, each Adolescent Club
      containing approximately 1,110 adolescent participants) will be randomized to one of the two
      study arms, control or EHFP, using a 1:1 ratio, computer-generated randomization schedule.

      Sample size estimation.

      The investigators will recruit n=1200 participants (from approximately 80 clusters) in Khulna
      Division, southern Bangladesh. The intervention will be placed in Debhata sub-district of
      Satkhira district in Khulna Division. Since other sub-districts of Satkhira District are
      already under covered by the Nobo Jatra (the new journey) project implemented by World Vision
      with the funding support from USAID where the improvement of adolescent nutrition is a major
      component, investigators decided not to select these sub-districts covered by other similar
      type of project to avoid any sort of distortion in the trial.

      The sample has been calculated for a two-level cluster randomized trial, where girls are
      nested within clusters randomly assigned to each of the three two study arms.

      The major impact variables considered to determine the sample size estimation are anemia
      status, dietary diversity and prevalence of child marriage of the adolescents. The villages
      in each arm are expected to be comparable and geographically separated to avoid
      contamination. The investigators will set the power at 80%, alpha at 5% and assume the
      cluster size (c) equal to 15. With an intra-class correlation of 0.05, the required number of
      clusters is 74. Thus, investigators will create 74 clusters in total, with 37 clusters with a
      total of 555 girls aged 13 to 15 years per study arm. Overall, the intervention will target
      to reach 1,110 adolescent girls in the 2 intervention arms over the 24 months intervention.
      To ensure enough number of clusters and sample, investigators decided to go beyond the
      minimum number of both cluster and sample (74 clusters and 1110 samples) for this study.
      Thus, for both EHFP and control group, the investigators considered 40 cluster totaling 600
      samples (40 X 15) for each arm.

      Training: All data collection staff will be rigorously trained on survey methodology. This
      training will cover all topics required for the implementation of the data collection,
      including locating/ selecting of respondent households and obtaining consent. All training
      modules include both theory and practical exercises. Model adolescents will be hired for
      classroom practice so that the data collectors will be familiar with the questionnaire and
      anthropometric measurements in order to collect data using appropriate techniques. The
      training will include questionnaire pre-testing to practice data collection and to find any
      issues with the survey instrument. A major focus of training will be ensuring that the field
      workers learn to minimize bias when performing interviews and recording data. Three separate
      batches of trainings will be organized for; a) household questionnaire b) anthropometry
      measurements.

      Data management and analysis: Participants will be given a unique alpha-numeric study ID
      code. This unique identifier will not be derived from personal identifiers. A key linking the
      subject code to participant information will be kept on a password-protected computer in a
      secure area in the Helen Keller International (HKI) office in Dhaka, Bangladesh. There is no
      need for co-investigators elsewhere to have information linking participant names with their
      unique identifier.

      All electronic data files will be stored on password-protected computers and/or secure
      servers accessible only to members of the research team. Archived electronic data files and
      any hard copies of data (consent forms) will be stored in locked filing cabinets in locked
      research rooms at HKI Bangladesh. Once all data is collected, all information will be
      de-identified. Only the study Principal Investigator will have access to the master list once
      data collection is complete; otherwise, all data will be completely de-identified.

      All paper copies of consent forms and questionnaires will be retained for at least 5 years
      after publication of results. All data will be stored on an external hard-drive, in a locked
      drawer, in the Principal Investigator's locked office for a minimum of 25 years. After this
      time, all paper copies of consent forms will be shredded, and the hard drive deleted and
      physically destroyed.

      All data will be entered into STATA/SPSS for analysis. Descriptive statistics will be
      computed for all variables: mean (SD) for continuous variables (age, monthly household
      income), or n (%) for categorical variables (education level). The investigators will compare
      the control and EHFP groups using independent t-tests or x2 tests.

      Utilization of Results: It is expected that the findings of this study will contribute to the
      important discourse of empowering and supporting adolescents to prevent child marriage and
      improve food security and nutrition outcomes, as well as informing future programming for HKI
      program in Bangladesh and other countries in Asia and Africa and development partners, while
      at the same time providing evidence-based advocacy for national nutrition and livelihoods
      strategies and programs. Findings from this project will improve the awareness and
      understanding among policymakers, think tanks, development community and general public in
      developing countries including Bangladesh about the efficacy of a gender-transformative EHFP
      program to prevent child marriage. Based on the critical findings, the project will not only
      develop new policy but will also shaping the existing policies through identifying the gaps
      and appropriate context.
    
  