
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the disease-specific dose-limiting toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of
      flavopiridol in patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma or multiple myeloma.

      II. Determine the complete and partial response rate in patients with selected non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma (e.g., indolent B-cell, mantle cell, intermediate grade B-cell, and T/NK-cell),
      Hodgkin's lymphoma, or multiple myeloma treated with this drug.

      III. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects or this drug, in terms of organ
      specificity, time course, predictability, and reversibility in these patients.

      IV. Determine subsets of lymphoid/plasma cell malignancies that are suitable for larger phase
      II studies designed to further evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of this drug in these
      patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. II. Determine the effect of
      this drug on innate immunity (including T-, B-, and NK-cell subsets) and quantitative
      immunoglobulin levels in these patients.

      III. Determine whether acute infusion toxicity (e.g., fever, hypotension, tumor pain, and
      dyspnea) observed with other flavopiridol treatment schedules is related to a
      cytokine-release syndrome in these patients.

      IV. Determine whether this drug induces response (independent of p53 mutational status) in
      these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a multicenter, phase II, pilot
      study. Patients enrolled in the phase II portion of the study are stratified according to
      diagnosis.

      PHASE I: Patients receive flavopiridol IV over 4½ hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment
      repeats every 6 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of flavopiridol until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive flavopiridol* as in phase I at the MTD determined in phase I.

      NOTE: The phase II treatment dose and schedule for hairy cell leukemia patients will be
      adapted from that developed in previous phase II studies of flavopiridol for the treatment of
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  