
    
      THE STUDY DRUGS:

      Decitabine is designed to slow tumor growth and may cause death of cancer cells.

      Interferon alfa-2B is designed to activate your immune system, which may help keep tumors
      from growing, and may shrink tumors.

      STUDY TREATMENT:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive decitabine by
      vein over 1 hour on Days 1-5 of each cycle. A cycle in this study is 28 days long. All
      treatments with decitabine will take place at M. D. Anderson.

      Once you have completed 2 cycles of decitabine (on Day 1 of Cycle 3), you will begin taking
      interferon alfa-2b twice each day (morning and afternoon) while continuing the same 5-day
      dosing schedule for decitabine. Interferon alfa-2b will be given as a subcutaneous (just
      under the skin) injection. It can be given by yourself or a caregiver at home or by your
      local doctor. You and your caregiver will be taught how to do the injection.

      STUDY VISITS:

      You will have the following tests/procedures performed during clinic visits.

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any medications or treatments you may be currently receiving.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced since your last visit.
           You will have blood drawn (about 1 teaspoon) for routine testing.

      Beginning in Cycle 3, you will be required to return to the clinic around Day 14 of each
      cycle to have the following tests:

        -  You will have blood drawn (about 1 teaspoon each time) once a week for routine tests. If
           you do not experience severe side effects during Cycles 3 and 4, you will no longer be
           required to have weekly routine blood testing. Instead, you will return to have routine
           blood drawn on Day 1 of each cycle. This once-weekly schedule will restart if you
           experience severe side effects in Cycle 5.

        -  You will have a CT or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced since your last visit.

      LENGTH OF STUDY:

      You will continue taking the study drug combination unless the disease gets worse, you
      develop an illness that does not allow you to continue receiving the study therapy, or you
      experience any intolerable side effects. If any of these things occur, you will be removed
      from this study.

      This is an investigational study. Decitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Interferon alfa-2b is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of several types of cancer, such as malignant
      melanoma, hairy cell leukemia, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Their use together in this study
      in the treatment of PRC is investigational and authorized for use in research only.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  