
    
      The prevalence of type 2 diabetes (DM) in older persons is increasing rapidly. DM increases
      the risk for Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), which is a transition state between normal
      cognition and dementia that is often characterized by memory and executive function deficits.
      These deficits reduce adherence to DM medications, which worsens glycemic control and
      increases the risk for adverse DM-related health outcomes. Improving medication adherence may
      prevent these outcomes and reduce health care costs. This is important to all older persons
      with DM but particularly to older African Americans (AAs). They have twice the rate of DM,
      worse cognitive function, lower medication adherence, and worse glycemic control than whites.
      One million older AAs now have DM and their number will double by 2030. Because 30% also have
      MCI, low medication adherence is an important problem for them. This necessitates culturally
      relevant interventions that compensate for their cognitive deficits and improves their
      medication adherence and glycemic control. We propose a randomized controlled clinical trial
      to test the efficacy of a collaborative Primary Care-Occupational Therapy (PC-OT)
      intervention to lower hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels in older AAs with DM, MCI, HbA1c ≥ 7.5%,
      and ≤ 80% adherence to an oral hypoglycemic medication. PC-OT consists of: 1) primary care
      physician (PCP) - occupational therapist (OT) collaboration; 2) DM education tailored to
      cognitive impairment; 3) in-home OT cognitive-functional assessment; and 4) OT-delivered
      Behavior Activation to increase adherence to medications and other diabetes self-management
      (DSM) practices (e.g., diet). We will recruit 100 participants from primary care clinics and
      randomize them to PC-OT or Enhanced Usual Care (EUC). EUC is usual medical care plus low
      intensity DM education delivered by community health workers. Participants in both PC-OT and
      EUC will have 6 initial in-home treatment sessions over 3 months, and then 3 booster sessions
      during this 12 month study. The primary outcome is a reduction in HbA1c of 0.5%, which
      reduces the risk of adverse medical events. The primary efficacy analysis compares the
      proportion of participants in PC-OT and EUC who achieve this outcome at month 6 (short term
      effect) and at month 12 (maintenance effect). We will measure medication adherence using an
      electronic Medication Event Monitoring System, prescription refills, and self-reports. A
      secondary aim determines if improving medication adherence mediates PC-OT's impact on HbA1c
      levels. We will also evaluate PC-OT's effect on other DSM practices; ER visits and
      hospitalizations; cognition; function; mood; and quality of life; and PC-OT's costs and net
      financial benefits. This is the first study to determine if PCPs, collaborating with OTs (who
      are experts in developing strategies to compensate for cognitive/physical deficits), can
      improve medication adherence and glycemic control, and prevent cognitive and functional
      decline in older persons with DM and MCI. If PC-OT is effective in a high risk population of
      older AAs, its benefits may extend to all older persons with DM and have enormous public
      health significance.
    
  