
    
      Measuring internal heart pressures allows for the assessment and diagnosis of a variety of
      cardiac conditions which are commonly found in patients undergoing catheter ablation,
      including congestive heart failure, diastolic dysfunction, and valvular heart disease.
      Currently it is unknown if taking pressure measurements with the ablation catheter is
      accurate and it is not standard practice to insert the additional 'gold standard' pressure
      sensing catheter. Catheter ablation of cardiac arrhythmia is performed to offer symptomatic
      relief from a variety of atrial, ventricular and atrio-ventricular rhythms. Irrigated
      ablation catheters are commonly used for ablation of arrhythmias arising from the left heart
      and coronary sinus. These catheters contain internal channels allowing for infusion of an
      external fluid directly to the tip of the catheter, where the fluid is sprayed through
      numerous end holes allowing for cooling of the catheter ablation tip.

      Fluid filled catheters are also the primary tool utilized to assess intravascular and
      intracardiac pressures and hemodynamics in the cardiac catheterization suite and intensive
      care unit. However, the fluid filled catheters commonly used for these assessments are single
      lumen with a single end hole and generally have a larger minimal diameters compared to the
      ablation catheter. "Dampening" of pressure waveforms are observed in smaller diameter
      catheters and may lead to underestimation of peak pressure and overestimation of the nadir
      pressure gradient. It is unknown if transduction of pressures from the tip of an irrigated
      ablation catheter will yield equivalent results compared to use of a single 6F lumen
      catheter.

      This study will seek to enroll patients already scheduled to have a cardiac ablation for a
      clinical arrhythmia at Emory University Hospital. After completion of the standard ablation,
      the ablation catheter will be positioned in the heart and pressures will be measured. Next, a
      standard pressure sensing catheter will be positioned in the same area in the heart and
      pressures will be measured. The pressure values for each heart chamber assessed will be
      compared between the catheters. The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that
      transduction of intracardiac pressures using an irrigated ablation catheter placed as
      standard of care for the ablation procedure is equivalent to transduction of pressures using
      a standard 6F balloon tipped PA catheter placed only for this research study.
    
  