
    
      Although many schizophrenia patients currently take oral antipsychotic medications, it is
      estimated that up to 75% of them have difficulty adhering to the daily oral regimen.
      Long-acting injectable formulations may eliminate the need for daily medication and enhance
      patient compliance with the treatment regimen. This is an open-label, randomized, Phase III
      trial in patients with schizophrenia. One treatment group receives 25 to 50 mgs of
      long-acting risperidone, formulated for intramuscular injections, at study initiation and
      again after 2 weeks, while phasing out any previous antipsychotic medication during the
      initial 3 weeks of the study. Continuing in the treatment phase, long-acting injections are
      administered once every 2 weeks through Week 24, and post-treatment observation is performed
      for 6 weeks (total study duration of 30 weeks). Patients in the other treatment group take
      oral risperidone tablets, 2 to 6 mgs daily, from study initiation for 24 weeks.
      Post-treatment observation continues for 1 week for this group (total study duration of 25
      weeks). Assessments of effectiveness made at specified intervals during treatment include
      Positive And Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), a scale for the measurement of symptoms of
      schizophrenia; Clinical Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S), a measure of overall severity
      of illness, and Clinical Global Impression - Changes (CGI-C); as well as, Brief Psychiatric
      Rating Scale (BPRS). Safety evaluations include the incidence of adverse events throughout
      the study; inspection of the injection site at times of treatment; Drug-Induced
      Extrapyramidal Symptoms Scale (DIEPSS), vital signs (pulse, blood pressure, temperature), and
      laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry, urinalysis) at monthly intervals. The study
      hypothesis is that treatment with long-acting risperidone injections is not inferior to oral
      risperidone, as measured by changes in PANSS total score from baseline through endpoint (24
      weeks), in patients with schizophrenia and is generally well-tolerated. Risperidone,
      long-acting formulation for intramuscular injections (25 milligrams[mg] to 50mg, maximum),
      given biweekly through 24 weeks. Oral risperidone (2mg/day to 6mg/day [maximum]) administered
      daily for 24 weeks.
    
  