
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a group of diseases that include both the heart and blood
      vessels, thereby including coronary heart disease (CHD) and coronary artery disease (CAD),
      and acute coronary syndrome (ACS) among several other conditions. CHD causes about one-third
      of all deaths in people older than 35 years. Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is independently
      associated with a 2 to 4-fold increased mortality risk from heart disease, and with an
      increased mortality after myocardial infarction (MI), and worse overall prognosis with CAD.
      To date, DM patients have a higher incidence and prevalence of multivessels CAD. Treatments
      in multivessels CAD diabetics include full medical anti ischemic therapy (antiplatelets
      drugs, beta blockers, anti-remodelling drugs, anti-diabetic drugs etc), and revascularization
      therapy (Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and/or Coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG)). Randomized trials comparing multivessel PCI to coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) have consistently demonstrated the superiority of CABG in reducing mortality,
      myocardial infarctions and need for repeat revascularizations. After the CABG treatment,
      diabetics vs. non-diabetics evidenced a worse prognosis, and an increased mortality at follow
      up. The causes of the worse prognosis after CABG in diabetics are not well known, and
      under-investigated. Authors may speculate that, numerous molecular, epigenetics (as
      microRNAs), and other metabolic risk factors may condition the worse prognosis in diabetics
      vs. non diabetics after CABG. In this context, recently authors investigated the impact of
      epicardial adipose fat tissue dimension and metabolism on cardiovascular clinical outcomes.
      Intriguingly, an increased epicardial fat tissue thickness may be independently associated
      with the prevalence of diabetes. Consequently, diabetics have an higher epicardial fat tissue
      thickness, volumetry, and enhanced metabolism. Therefore, authors may speculate that,
      epicardial fat tissue may work as a metabolically active tissue, by a direct action on the
      heart, and by a cross talking with various metabolic derangements in the body leading to
      insulin resistance, atherosclerosis, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease.
      Moreover, after CABG, lifestyle and medical improvements may lead to the reduction of
      epicardial fat thickness, extension, and metabolism in both non-diabetics, and diabetics.
      Therefore, a part of the lifestyle modifications, also the hypoglycemic drugs therapy may
      lead to modification of epicardial fat tissue. However, authors may speculate that, the
      epicardial fat tissue thickness, volumetry, and metabolism, probably due to inflammatory and
      oxidative molecules activity, and epigenetic and anti-apoptotic pathways (as Sirtuins
      expression), may lead to a balance between epicardial fat tissue growth and/or reduction, and
      then all these pathways may be consequently involved in the prognosis of diabetics vs. non
      diabetics patients after CABG. At moment, all these pathways remain not well investigated in
      literature, and no data has been reported about new hypoglycemic drugs, and its pleiotropic
      effects on diabetics after CABG. Indeed, authors study hypothesis was that, epicardial fat
      tissue dimension, and metabolic activity may be related to a different expression of
      inflammatory, oxidative, and apoptotics molecules, and epigenetic effectors in diabetics vs.
      non-diabetics. Secondary, these effectors, and epicardial tissue dimension and activity, may
      be controlled, after CABG, by incretin treatment in diabetics. Moreover, higher epicardial
      fat tissue thickness, and tissue extension, may be associated with worse prognosis in
      diabetics after CABG. Secondary, in diabetics with better response to CABG, there may be a
      more important reduction of epicardial fat tissue tickness at follow up. This effect may be
      due to the control of different inflammatory, oxidative, and apoptotics molecules, and
      epigenetic effectors in diabetics undergoing CABG, and related to better clinical outcomes.
      Authors study hypothesis, is that incretin therapy may be associated to the reduction in
      epicardial fat tissue thickness, and extension. This effect in diabetics incretin-users vs.
      never-incretin-users may be due to the down regulation of different inflammatory, oxidative
      and apoptotics molecules, and epigenetic effectors involved in epicardial fat metabolism.
      Moreover, in this study authors will evaluate in diabetics vs. non diabetics, and in diabetic
      incretin-users vs. never.-incretin-users, all cause mortality, cardiac mortality, and Major
      adverse cardiac events (MACE) after CABG in diabetics vs. non diabetics, and diabetic
      incretin-users (6 months of incretin therapy) vs. diabetic never-incretin-users. Authors will
      correlate these clinical endpoints to the study of the epicardial fat anatomy and metabolism
      before and after CABG, and to the study of circulating inflammatory and pro-apoptotic
      markers, epigenetic effectors, and stem cells in diabetics vs. non diabetics, and diabetic
      incretin-users (6 months of incretin therapy) vs. diabetic never-incretin-users. A part of
      this, authors may speculate to recognize new cellular, molecular, and inflammatory processes,
      and epigenetic effectors epicardial fat derived related to these effects on clinical
      outcomes, and then used as specifical targets to improve clinical outcomes after CABG in
      diabetics.
    
  