
    
      The participants will be asked to test the effectiveness of up to two games. Participants are
      stroke survivors with post-stroke hemiparesis, which is affecting their ability to walk and
      step.

      Participants will be asked to go to the UAB Spain Rehabilitation Center where they will
      tested up to two games in a maximum of two sessions. Each session will last approximately two
      hours. Testing of the games will be done in a robotic device known as the KineAssistTM-MX
      (KA-MX).

      The KA-MX is a robotic device that allows full freedom of motion for the body and pelvis
      during walking and balance tasks, and also helps to control your posture to enhance your
      balance and stability. The KA-MX also offers you safety while training and will catch you if
      you lose your balance. This assistance is available while participants are strapped into the
      device with a harness and the device allows them to walk over the treadmill with minimal
      things affecting their walking.

      Before starting the performance conditions, participants will be asked to fill out a
      questionnaire that asks about demographics, apathy, balance confidence,and their experience
      with VR and gaming.

      The study team will help participants into the KineAssist MX, and once secured in the device,
      they will be allowed to get acclimated to the device prior to approach the performance
      conditions. Then, they will perform three walking or stepping conditions that measure their
      maximum walking speed or maximum step length.

      Participants will play one of our two developed VR-exergames. One of the games is called
      "Racing Game" and its purpose is to test people's walking speed and ask them to race against
      virtual competitors to incentivize them to walk faster over a 1 minute period. Another game,
      called "Stepping Game" tests participant's ability to step farther.

      Beside the games, participants will perform maximum walking or maximum stepping with simple
      VR environment as well as without VR environment. The games have been developed to be tested
      and will be modified based on feedback from participants. Participants will have the option
      to participate in one or all two tests (i.e., walking and stepping).

      While in the KA-MX, during each condition performance (i.e., walking or stepping),
      participants heart rate will be monitored by a pulse oximeter placed on their finger or
      through a chest strapped heart rate monitor. Participants will be periodically asked to state
      how hard they feel they are working (Rating of Perceived Exertion). Additionally,
      participants maximum walking speed or maximum step length taken in the device during
      performance testing will be counted and recorded.

      At the end of each condition, participants will be given a questionnaires to complete
      regarding their motivation and flow state (i.e., the positive experiential state where
      participants skill equal to the required challenge).
    
  