
    
      This is a non-randomized, phase I, escalating single dose study to assess the safety of the
      gene transfer vector scAAV9/JeT-GAN through intrathecal delivery to the brain and spinal cord
      of patients with Giant Axonal Neuropathy (GAN, OMIM No.256850). The primary objective of this
      study is to assess the safety of the vector following intrathecal delivery in 10-12 GAN
      patients who are five years of age or older and have mutations which result in positive
      cross-reactive immunological material (CRIM) status. This terminology is used in other
      genetic disorders with residual protein expression that would allow for immunotolerance,
      amenable to enzyme or gene replacement such as in Pompe disease. Mutations which could result
      in CRIM-positive status include missense mutations, in-frame deletions or duplications or
      hypomorphic mutations (such as regulatory domain mutations which are leaky such as incomplete
      splice site mutations). This protocol was amended to include a single GAN patient, 5 years or
      older CRIM negative patient ('null mutation patient'). Secondary objectives of this study are
      1) to assess motor and sensory disease symptoms pre- and post-treatment, 2) to examine
      neuropathology in peripheral nerve biopsies in response to treatment, 3) to examine
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and to conduct CSF studies to assess response to treatment, and 4)
      to assess vector shedding following vector administration. The first eligible CRIM positive
      patient will have a genetic diagnosis of giant axonal neuropathy, will be seven years of age
      or older, and will have a forced vital capacity of greater than or equal to 50 percent
      predicted value on pulmonary function testing. This study will be the first-in-human trial of
      intrathecal delivery of scAAV9/JeT-GAN. The primary endpoint will be safety, based upon
      adverse events and standard laboratory safety evaluations. Secondary endpoints will include
      clinical and physiological assessment of motor and sensory function, possible rescue of
      disease pathology in peripheral nerves, examination of CSF in response to treatment, and
      assessment of vector shedding following administration.

      GAN is a chronic neurodegenerative autosomal recessive disease pathologically characterized
      by enlarged axons with disordered microtubules and intermediate filaments. The disease
      pathology is due to loss-of-function mutations in the GAN gene, which encodes the protein
      gigaxonin. Gigaxonin plays a major role in the maintenance of orderly and functional
      intermediate filament (IF) architecture, which is critical for axonal function. Onset of
      symptoms, usually at 3-4 years of age, generally manifests with a slightly awkward gait
      (sensory ataxia). In the peripheral nervous system the disease progressively affects
      predominantly sensory and motor nerves. By the end of the 2nd decade of life, patients
      typically are wheelchair dependent with limited use of the arms and little to no use of their
      legs. During the 2nd decade a tracheostomy or other means of ventilation, as well as a
      feeding tube, are often necessary. Death normally occurs in the 2nd or 3rd decade of life.
      There are no statistics on the incidence of the disease, but it is considered extremely rare
      and there are no effective treatments for the disease. Intrathecal delivery of a gene
      transfer vector carrying a normal copy of the GAN Gene to the spinal cord and brain offers a
      potentially effective treatment for GAN.
    
  