
    
      The importance of the microvasculature in determining clinical outcomes has been highlighted
      in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). For patients with stable CAD, despite the
      success of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in relieving a stenosis in the epicardial
      coronary artery, microvascular dysfunction may preclude sufficient coronary flow and
      myocardial perfusion, possibly leading to worse clinical outcome. With the technical
      development of computational fluid dynamics, angiographic derivation of IMR without pressure
      wire, hyperemic agents, or theromdilution method is available as a potential alternative for
      pressure wire-derived IMR. In this regard, the current study will evaluate diagnostic
      implication of angiography-derived IMR and its prognostic implication after PCI in patients
      with stable CAD.

      This study cohorts consist with 3 separate cohort: first, internal diagnostic accuracy
      cohort, which will evaluate correlation between angiography-derived IMR and hyperemic
      microvascular resistance calculated using Cadmium-Zinc-Telluride Single-Photon Emission
      Computed Tomography (CZT-SPECT)-derived myocardial blood flow and invasively measured
      pressure data. For this, 53 consecutive patients with available CZT-SPECT within 3 months of
      measuring FFR in the left anterior descending coronary artery will be evaluated. Second:
      external diagnostic cohort, in which diagnostic accuracy of angiography-derived IMR will be
      assessed in patients with ischemia and no obstructive coronary artery disease (INOCA) and
      normal controls, whose results were previously published (J Nucl Cardiol. 2020 Sep 30. doi:
      10.1007/s12350-020-02252-8.) Among this cohort, 45 patients with no obstructive CAD and
      normal CZT-SPECT perfusion imaging will be regarded as normal controls, in 35 INOCA patients,
      vessels with normal corresponding perfusion territory will be regarded as internal control.
      Third, prognosis cohort, in which 138 consecutive CAD patients received PCI with available
      angiograms and who were suitable for angiographic fractional flow reserve and IMR measurement
      will be analyzed. Primary clinical outcome will be cardiac death or congestive heart failure
      at 2 years from index procedure. Secondary outcome will be any myocardial infarction,
      ischemia-driven revascularization, definite or probable stent thrombosis, congestive heart
      failure admission and angina pectoris admission at 2 years from index procedure.
    
  