
    
      People with Parkinson disease (PD) lack the chemical dopamine, which is important for
      movement. Levodopa replaces dopamine and restores normal motor function in PD. Early in the
      disease stages, people with PD benefit significantly from levodopa. However, as PD
      progresses, the brain loses more dopamine-producing cells, which causes motor complications
      and unpredictable responses to levodopa. To maintain control of symptoms over time, levodopa
      doses must be increased and given at increasingly shorter intervals. The optimal levodopa
      regimen is different for each person and may vary from day-to-day, depending on a variety of
      internal and external factors including meal consumption, activity level, and other lifestyle
      variances. Currently, clinicians assess levodopa's benefit by the patient's testimony and by
      clinical exam. However, these methods may not adequately represent the severity or range of
      complications experienced by the PD patient. Thus, it can be difficult to determine the
      optimal levodopa treatment regimen, which can cause suboptimal disease management and side
      effects.

      This project aims to develop a continuous, minimally invasive microneedle device placed on
      the skin (the "Levodopameter") designed to continuously measure levodopa levels in real time,
      with the future goals of identifying an individualized treatment regimen for people with PD
      to improve disease management. We will compare levodopa levels measured by the Levodopameter
      to the impractical and expensive "gold standard" high-performance liquid chromatography
      (HPLC) analysis of plasma levodopa levels. We will first test the device after administering
      oral carbidopa/levodopa in 10 participants with PD. After that portion of the study is
      completed and safety confirmed, we will test the device in 10 participants with PD after
      administering carbidopa and intravenous levodopa. We will also evaluate the device's safety
      and tolerability.

      The long-term goal of this device is to allow PD patients to take proactive measures to
      assess and maintain an optimal, personalized levodopa regimen, similar to diabetes care in
      which diabetic patients periodically self-monitor their glucose and adjust their insulin
      regimen accordingly.
    
  