
    
      Introduction

      Trauma causes 10% of the world's annual deaths. Trauma-related deaths are most common in low-
      and middle-income countries, which accounts for over 90% of global trauma mortality. In 2013
      over 1.2 million trauma deaths occurred in India alone. Hence, India accounted for 25% of
      trauma-related deaths worldwide. Experiences from high income countries show that the
      establishment of trauma registers have been of importance for the improvement of trauma care
      and research, allowing for comparisons between different hospitals as well as over time.

      To be useful such comparisons should be risk-adjusted to account for differences in care and
      patient case mix. In trauma one of the most important patient case mix characteristics to
      adjust for is injury severity. Several different injury severity scores exist for this
      purpose. One of these scores is the International Classification of Disease Injury Severity
      Score (ICISS). In contrast to other established scores, such as the Injury Severity Score
      (ISS), ICISS can be calculated based on injuries coded using ICD for administrative purposes,
      making it cost effective.

      The validity of ICISS has primarily been studied in high-income countries ICISS requires an
      empirically estimated Survival Risk Ratio (SRR) for each ICD code. Some studies from high
      income countries has shown similar predictive performance of ICISS when using SRRs derived
      from other high-income countries. However, the generalisability of such SRRs to low- and
      middle-income countries such as India has not been researched. Therefore, the aim of this
      study was to validate an international version of ICISS in patients presenting with trauma to
      four public university hospitals in urban India.

      Study design

      Data from a multi-centre cohort study will be used.

      Setting

      Data from the Towards Improved Trauma Care Outcomes (TITCO) in India project will be used,
      which was conducted at four public university hospitals in urban India. The four centres were
      Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital in Mumbai, King Edward Memorial Hospital in Mumbai,
      Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Center in Delhi, and the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical
      Education and Research and Seth Sukhlal Karnani Memorial Hospital in Kolkata.

      Data was collected between October 2013 and September 2015. Patient data was collected by one
      project officer in every study center. The project officer worked eight hour shifts per day,
      with a rotating schedule between day and night shifts. All project officers had at least a
      health science master degree, and were continuously trained and supervised by project
      management. Details on the data collection process has been published elsewhere.

      Source and method of participant selection

      Eligible patients were identified by project officers through direct observation in the
      emergency room and/or through extraction from patient records. Data from patients admitted
      outside of the shifts was collected retrospectively within days. Patients were followed up
      until discharge, death, or 30 days, whichever occurred first. Patients transferred to other
      hospitals were considered as discharged.

      Covariates

      The explanatory variable will be ICISS. Other covariates include age, sex, mechanism of
      injury, mode of transportation and transfer status. These covariates will be used to
      characterise the study sample.

      Data sources/measurements

      Patient outcomes was followed up at 30 days, death in hospital or discharge, whichever
      occurred first. Patients discharged alive before 30 days were considered to be alive at 30
      days after arrival to the hospital. ICISS will be assigned based on ICD-coding of the free
      text injury descriptions, using the 10th revision of the World Health Organization's
      International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10). Survival Risk Ratios from two published
      data sets will be used. One of the data sets had SRRs calculated from an Australian and New
      Zealand population (14). The other had SRRs created by pooling data from Australia,
      Argentina, Austria, Canada, Denmark, New Zealand and Sweden (12). Final ICISS for patients
      with multiple injuries will be calculated by multiplying the SRRs for all ICD codes assigned
      to the patient.

      Bias

      All patients matching the selection criteria will be included in the study. All data was
      collected from patient records and examinations done by hospital personnel with no
      association to the study. The data collectors worked independently form the project managers.
      The free text injury descriptions will be extracted from the data set and assigned ICD-codes
      with no other data available, including data on patient outcome.

      Study size

      The sample size required is calculated to give an 80% power to detect substantial differences
      in model performance such as 1.5 times too high or low predicted survival probability. The
      calculations were based on published recommendations on the sample size needed to detect such
      differences in the external validity of prediction models with a binary outcome. Based on
      these recommendations, the sample size needed to include 100 consecutive events, i.e.
      in-hospital deaths within 24 hours and all non-events enrolled during the same period, was
      calculated. In-hospital mortality within 24 hours was used for the sample size calculation to
      power the study for secondary outcomes as well.

      Quantitative variables

      All quantitative variables will be analysed as continuous.

      Statistical methods and analyses

      R will be used for all statistical analyses. A confidence level of 95% and a significance
      level of 5% will be used. For each patient one ICISS will be calculated for each of the two
      sets of SRR referenced above. Henceforth, the ICISS based on SRR from Australia and New
      Zealand will be denoted ICISS-ANZ, and the ICISS based on the international SRR derived by
      Gedeborg et al. will be denoted ICISS-I. The performance of ICISS-ANZ and ICISS-I in
      predicting death within 30 days and death within 24 hours will be estimated in terms of
      discrimination and calibration.

      The area under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUROCC) will be used as a
      measure of discrimination. Calibration will be assessed visually by plotting observed versus
      predicted outcomes and will be quantified by calculating a calibration slope. The main
      analysis will be a complete case analysis in which only patients with complete data on
      outcomes and covariates will be included. Both ICISS-ANZ and ICISS-I will be based only on
      SRR calculated from ICD-10 codes that occurred in at least 20 patients in respective
      derivation dataset. Patients without any injury reported will be assigned an ICISS of 1.

      Sensitivity analyses Four sensitivity analyses will be conducted. The first sensitivity
      analysis will include patients with missing data on covariates but with complete outcome
      data. The second sensitivity analysis will exclude patients without any reported injury. The
      third sensitivity analysis will include all SRR regardless of the number of occurrences in
      the original derivation datasets. In the final sensitivity analysis the ICISS for each
      patient will be based only on unique ICD-10 codes, in other words, each ICD-10 code was only
      allowed to contribute one SRR to ICISS even if it occurred more than once in the same
      patient.
    
  