
    
      HIV testing is crucial for early detection of HIV infection; yet, Latino immigrants are at
      high risk for late HIV diagnosis. Increased screening for HIV and STIs is particularly
      important for Latino immigrant men who have sex with men (MSM), a group disproportionately at
      risk for HIV that also encounters barriers to health access due to factors associated with
      immigrant status. Latino MSM recently experienced a significant increase (25%) in new HIV
      diagnoses (2008-2015), while diagnoses among MSM overall remained stable. Based on these
      trends, 1 in 4 Latino MSM will be diagnosed with HIV in their lifetimes, highlighting their
      urgent need for HIV prevention. Notably, pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) can reduce risk of
      HIV among high-risk groups; yet, only 3% of Latinos who could benefit from PrEP have received
      it. As undiagnosed HIV contributes to 40% of new HIV infections, and STIs increase HIV risk,
      targeted interventions that address Latino immigrant MSM's barriers to HIV/STI testing and
      PrEP uptake are critical for curbing the HIV epidemic.

      Studies have shown that peers can influence HIV-related behaviors by enhancing information,
      motivation, and behavior skills (IMB Model). Peers share characteristics with the target
      population, which facilitates role modeling and can empower individuals to engage in
      behaviors. While peer interventions have demonstrated success in shaping behaviors among
      Latino MSM, their utility for addressing immigrant-specific barriers to HIV/STI testing and
      PrEP use is less understood.

      While the IMB Model and empowerment theory highlight relevant psychological determinants of
      behavior, competent attention to structural factors (i.e. access) is key for HIV prevention.
      The availability of HIV/STI self-testing kits presents opportunities to overcome structural
      barriers to testing. HIV/STI self-testing kits are convenient testing methods as they allow
      for at-home testing, reducing the need for health care visits. The research combines these
      approaches (peers and HIV/STI self-testing kits) to address individual and structural
      barriers to HIV prevention among Latino immigrant MSM.
    
  