
    
      Primary research question

      What is the impact of different non-medical practitioner skill-mix in Emergency Departments
      (ED) and Urgent Treatment Centres (UTC) in acute hospitals on patient and service processes
      and outcomes?

      Background

      Increasing demand for emergency and urgent care has occurred alongside staffing shortage,
      particularly of doctors. Re-shaping of the workforce has resulted, including the introduction
      of non-medical practitioners (NMPs), such as nurse practitioners and physician associates.
      Despite 20 years of NMPs in EDs, there is limited evidence of effectiveness of individual
      roles, and none as to appropriate skill-mix of staff, at what level of independence from
      senior medical staff.

      Aim

      To explore how NMPs are being deployed and the impact of different skill-mix including NMPs
      in EDs and UTCs on patient experience, quality of care, clinical outcomes, activity, staff
      experience and costs in acute NHS trusts in England, in order to inform workforce decisions
      of clinicians, managers and commissioners.

      Methods

      A mixed methods study will be conducted in three phases.

      Phase One (months 1-12) aims to describe the rationale for, and configurations of, the NMP
      workforce in EDs/UTCs in England, and to develop analytical tools.

        -  The investigators will undertake and publish a scoping literature and policy review on
           NMP development and skill-mix outcomes, informed by interviews with senior NHS
           clinicians, managers, commissioners and lay representatives (Work package [WP] 1)

        -  NHS Digital and NHS Benchmarking national data, 2017-2021 will be used to describe
           quantitatively the NMP and other clinical workforce (skill-mix); and observation (WP2)
           will enable qualitative description of the level of independence/supervision of NMPs and
           doctors.

        -  WP1 and WP2 results will be triangulated in consultative activities with patient and
           public and NMP representatives, and the independent study steering committee, to develop
           three analytical tools: a skill-mix ratio classification, a quantitative measure of
           independence and supervision, and a logic model for NMP skill-mix (WP3).

      Phase two (months 13-18) aims to utilise the analytical tools to assess the impact of
      skill-mix ratios on national ED/UTC indicators of quality.

      •The investigators will conduct and publish a quasi-experimental study of associations of
      skill-mix ratio classifications with our primary outcome (rate of unplanned return to the
      ED/UTC in seven days, a proxy for clinical safety), secondary outcomes (national indicators
      of ED/UTC quality and performance), and cost-effectiveness. (WP4)

      Phase three (months 13-24) aims to explain the effectiveness and acceptability of skill-mix
      ratios through investigation in six local-level case study sites.

        -  The WP4 analysis will be repeated with added precise local quantitative data on NMP
           types (trust management information), controlling for level of independence/supervision
           of the clinician (collected via structured observation). Patient satisfaction will be
           added as an outcome, collected prospectively via questionnaire (WP5).

        -  The experience of including NMPs in the skill-mix will be investigated through
           qualitative interviews with patients and staff (WP6).

      In Phase four (months 25-30) the investigators will prepare a synthesis of findings, using
      the logic model, for structured discussion at a stakeholder event to prepare recommendations
      and outputs.

      Timelines for delivery

      The study will take place from March 2021 to August 2023.

      Anticipated impact and dissemination

      The research will generate new knowledge and understanding of optimum/most effective/impact
      of different skill-mix outcomes to translate into workforce models with our NHS partners.
      Commissioners, clinicians and managers will be able to assess their local skill-mix in
      relation to the guidance on (optimum) skill-mix outcomes. Dissemination throughout the study
      will include policy briefings, academic outputs, bite-size findings, conference presentations
      and social and mainstream media routes accessible to stakeholders.
    
  