
    
      The aim of this novel health services research proposal is to assess the longer-term
      outcomes, to 6 months corrected age, of Family Integrated Care (FICare) for moderate and late
      preterm infants admitted to a Level II neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). FICare is a
      psycho-educational intervention that empowers parents (mothers and fathers) to sequentially
      build their knowledge, skill, and confidence so the family is well-prepared to care for their
      preterm infant before discharge. FICare is dynamic, whereby parents and healthcare providers
      openly and mutually negotiate equitable caregiving roles during the infant's NICU stay.
      Parents are educated and coached to provide routine non-medical care. Healthcare providers
      continue to provide medical and technical care, such as intravenous medications and
      procedures, legal documentation, and professional support for families. Using a cluster
      randomized controlled trial (cRCT), our team is evaluating FICare in all 10 Level II NICUs in
      Alberta (5 intervention, 5 control sites; stratified by hospital size) with follow-up of
      infant development and costs at age 2 months corrected age (CA). Unless otherwise indicated,
      infant ages are corrected for prematurity. For the cRCT, we hypothesized that FICare would
      reduce length of NICU stay by 10%, reduce infant morbidities (e.g., nosocomial infections,
      respiratory support, feeding problems), increase breast-milk feeding, reduce maternal
      psychological distress, and reduce costs to the health care system and families. Maternal and
      infant data are currently being collected (1) shortly after admission to the NICU (baseline),
      (2) shortly before discharge from NICU (outcome), and (3) at 2 months CA (follow-up). At 2
      months CA, our team will evaluate outcomes related to infant global development and maternal
      psychosocial distress. A follow-up study at 6 months CA will provide evidence of the
      sustainability of any effects, upon which to inform policy decisions about full-scale
      implementation of FICare in Level II NICUs.

      There is currently no standardized timeline for follow-up of infants born prematurely.
      Follow-up at 6 months CA is appropriate as the utility of assessing development in preterm
      infants is questionable prior to this age, and evidence suggests that inter-individual
      variability in child development increases after 12 months. After 12 months, it becomes more
      difficult to capture parent-child interactions and environmental factors may exert a stronger
      influence on infant development, potentially diluting the ability to directly measure the
      effect of FICare.
    
  