
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects muscle
      function throughout the body. Weakness and muscle shrinkage begin either in the face, arm, or
      leg. A clinical ALS hallmark is rapidly progressive weight loss. Also, respiration is usually
      affected late in the disease, and death typically occurs as a consequence of respiratory
      failure. The median survival after disease onset is approximately 3-4 years.

      While there are now two FDA-approved agents for patients with ALS, there are no interventions
      that have had a meaningful impact on the natural course of this disease. Riluzole prolongs
      survival by up to 12 weeks. Edaravone improves some aspects of neurological function in a
      small subset of patients, but that was ineffective in clinical studies that included ALS
      patients at all stages of disease.

      Past failures to identify effective therapies reflect the complexity of ALS pathogenesis, in
      that no single therapeutic target has been identified. Thus, single agent or dual combination
      therapies are unlikely to succeed. Given the truly rapid and devastating nature of ALS and
      that there are no effective treatments for ALS, one can argue that it is critical to devise a
      different approach. Until the exact mechanisms that lead to ALS are identified, it is
      necessary to employ polytherapy which includes new agents that show promise.

      This study will lay further groundwork on methodology for performing more definite trials in
      ALS. The study of secondary biomarkers in ALS is significant because there are currently no
      molecular or biochemical biomarkers for assessing therapeutic efficacy of drug treatments in
      ALS clinical trials. By doing this study, the study investigators hope to learn that
      high-dose anti-oxidants would be a simple, low risk, low-cost approach to significantly slow
      or stop the progression of ALS, for which currently no effective treatment exists.
      Participation in this research will last about 13 months
    
  