
    
      This is a prospective study that will be conducted in pregnant women with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2,
      aged from 18 to 42 years. Participation in the program will be offered between 12 and 22 + 6
      weeks of pregnancy. Women with a history of more than 2 miscarriages, severe heart disease
      (arrhythmia, previous myocardial infarction), bleeding in the first trimester, multiple
      pregnancy, unstable thyroid disease, hypertension, diabetes, or any other medical conditions
      that can interfere with the practice of physical activity during pregnancy will not be
      allowed to participate in the program for medical reasons. The participants will sign an
      informed consent. The intervention will be an educational program called "Eat well, move well
      for to the baby's health," including nutritional counselling and physical activity exercises.
      The control group will receive usual care as a simple information. The intervention will take
      place between 24 and 36 weeks of pregnancy. Women will be evaluated before (20-24 weeks
      gestation (SA)), during the intervention (32-34 SA), and finally 8 weeks after childbirth
      during the postnatal visit. All patients with benefit from obstetric monitoring according
      with the French recommendations with a monthly consultation and ultrasonography exams at 22
      and 32 wks.

      Nutritional support will include 3 workshops of 2 hours within the 12 weeks (one workshop per
      month). Each workshop session will be conducted in groups of 10 to 15 participants. These
      workshops will aim firstly to inform patients of weight gain recommendations during pregnancy
      and food recommendations.

      Workshop No. 1 will provide information on the goals of weight gain during pregnancy, and
      will target the implementation of recommendations in terms of diet during pregnancy. The
      messages will be specifically adapted to the population of obese women including dietary
      advices, work on erroneous beliefs and representations, work on the motivation to change
      eating habits and reduction of the harmful link between emotions and eating. Thus, beyond the
      information, this workshop will have the primary role to develop a diet suitable for
      pregnancy in obese women. This workshop will be led by a dietician and psychologist. It will
      take place between the 1st and 4th week of the program.

      Workshop No. 2 will inform the benefits of breastfeeding for the child and the mother
      (including its impact on weight loss during the postpartum period, especially important in
      obese women). As in the previous workshop, the objective will be to obtain the application of
      the recommendations on diet during breastfeeding. The general message will be adapted to the
      problems specific to obese women: work on the social, educational, family, removal of beliefs
      and motivational brakes. This workshop will be led by a dietician and a midwife and will take
      place between the 5th and 8th week of the program.

      Workshop No. 3 will target the diet in the postpartum period and nutritional needs of the
      newborn and young child. Beyond dietary information, specific work will be done on motivation
      to take care of the body after pregnancy and breastfeeding, and especially the fight against
      the beliefs of the food needs of the newborn, typically found in obese mothers (fear of
      missing, hunger equated with suffering, the emotional power as substitute) This workshop will
      take place between the 9th and 12th week of the program and will be led by a dietician and a
      pediatric nurse.

      The exercise program will feature sessions developed by the North Committee of the French
      Federation of Physical Education and Voluntary Gymnastics. On the program, which lasts 12
      weeks per patient, there will be inputs and outputs permanent in the group based on
      inclusions. The program will be continued for the duration of the research. This program will
      propose 3 weekly slots of physical activities so that participants can take at least a weekly
      session. Ideally they will be encouraged to practice a second session and to perform
      exercises by their own. The personal session can be a walk on the weekend, or an indoor gym
      classes in one a club, an aqua fit session ... or exercises proposed by the coach to
      replicate at home. The participants will be able to record and monitor their practice using
      the logbook.

      Evaluation of the program "Eat well, move well for the baby's health" The investigators will
      do the assessment before during and after the program. Patients will have a logbook in which
      they will notice physical activity performed. This book will include questionnaires to
      complete.

        1. Food Evaluation The investigators will use a food behavior questionnaire (18 items) and
           5 direct questions for a semi-quantitative assessment (sweet beverages consumption, fat,
           portion sizes). All these elements for assessing eating behavior (uncontrolled eating,
           hunger, cognitive restriction), the type of food consumed (carbohydrates, fats and
           proteins). The evaluation will be conducted by dieticians.

        2. Evaluation of physical activity Physical activity of patients will be estimated using
           the French Physical Activity Questionnaire in Pregnancy (QFAPG). This self administered
           questionnaire will have a qualitative vision (business type) and quantitative activity
           through 33 questions on "sports" on "household activities " on "activities at work " and
           also on "activities related to transportation".

           Physical activity will be quantitatively measured for each patient who will receive an
           accelerometer (The Actigraph, Manufacturing Technology Inc., model wActisleep +,
           Pensacola, Florida USA) that will record the intensity of the efforts made during a
           period of 7 days.

        3. Well-being Evaluation Well-being will be evaluated using the positive and negative
           affect schedule Questionnaire. which is sensitive to changes over time and assesses the
           positive and negative affects. It will assess the program's impact on the positive /
           negative affect.
    
  