
    
      EXISTING KNOWLEDGE AND MAIN ASSUMPTIONS OF THE PROJECT.

      Atherosclerosis is the most common cause of peripheral artery disease (PAD). The first
      symptom of PAD is intermittent claudication (IC), which is characterized by the occurrence of
      pain, cramps, numbness, and discomfort in the lower limb muscles. They gradually intensify
      while walking, forcing the patient to stop. The symptoms are caused by continuous, specific
      physical effort and quickly disappear when it is stopped. The reduction of the possibility of
      walking leads to a decrease in the quality of life of patients and adds to other dangerous
      consequences of atherosclerosis, increased risk of cardiovascular incidents (myocardial
      infarction (MI), stroke, acute lower limb ischemia, Micker M et al. 2006).

      Pharmacological treatment of patients with IC is aimed at modifying cardiovascular risk
      factors and improving the quality of life by alleviating pain and prolonging the claudication
      distance (Goszcz et al., 2009).

        1. New possibilities for the pharmacotherapy of patients with symptomatic PAD.

           According to the adopted TASC (The Trans Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus), and its TASC
           II supplement concerning aspects of management and treatment of patients with chronic
           limb ischemia (CLI), drugs used in PAD are divided into nine groups: those with
           documented clinical effect used in IC (cilostazol and naphthydrofuryl), drugs with
           probable clinical effect used in IC (carnitine and propyl-L-carnitine), lipid-lowering
           drugs (statins), drugs with insufficiently proven clinical effects (penthoxyphilin),
           anticoagulants, L-arginine, 5-hydroxytryptamine (ketanserin) antagonism, buflomedil, and
           defibrotide.

        2. Antiplatelet drugs

           Antiplatelet drugs are used to prevent thrombotic complications in the course of
           myocardial infarction, stroke, and thrombi in peripheral arteries. Acetylsalicylic acid
           (ASA, aspirin) at doses of 75-325 mg per day, ticlopidine at doses of 250 mg twice a
           day, and clopidogrel at doses of 75 mg once a day (CAPRIE, 1996) are proven to be
           effective in PAD patients. Recently there have been reports of beneficial effects of
           policosanol (a cholesterol-lowering drug with an antiplatelet effect), which prolongs
           the claudication distance after 10 weeks of treatment (10 mg once a day; clinical
           trial). The results of ASA (100 mg daily) were however inconclusive (Illnait et al.,
           2008).

           The group of new antiplatelet drugs, used in PAD patients, includes rivaroxaban (trade
           name Xarelto), which in a vascular dose (2.5 mg twice a day) combined with ASA (75-100
           mg once a day) provides more effective cardiovascular protection (defined together as
           cardiovascular death, MI and stroke) compared to ASA alone in the COMPASS study (Anand
           SS et al. 2018; Olinic DM et al. 2018; Connolly SJ, 2018).

           Other studies with the acronyms MACE and MALE, conducted in the PAD patients of nearly
           5,000 cases in total, confirm that the use of rivaroxaban provides comprehensive
           vascular protection in PAD. The former showed a 28% reduction in the risk of
           cardiovascular death/myocardial infarction/brain stroke, the latter a 44% reduction in
           the risk of acute lower limb ischemia and a 46% reduction in the risk of acute/chronic
           limb ischemia and a 70% reduction in the risk of large amputations. This is the only
           anticoagulant that, in combination with ASA, reduces mortality in patients with coronary
           artery disease (CAD) and PAD. At the same time, Xarelto, in a vascular dose, in
           combination with ASA, does not cause a significant increase in the risk of major
           bleedings compared to ASA itself. So far, this drug has not been tested in the context
           of prolongation of the claudication distance.

           Rivaroxaban inhibits the formation of thrombin and clots by directly inhibiting factor
           Xa (activated factor X), thus preventing the transformation of prothrombin into thrombin
           and interrupting the final common path of the blood clotting cascade. This drug
           competitively inhibits factor Xa with 10,000 times the selectivity of related serine
           proteases such as thrombin and factors VIIa, IXa, and XIa. Numerous experimental data
           suggest the role of clotting system components in regulating atherosclerosis progression
           (Borensztajn K et al., 2008; Borissoff et al., 2009; Platek and Szymanski, 2019).
           Various factors of the coagulation cascade mediate these activities, and the broadest
           spectrum of action concerns the effect of the complex of factor Xa and thrombin
           precisely.

           Scientific research confirms the pleiotropic effects of rivaroxaban on the
           cardiovascular system. However, most of the currently available observations come from
           basic research whose results need to be confirmed in clinical trials. Among the planned
           clinical trials that may establish pleiotropic rivaroxaban actions, the PRE -FER-AF
           study (PREvention oF thromboembolic events - European Registry in Atrial Fibrillation)
           is mentioned as the most important. This study aims to determine the efficacy of oral
           anticoagulants other than vitamin K antagonists (NOAC) in preventing endothelial
           dysfunction and atherosclerosis progression in patients with atrial fibrillation.
           However, it will not provide information on the effect of the drug on the progress of
           PAD or exercise tolerance.

        3. The objective

           The aim of the study is to assess the protective efficacy of rivaroxaban, administered
           together with ASA, in comparison with the efficacy of ASA alone, with respect to
           intermittent claudication and exercise tolerance in patients with PAD over a 3-month
           period.

        4. Type of study

           Prospective, observational, unblinded (open), randomized, case-control, single-centre.

        5. Description of the study group (age, gender, health status, size of the group).

           The study will include PAD patients in Fountaine stage II, hospitalized in the Clinical
           Hospital of Transfiguration (Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Angiology
           and Phlebology of the Poznan University of Medical Sciences), monitored in the adjacent
           Outpatient Clinic or referred by cooperating physicians who will use a different
           protocol of anticoagulation pharmacotherapy to prevent thrombotic events. The
           recommended pharmacotherapy does not exceed the standard of treatment in patients with
           PAD.

           5.1 Size of the study group. At least 60 PAD patients will be included. The collection
           and observation of the study group will take place until the scientific goal of the
           study is achieved. Therefore the possibility of increasing the recruitment of patients
           for the study is assumed up to 100 patients.

           5.2 Characteristics of the study group. The inclusion/exclusion criteria, medical
           history, and cardiovascular risk factors will be examined. Then patients will be
           subjected to objective assessment of exercise tolerance, assessment of claudication
           distance, implementation of anticoagulation pharmacotherapy protocol and prospective
           study protocol. Venous blood samples (9-18 ml), and capillary blood for diagnostic,
           biochemical, and molecular analysis will be collected. Costs will be shared between
           cooperating centers.

           5.3 Pharmacotherapy. Vascular doses of drugs will be used in one group: 1 x/day ASA
           75-100 mg and in the other: 1 x/day ASA 75-100 mg + 2 x/day 2.5 mg Xarelto.

        6. Methods The general study plan assumes up to 5 visits of the patient to the cooperating
           centers during the study. First visit to the Hospital-Outpatient Clinic for recruitment
           (interview with the patient, obtaining written consent, patient registration, the
           appointment of the next visit, and optionally USG-Doppler of arteries). Second visit to
           the hospital's blood collection point for fasting blood tests (blood collection for
           tests and optionally USG-Doppler of arteries). During the third and fourth visits at
           University of Physical Education treadmill tests with additional tests (ECG, ABI, TCPO2
           measurements before and after treadmill test, as well as biochemical evaluation of
           effort tolerance and subjective assessment of effort using Borg scale) will be
           performed. During third visit, randomization will also be done. The fourth visit will be
           scheduled after three months. Then data will be collected and analyzed. During the fifth
           visit, USG-Doppler of arteries will be performed, and a patient recommendation will be
           issued.

      6.1 Clinical characteristics of the studied population. The following clinical data will be
      collected for the study: a) results of aortic and lower limb arteries imaging, b) results of
      heart function tests, c) assessment of the occurrence and severity of atherosclerotic lesions
      in blood vessels (including: ABI, IMT,TcPO2 value), d) results of fasting venous blood
      laboratory tests including blood lipid parameters, glucose metabolism, liver and renal
      function, homocysteine, folic acid, peripheral blood morphology, blood coagulation
      parameters, e) blood pressure parameters, f) results of virological and bacteriological
      tests, g) anthropometric data, h) smoking status, i) pharmacotherapy j) coexisting diseases,
      k) pain, l) family history of cardiovascular disease and cancer.

      6.2 Treadmill test. The effect of pharmacotherapy will be assessed based on the treadmill
      test that will be carried out according to Gardner protocol (Gardner et al., 1991). Patients
      will march on a treadmill at a constant speed of 3.2 km/h. The initial angle of the slope
      will be 0% and will be raised by 2% every 2 minutes. The test will be carried out in the
      Laboratory of Functional Testing of the Department of Physiology and Biochemistry of the
      University of Physical Education in Poznan, with no contraindications (based on the result of
      an ECG). The subjects will be tested at each of the test dates to assess the claudication
      distance on the Katana S30p medical treadmill (Lode BV, Netherlands) (Mika et al. 2009). The
      total time of each test will not exceed 16 minutes 40 seconds, and the regeneration time will
      be at least 5 minutes. When the patient reports pain (i.e., grade 2 on a subjective pain
      assessment scale), the time of occurrence of the claudication will be recorded, from which
      the claudication distance (DGCH) will be estimated. The test will be interrupted when very
      severe pain occurs that prevents further walking (step 5 corresponding to maximum walking
      time), and the maximum walking time will then be recorded. The maximum walking time will be
      used to estimate the maximum walking distance (DGMAX). Once the treadmill tests have been
      completed, patients will undergo a control ECG examination to exclude ischemic changes in the
      heart muscle and cardiac arrhythmias.

      6.3. Evaluation of exercise tolerance. The assessment of exercise tolerance will be carried
      out based on the duration of the effort and questionnaires (Borg scale; Smarż et al. 2015),
      and biochemical exponents (metabolic equivalent MET-s will be estimated; Bires AM et al.,
      2013). At rest and 3 minutes after the exercise, the intensity of metabolic exercise acidosis
      will be assessed based on lactate concentration in capillary blood taken from the fingertip.
      At the same time, venous blood will also be collected for other biochemical tests, including
      gasometry.

      6.4 Length of observation. The effects of the treatment will be assessed within three months,
      but the observation period can be extended to a maximum of 12 months.

      6.5 End points of the study. The main endpoints of this study and the complications have been
      developed in accordance with the results adopted in the COMPASS study. Parameters related to
      the effects of the treadmill test were added.

      6.6 Biological material and its use. Blood samples will be collected for further analysis and
      DNA extraction. The concentration of lactate will be tested using EDGE Blood Lactate Test
      Strip, ApexBio, (Taiwan). The level of selected blood biomarkers will be assessed by the
      immunoenzymatic method (ELISA) for proteins, and TaqMan tests or corresponding methods for
      circulating miRNAs and DNA.
    
  