
    
      The study has three parts: part 1: Multi-arm Bayesian adaptive signal finding design in solid
      tumors and diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL); part 2: NIR178 schedule exploration in
      NSCLC; part 3: Further evaluation of intermittent or continuous dosing schedules of NIR178 in
      combination with PDR001 in additional tumor types, if part 2 identifies an intermittent or
      continuous dosing schedule of NIR178 as warranting further exploration. In addition, a
      separate safety run-in part will be conducted in Japan in order to adequately characterize
      the safety and pharmacokinetic profiles of NIR178 as a single-agent and in combination with
      PDR001.

      Parts 1 and 2 and the safety run-in in Japan will enroll in parallel. Part 3 will be opened
      based on the results from part 1 and part 2 and may enroll in parallel with Part 1.

      Patients enrolled in this study will receive NIR178 either BID continuously or based on the
      assigned intermittent schedule within 60 minutes prior to PDR001 infusion. PDR001 will be
      administered via IV infusion over 30 minutes once every 4 weeks. Each treatment cycle is 28
      days. Patients enrolled in the Japanese safety run-in part will receive NIR178 as single
      agent for the first cycle (28 days). If the patients complete cycle 1 without experiencing
      DLTs, they will initiate combination therapy with PDR001 starting cycle 2 onwards, and
      continue at the same dose of NIR178. An additional cohort in the Japanese safety run-in part
      of the study will receive NIR178 in combination with PDR001 starting with Cycle 1. If the
      patients complete cycle 1 without experiencing DLTs, they will continue to receive
      combination treatment.

      Patients will receive treatment with the combination until disease progression (assessed by
      investigator per immune-related response criteria (iRECIST) or Cheson 2014, unacceptable
      toxicity, death or discontinuation from study treatment for any other reason (e.g.,
      withdrawal of consent, start of a new anti-neoplastic therapy or at the discretion of the
      investigator), otherwise known as End of Treatment.
    
  