
    
      This is a two-arm, randomized-controlled pilot study with 2 year duration. The "intervention"
      refers to surveillance based on the EAU guidelines and the "control" refers to surveillance
      based on the AUA guidelines.

      Research methods: Participants who presents with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer and meets
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be given an option to participate in the study.
      Participants will be enrolled at the Urology Clinics at the University of Texas Health
      Science Center San Antonio (UTHSCSA) Medical Arts and Research Center (MARC) and South Texas
      Veterans Health Care System (STVHCS). Non-local site include the University of Texas
      Southwestern Medical Center (UTSW). The research procedures consist of urine collection,
      cystoscopy, and patient satisfaction and cost questionnaires. The evaluation will be done by
      the tumor recurrence and progression of the disease. At various time points throughout the
      study, urine may be obtained from the patient and banked in the Genitourinary (GU) Tissue
      Bank. Subjects asked to provide a urine sample(s) will be asked to sign a separate informed
      consent. The urine is de-identified in the lab per the Health Insurance Portability and
      Accountability Act (HIPAA) protocol GU Tissue Bank Institutional Review Board (IRB) #
      20050234H). Patients will undergo cystoscopy in clinic (standard of care). In the
      intervention arm, patient surveillance cystoscopy will be performed at 3, 12 months and again
      at 24 months following the diagnosis of bladder cancer. Patients randomized to the control
      arm, will undergo surveillance cystoscopy every 3 months for 2 years following the diagnosis
      of bladder cancer. Because use of cytology is variable among the participating urologist, the
      utilization of cytology will be at the treating urologist's discretion as per usual standard
      care. Study duration will be 2 years from most recent biopsy. Patients will be placed on the
      surveillance schedule based on the length of time from their last tumor.
    
  