
    
      The pilot project will examine the effects of a brief, one-session computerized intervention
      delivered to Veterans seeking treatment for an opioid use disorder. The opioid epidemic in
      the United States (US) is having a disproportionate impact on Veterans. Indeed, Veterans are
      twice as likely to die from an accidental opioid overdose than members of the general
      population, even after accounting for gender and age distribution. Although many individuals
      with an opioid addiction seek treatment, a large proportion drop out prematurely and/or
      relapse, highlighting the need to identify modifiable factors that may contribute to this
      process. One variable that may be useful in understanding attrition in addiction treatment is
      anxiety sensitivity (AS). AS is a well-established psychological risk factor reflecting the
      tendency to fear anxious arousal due to the belief that this arousal will have harmful
      physical, mental, and/or social consequences. AS is elevated in opioid use populations and
      predicts treatment dropout among opioid users. Importantly, research suggests that AS is
      highly malleable. Despite this, to our knowledge no published research to date has
      systematically explored the utility of AS reduction protocols among opioid users. The first
      aim of the current project is to test the acceptability and feasibility of a brief,
      one-session Computerized AS Treatment (CAST) delivered to Veterans seeking treatment for an
      opioid use disorder. Because this is a pilot project and the study will likely be
      underpowered to detect treatment effects, we will not emphasize symptom reduction.
      Nevertheless, a second aim of the current project is to examine the utility of CAST by
      gathering data on symptom change. Finally, a third aim of the current project is to examine
      the effects of CAST on rates of attendance and retention in a substance use disorder
      treatment (SUDT) program.
    
  