
    
      Aim: To measure the effectiveness of an educational intervention in uncontrolled hypertensive
      patients without cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), compared with clinical practice
      to improve hypertension control in a year.

      Method: This work describes a protocol for a clinical trial, randomised by clusters and
      involving 22 primary healthcare clinics (PHCC), to test the effectiveness of the EDUCORE
      method. The number of patients required was 736, all between 40 and 65 years of age (n=368 in
      the EDUCORE and control groups), all of whom had been diagnosed with HBP at least one year
      ago, and all of whom had poorly controlled hypertension (systolic blood pressure ≥ 140 mmHg
      and/or diastolic ≥ 90 mmHg). All personnel taking part were explained the trial and trained
      in its methodology. The EDUCORE method contemplates the visualisation of low risk SCORE
      scores using images embodying different stages of a high risk action, plus the receipt of a
      pamphlet explaining how to better maintain cardiac health. The main outcome variable was the
      control of blood pressure; secondary outcome variables included the SCORE score, therapeutic
      compliance, quality of life, and total cholesterol level. All outcome variables were measured
      at the beginning of the experimental period and again at 6 and 12 months. Information on sex,
      age, educational level, physical activity, body mass index, consumption of medications,
      change of treatment and blood analysis results was also recorded.

      Information source: Clinical interview and assessments tests. The data will be registered in
      Electronic data capture system.

      Statistical Analysis: Primary and secondary effectiveness. Adjusting by prognosis factors
      with random effects models (logistic regression) (dependent variable: good/bad blood pressure
      control; independent variable: intervention group).

      Discussion: The EDUCORE method could provide a simple, inexpensive means of improving blood
      pressure control, and perhaps other health problems, in the primary healthcare setting.
    
  