
    
      Investigator will compare mVO2 time constant in 2 groups of COPD (chronic obstrutive
      pulmonary disease) patients matched for age, sex, physical activity (estimated by GPAQ
      questionnaire (Global Physical Activity Questionnaire)), one with chronic hypoxemia (LTOT+
      group) and one without blood gas abnormalities (LTOT- group)..

      Inclusion visit It will allow to calculate physical activity in Mets.min/week, from the GPAQ
      questionnaire. The patient will also be accustomed to the repeated arterial occlusion
      procedure. A pneumatic cuff will be wrapped around the thigh and will be progressively
      inflated to a suprasystolic value (rapid air inflation system Hokanson), from 160 mmHg up to
      tolerated maximal pressure (max 220 mmHg).

      Experimental visit

        -  Muscle biopsy. A biopsy of the vastus lateralis will be performed while breathing
           ambient air. After disinfection and anesthesia of skin and subcutaneous tissue, an
           automatic biopsy gun (Monopty Bard 14G) will be introduced in the muscle and a 20 mg
           biopsy will be withdrawn. The maximal mitochondrial O2 consumption and mitochondrial
           affinity for O2 will be immediately measured with high resolution respirometry
           (Oroboros, 10 mg tissue). A 10 mg fragment will be stored in liquid nitrogen for mRNA
           analysis of hypoxia driven genes (Hypoxia-inducible Factor 1, Vascular Endothelial
           Growth Factor, Carbonic Anhydrase 9, Heme Oxygenase 1).

        -  mVO2 time constant measurement (k, min-1) in ambient air. A NIRS probe (Oxymon III) will
           be placed on the thigh (contralateral to the muscle biopsy) and secured with an elastic
           wrap. The NIRS signal will be displayed continuously and recorded on a software
           (Oxysoft) The inflation cuff will be placed upstream the NIRS probe. After 5 to 10
           isometric contractions of the quadriceps, the cuff will be rapidly inflated (maximal
           tolerated pressure determined during the inclusion visit) and deflated according to a
           predetermined protocol: 5 s /5 s 5 times, followed by 7 s /7 s 5 times and then 10 s/10
           s 10 times. The deoxygenation kinetics (% deoxygenation/min) will be calculated for
           every occlusion and these deoxygenation indices will be expressed over time in order to
           calculate the time constant of the exponential relationship (k, min-1). This sequence
           will be repeated twice and the k values will be averaged.

        -  mVO2 time constant measurement with O2. Oxygen therapy will be given to the patient for
           1 hour before repeating the k determination as described above. Oxygen flow will be set
           to the habitual flow rate in the LTOT+ group, and an arbitrary 3 L/min flow rate in the
           LTOT- group.
    
  