
    
      Study procedures:

      No study related intervention will be performed. Included patients will be prospectively
      followed for at least 24 months. A maximum duration of follow-up is not intended.

      During the observation period standardized study visits are performed to prospectively
      document patient characteristics, clinical data, patient-reported outcomes, physician's
      reasons for treatment decisions, and satisfaction with treatment.

      The first study visit is scheduled at patient inclusion (baseline-visit; V1). The second and
      third study visits are scheduled 3 and 6 months after baseline, respectively. (V2 after 3
      months, V3 after 6 months). Thereafter, study visits are scheduled after 3 months (if a new
      systemic treatment was initiated) or after 6 months (in case no new systemic treatment was
      prescribed).

      In a subset of patients biosamples for molecular analyses including blood, swabs and stool
      will be taken at baseline and at V6, as well as skin biopsies prior to and 3 months after
      systemic therapy initiation. This optional module requires separate patient information and
      informed consent.

      Data assessment:

      Prospective electronic documentation of disease course and severity, medical care and
      pharmaceutical treatment of AD.

      Pseudomized data will be stored at the registry center (Center for Evidence-based Healthcare,
      Dresden).

      Study assessments include:

        1. A short physician report form to document patient history and clinical parameters such
           as the objective severity of clinical signs, affected body regions, physician's global
           assessment of disease severity, course of disease and medical treatment of AD including
           adverse events.

        2. A patient report form to assess important subjective parameters, patient reported
           outcomes such as symptoms, quality of life, treatment satisfaction, patient's assessment
           of global disease severity, totally/partial well-controlled weeks.
    
  