
    
      Subjects are allocated to four groups based on their disease and weight.

      Number of Subjects

      Maintenance therapy for healed reflux esophagitis study part:

        -  Group1:aged 1 to 14 years (weight more than equal 10 kg to less than 20 kg ),
           Maintenance phase, n=5 to 10

        -  Group2:aged 1 to 14 years (weight more than equal 20 kg), Maintenance phase, n=10 to 20

      Prevention of gastric ulcer or duodenal ulcer recurrence associated with long term
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or low-dose aspirin therapy study part:

        -  Group3:aged 1 to 14 years (weight more than equal 10 kg to less than 20 kg), n=5 to 10
           at Week 0

        -  Group4:aged 1 to 14 years (weight more than equal 20 kg), n=10 to 20 at Week 0

      All subjects have a D961H administration for 32 or 52 weeks. all esophagogastroduodenoscopy
      findings are reviewed by central evaluation committee and study is conducted based on the
      judgement of central evaluation committee.

      Data are entered in electric data capture system at study site by site staffs and all data
      are verified with source data by site monitors during the study.

      Analyses will be performed by AstraZeneca or its representatives. A comprehensive statistical
      analysis plan will be developed and finalised before database lock and will describe the
      subject populations to be included in the analyses, and procedures for accounting for
      missing, unused, and spurious data. This section is a summary of the planned statistical
      analyses of the primary and secondary endpoints. Any deviations from this plan will be
      reported in the clinical study report.

      Efficacy analyses are intended for Efficacy Analysis Set. ・Efficacy Analysis Set:All subjects
      who take at least 1 dose of the investigational product and have at least 1 efficacy datum
      assessment during the maintenance/prevention therapy period, and who have no important
      protocol deviation.

      All safety analyses are performed on the Safety Analysis Set.

      ・Safety Analysis Set:All subjects who take at least 1 dose of the investigational product and
      have any post-treatment assessment.

      Frequency and incidence rate of adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs),
      discontinuation of investigational product due to adverse events (DAEs) and other significant
      adverse events (OAEs) will be presented by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC) and Preferred Term
      (PT) for each group. In addition, summaries of AEs will be further broken down by maximum
      intensity and relationship to the investigational product as assigned by investigators
    
  