
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) screening is a widely recommended, evidence-based preventive service
      that has traditionally been underused. Over the last decade, organized efforts by the
      Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to increase population screening among Veterans have
      been successful. But these population-centered efforts have increased screening utilization
      in a way that is not always concordant with screening benefit, particularly among older
      Veterans, those with comorbid illness, and those who have previously been screened. As
      patients get older, acquire health problems, and undergo negative screening tests, the
      benefit of screening decreases and the potential harm of screening increases. Yet, existing
      population-centered efforts fail to adequately inform these patients about this changing
      balance in benefit and harm, often yielding screening utilization that is discordant with
      benefit. The purpose of this study is to test a more Veteran-centered approach to screening
      in these individuals, one that encourages informed, personalized screening decisions based on
      individual values, preferences, and health status.

      The 3-part intervention consists of: (1) a decision aid to help Veterans make informed
      screening decisions; (2) education for providers on how the benefits of screening vary
      between patients; and (3) modification of clinical reminder systems to allow Veterans to make
      informed decisions about screening. The intervention will be tested in a pragmatic
      cluster-randomized controlled trial (cluster = provider) at two sites in the VA Ann Arbor
      Healthcare System. The primary outcome will be whether screening was ordered at the clinic
      visit. The investigators will also assess the appropriateness of screening orders (i.e.,
      whether screening is ordered in concordance with screening benefit), conceptual understanding
      of screening, elements of informed decision-making addressed in the screening discussion, and
      screening utilization at 6 months.
    
  