
    
      Objective: Because neuroprotective strategies in Parkinson's disease are primarily aimed at
      intervening in the early phase of disease, appropriate measures of minor, subtle parkinsonian
      impairments need to be defined. The gold standard of rating scales for Parkinson's disease is
      the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating scale (UPDRS), but it covers the gamut of disability
      levels and does not specifically focus on early impairments. We have developed a series of
      motor tasks that can be performed with a home-based computer module so that data can be
      collected frequently and prospectively without obligating the patient to come to a medical
      center.

      Study population: The study population will consist of patients with mild and early Parkinson
      disease.

      Design: This feasibility study will longitudinally follow 50 patients with mild and early
      Parkinson's disease who are not receiving symptomatic therapy for the treatment of motor
      impairment. They will be trained to perform the task and transmit data on a weekly basis.

      Outcome measures: We will analyze time-related changes in several domains of motor function
      (tremor, limb bradykinesia, fine motor bradykinesia, voice, reaction time/movement time) and
      correlate these changes with the UPDRS at 3 and 6 months. We hypothesize that patients will
      find this assessment technology easy to use, a positive force in their lives, and that they
      will be committed to the program throughout its duration. Further, we hypothesize that motor
      changes will be detected with this technology at a time when UPDRS scores do not show
      decrements. Over six months, however, declines in the UPDRS will occur and correlate with the
      decrements in computer-based motor task. If, as we hypothesize, the home-based motor testing
      program is both feasible and useful in the assessment of early impairments in Parkinson's
      disease, it will be particularly applicable to neuroprotective trials currently being
      designed.
    
  