
    
      Each patient will have his or her PONV risk classified based on the following risk factors
      Female gender, History of PONV or Motion Sickness, Non-smoker and Duration of procedure > 60
      min utilizing information already entered into the Anesthesia Record Keeping System. Patients
      having 0-1 risks factors present will be low risk. 2 risks factors present are medium risk
      and more than 2 risk factors present are high risk.

      Patients will be randomized to either receive the PONV reminder or not. Those receiving the
      PONV reminder will have the PONV risk assessment and current guideline information for PONV
      prophylaxis will be displayed on the ARKS screen at the beginning of the case.

      In a second step at the end of the procedure (specific at documentation of emergence), the
      reminder will assess the current status of PONV prophylaxis as per anti-emetic medications
      administered and compare the current status to the recommended status based on published
      guidelines.

      If the current status is compatible or exceeds the recommended status the reminder will
      silently document compliance.

      If published guidelines suggest additional PONV prophylaxis based on the patients risk
      profile and a comparison with the currently documented status, an electronic reminder will
      appear on the ARKS screen to alert the anesthesia provider of an opportunity to enhance
      guideline adherence.

      The reminder will display the PONV risk assessment information, current status of PONV
      prophylaxis as well as the information that current guidelines recommend additional PONV
      prophylaxis.

      The reminder will not recommend a specific medication, intervention or therapy.

      It will be completely the decision of the anesthesia provider if and how to modify the PONV
      prophylaxis for the patient.

      Subjects randomized to not receive the electronic display will have it deactivated.
    
  