
    
      Providing optimal culture conditions for the embryos in ART is crucial, due to its high
      impact on embryo development and thus on the pregnancy outcome. Several strategies have been
      proposed in order to improve embryo culture conditions and clinical pregnancy rates.
      Currently, the establishment of autocrine and paracrine communications and embryo-to-embryo
      interactions should contribute to the detoxification of the culture medium, facilitating
      embryo development and improving the implantation rate. Many studies have provided evidence
      related to the impact of group culture condition on the success of the embryonic development
      in animals. But the advantage of group culture to improve the embryonic development and
      pregnancy outcomes of ART in human remains elusive. Therefore, the investigator aim to
      discuss the effectiveness of group culture in ART.

      In this study, zygotes derived from sibling oocytes were randomized 1:1 to either the
      microwell group culture (experiment group) or conventional droplet culture (control group).
      In experiment group, 4 zygotes cultured in a new special microwell (120 μl droplet were
      divided into 4 areas) with a corral dish (EMBC-010, LifeGlobal), embryos can communicate with
      each other in the same culture environment. In control group, single embryo individually
      cultured in a droplet (60 μl). Embryos were cultured in specific desktop three-gas incubators
      (COOK) of 37°C, 6% CO2 (carbon dioxide) , 5% O2 and 89% N2, and scored according to the
      criteria described in the ESHRE-ALPHA consensus. Consequently, exploitable embryos rate, good
      embryo quality, blastocyst formation rate were recorded. Other relevant parameters such as
      clinical pregnancy, live-birth or miscarriage were also recorded to evaluate the outcomes.
      Proper culture conditions can result in superior embryo viability, this research intends to
      discuss whether group culture can improve the embryo quality and clinical outcomes in ART.
    
  