
    
      Participants will take part in a baseline study session, followed by a year of weekly reports
      of their number of near falls and falls. The same participants will repeat the same study
      session six months and twelve months after the baseline session.

      Each of the three study sessions will have a similar design. Each participant will make a
      visit of approximately 2 hours to the laboratory. At baseline, all participants will complete
      a medical history questionnaire which will confirm that all inclusion criteria are met. At
      each measurement interval (i.e., baseline, six-month and twelve-month), participants will be
      evaluated through a series of examinations and questionnaires prior to data collection. PD
      patients will be tested at their self-reported peak dose of medication ('on'-state). Upon
      completion of the tests and questionnaires, participants will be prepared for data collection
      (footswitches and strap-based IMUs).

      The effect of dual tasking will be examined through three conditions performed in the
      following order: single-cognitive testing, which will consist in a phoneme monitoring task
      (seated in a quiet room with headphones); single-walking, which will consist of simply
      walking normally (silent headphones); and dual-task walking, which will consist in walking
      while performing the phoneme monitoring task. The phoneme monitoring task will consist in
      listening to a text through headphones, and participants will be asked to i) answer ten
      questions regarding the content of the text after the task, and ii) count how many times two
      predefined words appeared in the text. During single and dual-task walking, participants will
      be asked to walk around the track at a speed that they feel would be comfortable while
      walking through the grocery store or walking to their car, with no instructions regarding the
      priority to give to each task (walking vs. cognitive task). The texts presented during
      single-task cognitive testing and dual-task walking will be different.

      Each trial will last approximately ten minutes, which is required to collect at least 500
      stride time intervals for a reliable estimation of the temporal ordering of stride-to-stride
      fluctuations. Participants will rest between trials for at least five minutes and will be
      able to rest more if they so desire. Two investigators will always be present during data
      collection and will walk behind the participant during the walking trials for safety
      purposes.

      All participants will be followed for twelve months and will report their falls and near
      falls experiences. After the baseline session, participants will be provided with a fall
      diary, in which they will write the date, time, cause, circumstances under which falls or
      near falls occurred, and the occurrence of any fall-related injury. Participants will be
      instructed to daily fill the diary and return it every two weeks (with self-addressed stamped
      return envelope), or to communicate the information via email. In addition, each month
      participating personnel will call participants to ensure all falls and near falls were
      reported in case participants fail to fill in the fall diary. Participants will also be
      called if the investigators do not receive their report a week after the expected date of
      reception.
    
  