
    
      Primary Objectives:

      To evaluate the operational feasibility of delivering point of care, rapid diagnosis with
      rK39 and treatment with AmBisome® single dose of 10 mg/kg, when administrated at the Primary
      Health Centers (PHC) setting with regard to feasibility and safety .

      Secondary objectives:

      To determine efficacy of the treatment scheme when delivered by district hospitals and PHC
      facilities

      Methodology:

      Three districts, Saran, Simastipur and Muzaffarpur in the VL endemic state of Bihar in India
      will be selected for the study. Initially, 300 eligible patients will be diagnosed and
      treated at hospital level with liposomal amphotericin B, using a single dose of 10 mg/kg. If
      no significant feasibility or safety issues are identified in this group of patients, 1000
      additional subjects will be diagnosed and treated at the PHC level. Feasibility will be
      determined by the proportion of patients attending the PHCs treated with single dose AmBisome
      and the proportion of patients that need to be referred to the district hospitals for
      management of adverse events. The initial cure rate will be determined at day 30, after end
      of treatment (EOT). If initial cure is observed, the patient will be followed up and
      evaluated 6 months after the end of treatment for final clinical cure.

      Study medication, dose and mode of administration Liposomal Amphotericin B (Gilead Sciences,
      Foster City, CA, USA) is formulated as a lyophilized powder which will be reconstituted in 10
      ml of distilled water as a solution and the total dose will be then diluted in three times
      the volume of 5% dextrose solution.

      Total infusion will be done in 2 hours.

      Before infusion of AmBisome®, each patient will be given Paracetamol (Adult: 500 mg; Children
      below 12 years 10 mg/kg) and Chlorpheniramine (Adult: 4mg; Children below 12 years 1-2mg)

      Parameters for evaluation Laboratory parameters for safety Adverse event

      Endpoints (Feasibility)

        -  85% of VL patients attending the PHCs are treated with the single dose AmBisome scheme.

        -  3% of patients treated with single dose AmBisome are referred to district hospitals for
           AEs management .

        -  95% of patients treated with single dose AmBisome are cure at 6 months after EOT.

      Endpoints (Efficacy) Initial Cure: Defined as remission of fever, any decrease in spleen size
      compared with baseline, hemoglobin is increased by at least 10% compared to baseline or to at
      least 10g/dl, and improvement in other clinical signs and symptoms on day 30.

      Final Cure: Defined on the fulfillment of following criteria at 6 months after EOT: No
      relapse after initial cure, absence of fever and no increase in spleen size compared with day
      30 and hemoglobin is increased by at least10% compared to day 30 or to at least 10g/dl.

      Statistical methods Efficacy analysis: Calculation of cure rate with 95% and 90% lower
      confidence limit according to the Clopper Pearson method.

      Safety analysis: Calculation of overall incidence of adverse events.
    
  