
    
      Painful chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a common side effect of
      chemotherapy, occurring in more than 60% of patients at some point during the course of
      cancer treatment with commonly used drugs such as taxanes and platinum compounds. It
      potentially may result in severely diminished quality of life and dose reduction or/and
      treatment delay, which may ultimately impact survival.

      The mechanisms by which chemotherapy-induced nerve damage ultimately leads to pain are poorly
      understood, because virtually no structural or functional differences in nerve fibers between
      painless and painful peripheral neuropathy have been identified. As a result, there is no
      reliable way to predict which patients will develop persistent painful chemotherapy-induced
      peripheral neuropathy.

      The ultimate goal of this study is to develop a non-invasive, bedside quantitative test that
      is specific for painful CIPN. If our initial hypothesis is confirmed, the next step would be
      to design a prospective longitudinal study and assess changes in DLss early after initiation
      of chemotherapy, to determine whether this approach can help identify early predictive
      parameters of painful CIPN.

      In this other interventional study, we will test the utility of the Diode Laser fiber type
      Selective Stimulator (DLss) to identify sensory changes that are unique to patients with
      painful chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) vs. controls.

      Painful symptoms of CIPN develop in patients with differential nerve damage to Aδ vs C-type
      peripheral nerve fibers. We hypothesize that Aδ:C fiber threshold ratio, as measured by the
      DLss, will be different between patients with painful CIPN compared to control patients who
      received a similar regimen of chemotherapy, but did not develop painful CIPN. The
      confirmation of hypothesis may lead to a novel approach for early detection of CIPN.

      Subjects: 20 evaluable patients with painful CIPN following treatment with oxaliplatin,
      cisplatin, paclitaxel, docetaxel (or any combination of above) will be included in painful
      CIPN group, and 20 controls matched by the type of chemotherapy received, who did not develop
      painful CIPN.

      The study procedure will include a one-time visit for sensory assessments including:

        1. Spontaneous pain at baseline on 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale (NRS);

        2. Assessment of pain symptoms on Neuropathic pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) and Brief Pain
           Inventory (BPI).

        3. Assessment of mood on hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS)

        4. Quantitative sensory testing (QST): thermal detection and pain thresholds, mechanical
           detection threshold, temporal summation (TS), and conditioned pain modulation (CPM).

      The primary outcome is the comparison of Aδ:C fiber threshold ratio between patients who have
      developed painful CIPN, and the control subjects.

      In secondary analyses, we will generate Spearman correlation coefficient between the "Aδ:C
      fiber threshold ratio" and the severity of painful CIPN on NPSI scale.
    
  