
    
      Introduction

      Coagulation dysfunction is frequent in patients with severe sepsis and it is associated with
      an increase risk of mortality. During sepsis platelets number usually decreases and their
      function is reduced and this mechanism is sustained by an inflammatory induced coagulopathy.
      Several studies have showed a correlation between altered function of platelets and sepsis
      severity.

      Conventional coagulation tests such as activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT),
      prothrombin time (PT) and international normalized ratio (INR) were developed mainly to
      monitor anticoagulation treatment and may not fully reflect the complex in vivo coagulation
      disturbances that usually characterizes sepsis. More recently some studies evaluated the
      possibility to use viscoelastic whole blood tests of the haemostasis, such as
      thromboelastography (TEG) and thromboelastometry (ROTEM), which analyze all blood components
      and their interactions during clot formation and dissolution and might be useful for
      assessing bleeding risk in septic patients.

      A more recent study identified a possible hypocoagulability pattern among septic patients at
      risk of bleeding using TEG variable and the authors found a strong correlation with increased
      risk of death. Maximun amplitude (MA) is one of the variables obtained from TEG analysis and
      it expresses the strength of the clot and the efficacy of platelet function. A low level of
      MA describes a lower strength of the clot determined by a lower number or a reduced function
      of platelet. In one recent study it has been described that a lower MA describing a
      hypocoagulability pattern might be associated with an increased risk of death.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate whether a lower level of MA and a pattern of
      hypocoagulability might be associated with an increased risk of bleeding and need of
      transfusion in patients with sepsis.

      Methods A prospective multicenter observational study will be conducted in five intensive
      care units of five Italian university hospitals. We asked for Ethic Committee approval.

      Inclusion criteria: : all adult patients with diagnosis of sepsis admitted for more than 48
      hours will be enrolled.

      Exclusion criteria: patients younger than 18 years old of age; chronic use of oral
      anticoagulant and anti platelet treatment; hematologic malignancy; congenital bleeding
      disorders; oral contraceptives; lack of consent.

      Primary end point To evaluate whether a lower level of MA might be associated with an
      increased risk of bleeding.

      Secondary end points

        1. To evaluate whether a different level of MA correlates with the biomarker of the
           severity of sepsis such as presepsin (PSEP).

        2. To evaluate whether a different level of MA correlates with the biomarker of the
           severity of infection such as procalcitonin (PCT).

        3. To evaluate whether a pattern of hypocoagulability might be associated with a risk of
           mortality.

      Study Design Prospective, multicenter, observational

      All demographic and clinical data will be collected for each patient, as following:

      Age, gender, weight, simplify acute physiology score (SAPS) II, sequential organ failure
      assessment (SOFA) score (at admission and every 72 hours), clinical pulmonary infection score
      (CPIS), if the source of infection comes from lung, type of infection and microbiological
      isolation, haemodynamic parameters (heart rate, mean arterial pressure, pulmonary capillary
      wedge pressure, cardiac output, mixed venous oxygen saturation) and renal function
      (creatinine, urine output and fluid balance).

      All enrolled patients will undergo a blood sample at admission (T0), after 72 hours (T1) and
      after 7 days (T2) and all the following parameters will be measured:

      Platelet count, APTT, PT, INR, fibrinogen, procalcitonin and presepsin.

      Additionally, all viscoelastic parameters will be performed at bedside, using a TEG 5000
      Hemostasis Analyzer System (Haemoscope Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, USA), at T0, T1, T2:

        1. reaction time (R), normal range (3-8 sec)

        2. clot formation speed (K), normal range (1-3 sec)

        3. angle (alpha), which reflects the clot growth kinetics, normal range (55-75°)

        4. maximun amplitude (MA), normal range (51-69 mm)

        5. fibrinogen maximun amplitude (FFMA), normal range (14-24 mm)

      Bleeding definition We defined bleeding event as any intracranial bleeding identified at CT
      scan or any other bleeding at gastrointestinal tract (hematemesis or melena or frank blood in
      the stools), at tracheal aspirates or in the urine or bleeding during surgery and from wounds
      or any bleeding event requiring concomitant transfusion of three units of red blood cells.

      Outcome measurements

        1. Intensive Care Unit Length of Stay (ICU-LOS);

        2. Mortality at 28 days and at 90 days.

      Statistical analysis A power analysis was calculated considering primary endpoint:
      correlation between level of MA and risk of bleeding.

      We defined bleeding as intracranial, gastrointestinal, tracheal or surgical bleeding or any
      bleeding event requiring concomitant transfusion of three units of red blood cells. From
      previous study we observed an incidence of 26%.

      Power 86.4% B (size of the regression coefficient) 0.1 Standard deviation of MA 6 P (event
      rate) 26% Alpha 0.05

      The expected number of patients enrolled in 24 months is about 100 and with a Cox
      proportional hazard model we can estimate the Hazard Ratios (HR) and 95% CI with the
      parameters of the following table.

      A Cox regression of the log hazard ratio on MA as a covariate with a standard deviation of 6,
      based on a sample of 100 observations achieves 86.4% power at a 0.05 significance level to
      detect a regression coefficient equal to 0.1 (log of hazard ratio). The sample size was
      adjusted for a bleeding rate of 26%.

      The characteristics of the patients and clinical measures will be describe using the most
      appropriate statistics, as mean (SD), median (IQR) or percentages according to variable type
      and distribution.

      The cumulative incidence of bleeding during period of observation (7 days) will be estimated
      with the Gooley method, to take into account the competitive risk of death, and compared with
      the Gray test. The Fine and Grey model will be used to estimate adjusted HR and their 95% CI.

      Evaluation of associations between MA and severity of disease or infection will be assessed
      using Spearman's correlation test.
    
  