
    
      A)Overview and Specific Aims:

      Higher than normal levels of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in the colon plays an important role in
      the etiology of ulcerative colitis (UC). Increased H2S impairs the colonic cell's ability to
      oxidize butyrate and other short-chain fatty acids required for cell nutrition. Sulfur in the
      human body is largely provided by diet; high intakes of sulfur and sulfate-containing foods
      have been found to be associated with an increased risk of recurrence of UC. Hence, it is
      only rational to identify whether foods high in sulfur or sulfate increase the risk of poor
      outcomes in UC. To our knowledge, there have been no studies investigating the impact of a
      reduced sulfur diet compared to conventional management on disease severity in patients with
      UC. Our main objectives are to identify if a reduced sulfur diet added to conventional
      management results in 1. improved disease severity, 2. reduced exposure of the host to
      sulfur-containing compounds, and 3. alterations in the microbiome of the patients. To achieve
      these objectives, we will randomly allocate the patients to either the conventional
      management (CM) or reduced sulfur diet intervention group (INT) and obtain the Mayo score,
      concentrations of fecal hydrogen sulphide (H2S), methanethiol (MT), and dimethyl sulphide
      (DMS), and urinary dimethyl sulfone (DM202) and 3-indoxyl sulfate and fecal microbiome at
      baseline and after 8 weeks. The INT group will also receive diet counselling by a registered
      dietician (RD).

      B)Hypothesis:

      A reduced sulfur diet would result in improved disease severity compared to conventional
      management in UC patients.

      C)Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      1. To pilot-test the feasibility of a reduced sulfur diet added to conventional management
      with oral and/or topical 5-ASA ± corticosteroid therapy to improve disease severity, measured
      by a clinically meaningful improvement in Total Mayo Score & partial Mayo Score from baseline
      to week 8 compared to conventional management alone.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To pilot-test the feasibility of a reduced sulfur diet added to conventional management
           with oral and/or 5-ASA ± oral corticosteroids to lower exposure of the host to
           sulfur-containing compounds from baseline to week 8 measured by fecal hydrogen sulphide
           (H2S), methanethiol (MT), and dimethyl sulphide (DMS), and; urinary dimethyl sulfone
           (DM202), and 3-indoxyl sulfate concentration compared to conventional management alone.

        2. To examine the effect of a reduced sulfur diet on the microbiome of patients with UC.

        3. To identify patient experience with a reduced sulfur diet using health related quality
           of life (HRQoL), and patient experience with chronic disease care measures.

        4. To examine the effect of a reduced sulfur diet on inflammatory cytokines in patients
           with UC.

      D) Methods

      Study Design :

      This pilot randomized controlled trial will have an 8-week interventional design that will
      take place at the University of Calgary (UofC).

      Patient Recruitment:

      Dr. Raman, the principal investigator, will oversee recruitment of eligible patients. In
      addition, Dr. Panaccione, Director of the IBD unit at the University of Calgary, and
      co-investigator for this study who along with the eight physicians associated with the IBD
      group at the University of Calgary will identify eligible study patients through dedicated
      outpatient IBD clinics and refer to Dr. Raman and the study coordinator for recruitment. The
      Calgary IBD unit assesses approximately 600 patients per month with at least 20 of them
      meeting eligibility criteria for this research project. All patients with UC in the IBD
      clinic who meet inclusion criteria will be approached for participation by the study
      coordinator after approval from their gastroenterologist.

      Randomization of the patients:

      After the patient consents to participate s/he will be randomly allocated to either the
      conventional management (CM) or intervention group (INT). Randomization will be performed
      using a computerised random number generator and group assignment will be concealed from the
      study coordinator enrolling patients until the time of assignment using sealed envelopes.

      Intervention:

      The INT group will receive conventional management plus a reduced sulfur diet and diet
      counselling by an RD. Implementation of the diet will be delivered directly by the RD and
      will provide each patient with an individualized plan. A reduced sulfur diet includes
      reducing foods, food additives (e.g., carrageenan) and beverages high in sulfate/sulfur
      associated with increased severity of UC consuming drinking water low in sulfate (can be as
      high as 500 mg/L in Alberta so identifying drinking water source is necessary)21, limiting
      sulfur containing supplements (e.g., chondroitin sulfate), and consuming omega-3 fatty acid
      supplements to potentially help control overgrowth of sulfur-reducing bacteria in the
      colon14. Omega-3 fatty acid intake for cardiovascular disease prevention should be around 500
      mg/d23. In a representative Canadian population, average intake was 291 mg/d and 85% of
      adults were not meeting daily requirements23. After dietary assessment if patients are not
      meeting their required daily intake of 500 mg/d of Omega-3, the RD will recommend increased
      fish consumption to 200 g per week or 1 g/d of an Omega-3 supplement. This will ensure the
      daily recommended intake of 500 mg/d is being met to reduce the chances of a deficiency;
      however, a therapeutic dose for UC will not be recommended (i.e., > 4 g/d18). The CM group
      will receive one session with RD on reduced sulfur diet at the end of 8 weeks.

      The reduced sulfur diet eating plan, resources on reduced sulfur eating, and RD counselling
      session will be designed and reviewed by experts in nutrition, dietary design, education
      resources and dietary behaviour change. Both the INT and CM groups will receive conventional
      management with visits to the clinic at 4 weeks to ensure completion of their 24-hour food
      recalls and food frequency questionnaires, and to discuss disease course with their
      physician.
    
  