
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ipilimumab (part 1) or ipilimumab plus
      nivolumab (part 2) following lead-in of v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF)
      and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors, either alone or in combination,
      in patients with BRAFV600 mutant melanoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate to ipilimumab (part 1) or ipilimumab plus nivolumab (part
      2) after BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in combination, compared to no prior kinase
      inhibitor treatment.

      II. To determine the safety and tolerability of dabrafenib and trametinib combination in the
      setting of prior ipilimumab alone or ipilimumab preceded by BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either
      alone or in combination (part 1).

      III. To determine the safety and tolerability of dabrafenib and trametinib combination in the
      setting of prior ipilimumab plus nivolumab without prior BRAF/MEK inhibition or ipilimumab
      plus nivolumab preceded by BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in combination (part 2).

      IV. To determine the response rate to dabrafenib and trametinib in the setting of prior
      ipilimumab alone or ipilimumab preceded by BRAF and MEK inhibitors, either alone or in
      combination (part 1).

      V. To determine the response rate to dabrafenib and trametinib in the setting of prior
      ipilimumab plus nivolumab without prior MEK/BRAF inhibition or prior ipilimumab plus
      nivolumab preceded by BRAF/MEK inhibitors (part 2).

      VI. To obtain peripheral blood and tumor tissue for biomarker analysis. VII. To describe the
      immune impact of kinase inhibitor therapy on the immune response associated with ipilimumab
      treatment (part 1) or ipilimumab plus nivolumab treatment (part 2).

      VIII. To observe and record anti-tumor activity.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms for Part 2 (Part 1 closed to
      accrual 8/25/2015).

      PART 1: (Closed to accrual as of 8/25/2015) ARM A1: Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO)
      twice daily (BID) and trametinib PO once daily (QD) for 25 days. Patients then receive
      ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 3
      weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B1: Patients receive trametinib PO QD for 25 days. Patients then receive ipilimumab IV
      over 90 minutes. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C1: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID for 25 days. Patients then receive ipilimumab IV
      over 90 minutes. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D1: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PART 2:

      ARM A2: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD for 25 days followed by
      nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses,
      followed by nivolumab monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

      ARM B2: Patients receive trametinib PO QD for 25 days followed by nivolumab IV over 60
      minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab
      monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

      ARM C2: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID for 25 days followed by nivolumab IV over 60
      minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab
      monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up to 42 courses.

      ARM D2: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every
      3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab monotherapy IV every 2 weeks continuously for up
      to 42 courses.

      After 12 weeks of treatment with ipilimumab, or ipilimumab and nivolumab followed by
      nivolumab monotherapy, all patients may continue to receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib
      PO QD in the absence of disease progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 14 weeks.
    
  