
    
      The purpose of this study is to optimize blood stem cell mobilization in adults with beta
      thalassemia major. We seek a method of mobilization that will be safe, with minimum side
      effects, and that will yield high numbers of blood stem cells. For successful gene therapy of
      thalassemia, high numbers of genetically modified stem cells will need to be introduced into
      the patient. Participants will include beta-thalassemia patients who failed to mobilize
      sufficiently with G-CSF (in our previous protocol) and new patients. In this study we will
      focus on the safety and effectiveness of mobilization with Mozobil or with Mozobil plus
      G-CSF. Following mobilization, blood stem cells will be recovered using leukapheresis, a
      procedure similar to a blood donation, in which mobilized white blood cells are collected
      from the blood of the patient.

      During drug administration and leukapheresis, patients will be hospitalized at George
      Papanicolaou Hospital in Thessaloniki, Greece. Patients who failed to mobilize in the
      previous protocol will receive Mozobil and G-CSF and will be hospitalized for 5-8 days for
      the duration of drug administration and leukapheresis. They will receive G-CSF for several
      days; Mozobil will be added on the last few days of G-CSF. New patients will receive Mozobil
      only and will be hospitalized for 2-3 days for drug administration and leukapheresis. Mozobil
      is administered at 240µg/kg, under the skin. Participants will undergo two or three
      leukapheresis procedures in a row if low numbers of blood stem cells were recovered in the
      first (and possibly second) leukapheresis. Participants will be discharged from the hospital
      the day following the last leukapheresis procedure. Weekly follow-up visits will occur for
      the next month, either at G. Papanicolaou Hospital, or at the participant's local doctor's
      office. The total period of study participation is approximately 5 weeks. In the event that
      Mozobil alone does not cause mobilization of high levels of blood cells, patients will be
      invited to repeat the protocol three months later, receiving Mozobil and G-CSF.
    
  