
    
      Gastric cancer incidence in North America is 7.4/100,000 population, with 24,590 new cases
      diagnosed annually in the United States1. Of these, approximately 15% are detected at the
      early gastric cancer stage with no spread to regional lymph nodes2. Recent advances in
      gastric cancer detection, such as endoscopic use of narrow band imaging and magnification
      endoscopy, can help improve the detection rate of early lesions3-5. Gastric cancers detected
      at an early stage have an excellent prognosis, with reported long term overall survival rates
      of 71-92%6-9 due to the low rate of peritoneal and distant metastatic spread which frequently
      occur in patients with more advanced lesions. However, the mainstay of treatment even for
      early gastric cancers (EGC) remains anatomical resection with regional lymphadenectomy. While
      oncologically sound, anatomical resection is often associated with complications and
      unpleasant short and long-term side effects, including post-operative weight loss, dumping
      syndrome, vitamin deficiencies, anastomotic complications, delayed gastric emptying, and bile
      reflux, among others. Given the long life expectancy of patients after resection of EGC,
      curative resection with organ preservation to improve post-operative quality of life should
      be a treatment goal.

      Recently, organ-sparing techniques have emerged which allow select early gastric cancers to
      be treated without anatomical resection. These techniques, including endoscopic mucosal
      resection (EMR) and endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), allow for curative resection of
      highly-selected lesions with complete organ preservation. The shortcoming of all organ
      sparing resection techniques presently is that lymphadenectomy is not performed, leading some
      patients to perhaps be under-staged and therefore under-treated.

      According to the Japanese Gastric Cancer Treatment Guidelines10, early lesions are deemed
      appropriate for organ-sparing endoscopic resection if they meet the following criteria:
      confined to the mucosa (T1a), tumour size <2cm, no ulceration, and well-differentiated tumour
      grade. Together, tumours with these features have a very low risk of lymph node metastases
      (<1%). Long-term outcomes of ESD are highly favorable, with local recurrence and overall
      survival rates comparable to anatomical resection7,8. For tumours that do not meet the above
      criteria however, risk of lymph node involvement is drastically increased, with submucosal
      invasion, ulceration, tumour size >3cm, poorly differentiated tumour type, and lymphovascular
      invasion conferring a risk of lymphatic metastases of 4-26%11. For this reason, current best
      practices recommend EGCs with high risk features continue to undergo anatomical resection
      with regional lymphadenectomy. However 75-95% of such patients will ultimately have no
      regional metastases on final pathological analysis, suggesting they could have been spared
      anatomical resection if only their lymph node basins had been definitively staged prior to
      surgery.

      Presently, several imaging modalities are available to characterize lymph node stage for
      gastric cancer, including endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), computed tomography (CT) and positron
      emission tomography (PET). Unfortunately, the sensitivity of these modalities is woefully
      inadequate to accurately predict microscopic lymph node metastases, and therefore they cannot
      be reliably used to differentiate high risk EGCs that require anatomical resection and
      lymphadenectomy from those amenable to organ-sparing resection12-15.

      To address this gap in the ability to accurately detect nodal metastases in early gastric
      cancer, sentinel lymph node (SNL) sampling was pioneered in Asia and has undergone refinement
      and study there since the early 2000s. A recent multi-institutional study of 397 patients
      conducted across 12 centres in Japan reported rates of SLN detection of 97.5% and accuracy of
      SLN stage when compared to post-resection stage of 99%16. These numbers rival those reported
      for SLN biopsy of breast and melanoma cancers in large randomized controlled trials17,18.
      Indeed, for these tumour types, SLN biopsy is now the standard of care globally for staging
      clinically node-negative patients due to its diagnostic superiority over other staging
      modalities. Following the success of SLN sampling in gastric cancer, select Asian
      institutions are now applying this technique to diverting sentinel node-negative (SLN -ve) T1
      and T2 gastric cancer patients away from anatomical resection with extensive lymphadenectomy
      and towards organ-sparing endoscopic or wedge resection.

      The Upper GI Oncology Program at the McGill University Health Centre sees approximately 80
      gastric cancer patients per year, in whom SLN sampling has the potential to inform resection
      decisions ~25-30%. Currently, the program performs 15-20 ESDs annually for both early
      esophageal and gastric lesions, and approximately 30-40 anatomical resections are performed
      in node-negative gastric and esophageal cancer patients per year. Implementation of the
      gastric SNL sampling technique would enable expansion of the ESD program to offer
      organ-sparing curative resections to EGC patients who presently can only be offered
      anatomical resection.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the utility and feasibility of SLN sampling for
      gastric cancer in a North American context.
    
  