
    
      Cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is one of the most frequently performed
      operations. Neurobehavioral disorders, including neuropsychiatric and neuropsychological
      deficits, are a very frequently reported sequela of valve replacement or coronary artery
      bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. CPB is associated with significant cerebral morbidity. The
      incidence of cognitive decline related to CPB ranges from 20% to 80%, which may affect length
      of hospital stay, quality of life, the rehabilitation process, and work performance.
      Neurocognitive decline can present days to weeks after surgery and may remain a permanent
      disorder. Many pharmacologic strategies have been proposed or investigated for preventing
      post-CPB cognitive decline, but to our knowledge, none of these drugs has been systematically
      evaluated for efficacy in preventing post-CPB cognitive decline.

      The causative parameters of cognitive dysfunction associated with CPB include cerebral
      ischemia secondary to either microemboli or hypoperfusion, intraoperative cerebrovascular
      risk factors such as the duration of CPB, inflammatory response, cerebral glutamine release,
      free radicals, and NO release.

      Gastrodia elata, a famous Chinese medical herb, has effects on preventing ischemic brain
      injury, neuronal cell damage or apoptosis, suppressing inflammatory response, inhibiting
      glutamine receptors and nNOS, and scavenging free radicals. Gastrodin
      (4-[hydroxymethyl]phenyl-β-D-glucopyranoside), the primary active constituent of gastrodia
      elata, has been widely used for the treatment of paralysis, hemiplegia, headache, vertigo,
      and Alzheimer's disease. Based on its pharmacological effects, we postulated that gastrodin
      would attenuate the causative parameters of cognitive dysfunction related to CPB and would be
      an effective drug to prevent the decline as a result.
    
  