
    
      Endometrial hyperplasia (EH) is a premalignant lesion of endometrial cancer (EC), which is
      the most common gynecological malignancy in developed countries [1]. Therefore, accurate
      diagnostics and proper management of EH are clinically significant to prevent EC development.

      The treatment modality of EH mostly depends on the histological diagnosis and the woman's
      desire to retain fertility. The risk of cancer progression is low for women with non-atypical
      EH (<5%) but increases up to 30% for women with atypical EH [2, 3]. In this respect,
      hysterectomy is recommended for the treatment of atypical EH. Meanwhile, for patients with
      non-atypical EH or for young patients with atypical EH who strongly desire to preserve their
      fertility, various conservative therapies using progestin have been used. Traditionally,
      orally administered progestins such as megestrol acetate (MA) and medroxyprogesterone acetate
      (MPA) are most commonly used method with various treatment regimens [4, 5]. More recently,
      the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS), which achieves higher local
      concentrations of progestogens in the endometrium, with lower systemic side effects, also has
      been used successfully to treat EH [6-12].

      However, there is no report about the accuracy of endometrial sampling during hormonal
      treatment for EH or the best technique for follow-up evaluation of EH. A recent study
      comparing the histological results of pipelle biopsy and D&C reported almost equal
      EH-diagnostic success rates [13]. Meanwhile, these results were obtained for cases where the
      LNG-IUS was not in the uterus and where there were no progestin effects on the endometrium.

      Therefore, the investigators conducted a large multicenter prospective study to compare the
      diagnostic accuracy of endometrial aspiration biopsy with dilatation & curettage (D&C) in
      follow up evaluation of patients treated with progestin for EH.
    
  