
    
      Cognitive remediation is an intervention that has been found effective in reducing the degree
      of the cognitive problems experienced by persons with schizophrenia. Investigators are
      proposing a project that will examine the effectiveness of cognitive remediation in a
      supported education setting at George Brown College in Toronto, Ontario. This study would
      build upon a feasibility study that the investigators have recently completed and represents
      an emerging line of inquiry as these interventions are increasingly being tested in community
      rehabilitation settings.

      A large body of research has demonstrated the frequency of significant cognitive challenges
      among persons with schizophrenia who have ability levels that are, on average, 1-2 standard
      deviations lower than the general population in areas of problem solving, attention, and
      memory. These cognitive difficulties have been shown to have a marked impact on psychosocial
      functioning, making it very difficult to succeed for many people with schizophrenia in work
      and school settings. Work and school require people to prioritize, multi-task, sustain
      attention for prolonged periods, and remember material presented in a wide range of formats.
      Given the central role of education and employment in the recovery of persons with mental
      illness, it is crucial that efforts are made to address these cognitive difficulties to
      ensure the provision of a spectrum of services that can better address the quality of life of
      persons with schizophrenia.

      In the past 10 years there has been a rapidly increasing interest in the development of means
      through which the impact of cognitive deficits might be ameliorated for persons with
      psychosis. This body of work has concentrated largely upon cognitive remediation strategies.
      Cognitive remediation (CR) refers to interventions in which a range of cognitive tasks are
      repeatedly practiced to improve attention, memory, and problem solving abilities. Most of
      these interventions are computer based, typically set up in the form of games, and others are
      paper-and-pencil.

      Randomized controlled trials have consistently shown beneficial impacts of CR interventions
      on both cognitive and psychosocial functioning. Key findings include moderate effect sizes
      for improvements in attention, memory, and problem solving, more modest impacts on
      psychosocial functioning with better findings when CR is paired with supported employment.
      Less substantive impacts on psychosis symptomatology have been found, though self-esteem has
      been found to improve. Furthermore, the gains observed in CR have been found to be sustained
      for periods of up to 2 years post-intervention. Examination of non-specific effects has also
      indicated that CR leads to significant benefit over and above tasks that capture non-specific
      factors (e.g., computer skills training).

      In general there has been a clear shift in the cognitive remediation literature towards
      examining functional outcomes and pairing cognitive remediation with other psychosocial
      interventions. This movement likely builds from criticisms of the narrow scope of earlier
      cognitive remediation studies which looked only at pre and post measures of cognitive
      functioning and their questionable association with 'real world' outcomes. In response to
      these criticisms Susan McGurk pioneered the examination of CR in supported employment
      contexts. To date, however, outside of the work of the present investigators, no studies of
      CR in supported education settings have been found. Research in this area is important
      because (1) education is a core component of the recoveries of people with severe mental
      illness and (2) cognitive impairments markedly limit what people might achieve in education
      settings.

      Given the repeated calls in the literature for more randomized trials of cognitive
      remediation and the interest in the outcomes when partnered with psychosocial rehabilitation,
      this study addresses the following question: 'Does cognitive remediation as an adjunct to
      supported education result in improved cognitive functioning, symptoms, and performance in
      academic domains for persons with psychosis?'

      This study will employ a randomized design in which term 1 students with psychosis will be
      randomized into either supported education alone (SE; n = 8) or supported education and
      cognitive remediation combined (SE + CR; n = 8).

      The cognitive remediation intervention will have two components that will be completed over
      the course of 10 weeks within the academic term. First, participants will take part in a
      total of 20, 45 minute computer-based cognitive exercise sessions held on a twice weekly
      basis using COGPACK. This computer program facilitates practice across a broad range of
      cognitive functions, including attention and concentration, psychomotor speed, learning and
      memory, and executive functions. Participants will receive assistance on how to complete the
      cognitive exercises and will be given suggestions about strategies for improving performance
      on challenging exercises. In addition to computer exercises, participants will take part in
      10 weekly group discussion sessions (approximately 60 minutes in duration). Topics in the
      group will include the role of cognitive factors in academic performance, the development of
      compensatory strategies for dealing with challenges in academic settings (e.g., study
      strategies, means of addressing attention difficulties), and strategies for managing
      difficulties such as anxiety and psychosis symptoms in school settings.

      Evaluations will be completed at pre-intervention/control, post-intervention/control and 3
      month follow up for both groups. The above sequence will be completed over the course of 5
      academic terms to allow for a total sample of 64 (term 1 students are enrolled in every
      academic term and the 5th term would just be follow-up for the 4th group). Each trial within
      the academic term will be 10 weeks in length to allow for pre and post testing to take place
      within the term.
    
  