
    
      The ICU patient experiences total dependence on health care professionals and technical
      devices. Some patients report unpleasant memories such as pain, feeling helpless, or
      delusional experiences from the ICU stay and many report physical or mental symptoms after
      discharge from the ICU. Return to work rate after ICU treatment differs. Most ICU patients
      receive analgesics and sedatives to relieve pain and discomfort during the stay. Thus many
      patients have few memories from their time being critically ill. For patients with few
      memories from the ICU stay this represents an interruption in the patient's life history.
      Since personal identity is influenced by the stories we tell about ourselves, loss of memory
      from a period with critical illness might be experienced as a threat towards self-confidence
      and sense of coherence. Some patients with traumatic memories from the ICU develop PTS
      symptoms after discharge.

      In order to help the earlier ICU patient to achieve a life with less physical and mental
      complaints, some ICUs have established a follow up program in outpatient clinics after
      discharge from hospital, but there is sparse evidence of the effectiveness of this
      intervention, and what type of follow up that best help the patients.

      The primary aim of the study is to:

      Investigate if a group of previous intensive care patients receiving nurse led follow up
      talks three times after discharge from the ICU have less post traumatic stress symptoms,
      pain, increased sense of coherence and, work participation and health related quality of life
      (HRQL) three, six and twelve months after discharge from the ICU compared to a control group
      receiving standard care.

      Secondary aim:

      Investigate level and predictors of anxiety, depression, PTS symptoms, hope, pain, HRQOL and
      work participation in intensive care patients ICU patients first year after discharge from
      ICU.
    
  