
    
      Fluid overload is a state of global body accumulation of fluids with a deleterious impact in
      organ function. This condition is frequently found in critically ill patients after acute
      resuscitation. Its adverse impact is well demonstrated on weaning-induced heart failure,
      pulmonary and visceral edema, intraabdominal hypertension, etc., which results in longer
      mechanical ventilation and length of stay, and worse clinical outcomes. Despite these
      well-known facts, there are no guidelines on how to implement depletive strategies on this
      phase. The usual approach is to set in advance a desired negative fluid balance for the
      upcoming days, initiating diuretics or ultrafiltration in preparation for weaning from
      mechanical ventilation. Unfortunately, this strategy frequently results in excessive and
      detrimental fluid removal.

      A more physiologic approach to guide fluid removal is testing preload responsiveness, which
      is the normal physiologic state, and means that changes in preload determine changes in
      cardiac output, with mild or null increment in filling pressures. In contrast, preload
      unresponsiveness corresponds to a state in which preload increases do not increase stroke
      volume but produce large increments in filling pressures. This altered state is usually
      present in patients with fluid overload. Preload responsiveness can be tested routinely in
      the ICU by assessing the interactions between preload and cardiac output.

      Now, in usual clinical practice, weaning from mechanical ventilation is accomplished through
      a process called the spontaneous breathing trial (SBT), which is a standardized test to mimic
      the real conditions of breathing without the ventilator, before extubation. One-third of
      patients fail the initial SBT, which determines a prolonged or difficult weaning and longer
      stay on mechanical ventilation. Importantly, one of the main determinants of this problem is
      fluid overload. The pathophysiologic explanation lays in that when switching from positive
      pressure ventilation to spontaneous breathing, intrathoracic pressure goes from being
      steadily positive across the ventilatory cycle to markedly negative, promoting increased
      preload and impeding left ventricular ejection, and this phenomenon is associated to preload
      unresponsiveness. Interestingly, in most patients with fluid overload, preload responsiveness
      can be restored just a few hours after starting fluid removal, while modifying fluid balance
      may take several days. Notably, some patients may persist with preload unresponsiveness even
      after achieving significant fluid removal.

      The investigators hypothesized that in mechanically ventilated patients with fluid overload,
      a fluid removal strategy aimed at attaining a state of preload responsiveness associates with
      a decreased incidence of weaning failure from cardiovascular origin, shorter weaning time,
      and less depletion-induced hypoperfusion events, metabolic derangements and kidney stress
      compared to patients depleted with a fluid removal strategy aimed at obtaining a
      predetermined negative fluid balance.

      To confirm this hypothesis, the investigators propose a prospective randomized study on 46
      critically ill mechanically ventilated patients with fluid overload, comparing these two
      strategies of depletion and their impact on weaning development and other related systemic
      functions. Throughout all the protocol, patients will receive general monitoring and
      management according to ICU standards, plus protocol-specific monitoring that will be added
      since randomization and before and after SBT attempts, for up to 72 h. Patients will be
      followed-up for 28 days.

      If the investigators' hypothesis is confirmed, it may generate a change in the paradigm of
      managing fluid overload in critically ill patients, since the physiologic endpoint preload
      responsiveness may suffice as the valid target and safety parameter to appropriately
      discontinue mechanical ventilation, shortening the days on mechanical ventilation, the ICU
      length of stay, and many other costs associated, among additional benefits.
    
  