
    
      Study design This study is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial conducted at the
      University of Malaya Medical Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

      Patients The patients will be recruited from the following clinics: Sports Medicine,
      orthopaedic, rheumatology, outpatient and staff health. Notice of study invitation in this
      study will be distributed to all the respective clinic. Patients with a confirm diagnosis of
      supraspinatus tendinopathy by ultrasound or MRI will be invited to participate in this study.
      Study screening will be carried out to ensure the inclusion and exclusion criteria are
      fulfilled by the research team in Sports Medicine Clinic.

      Procedures

      PRP group Patients under PRP group will receive a single 2 mL injection of PRP into the
      injury site under ultrasound guidance administered by a sports physician. The PRP will be
      prepared using a commercial kit, Y-Cell BioKit Systems.

      Prolotherapy group Patients in the prolotherapy group will receive a single 2 mL injection of
      16.5% dextrose solution administered under ultrasound guidance.

      Injection technique Injection will be performed in the Sports Medicine Clinic using aseptic
      technique. Both the PRP and prolotherapy will be prepared in a syringe and covered with a
      black tape to ensure the patients did not know the content of the syringe. Patients will be
      placed in the supine position and will be requested not to turn their head during the
      procedure. A 22 G needle will be used for injection under ultrasound guided.

      Following injection, cryotherapy will be applied for 15 min. Upon discharge, patients will be
      advised to rest the injected shoulder for the next 48 hours and to avoid taking NSAIDs.

      Rehabilitation program Patients will receive a booklet for shoulder stretching and
      strengthening exercise. A logbook will be provided for the patients to record their exercise
      session. Rehabilitation sessions will be advise to commenced only day three of injection.

      Sample size The sample size was estimated based on the primary outcome of functional score.
      Improvement was defined by a decrease in the mean Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI)
      of 17.7 ± 3.7 in the platelet-rich plasma group11 and 16.12 ± 12.8211 for prolotherapy. For
      this study, the sample size was calculated after taking into account the desired statistical
      significance level set at 5%, and the power of the study set at 80%, with type I error rate
      of less than 0.05 is permitted and a false-negative rate of less than 0.20. The sample size
      is calculated using the G*Power version 3.1.9.2 software11. With the assumption of 30% drop
      out, hence, to detect a difference in the functional outcome, a minimum of 30 patients in
      each group is required.

      Randomization Randomization will be performed using computer-generated block randomization of
      ten. Subjects will be randomized into either PRP group or Prolo group.

      Blinding The patients and assessors will be blind to the intervention. Two sports physician
      who not directly involved in the randomization and injection will perform the outcome measure
      assessment.

      Outcomes

      Patients characteristics Patients sociodemographic information, including gender, date of
      birth, ethnic background, job description and recreational activities will be recorded.
      Information related to the shoulder pain such as duration and other past rehabilitation and
      treatment will also be documented.

      Primary outcome measures The primary outcome of this study is pain score using the visual
      analog score (VAS) score and shoulder function using shoulder pain and disability index
      (SPADI) score.

      VAS score (7) is a continuous scale, 10 cm length with the left most anchor indicate "no
      pain" (0) to "extreme pain" (10).

      SPADI was used to measure shoulder pain and disability in an outpatient setting within the
      recent 1 week. It contains 13 items that assess pain and disability. SPADI reveals good
      construct validity, correlating well with other specific shoulder questionnaires and
      responsive to change over time (8).

      Secondary outcome measures

        1. Constant-Murley score assessed four aspects of shoulder injury which consist of two
           subjective item- pain and activities of daily living (ADL) and two objective item- range
           of motion (ROM) and strength. This score was used in many shoulder studies and had good
           response to change quality (9).

        2. Clinical test which consist of special test

        3. Biomedical test which consist of shoulder ROM using goniometer, strength using
           dynamometer and periscapular muscle activities using electromyogram.

        4. Adverse effect of the injections will also be recorded.

      Data collection and management Data will be collected from patients at baseline, 3 weeks, 6
      weeks, 3 months and 6 months. All data collected will be stored securely in a locked cabinet
      in Sports Medicine Department throughout the trial and only can be access by the researcher
      involved. To ensure confidentiality, each patient will have the trial identification number.

      Statistical analysis The outcome variables will be analyzed with the principle of
      intention-to-treat (ITT). The mean VAS score and SPADI between groups will be compared using
      either the parametric independent t-test or non-parametric test using Mann-Whitney U test.
      The secondary outcome measures will be examine using linear mixed- model analysis. All
      statistical analysis will be performed using the SPSS V.25.0 (SPSS), and a p value of <0.05
      will be considered to be significant.

      Ethics and dissemination The study was approved by the Medical Research Ethics Committee of
      the University of Malaya Medical Centre (MREC ID: 201977-7623). This trial was registered at
      the National Medical Research Register (NMRR-19-1658-48279). Participation in this study is
      strictly voluntary. Possible patients will be informed of all the procedures involved in the
      reserach verbally and by the patient's information sheets. Patients will be required to sign
      the informed consent form before participation. Patient will be allowed to withdraw from the
      study at any time. Results from this study will be presented at scientific conferences and
      publish in journal.
    
  