
    
      The supplement industry is a multi-billion dollar industry with many of the products targeted
      toward athletes and achieving optimal performance. Historically, endurance athletes have used
      a number of methods to try to increase erythrocyte (red blood cell-RBC) production in
      attempts to boost oxygen carrying capacity and perform better during aerobic exercise. A
      number of growth factors in the body can stimulate RBC production including erythropoietin
      (EPO). EPO is the primary growth factor that promotes the formation and release of RBCs from
      bone marrow. Although EPO itself is a banned substance, supplement companies have sought
      other means by which they can increase EPO production in the body in order to stimulate RBC
      synthesis. One natural product toted to stimulate EPO production is Echinacea and can be
      found in the product EPO-Boost™. Our global hypothesis is that supplementation of EPO-Boost™
      will be an effective way to increase oxygen carrying capacity and improve maximal oxygen
      consumption in adult endurance athletes.

      We will test whether EPO-Boost™ affects EPO levels, a number of blood parameters, and VO2max
      (maximal aerobic capacity) by recruiting 40 trained endurance athletes (20 males and 20
      females). To be included, subjects must already be performing aerobic exercise at least 4
      days per week for a minimum of one hour each day. Participants will be randomly assigned
      (within gender) to either the placebo (n=20) or supplement group (n=20). A 25% dropout rate
      may be expected in both genders, therefore we are recruiting a subject number of 40
      participants to ensure that at least 30 subjects will complete the study. All participants
      will be blinded as to whether they are receiving the placebo or the supplement. Participants
      will report to the Human Nutrition Lab (HNL) and the Exercise Physiology Lab for baseline
      testing. Height, body weight, body composition, and blood samples will be obtained.
      Participants will then answer questions regarding their current and usual exercise patterns.
      These questions will address the type, frequency, duration, and intensity of exercise.
      Finally, participants will perform a VO2max test in the Exercise Physiology Lab. After
      baseline testing the participants will be given a supply of either EPO-Boost™ or placebo
      along with extra capsules. The subjects will not know whether they are receiving the product
      or the placebo. Participants will also be asked to consume a multivitamin pill daily for the
      entire 35-day intervention period. Finally, participants will be asked to keep an exercise
      log during the 35-day intervention documenting type, duration, intensity, and days of
      exercise in order for research personnel to ensure that exercise training is not changing.
      The capsule and exercise logs will be collected at days 14 and 35.

      Blood collected during all 3 visits will be analyzed for EPO, ferritin, RBCs, white blood
      cells, hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, and mean
      corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. We will assess changes in blood parameters and VO2max
      to determine whether 35 days of EPO-Boost™ supplementation improves blood parameters or
      maximal aerobic capacity compared to placebo controls.
    
  