
    
      Description of the Research Project: It has been previously shown that IFN-gamma and IL-17
      are increased in typhoid fever patients. It was shown that S. Typhi infection induces
      antibody responses against a number of key typhoid antigens (LPS) HlyE, Flagellar protein
      FliC and chaperon protein EcpD). In the enteric diarrheal disease cholera, MAIT cells are
      activated and associated LPS specific antibody responses are generated. In a human challenge
      model study, it has been shown that CD8+ T cell memory cells are key correlates of protection
      against typhoid fever. The live attenuated typhoid vaccine (TY21a) also induces MAIT cells
      after immunization. It has been shown that IL-12, IL-15, IL-18 induce memory-like NK cells in
      a mouse model and IL-21 induces memory-like NK cells protective against Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis infection. The role of activated MAIT cells, and cytokine induced memory-like NK
      cells in typhoid fever currently unknown.

      One of the multiple killing mechanism employed by neutrophil is the release of neutrophil
      extracellular traps (NETs) that contain myeloperoxidase (MPO), elastase, lysozyme and
      defensins. Infection induces releases of NETs to trap microbial pathogens. Neutrophils
      isolated from typhoid fever patients release NETs in and that neutrophil NET release is
      primed by vaccination with a subunit-conjugate vaccine.

      Study intervention: Typbar-TCV is a Typhoid Vi capsular polysaccharide tetanus toxoid
      conjugate vaccine. Typbar-TCV is the world's 1st clinically proven conjugate typhoid vaccine.
      This vaccine is WHO pre-qualified and approved for children and infants less that 2 years of
      age. During the Phase III clinical study, a single dose of Typbar-TCV elicited 4-fold
      seroconversion rates of 98.05%, 99.17% and 92.13% in subjects between greater than 6 months
      to 2 years, >2 to 15 years and >15 to 45 years respectively. Each volunteer in the
      vaccination arm of the study will receive 25 ug of Typbar-TCV vaccine administered as 0.5 ml
      single intracellular dose.

      Storage condition: The vaccine will be stored at +2-8C and cold chain will be maintained at
      all times.

      Study participants and sample collection: The investigators will collect 8-10 ml of blood
      from adults and 3-5 ml of blood from children who will be suspected typhoid fever patients
      (age 1-59 years) at enrollment (day1) and if patient is S. Typhi/Paratyphi culture confirmed
      then two more blood samples (2-5 days and 27-33 days later) will be collected. The
      investigators will collect 8-10 ml of blood from adults and 3-5 ml of blood from children
      before vaccination (day 0) and two more blood samples after one dose of vaccination at day 7
      (6-8 days later) [13] and at day 30 (27-33 days later). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMCs) and neutrophils will be isolated from blood samples and will be used for different
      assays (Polymorphprep kit). Plasma samples will be separated to measure antibody response to
      infection and vaccination.

      Patient management Depending on discretion of clinician, treatment of the patient with
      antibiotic and other necessary drug will be provided. After culture confirmation of typhoid
      fever antibiotic treatment will be adjusted depending on antibiotic sensitivity pattern. If
      patient does not respond to oral antibiotic then we will provide injectable antibiotic. If
      the patient remains unresponded to injectable antibiotic and/or other complication arise,
      then the patient will be hospitalized. The investigators are conducting another typhoid study
      where the patients are enrolled in different health care facilities in Mirpur and also
      icddr,b Dhaka hospital. The patient management will be supported by other ongoing typhoid
      project.

      Laboratory Assay Procedure:

      MAIT and NK cell assay: Isolated PBMCs will be stained with fluorochrome labelled antibodies
      and flow cytometric phenotyping performed (acquisition of ≥50000 live cells on a FACS-Aria).
      MAIT cells will be defined as live (DAPI-) CD3+CD4-CD161hiVα7.2+ cells, expressed as a
      percentage of total CD3+ lymphocytes, and CD38 used as a marker of cell activation. The
      investigators will also assess the frequency of circulating live CD3+CD8+CD4-CD161loVα7.2+
      cells, which have been suggested to be MAIT-derived cells associated with absent or reduced
      cytokine secretion in vitro. CD4+ (live CD3+ CD8-CD4+) T cell responses in study subjects
      will be evaluated in different T memory (TM) subsets defined by their expression of CD45RA
      and CD62L i.e., T central memory (TCM; CD45RA-CD62L+), T effector memory (TEM; CD45RA-CD62L-)
      and T effector memory CD45RA+ (TEMRA; CD45RA+CD62L-), T follicular (CD3+CXCR5+) and Naïve T
      cells (TN: CD45RA+CD62L+). Activated NK cell as live CD3-, CD45+, CD56+, CD69+, CD40L+, CD16+
      cells and memory like NK cell as live CD3-CD56+CD16+NKp46+CD27+.

      Cytokine analysis: Isolated lymphocytes will be stimulated with S. Typhi antigens (Whole
      cell, MP and LPS) for 48 hours as well as for 5 days and culture supernatant will be
      collected and stored until analyzed at -70°C. Cytokines in culture supernatant will be
      analyzed by using multiplex bead array (Luminex).

      Quantitation of NETs: Neutrophils will be isolated from peripheral blood based on previously
      described method. The release of NETs will be measured by neutrophil NET assay kit (NET assay
      kit, Creative Biomart, NY, USA). NETosis will be quantified by measuring levels of elastase
      that are released from neutrophils and NETs mediated killing will be quantified by measuring
      viability of bacteria.

      NETs mediated killing assay: To determine the efficiency of NETs in killing S. Typhi, a CFU
      assay will be performed. Overnight culture S. Typhi will be co-incubated with freshly
      isolated human neutrophils in 96-well culture plate and incubated at 37ºC. After 3 hours of
      incubation, wells will be aspirated and washed with PBS. Dilutions of 1:10 and 1:100 will be
      made and 100 µl of each dilution will be plated onto Brain Heart Infusion (BHI) agar. Culture
      plates will be incubated at 37ºC with 5% CO2. The number of CFU will be counted after 24
      hours incubation and after 3 days of culturing until no further increase in colony numbers
      are observed.

      Neutrophil intracellular metabolite assay: Neutrophils will be isolated from blood and
      incubated at 37ºC for 1 hour for recovery. Incubation media will be aspirated and 1 ml of dry
      ice (-80ºC) cold 80% methanol will be added. Cells will be vortexed for 1 min, and then
      centrifuged at 15 K rpm for 1 min. Supernatant will be collected in tubes and stored at -80ºC
      until use. Before analysis samples will be removed from -80ºC and allow to equilibrate to
      room temperature. Supernatant (75 µl) will be transferred to a liquid chromatography-tandem
      mass spectrometry (LC-MS) vial capped. Ten microliters of sample will be autoloaded into
      LC-MS system for metabolite separation and mass spectrometric analysis.

      Antibody responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in plasma. Plasma antibody responses to S.
      Typhi LPS in patients and vaccinees will be measured using ELISA methods. Briefly, 96-well
      microtiter plates will be coated with LPS and incubated with plasma (1:10 dilution) with
      serial 3-fold dilutions thereafter. Plates will be washed, and horseradish
      peroxidase-conjugated anti-human IgA, IgG and IgM antibodies will be added. Plates will be
      developed using 0.1% ortho-phenylene diamine (OPD) and 0.1% hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and OD
      will be measured at 492 nm. A 2-fold or higher antibody response will be considered a
      significant response.

      Transcriptomics analysis: From a subset of adult patients and vaccinees 3 ml blood will be
      collected in Tempus RNA tubes (applied biosystem) and RNA will be extracted from blood,
      trancriptomic sequencing will be done at Shanghi, China (BGI) which is a service providing
      lab and data will be analyzed using next-gen RNA-seq sequencing to see the gene expression
      profile. Differential gene expression will be analysed using the DESeq package
      (Bioconductor). The obtained sequence reads will be normalized between patients/vaccinees
      versus healthy controls. A ratio larger than 2 and lower that 0.5 will be considered
      significant.
    
  