
    
      For this study an online grocery store was developed that contains over 3200 products
      commonly purchased in local supermarkets. The products available for purchase include foods
      from many different categories such as dairy products, snacks, processed meats and soft
      drinks. The web-based grocery store was designed to mirror an actual web-based grocery store
      in look and feel. All products include a picture of the item, current retail price, the Lower
      Calorie logo (where applicable), and other package size and nutrition information currently
      required for products in Singapore. The online grocery store features a grocery cart that
      shows the items purchased. The NUS Online Collection Facility payment system has been
      integrated with the online grocery store for participants to make payments.

      Study design: This will be a crossover study design with all participants exposed once to 3
      shopping conditions (1xControl, 1xIntervention 1 (I1), 1x Intervention 2(I2)) in random
      order. The total study duration for each participant is 3 weeks, with each participant
      spending 1 week in each shopping condition.

      For the Control condition the participants are not exposed to the lower calorie logo. For
      Intervention 1 (Across), the participant will see the lower calorie logo applied to foods
      with the lowest calories per serving across all food categories. For intervention 2, the
      participant will see the lower calorie logo applied to the 20% of foods with the lowest
      calories per serving within each food category. These foods will be tagged with the 'Lower
      Calorie' logo.

      Participants will be asked to shop once a week during each of the 3 weeks of the study, and
      will therefore shop for a total of 3 times during the study. This will include 1 shop within
      each shopping condition (control, I1, and I2). Participants will purchase and receive at
      least 1 and up to 3 of their grocery orders. This ensures that purchases will be an accurate
      reflection of their actual shopping experience.

      Since there are 3 shopping conditions (Control, I1, and I2) and the specific weeks that the
      participant's shopping trips will be pre-determined for purchase (but unknown to
      participants), each participant will be randomly assigned at baseline to 1 of 6 groups that
      vary the sequence of shopping conditions and which shops will result in an actual food
      delivery.

      For each shop there will be a minimum spend of SGD50 and a maximum spend of SGD250. A minimum
      spend ensures that participants complete a typical weekly grocery order. A maximum spend is
      to make the study more manageable given foods will need to be reordered and delivered. The
      grocery orders that participants purchase will be ordered by Duke-NUS using RedMart, a
      popular online grocery store in Singapore, and RedMart will deliver the grocery items. The
      store was created using products currently available on the RedMart website to allow us to
      repurchase from a single location.

      Redmart is engaged in this project as our collaborator. As such, the relationship between the
      Parties is that of independent contractor and contractee. Neither party is an agent of the
      other nor have any right or authority to create any obligation or responsibility on behalf of
      the other. Neither is Duke-NUS in any way endorsing or marketing the services of Redmart.

      At the end of the study participants who have completed all 3 shops as instructed will
      receive a RedMart e-Voucher worth $75 payment that can be redeemed against any products on
      RedMart.
    
  