
    
      It is well known that patients undergoing bronchoscopy could be less suffering and the
      procedures could be carried on more smoothly if the patients have adequate sedation and
      analgesia. The preferred sedative and analgesic drugs are Midazolam and opioid, like
      Alfentanil or Morphine, which were titrated according to physicians' judgment on patients'
      clinical responsiveness. However, due to the pharmacokinetic characteristic of midazolam
      while used in intravenous injection (onset time 4-6 minutes, effective time 2-4 hours), the
      effective onset time may be too slow for repeated injection while patients already suffered
      from the bronchoscopic procedure. It is also noted that when over-sedation occurred the side
      effects like apnea/hypopnea, hypoxemia, and hypotension could last from dozen minutes to few
      hours. Although events mentioned above could be handled properly under experienced medical
      staff, it is still very difficult to predict the oncoming events as the pharmacokinetic
      effect is variant individually. Ideally, it will be more safe and efficient, during invasive
      procedure like bronchoscope, if the sedative drug could be onset or vanish fast and the drug
      effect could be titrated with an objective device directly monitoring the depth of sedation
      or anesthesia.

      Propofol is a short-acting intravenous sedative agent used for the induction of general
      anesthesia for children and adults; maintenance of general anesthesia; and sedation in
      medical contexts, such as intensive care unit (ICU) sedation for intubated, mechanically
      ventilated adults, and in procedures such as colonoscopy. Its mechanism of action is
      uncertain, but it is postulated that its primary effect may be potentiation of the
      Gamma-Amino Butyric Acid-A receptor, possibly by slowing the channel closing time. It has a
      fast onset time (1~2 minutes) but a short working duration (8~10 minutes), which vanished
      fast after stop administration. Bispectral Index (BIS), an non-invasive neurophysiologic
      monitor instrument, can transform the electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyography of the
      patient to a continual numeral, ranging from 0 to 99, which provides a direct and real-time
      sedative depth monitor. A BIS value of 0 equals EEG silence, near 100 is the expected value
      in a fully awake adult, and below70 indicated the patient lose explicit memory recall but
      still has the ability to maintain his own vital signs.

      In this study, we design a sedative technique for bronchoscopy, a BIS-guided propofol
      administration, to compare with the traditional sedative technique, clinical-judged midazolam
      administration. Through the combination of the advantages of unique pharmacokinetics of
      propofol and real time monitor of sedative level from BIS, we hope to provide patients
      undergoing bronchoscopy a more satisfied and safety sedative procedure.
    
  