
    
      Background: Critically ill patients occasionally require a tracheostomy tube to breathe. A
      percutaneous tracheostomy can be performed, where a needle/catheter is inserted into the
      trachea, followed by insertion of a guidewire and a tube that dilates the tissue, creating a
      hole for the tracheostomy tube. Although this is a common procedure, it does pose risks to
      the patient, including accidental puncture of nearby structures. We wish to test a device
      that alerts the doctor to when the needle tip is in the tracheal lumen. The device has been
      proven to aid needle insertion in cadavers, but it needs to be tested on live patients. Since
      many intensive care patients undergo PT, we wish to test our technique on this population.

      Study objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of a nerve stimulator in aiding needle
      tracheostomy in live patients.

      Hypothesis: Nerve stimulation equipment will help the physician guide and insert the needle
      tip into the tracheal lumen faster and with more accuracy than conventional techniques.

      Primary outcome: speed and accuracy of needle tip placement in the trachea.

      Procedure: This study will involve recruiting consenting adult patients from the University
      of Alberta Hospital General Systems Intensive Care Unit (ICU) who require percutaneous
      tracheostomy to insert a tracheal tube. In this population, a tracheostomy is usually
      performed as a means to provide long-term assisted ventilation without the need for
      endotracheal intubation. Briefly, the patient is sedated, the skin on their neck disinfected,
      and a local anesthetic injected into the anterior neck. A bronchoscope is inserted down the
      endotracheal tube to aid in visualization and localization of needle puncture. The
      cricothyroid membrane is located by palpating the anterior neck and an incision is made over
      the membrane. A small needle is inserted through the membrane to act as a guide for a larger
      needle-catheter assembly. Both needles are removed and a guidewire is inserted through the
      catheter. Using forceps, the insertion site is widened and a tube to dilate the opening is
      inserted. The tracheostomy tube is then inserted and the dilation tube and guidewire are
      removed. The endotracheal tube is removed and the ventilation apparatus is connected to the
      tracheostomy tube.

      We will supply ICU physicians with a commonly used nerve stimulator (Stimuplex HNS 12,
      B.Braun, Germany) to attach to the needle-catheter assembly used to make the first insertion
      into the trachea. The nerve stimulator will be connected to a current meter, and a ground
      electrode will be attached to the body. When the needle tip is in contact with body tissue
      (i.e., tracheal wall), the electrical circuit will be closed, producing a reading of 1.0 mA
      on the current reader. Suspension of the needle tip in the airway will interrupt the circuit,
      producing a reading of 0.0 mA. In addition, an audible signal built into the nerve stimulator
      will alert the user to a change in current, warning that the needle tip has advanced too far
      and is in contact with the posterior or lateral tracheal wall.

      The physician will perform percutaneous tracheostomy on 20 ICU patients that require
      endotracheal extubation and insertion of a tracheostomy tube. This will help support our
      preliminary observations which showed that the nerve stimulator was helpful in guiding needle
      insertion using human cadavers. By showing that the technique is equally as effective when
      used on live patients, we can argue that a nerve stimulator or similar device can ensure
      accurate, quick, and safe needle insertion when accessing the airway percutaneously.

      Inclusion criteria: Adult; requires tracheostomy

      Exclusion criteria: Failure to provide consent; known upper airway pathologies; known
      oro-pharyngeal or laryngeal disease, including any swelling, tumour, or infection; previous
      radiotherapy or operations on the neck; cervical spine fractures.
    
  