
    
      Cardiovascular diseases represent a huge medico-economic issue that is supported by public
      health policy. It is linked not only to the high prevalence of these diseases but also the
      associated cost they encounter for. Therefore, it seems rather urgent to create and validate
      tools to predict evolution of this group of disease in order to better take care of patients
      before they enter the more chronic stages which induce increased costs and socioeconomic and
      medical burdens.

      It is now well acknowledged that gut microbiota is modified in some metabolic disease such as
      type-2 diabetes but also in inflammatory diseases. However, gut microbiota is still
      insufficiently explored in cardiovascular disease, although it could represent a useful,
      non-invasive and practical tool in the daily care of patients.

      Investigators aim to deepen the knowledge and characterization of gut microbiota in patients
      going from metabolic diseases such as metabolic syndrome, obesity and type 2 diabetes (which
      are risks factors for cardiovascular diseases) to overt coronary artery diseases (from the
      first event to end stage heart failure). Investigators will use a system medicine approach
      whose aim is to integrate numerous data coming from different technologies (including
      environment, transcriptomics, metabolomics, metagenomics, lipidomics and bioinformatics).
      These integrated approaches are needed to translate basic science findings into clinical
      practice for the benefit of the patients.

      Investigators aim to uncover new microbial signatures that could help diagnose and/or predict
      both the natural evolution of cardiometabolic diseases and the response to treatment.
      Investigators aim to go forward personalized medicine.

      Patients will be approached for enrolment during their hospitalization in the 3 centers
      during the 24-month enrolment phase (WP3). Once the informed consent completed, each patient
      will be assessed for CMD phenotypes including clinical examination, environmental and food
      habit evaluation, blood urine and feces samples. In each group of patients, a sub-sample of
      30 to 50 subjects will be included in one or more advanced phenotyping items. This will
      include whole body composition by absorptiometry (DXA), abdominal visceral fat by
      tomodensitometry, Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) (glucose, insulin, incretins),
      subcutaneous fat biopsy, cardiac echocardiography, intima media thickness, pulse wave
      velocity. For the obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery: liver and subcutaneous and
      omental adipose tissue biopsies will be obtained during surgery.

      This group of patient will be followed at 3, 6 and 12 months after their surgery and will
      have the same examination as mentioned above.
    
  