
    
      There will be 4 phases to this study. In phase 1, the investigators will explore potential
      barriers and supports that may affect the delivery of M2M© at one YMCA facility through
      one-on-one interviews with YMCA staff that have been trained to conduct M2M©.

      Phase 2 will include a quantitative monitoring phase. During this phase the 2 delivery
      mechanisms of M2M© (Y-M2M© and B-M2M©) will be evaluated through assessments of quantitative
      feasibility metrics before, during, and after the intervention. The intervention will include
      a convenient sample of 54 participants.

      To expand on the findings from the previous quantitative phase, phase 3 will include
      post-intervention focus group interviews conducted separately for each stakeholder group: all
      54 participants, M2M© trainers, research assistants involved with technical support, and YMCA
      staff that were involved with the project.

      During phase 4 (the integrative phase), the researchers will compile the quantitative and
      qualitative findings for the three primary feasibility metrics (process, resource, and
      management). These findings will then be comprehensively analyzed by a review panel that will
      provide suggestions for improvement within each metric. The panel will then discuss the
      summative findings and vote towards acceptable or not acceptable feasibility.

      The 12-week Y-M2M© intervention will be pilot tested at one YMCA facility in Birmingham,
      AL.The B-M2M© group will be provided with the flexibility of attending the same onsite
      classes at the YMCA facility as participants in the Y-M2M© group and will also be able to
      participate in group M2M© teleexercise classes at home that are conducted through Internet
      video conferencing.

      The investigators will use a permuted block randomization design to ensure close balance
      between the arms across waves and to increase the unpredictability in the upcoming assignment
      and prevent inadvertent bias. The project statistician will generate the randomization list
      that will be provided to the project coordinator in sealed envelopes to conceal the
      allocation. Assessors (health and function assessments done at Lakeshore Foundation) will be
      blinded to participant assignment and allocation of the arm assignment will not be done until
      baseline testing and measures are collected.

      Primary quantitative outcomes will include those related to process, resources, and
      management. In summary, these metrics will include measures of adherence, issues that arise
      with implementation and the efficiency to which they are resolved, and intervention fidelity
      between the delivery sites. Secondary quantitative outcomes will include estimates of
      variability in scientific outcomes (physical activity; quality of life; social participation;
      fitness Measures (cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle strength, lower extremity function;
      social cognitive theory constructs [Self-efficacy, Outcome expectations, Barriers, Social
      support]).
    
  