
    
      This study is a single case research design (SCRD) that will enroll adults with possible or
      probable AD. Participants will complete a 9 to 13 week testing schedule to deliver a BCI
      EEG-based neurofeedback intervention. All study visits will occur at participants' place of
      residence.

      Prospective participants will schedule an introductory consent/screening visit with the
      research team. All participants with AD will be required to enroll with a "study partner"
      (authorized representative or caretaker) to assist with scheduling and adherence as they
      progress through the study. Participants who pass screening criteria will continue to
      participate in the study.

      Eligible participants will complete between 3 and 7 weekly baseline assessments, beginning
      approximately 1 week after the screening visit. In accordance with SCRD standards,
      performance on outcome measures will be actively monitored during the baseline period. The
      intervention portion of the study will be triggered sometime during the 3-7 week baseline
      testing window, once participant performance on the primary outcomes is determined to be
      stable by the study team.

      Following baseline testing, participants will begin a 6-week intervention period with 3 BCI
      EEG-based neurofeedback sessions per week. A single follow-up visit will be completed
      approximately one month after the final intervention visit.

      Because of the inclusion of adults with decisional impairments in this study, participants
      with AD will be required to enroll with an accompanying "study partner" (e.g., spouse,
      caregiver or authorized representative), who will be required to attend all testing visits
      with the participant and assist with scheduling and adherence. Study partners will be
      formally enrolled and asked to complete a brief set of questionnaires (e.g., details about
      the primary participant and their interactions with the primary participant), but they will
      not receive other testing or intervention materials directly.
    
  