
    
      Study design This is a multi center, prospective, post market surveillance study of diabetic
      patients who underwent CYPHER SELECT™+ Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent implantation. For
      comparison, non-diabetic patients treated with SES in the concurrent period will be
      simultaneously enrolled.

      Data will be collected in consecutive subjects treated with commercially available product
      and following standard clinical practice. This registry will be limited to subjects who have
      received only the CYPHER SELECT™+ Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent during the index
      procedure. All subjects should be treated according to the Instructions For Use (IFU)
      including conduct of the stenting procedure and administration of anti-platelet and diabetic
      medications; any other medical therapy should be provided according to local standard care.
      Brief study design is as depicted in the following figure.

      STUDY POPULATION The registry will be conducted at approximately 15 centers in Korea where
      CYPHER SELECT™+ Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent is approved for commercial use. Data will be
      collected on approximately 3,600 subjects treated with the CYPHER SELECT™+ Sirolimus-eluting
      Coronary Stent only. Assuming the proportion of diabetic patients as 30%, approximately 1,100
      diabetic patients will be enrolled. Enrolled diabetic patients are confirmed and diagnosed
      with Diabetes before or during the index procedure hospitalization, i.e., those receiving
      active treatment with an oral hypoglycemic agent or insulin, patients with diagnosis of
      diabetes who were on dietary therapy alone or patients with an abnormal blood glucose level
      after an overnight fast. Enrolled non-diabetic patients should be treated with CYPHER
      SELECT™+ Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent only.

      STUDY PROCEDURE As regulated by data protection and privacy laws and in accordance with local
      Ethics Committee requirements, subjects will be informed and requested to grant their
      approval to review their medical records and collect and analyze personal medical
      information, while maintaining the confidentiality of the records at all times. They will be
      also asked to agree to be contacted during a 1-year follow-up period. Subjects will be
      followed at 1, 6 and 12 months, by phone call, office visit, or by contacts with primary
      physicians or referring cardiologists, according to each investigator's preference.
      Angiographic follow up will be performed at the physician's discretion. In diabetic patients,
      fasting glucose level and HbA1c level assessment will be performed at the index procedure and
      at the 12-month follow up.
    
  