
    
      The purpose of this study is to test whether the addition of EMST to PhoRTE Voice Therapy is
      at least as effective as PhoRTE alone for improving acoustic, aerodynamic, and
      patient-reported outcomes in patients affected by age-related vocal fold atrophy.

      Voice therapy is often the first-line treatment for patients experiencing presbyphonia.
      Despite being the most common treatment for presbyphonia, scant literature exists on the
      efficacy of voice therapy for these patients. The current proposal aims to add to this
      growing body of literature. In general, studies of existing voice therapy programs for
      presbyphonia have demonstrated success in achieving improvement in aerodynamic (increased
      subglottal pressure), acoustic (increased shimmer, jitter, and decreased noise-to-harmonics
      ratio), and patient-centered outcomes (reduction in Voice Handicap Index scores, decreased
      phonatory effort). Ziegler et al. conducted a study comparing a standard voice therapy, Vocal
      Function Exercises (VFE) and Phonation Resistance Training Exercises (PhoRTE) and found that
      both therapies improved outcomes of voice-related quality of life, but only PhoRTE gave a
      statistically significant reduction in perceived phonatory effort. A specific therapy
      designed to address age-related changes to respiratory system is expiratory muscle strength
      training (EMST). EMST devices are loaded with a resistive spring which opens when a desired
      level of expiratory pressure is reached and maintained. Maintenance of consistent subglottal
      pressure is the foundation for phonation. EMST device training improves active expiratory
      muscle forces required for high-pressure activities such as long utterances or loud speech in
      vocally healthy individuals. When used in conjunction with traditional voice therapy, EMST
      use has also shown to increase maximum phonation time, maximum expiratory pressure, dynamic
      range, subglottal pressure, and perception of voice handicap in professional voice users over
      traditional voice therapy alone. The theoretical underpinnings for treatment of vocal fold
      atrophy with EMST are clear, as it addresses many of the common goals of treatment in
      patients with presbyphonia, but it has not yet been tested as a possible adjunctive treatment
      for patients undergoing voice therapy.
    
  