
    
      Subjects meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria will wear µCor for 90 days from the day of
      fitting. 500 total patients will be enrolled. There will be an interim analysis when the
      200th subject has finished the study in the study to assess for distribution of patients with
      reduced and preserved LVEF.

      Subjects will be fitted with µCor during hospital discharge or within a clinic visit that has
      occurred within 10 days of a heart failure related hospitalization. The µCor fitting will
      mark day 0 of the study. An LVEF measurement will be recorded during enrollment or within 30
      days post enrollment if an LVEF measurement has not been recorded within 30 days prior to
      enrollment. An investigator assessment will be performed during all clinic visits. The
      assessment template is shown in Appendix A.

      Subjects will be given a diary at enrollment that will ask them to rate their degree of
      specific symptoms of heart failure such as shortness of breath and fatigue as well as mark
      any heart failure related clinical events or medication changes that have occurred since the
      last entry.

      Study follow up visits will occur at day 30, day 60, and day 90. During follow up visits the
      subjects will be asked about any heart failure related clinical events or change in symptoms
      that have occurred since the last follow up. The subject will receive a study based weekly
      phone call asking the subject about any recent heart failure related clinical events or
      change in heart failure symptoms. During the weekly phone call the subject will be reminded
      to fill out the daily diary. No phone calls will be given on the week where there is a study
      follow up visit. There will be 9 total phone calls.

      During the Day 90 visit, the subject will be given the option to continue wearing the µCor
      for an additional 90 days. Furthermore, if the subject experienced a heart failure related
      clinical event within the initial 90 days of wear, the subject will be given the option of
      wearing the µCor for 30 days following the heart failure event. .If the subject chooses
      additional wear time, weekly phone calls and monthly visits will be structured identical to
      that of the main study period. The µCor will be returned at end of use.

      There will be a follow up at six months and one year post enrollment to document mortality
      data, heart failure related clinical events, and health care utilization data.
    
  