
    
      Knee replacement surgery has become increasingly more common in the United States with
      hundreds of thousands of surgeries performed yearly across the country. Despite that, there
      is no consensus "standard of care" for optimum pain control regimen after surgery. Pain
      management after TKA ranges from local tissue injections and patient controlled anesthesia to
      regional nerve blocks to neuraxial anesthesia. Although regional anesthesia has become more
      common and widespread, there are wide variations depending on practice setting (academic
      versus private), equipment available (adductor nerve blocks require ultrasound guidance),
      level of training of the anesthesiologists and patient selection, among other factors.
      Another part of the reason for the wide variations in practice is the lack of literature
      demonstrating clear effectiveness or superiority of one technique over another.

      To date adductor canal nerve blocks have been mainly studied in comparison with femoral nerve
      blocks in terms of their efficacy in controlling pain and their ability to preserve motor
      function. Adductor canal nerve blocks have been shown in the literature to be an effective
      method for postoperative pain control in total knee replacement surgery. One of the unique
      benefits of this particular technique is that the adductor canal nerve block is primarily a
      sensory block, thereby controlling pain without impairing motor strength. This is useful for
      total knee replacement surgery as pain is controlled while quadriceps muscle strength is
      preserved. With well functioning muscles patients are able to fully participate in physical
      therapy with less strength impairment and reduced risk of falling.

      It is our aim to investigate one multimodal approach that combines the strengths of two
      proven pain management techniques and thereby improve overall postoperative pain control and
      patient satisfaction. Our hope is to establish a protocol that is safe and effective for
      patient care.
    
  