
    
      Focus of this project is to evaluate the possible financial benefit resulting from an
      optimization of surgical outcomes throughout a collaborative and systematic auditing
      activity.

      The primary objective of this analysis is to assess the employed resources by National Health
      System related to surgical activities for primary colorectal cancer during a collaborative
      and systematic auditing activity in 8 Surgical Units of Emilia-Romagna. A project team
      composed by experts in colorectal cancer care will be created with the task of identifying
      the needed resources to allocate to the project and the set of administrative, economic and
      performance indicators to be measured during the project. A friendly, time-preserving dataset
      that includes all the items to be collected to measure established indicators will be
      developed. An analysis on costs and performance indicators will be conducted on colorectal
      procedures performed between 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2019 within the participating
      centers. From the second year auditing activity will be implemented among institutions of
      Emilia-Romagna. Analysis results obtained from the first year of collecting data will be used
      as a starting feedback report to implement the auditing activity dedicated to colorectal
      cancer. During the whole second year monthly feedback reports will be drafted and used for
      monitoring costs and performances outcomes of colorectal surgery procedures between 1 January
      2020 and 31 December 2020.

      At the end of the second year a final analysis will be performed to compare resources
      employed for colorectal cancer surgery between the first and second year. Economical and
      performance data will be collected.

      Focusing on costs, the main sources to be used are administrative databases. Full in-hospital
      costs will be collected for each patient for the time interval between the day of admission
      for surgery and the following post-operative 90-days. The Diagnosis Related Groups (DRG)
      standardized payments will be used to calculate inpatient costs.

      Another source for cost and performance information is the clinical chart (paper or
      electronic) in all its parts. The investigators will focus primarily on set of data, that
      potentially could contribute to define the cost of care on basis of post-operative pathway.
      Key performance indicators common to both colon and rectal surgery or specific for one of the
      two surgical procedure will be considered.
    
  