
    
      Introduction:

      Over half a Billion people worldwide report low back pain (LBP), and it is the leading cause
      of disability at all levels of income and age groups. For the majority of people with LBP the
      condition has a natural course and the pain will diminish over time, but for a small
      percentage the conditions turns into a chronic state with significant levels of life
      disruption, healthcare costs and economic losses and even premature death. Lumbar spinal
      fusion (LSF) is a widely adopted surgical procedure for the treatment of persistent LBP, with
      the aim of relieving pain and increasing functional ability. Over recent decades a
      substantially increasing number of patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP) undergo LSF in
      the western world.

      Unfortunately, a substantial part of the patients undergoing spine surgery still have
      persistent pain, functional disability and poor quality of life 4 and 8-10 years after
      surgery. A report from the Swedish Spine register shows that pain level remains the same 1-5
      years after LSF for 25 % of the patients, and consumption of medication remains unchanged in
      almost 50 % of the patients.

      Rationale:

      The majority of patients (70 %) planned for spine surgery have fear of movement, and it is
      well supported in the literature that fear of movement, avoidance coping, negative affect and
      depression postoperative are associated with persistent pain and function after spine surgery
      up to 3 years postoperative. Individual differences of pain related coping strategies after
      LSF also seems to have an influence on the patient's sedentary behavior postoperative.

      Research in the field of rehabilitation after LSF have thereby resulted in a growing
      consensus that a bio-psycho-social approach to rehabilitation is needed. An approach which
      should start quite early after surgery, and which should focus on the patient's diverse way
      of living with a disease and the interrelationship between both the biological, psychological
      and social factors.

      A systematic review found that "complex interventions" comprising of exercise and cognitive
      behavioral therapy offers short and long term functional benefits to patients following LSF.
      Another RCT confirmed that an early intervention using a cognitive behavioral approach
      performed by a physiotherapist decreased fear of movement, increased self-efficacy and
      improved patient-reported and performance-based outcomes in patients after lumbar spine
      surgery six months after surgery. Research in the field of rehabilitation after LSF call for
      high quality research to confirm the importance of including an early active approach with a
      cognitive and behavioral perspective, and advocate for interventions to incorporate the
      patients context, experiences and thoughts even more in the clinical decision making.

      Intervention:

      Graded activity is an exercise paradigm which takes a behavioral approach using the
      principles of operant conditioning. The principles of operant conditioning are to modify
      negative pain behaviors and disrupt the fear avoidance cycle and thereby increase the
      patient's physical activity or functioning. Relevant information about pain, healing and the
      effects of disuse can likely influence what a patient anticipate about movement despite pain.
      Several studies have investigated the effect of pain education to patients with CLBP and
      found it efficient. A combination of pain education and exercise for patients with CLBP are
      furthermore showing promising results. Therefore, a combination of Graded Activity and Pain
      Education (GAPE) seems to be a suitable approach for early post-operative rehabilitation for
      patients with LSF, as behavioral, cognitive and physical factors will be addressed in one
      intervention.

      Objective and hypothesis The primary objective of this randomized controlled trial is to
      examine the effect of an early active intervention consisting of Graded Activity and Pain
      Education (GAPE) on sedentary behavior in a population of patients undergoing LSF. The
      secondary objectives are to examine the effect of GAPE on disability, pain, fear of movement,
      self-efficacy for exercise and health related quality of life.
    
  