
    
      Introduction Myofascial pain is a common disorder affecting individuals across the general
      population and in specific populations, such as athletes, resulting in compromised function,
      performance, and productivity. It has been associated with many pain conditions including
      tension-type headache, spine disorder, and neck and shoulder pain. Myofascial pain
      characteristically results from hyperirritable nodules of muscle (trigger points or tender
      points) associated with pain in affected regions of the body. These areas within the muscle
      are subjected to continued contraction of muscle fibers due to "too much" calcium resulting
      in compromised oxygenation of the muscle tissue. These hyperirritable nodules often occur in
      fatigued muscles that are subjected to imbalanced postural positions, such as the forward
      head and rounded shoulders postures. It can also occur from repetitive movements commonly
      seen in athletics, and individuals performing manual work.

      Positional release therapy (PRT) and therapeutic massage (TM) are methods used to treat
      trigger or tender points. Separate studies on each method have shown efficacy in reducing
      pain muscle tightness and improving joint mobility. PRT is a manual therapeutic technique
      that first locates tender points within a muscle. Once identified, the practitioner places
      the muscle in a passively shortened position, while applying slight pressure. TM involves the
      manipulation of soft tissue using techniques such as effleurage and petrissage, to restore
      blood flow and oxygenation of the muscle tissue.

      Various methods have previously been used to find and assess severity of tender or trigger
      points. Among those commonly used are the pressure pain algometer with pressure pain
      threshold (PPT), range of motion electromyography and visual analog scales (VAS). Some
      studies have also utilized B-mode (two-dimensional) ultrasound imaging (US) to locate,
      define, trace, and quantify myofascial trigger points after palpation providing a useful
      means of quantification. Shear wave elastography ultrasound (SWE) has been used to calculate
      the elastic modulus (tissue stiffness) of muscle reliably, but has not been used quantify
      changes within trigger points following treatment.

      Objectives The purpose of our study was to quantify the effectiveness of PRT or TM at
      reducing pain, trigger point tenderness, and muscle stiffness in the upper trapezius muscle
      by using a combination of the visual analog scale, PPT, B-mode US and SWE to assess changes
      within triggers points.

      METHODS

      Participants We recruited 60 healthy Participants, 24 males and 36 females, (age=27.1±8.8
      years, wt=75.2±17.9 kg, ht= 172.8±9.7 cm) to participate in the study. Many of the
      participants participated on a University dance team. Participants admitted into the study
      were required to have upper trapezius pain, during palpation, of at least 10 mm on the 100mm
      visual analog scale and muscle tightness with an accompanying trigger point in their upper
      trapezius. Participants who had suffered an acute injury to their upper trapezius in the last
      6 days, were undergoing current treatment for their upper trapezius, or were unable to lie on
      their stomach for an extended amount of time were removed from the study.

      The study was approved by the university's Institutional Review Board before participant
      recruitment. All participants provided written informed consent before individual data
      collection began.

      Instruments We used a GE LOGIC S8 ultrasound machine with the 9L soundhead to measure muscle
      thickness and stiffness. Muscle thickness was measured using B-mode ultrasound and SWE
      measured stiffness of the tissue.

      In order to quantify subjective perception of pain we used PPT algometer with a .5 cm2
      applicator tip along with the 100 mm visual analog scale.

      Procedures During the first visit participants underwent screening for presence of inclusion
      and exclusion criteria as well as palpation for trigger points, following guidelines by
      Simons, Travell and Speicher. Each side was examined and pain produced during palpation was
      measured with previously published methods using the VAS. The side that was to be treated was
      determined by the higher VAS score. Trigger point location, found through palpation, was
      marked so that all measurements were taken in the same location. All baseline measurements
      were taken according to the methods listed below. The participants were then randomly
      assigned into one of two treatment groups, one being positional release therapy, the other
      therapeutic massage.

      The same order of measurement was used for all participants since we felt that pressure from
      the PPT algometer could act as a treatment and influence the visual analog scale or
      elastography measures. Measurements were taken at rest with the participant in prone
      position, with their arms at their sides for all measurement series, before and after
      treatment.

      Pain Pressure Threshold Pain pressure threshold was determined by a digital pressure
      algometer on the same point identified during screening. The area was measured once by
      pressing perpendicularly into the trigger point until the subject declared it to be painful.
      The peak force measured was then recorded in kg.

      Ultrasound and Elastography The ultrasound machine with a 9L sound head was used to measure
      two different variables of muscle tension; 1) muscle thickness (B-mode) and tissue stiffness
      via SWE over the same spot found and marked during screening. Using B-mode on the ultrasound
      machine, two images aligned with the muscle fibers obtain were taken to obtain muscle
      thickness. Internal software was used to measure muscle thickness and the 2 images were
      averaged and recorded in cm. The elastography measure used a 3 cm2 box positioned over the
      area containing the trigger point. Nine sample circles of .5cm dimeter were set within the
      box side by side in rows in order to cover as much of the box as possible (shown in figure
      1). (source?) Each circle registered a strain modulus reading in kPa. The average of the 9
      sample circles was used to represent the stiffness of the muscle in the data analysis.

      Treatment groups Therapeutic Massage Participants in the TM treatment group received a timed
      massage for 5 minutes by the same experienced research. A combination of effleurage and
      petrissage techniques were used in an organized pattern. Treatment started with effleurage
      (1-1.5 minutes) and proceeded to petrissage (2.5 to 3 minutes) again followed by effleurage
      (1 minute) over the marked area of the trigger point, but also in some surrounding areas. The
      pressure applied by the researcher progressed throughout the massage into the petrissage
      phase as tolerated by the participant and pressure was then reduced during the final
      effleurage phase. After the treatment was completed, the same dependent variable measurements
      were taken.

      Positional Release Therapy Participants in the PRT group received three successive treatments
      or releases in the marked area. The researcher located the marked trigger point and while
      maintaining contact, a light pressure with the clinician's fingertip was applied creating
      slight dimpling of the skin and blanching of the clinician's fingernail bed. Following
      palpation, the researcher moved the participant's shoulder into passive abduction and
      scapular upward rotation and retraction until a position of comfort was achieved with no pain
      reported by the participant, as directed by Speicher, "Clinical Guide to Positional Release
      Therapy". The participant was instructed to remain completely relaxed during the 90 second
      treatment. After the recommended 90 seconds had passed the limb was returned to the starting
      position. This was repeated immediately 2 more times in tender points immediately adjacent to
      the first one, as recommended by Speicher. Following treatment, the same dependent variable
      measurements were taken.

      Posttreatment measurements Each participant returned 48 hours post treatment, where dependent
      measurements were taken. Participants were also given an activity survey to record the number
      of hours they exercised between the last session and the current session to note any
      abnormalities or increase in normal exercise. The mark made from the first session, over the
      examined trigger point, was still visible at the second visit for all participants and was
      used to determine the location for performing dependent measurements.

      Statistical Analysis A mixed-models analysis of variance was performed for each of the
      dependent variables (VAS, US, elastography, and PPT). The covariates considered in the
      analysis were the participants' sex, side of treatment, height, weight, and age. A step-wise
      regression was used to determine significant covariates for each of the dependent variables.
      Following the step-wise regression the primary variables of interest, treatment and time of
      measurement were added along with their interaction for each of the dependent variables. Post
      hoc t-tests were used to evaluate differences in the measurements. All analyses were
      performed using SAS, version 9.4 and alpha was set at p<0.05.
    
  