
    
      It is unknown why some people with mental retardation and/or autism repeatedly and
      persistently injure themselves, some to the point of tissue damage and permanent scarring.
      Unraveling this mystery poses paradoxical biomedical and behavioral science questions and
      creates deeply troubling problems for practitioners and family members of affected
      individuals. Over the past decade, many cases of self-injurious behavior (SIB) have been
      treated successfully using behavioral interventions that teach communication and other
      functional skills. However, practical problems of implementation, costs associated with
      long-term treatment, and cases with no clear social profile suggest that there is still much
      to be learned about why people self-injure. Some forms of self-injury may involve intense
      stimulation of body sites sufficient to elicit the release and receptor binding of endogenous
      opioid peptides. This study will evaluate variables common to SIB and the neurophysiology of
      pain regulation. The study will also clarify the role of the endogenous opioids and pain
      mechanisms in self-injury.

      Participants with mild to profound mental retardation and/or autism will be observed for
      frequency of self-injury, duration and intensity of self-injurious behavior, and where on the
      body that behavior is directed. Following this characterization, participants' saliva will be
      noninvasively examined for substance P, met-enkephalin, and cortisol as markers for altered
      pain transmission and predictors of response to treatment. After screening and SIB subtyping
      (i.e., social, nonsocial, or mixed), 37 participants whose self-injury is primarily nonsocial
      or mixed will be evaluated over 16 weeks. Participants will be randomized to receive either
      transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation (TENS, an opioid agonist treatment) or naltrexone
      (an opioid antagonist treatment). Participants whose self-injury is primarily socially
      motivated will be evaluated with TENS and will receive behavioral interventions through a
      technical assistance service delivery model. Follow-up evaluations will occur at Months 3 and
      6.
    
  