
    
      Study C: HA-β TCP (ReproBone™) vs. autologous tricortical iliac crest bone graft in a
      calcaneal lengthening osteotomy in children with pes planovalgus. A clinical randomized
      controlled non-inferiority study with 12 months of follow-up.

      Purpose. To investigate the clinical and radiographic findings of a calcaneal lengthening
      osteotomy by comparing autologous bonegraft and HA-β-TCP graft in a group of children with
      hindfoot valgus deformities. The primary outcome measure the stability of the osteotomy
      measured by migrations in the x-translation by RSA.

      Design. Prospective, randomized controlled non-inferiority study.

      Randomization: Children who fulfill the criteria for inclusion together with their
      parents/guardian receive information about the project. The patients are randomized to
      respectively HA-ß-TCP and iliac crest bone graft.

      Surgical procedure: Calcaneal lengthening osteotomy is performed between the anterior and
      middle facet of the subtalar joint. The corticalis of the calcaneus is bilaterally cut
      through. The planovalgus deformity is corrected and with a graft matching the wedged
      osteotomy is inserted. Tantalum balls are inserted into calcaneus on each side of the
      osteotomy and in cuboideum. Postoperative pain treatment consist of a tibial nerve catheter
      which is used the first 24 hours. Patients in whom graft is harvested from the iliac crest
      get local infiltration analgesics accordingly to a standardized procedure. The pain is
      registered by the use of a visual analog scale (VAS, NRS, faces scale) a 3, 8 and 12 hours
      postoperative. The amounts of used analgesics are registered. The stability of the osteotomy
      is assessed by radiostereometric assay (RSA) at the following time points: Baseline
      (first/second postoperative day) after 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 6 months and 12 months.

      Power and significance: The primary parameter is stability of the osteotomy, measured as
      x-translations by the RSA software. We used continuous non-inferiority sample size
      calculations. With alpha 0.05 and power 0.9, non-inferiority limit 2 mm and sd 1.5 mm we
      estimated the sample size to 10 patients in each group. To secure against drop-out, we plan
      to include 15 patients in each group.

      For ethical considerations an interim analysis was planned when 10 patients completed 6
      months RSA follow-up. Primary outcome was compression of the osteotomy. We used a 99.8%
      confidence interval.
    
  