
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of prospective ovarian cancer screening studies within the
           Cancer Genetics Network and other NCI ovarian programs for participants who are at high
           genetic risk for developing ovarian cancer.

        -  Identify the logistical issues of screening these participants and their solutions
           within this framework.

        -  Establish normal ranges and distributions of CA125 values over time within and between
           high-risk participants, with subclassification by pre- or post-menopausal status,
           estrogen-replacement therapy usage, and prior prophylactic oophorectomy.

        -  Estimate the specificity and positive predictive value of the "risk of ovarian cancer
           algorithm" (ROCA) suitable for designing a definitive trial of screening for ovarian
           cancer in high-risk participants.

        -  Establish a longitudinal serum and plasma biorepository for retrospective evaluation of
           other promising biomarkers with special relevance to inherited ovarian and breast cancer
           risk.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants with 1 or 2 ovaries are assigned to group
      A, whereas participants with prior prophylactic bilateral oophorectomy are assigned to group
      B (closed to accrual as of 10/18/04).

      At baseline, participants who are not eligible by breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA)
      mutation criteria or family history criteria undergo a probability of having a BRCA mutation
      given family history of cancer (BRCAPRO) evaluation. Participants in both groups complete a
      questionnaire requesting demographic information and a personal and family health history at
      baseline and a questionnaire requesting hospitalization or cancer diagnosis information after
      each blood test. Participants in both groups also complete health status questionnaires once
      every 3 months for 6 months-7 years. Participants undergo blood draws for measurement of
      CA125 levels once every 3 months for 6 months-7 years. For each CA125 measurement, the risk
      of ovarian cancer algorithm (ROCA) is calculated.

      Group A (1 or 2 ovaries at baseline):

        -  Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 subgroups based on ROCA.

             -  Subgroup A1: Participants with normal-risk for ovarian cancer (ROCA less than 1%)
                continue CA125 screening as above.

             -  Subgroup A2: Participants with intermediate-risk for ovarian cancer (ROCA more than
                1% but less than 10%) or elevated-risk for ovarian cancer (ROCA more than 10%)
                undergo transvaginal sonography (TVS). Participants with elevated-risk undergo an
                additional blood draw for a confirmatory CA125 level prior to TVS. Participants
                with normal TVS continue CA125 screening as above. Participants with abnormal TVS
                are referred to a gynecologic oncologist who decides whether standard clinical
                intervention for potential ovarian cancer is needed. Participants who are not
                referred for standard clinical intervention continue CA125 screening as above.
                Participants who are referred for standard clinical intervention, have at least 1
                ovary remaining, and are found to have no malignancy continue CA125 screening as
                above. Participants who are referred for standard clinical intervention, are found
                to have no malignancy, and then undergo prophylactic bilateral oophorectomy proceed
                to CA125 screening as in group B below. Participants who are referred for standard
                clinical intervention and are found to have malignancy are taken off study.

      Group B (no ovaries at baseline) (closed to accrual as of 10/18/04):

        -  Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 subgroups based on ROCA.

             -  Subgroup B1: Participants with normal-risk for ovarian cancer (ROCA less than 5%)
                continue CA 125 screening as above.

             -  Subgroup B2: Participants with elevated-risk for ovarian cancer (ROCA more than 5%)
                undergo an additional blood draw for a confirmatory CA125 level and are then
                referred to a gynecologic oncologist who decides whether standard clinical
                intervention for potential ovarian cancer is needed. Participants who are not
                referred for standard clinical intervention continue CA125 screening as above.
                Participants who are referred for standard clinical intervention and are not found
                to have malignancy continue CA125 screening as above. Participants who are referred
                for standard clinical intervention and are found to have malignancy are taken off
                study.

      Patients are followed for clinical diagnosis for 1 additional year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 2,430 participants will be accrued for this study within 12
      months.
    
  