
    
      Metabolic disease parameters, such as hyperlipidemia and hypertension have been observed in
      Alzheimer's disease and dementia. The causes of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimers
      are not completely understood. However, increasing amounts of evidence are pointing to
      vascular dysfunction as a cause of this disease. Known as the vascular hypothesis, pathology
      is suggested to begin with cerebral hypoperfusion through attenuated blood flow via clogged
      carotid arteries. Hypoperfusion of cerebral cells means that they do not receive enough
      oxygen to function optimally. This lack of oxygen is believed to lead to cognitive
      impairment. It is hypothesized that these metabolic conditions can damage the endothelial
      wall, leading to impaired vasodilation and blood flow. This damage occurs in the carotid
      arteries, which would limit blood flow to the brain. This impaired blood flow also results
      from higher levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which reduce the bioavailability of
      nitric oxide (NO), an important vasodilator. Antioxidants, such as MitoQ, reduce these ROS
      and thus increase the NO availability, which improves endothelial function. This study will
      measure the use of the antioxidant MitoQ to reduce this endothelial dysfunction, thereby
      improving blood flow in the carotid arteries. Blood vessel health can be measured by how much
      bigger or smaller a vessel can become, because the ability of the vessel to change size is
      very important to make sure that blood is delivered to the tissues of the body. This study is
      being done to help us understand if endothelial dysfunction in Mild Cognitive Impairment
      (MCI) patients leads to the pathogenesis of the disease.

      We will examine how endothelial function and cerebrovascular blood flow changes after
      consumption of MitoQ. We hope to achieve this through measures of carotid artery blood flow
      and brachial artery blood flow, using a doppler ultrasound for both, while using flow
      mediated dilation when measuring the brachial artery. The flow-mediated dilation test is a
      validated and safe assessment of endothelial function and vascular health. The premise behind
      the assessment is that endothelium produces autocoids, like nitric oxide, that dilate in
      response to shear stress. Flow-mediated dilation has been shown to be an effective tool to
      assess endothelial function in the peripheral and coronary vasculature. This assessment of
      endothelial health can be used in healthy individuals to detect risk for cardiovascular
      disease. We will also utilize near infrared spectroscopy to measure tissue oxygenation in the
      brain, which is also a measure of improved blood flow, and will measure brain neural activity
      with an EEG. Finally, we will collect blood samples to measure the change in ROS levels
      before and after MitoQ consumption
    
  