
    
      Background - Military Sexual Trauma (MST) among women Veterans is a problem of epidemic
      proportion associated with significant mental health and functional impairment and
      substantial access to care barriers. Surveillance data indicate that one in four women
      Veterans reports MST when screened. Compared to women Veterans with other service-related
      stressors, those experiencing MST have greater mental health problems, are more likely to
      report difficulty in functioning in social, family and intimate relationships and are more
      likely to be unemployed and to report difficulties in finding a job. Nevertheless, women with
      MST engage less frequently in VA health care than other women Veterans. Barriers to care
      include distance from specialty services, financial difficulties, childcare and family
      responsibilities, and gender-related discomfort in male-dominated VA facilities. Research
      over the past decade has identified the problems and concerns of women Veterans with MST but
      programs addressing their mental health needs and responsive to identified barriers are
      lacking. The proposed study addresses this gap by evaluating a gender-sensitive,
      evidence-based skills training program delivered via home-based video technology.

      Specific Aims - The study will conduct a Hybrid Type 1 effectiveness-implementation study to
      accomplish two aims. The first is to determine the effectiveness of the HBVT-delivered,
      Skills Training in Affective Regulation (STAIR) relative to a HBVT-delivered nonspecific
      active comparator, Present Centered Therapy (PCT) among women Veterans with MST. It is
      hypothesized that STAIR will be superior to PCT in regards to improvement in CAPS PTSD
      symptoms (primary outcome) as well as in perceived social support and social engagement
      (secondary outcomes). The second aim is to conduct a multi-stakeholder, mixed method
      evaluation to inform future potential implementation plans by identify barriers and
      facilitators of implementing STAIR via HBVT and to contextualize and interpret the
      quantitative data on treatment processes and clinical effectiveness.

      Methodology - This is a four-year, two-site Hybrid Type 1 effectiveness-implementation study
      design. A total of 200 women Veterans with MST and PTSD symptoms (with DSM-5 PTSD Screen
      cut-off > 3) will be enrolled into the study. Participants will be stratified by rurality
      status in a proportion representative of the national population (34% rural vs. 66%
      nonrural). Stratification will ensure that resources are dedicated to recruit the identified
      number of rural women. Within each level of stratification, participants will be randomized
      into one of two treatments conditions, STAIR or PCT, each of which is comprised of 10 weekly
      sessions. Assessments will be conducted at five time-points: baseline (week 0), midtreatment
      (week 5), immediately posttreatment (week 10), 2-month follow-up (week 18) and 4-month
      follow-up (week 26). Rurality will be included as a covariate and assessed for variations in
      aspects such as retention and outcome, which will help inform future implementation plans.
      Multi-stakeholder mixed-method process evaluation concerning STAIR and the use of in-home
      delivery of services will include administrator, clinician and patient stakeholders.

      Expected Results and Anticipated Impacts on Veterans Healthcare - It is expected that the
      proposed study has the potential to improve the quality of VA healthcare by establishing the
      effectiveness of a social skills intervention, Skills Training in Affective and Interpersonal
      Regulation (STAIR) delivered via home-based video technology (HBVT) to women Veterans with
      MST, particularly those living in rural areas. The treatment simultaneously addresses social
      concerns and PTSD symptoms, both of which are identified needs of women Veterans who have
      experienced MST. STAIR has been demonstrated as efficacious in community populations and
      pilot data with women Veterans with MST indicate similar outcomes regarding improvements in
      perceived social support, social engagement and PTSD symptoms. The use of HBVT has the
      potential of increasing access to care to this geographically dispersed and underserved
      population.
    
  