
    
      Rationale: The lifetime prevalence of depression is twice as high in women as in men; this is
      a robust and frequently replicated finding in cross national epidemiology studies. Women are
      also more prone to various depressive disorders at certain stages of the life cycle yet the
      etiologic mechanisms and therapeutic implications for these increased rates of depression
      especially at certain life stages remain largely unknown. The hormonal milieu appears to have
      an independent impact on the occurrence of depression and potentially on treatment response
      as the disparity between the sexes only emerges after the onset of puberty and persists until
      the age of 55.

      There is accumulating evidence suggesting differential antidepressant drug effects between
      men and women and recent preliminary evidence that there may be some differences in treatment
      response in women by age. Younger women with depression may be more responsive to
      serotonergic antidepressants and this may relate to changes in menstrual status and estrogen
      levels. Postmenopausal women have lower estrogen levels and may lack the enhancing effect of
      estrogen on serotonergic mechanisms and, thus, may not be able to achieve the full
      therapeutic potential of the serotonergic antidepressants.

      The reported differences in response rates between premenopausal and postmenopausal women may
      be related to the presence or absence of a menstrual cycle as well as lowered estrogen levels
      found in postmenopausal women although this hypothesis has not been formally tested. A
      prospective study is therefore proposed to primarily characterize the rates of response
      following SSRI therapy in depressed women who meet criteria for Major Depressive Disorder
      (MDD) and are treated for a current depressive episode. Menstrual status will be confirmed
      based on reproductive hormone levels. Perimenopausal and postmenopausal women will be studied
      separately because of their different hormonal profile. All women will rate their symptoms of
      depression on a daily basis and in addition, independent raters will rate depressive symptoms
      prospectively to determine the relationship between change in depressive symptoms and
      antidepressant response across the menstrual cycle. All women will be treated with citalopram
      and paroxetine will be the secondary alternative.

      Objectives

      Primary objective: To compare reduction in severity of depression in premenopausal,
      perimenopausal and postmenopausal women.

      Secondary objective: To assess the symptoms of depression and antidepressant response across
      the menstrual cycle in premenopausal women with comparisons to peri- and postmenopausal
      women.

      Exploratory objective: To examine the relationship between estrogen and SSRI level across the
      menstrual cycle.

      Hypotheses

      Primary hypothesis: The mean reduction in HRSD scores following SSRI antidepressant therapy
      will be significantly higher in premenopausal compared to peri-and postmenopausal women.

      Secondary hypotheses:

        1. Depression scores (based on HRSD and the Prospective Record of the Impact and Severity
           of Menstrual Symptoms [PRISM] calendar) will be significantly higher during the lower
           estrogen phases of the menstrual cycle than the higher estrogen phases in premenopausal
           women who remain on constant doses of citalopram.

        2. The above relationship will not be discernable in perimenopausal and postmenopausal
           women over a comparable time period and during comparable antidepressant treatment.

      Exploratory hypothesis: There will be a positive correlation between estrogen levels and SSRI
      levels.

      Significance: This study takes an innovative approach to increasing our understanding of the
      hormonal contribution to symptom severity and antidepressant treatment response. Since the
      majority of psychotropic medication is prescribed to women, understanding the interactive
      process between the menstrual cycle and antidepressant medication has the potential to change
      clinical practice by allowing for more individualized pharmacological treatment within an
      evidence based approach.
    
  