
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the
      combination of quizartinib (AC220) with either azacitidine (5-azacitidine [AZA]) or low-dose
      cytarabine (LDAC) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or high-risk myelodysplastic
      syndrome (MDS). (Phase I) II. To determine the clinical activity of the combination of
      quizartinib with either AZA or LDAC in patients with AML or MDS. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical activity of the combination of quizartinib with either AZA or
      LDAC in patients with AML or MDS. (Phase I) II. To determine the safety of the combination of
      quizartinib with either AZA or LDAC in patients with AML or MDS. (Phase II) III. To determine
      the induction of hypomethylation, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage and FLT3 signaling
      during therapy with this combination and its correlation with response. (Phase I and II) IV.
      To determine the effect of this combination therapy on plasma levels of FLT3-ligand. (Phase I
      and II) V. To determine the pharmacodynamics of this combination therapy in patients with AML
      or high-risk MDS. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of quizartinib followed by a phase II
      study. Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive quizartinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 5-28 of cycle 1 and
      on days 1-28 of subsequent cycles and azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV)
      over 10-40 minutes on days 1-7. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive quizartinib PO QD on days 5-28 of cycle 1 and on days 1-28 of
      subsequent cycles and cytarabine SC twice daily (BID) on days 1-10. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.
    
  