
    
      Rationale:

      Evidence demonstrates that behavioural interventions should be the first line of treatment
      for children with insomnia, but this is not typically the case. Evidence-based behavioural
      intervention protocols are not readily available for clinical use, and their lack of
      implementation indicates inadequate knowledge translation. When evidence-based treatments are
      available, they are usually provided in a traditional service delivery framework (i.e.,
      face-to-face therapy, small group therapy). These traditional approaches are often very
      difficult for parents to access due to scheduling conflicts, incidental costs, and travel
      difficulties. Thus, there is a critical need for access to effective interventions focused on
      insomnia for children, and increased knowledge for parents and health care providers about
      appropriate treatments for insomnia. The Better Nights, Better Days (BNBD) program will
      bridge this gap as we will provide a potential solution to one of the most common treatment
      barriers, access to care.

      Intervention:

      The BNBD intervention for children aged 1 to 10 years with insomnia is a bilingual,
      self-guided program delivered online. The intervention incorporates evidence-based
      strategies, including sleep education, positive routines, faded bedtime with response cost,
      sleep restriction, extinction/graduated extinction, stimulus fading, and scheduled
      awakenings. The intervention is comprised of five sessions made available sequentially to
      participants. The completion time of the intervention will range from 5-10 weeks. Each
      session will provide factual information to parents, strategies for implementation of best
      practices to address sleep problems, and access to additional help and advice. There is also
      a "Reward Centre" where parents can learn how to use reinforcement for children (e.g.,
      sticker charts) to help support the implementation of these sleep intervention strategies.
      Participants complete a short Sleep Diary for a minimum of 5 days for each session throughout
      this intervention so that they can receive feedback on their progress. The intervention
      delivers the interactive, personalized cognitive and behavioural change strategies accessed
      through participants' desktops, laptops, tablets and smartphones. The program can be used at
      a time that is convenient for the participants, removing barriers to care and providing
      services in the comfort and privacy of their own homes.

      Objectives and Hypotheses:

      The study will evaluate the effectiveness of the BNBD online intervention for insomnia in
      children 1-10 years of age. The primary objective is to assess the immediate impact (Baseline
      vs. 4 month) of the intervention on children's sleep. The two hypotheses for the primary
      outcomes are:

        1. Improvements in sleep efficiency calculated using actigraphy data in the Intervention
           Group compared with the Usual Care Group, and

        2. Improvements in sleep efficiency calculated using Sleep Diary data in the Intervention
           Group compared with the Usual Care Group

      The secondary objectives are: a) to evaluate the longer-term impact (baseline, 4, 8 months)
      on children's sleep and psychosocial health and, b) to examine the impact on parent daytime
      fatigue and psychosocial health outcomes. The four hypotheses of the secondary outcomes are:

        1. Children in the Intervention Group will show improvement compared to children in the
           Usual Care Group at the two follow-up time points in their symptoms of insomnia based on
           improvements in sleep efficiency calculated using actigraphy and Sleep Diary data in the
           Intervention group compared with the Usual Care group.

        2. Children in the Intervention Group will show improvement compared to children in the
           Usual Care Group at the two follow-up time points in their symptoms of insomnia based on
           the total score from the Behavioural Insomnia Questionnaire (BIQ) and Tayside Children's
           Sleep Questionnaire (TCSQ; toddler and pre-schoolers) / Sleep Disturbance Scale for
           Children (SDSC; school-age).

        3. Children in the Intervention group, compared to children in the Usual Care Group, will
           show improved psychosocial health based on the internalizing and externalizing total
           scores from the Child Behaviour Checklist (CBCL/1 ½-5 and CBCL/6-18) and the total score
           from the Pediatric Quality of Life (Peds- QL).

        4. Parents randomized to the Intervention Group, compared to parents randomized to the
           Usual Care group, will show at all follow-up time points:

      1.Decreased daytime fatigue based on the Single Item Fatigue Impact Scale (SIFIS) 2.Improved
      psychosocial health as assessed by the total score of the Depression, Anxiety and Stress
      Scales (DASS-21) 3.Improved parenting strategies as assessed by the total score of the
      Parenting Scale (PS)

      Exploratory analyses will examine age effects, the impact of the intervention on children's
      physical health, as well as process-level evaluation and implementation questions, exploring
      how BNBD works (e.g., changes in specific sleep behaviours such as bedtime routines, and
      predictors of treatment success).

      Study Design:

      The study is a two-arm Randomized Controlled Tiral (RCT) design, using 1-to-1 allocation,
      comparing participants assigned to receive either the BNBD online program for parents
      (Intervention Group) or the control group (Usual Care Group) who will not receive the
      intervention. The intervention will be delivered across Canada. The study will be coordinated
      through Corkum LABS at Dalhousie University.

      Randomization will be used to minimize bias in the assignment of participants to either
      group, to increase the likelihood that known and unknown participant attributes (e.g.,
      demographic and baseline characteristics) are evenly balanced, and to enhance the validity of
      statistical comparisons across groups.

      Participants will be stratified at randomization by three age groups (Toddler, Pre-School,
      School-Aged) and two primary languages (English and French). Targets will be set for each
      variable - 1/3 of sample in each age group and 20% of sample French speaking, modelling the
      Canadian populatipm. This will ensure the study population is representative and balanced.
      Within each stratum, subjects will be randomized using an equal allocation ratio of 1:1. Both
      the Intervention Group and Usual Care Group will be able to access alternative resources and
      additional programs and services while enrolled in the study.

      Blocks of 6 will be used to randomize the participants for each strata. The block size is
      short enough to prevent imbalance, and long enough to prevent guessing allocation in trials.

      The power analyses indicate the need to have 250 participants in total who complete the final
      follow-up assessment at 8 months post randomization. Based on the Investigators past
      intervention research as well as sleep intervention trials in the literature, 500
      participants who have successfully completed eligibility will be needed using an estimated
      50% drop out rate from post-eligibility to the final follow-up assessment at 8 months. More
      specifically, loss of participants at each stage is estimated to be the following: 22% from
      post eligibility to end of baseline, 15% from post-randomization to 4 month assessment, and
      13% from the 4 month to 8 month assessment.

      Outcome measures will be administered to all participants at Baseline and at 4 and 8 months
      post-randomization online through the REDCap database. Data collected at 8 months will assess
      the degree of maintenance of any initial treatment effects on children's sleep in each age
      group, as well as examine the longer-term impact of the intervention on child and parent
      psychosocial health. The REDCap database will automatically contact participants via email to
      complete assessments. There will be automated emails from REDCap followed by phone calls from
      the research staff to ensure that outcome data is collected.

      Study participation ends for participants in both study groups after completing the 8 month
      follow-up assessment. Participants in the Usual Care group will gain access to the BNBD
      program after their study participation is complete. The BNBD program will be accessible for
      the Usual Care group for 3 months.

      Subject Population:

      A total of 500 participants will be eligible to participate in the study. Participants will
      be recruited from across all Canadian provinces and territories. A target of 100
      English-speaking participants will be recruited from across four geographical regions of
      Canada (Atlantic, Central, Prairies, West Coast and Northern Territories).

      Data Analysis:

      The primary outcome measures that will be used to evaluate the impact of the intervention
      program on insomnia symptoms are sleep efficiency based on actigraphy data and sleep
      efficiency based on Sleep Diary data. Two primary outcome measures are included in order to
      capture the variables of interest using both an objective measure of sleep (i.e., actigraphy)
      and a parent-report/subjective measure of sleep (i.e., Sleep Diary), thus allowing for
      comparison with existing research in the field. Another reason for using both objective and
      subjective measures is that it has been found that unblinded RCTs (i.e., in which
      participants know their group assignment such as the current study) have been demonstrated to
      be biased in favour of the active treatment, and it has been suggested that an objective
      measure (e.g., actigraphy) should be utilized in the assessment of outcomes. Secondary
      outcomes will examine the longer-term impact of change in sleep as well as the impact on the
      child's psychosocial health (behavioural, attentional, and emotional functioning) over the
      duration of the 8 month trial. We will also examine the impact on parents' fatigue levels and
      psychosocial health.

      Primary Outcome: A mixed effect General Linear Models will be fit to the data to test if the
      Intervention group demonstrates improved outcomes compared to the Usual Care group. The
      dependent variables will be the primary outcomes assessed at 4 and 8 months
      post-randomization (sleep efficiency on actigraphy and the Sleep Diary). Participants will be
      modelled as random effects group (Intervention vs. Usual Care) and baseline covariates (age
      and language) will be modelled as fixed effects. A significant interaction effect between
      time (baseline, 4 and 8 month) and group will indicate an intervention effect for treatment.

      Secondary Outcome: All secondary outcomes will be separately analyzed using Hierarchical
      Linear Modelling and will test differences between the two groups (Intervention vs. Usual
      Care) in the growth curves modelling changes in the outcome variables across the four points
      of measurement, controlling for age, language and other covariates.

      Exploratory analyses: The investigators will examine the possibility of differential response
      to treatment across the three age groups using growth curve modelling of the two primary
      outcomes (actigraphy and Sleep Diary).
    
  