
    
      The study was conducted in the Family Health Units Microregion 4.2, Sanitary District IV,
      located in the city of Recife, Northeast Brazil. For the sample size was considered alpha
      error 5% (u), beta error of 20% (v). The standard deviation of glycated hemoglobin
      concentration distribution in both groups (Dp1 and Dp2) was equal to 1.9g/dL, and the
      difference between the intergroup glycated hemoglobin average was equal to 0.8%.

      Initially a survey was conducted of elderlies diabetics interested in participating in the
      study. Then, an individual randomization of the sample was done using a table of random
      numbers generated by the software EPI INFO, version 6.04d. Two groups were formed,
      intervention and control, with similar characteristics in terms of age. Data collection
      occurred from August 2014 to August 2015 and the elderlies participants in the intervention
      group or control were followed for 6 months (T0 to T6).

      Control Group: 101 elderlies diabetics who participated in the routine individual
      consultation with the staff of the Family Health Unit on a quarterly basis.

      Group Intervention: 101 elderlies diabetics that in addition to individual routine
      consultation with the staff of the Family Health Unit on a quarterly basis participated in
      operative groups of health education. The groups had monthly frequency, duration of two hours
      and were conducted in close community spaces Health Units to facilitate the access of the
      elderlies.The operative groups with the methodology of problematization (FREIRE, 2011),
      included issues related to the promotion of healthy habits, identified from the needs of
      elderlies themselves.

      In both groups, intervention and control the variables investigated were:

      sociodemographic (T0) - Baseline; Knowledge about diabetes (T0 and T6) assessed by the
      Diabetes Knowledge Scale (DKN-A); Attitude for self-care (T0 and T6) measured by the ATT-19 -
      Baseline and Follow-up; healthy food consumption (T0 and T6) assessed by the Healthy Eating
      Index (HEI) - Baseline and Follow-up; Physical activity (T0 and T6) measured by the
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) - Baseline and Follow-up; Anthropometric
      (T0 to T6) by weight measurement, height, waist circumference and body mass index - Baseline
      three months and follow-up; Biochemical assessment (T0, T3 and T6) by measuring glycated
      hemoglobin (A1C) - baseline, three months and follow-up.
    
  