
    
      The subchondroplasty procedure has been used to treat bone marrow edema mostly located in the
      periarticular region of the knee. In the past few years, it has expanded its use in the foot
      and ankle. There has, however, been very minimal research documented on its utilization in
      that area. Bone marrow edema arises from altered stresses on bones due to osteoarthritis,
      biomechanical abnormalities, coalitions, infection, and trauma. This study aims to
      prospectively evaluate the course of treatment and outcomes of painful bone marrow lesions in
      these associated podiatric circumstances using subchondroplasty. This should, therefore,
      expose this modality as a viable treatment option for bone marrow edema.

      Patients will be evaluated in the office/clinic setting with a positive diagnosis of bone
      marrow edema confirmed via MRI. They must have failed 3 months of conservative treatment
      measures including, but not limited to, orthotic modifications, taping, immobilization or
      offloading, and anti-inflammatories. The study population includes individuals over the age
      of 18 with no significant comorbidities or previous foot and ankle surgical interventions.
      These patients will go on to have calcium phosphate mineral compound injected into the bone
      marrow lesions. We will track the progression of their symptoms and evaluate via Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS) pain score and the American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Score (AOFAS) at
      3-month, 6-month, and 1-year follow-ups.

      The subchondroplasty procedure is a viable treatment option for bone marrow edema in the
      setting of altered pedal biomechanics, gait abnormalities, osteoarthritis, and trauma. It is
      a minimally invasive procedure that maximizes positive outcomes, allows the patient to be
      immediately weight bearing following surgery, and has short operating room times. This
      surgical procedure is a new and innovative technique introduced to the podiatric field that
      will allow the surgeon to intervene at an earlier stage in efforts to alleviate symptoms. It
      is hypothesized that use of calcium phosphate bone substitute in the foot and ankle to treat
      bone marrow edema will have more favorable short and long-term outcomes than joint
      destructive and joint sparing procedures more commonly performed for treatment in the past.
    
  