
    
      This is a single center, open-label, Phase I/II study in up to 100 adult subjects, aged 18
      years and older who are at occupational risk of exposure to live H5N1 viruses. This study is
      designed to investigate the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of two 90 µg doses of
      an investigational inactivated influenza A/H5N1 virus vaccine given approximately 28 days
      apart. A blood sample will be collected for immunogenicity evaluation prior to each
      vaccination. Subjects will maintain a memory aid (appendix C4 and C13) to record oral
      temperature and systemic and local AEs for 7 days after immunization. Subjects will be
      encouraged to take their temperature around the same time each day. All subjects will receive
      a safety follow-up telephone call at 1 to 3 days after each vaccination (approximately Day 2)
      to elicit any AE and concomitant medication information. Subjects will return to the clinic 7
      days after each vaccination for assessment of AEs and concomitant medications, a targeted
      physical examination (if indicated), and review of the memory aid. At approximately Day 28
      after the first vaccination, subjects will return to the clinic for evaluation of vital
      signs, blood sample collection and safety follow-up, confirmation of eligibility criteria and
      a second vaccination. Safety follow-up will be identical to that performed after the first
      vaccination. At approximately Day 56 (or about 28 days after the second vaccination),
      subjects will return to the clinic for immunogenicity blood sample collection, AE and
      concomitant medication assessment, and targeted physical examination and vital sign
      assessment (if indicated). At approximately Day 180 (6 months after the first vaccination),
      subjects will return to the clinic for a final immunogenicity blood sample collection and
      safety assessment.

      Blood samples collected prior to each vaccination (Days 0 and 28) and on Days 56 and 180
      after the first vaccination will be tested at the CDC Influenza Division Laboratory for the
      levels of neutralizing and HAI antibodies and CMI responses.

      The primary outcome measures will be the frequencies and severities of AEs and the GMTS and
      proportions of subjects who achieve 4-fold rises in serum neutralizing and HAI titers against
      the influenza A/H5N1 virus on Day 56. Serum HAI and neutralizing antibody responses
      (including frequencies of 4 fold or greater rise in titer; GMTs; and proportions of subjects
      achieving protective titers of neutralizing antibody 1 month and 6 months after first dose)
      will also be assessed. A secondary outcome measure will be CMI responses evaluated 1 month
      after the receipt of each dose of vaccine and 6 months after the receipt of the first dose of
      vaccine.
    
  