
    
      Kidney transplantation is a replacement therapy in chronic renal failure which could allow a
      better quality of life. However, renal transplantation also represents an emotionally strong
      experience, which is associated with feelings of acceptance of the transplanted organ, change
      in lifestyle, side effects of pharmacotherapies, anxiety, depression, redefinition of one's
      body, as well as one's own social and family role. For these reasons it can be experienced as
      a traumatic event and be associated with an unfavorable post-operative course, in particular
      with regard to adherence to medical prescriptions and the consequent increase in the
      possibility of rejection.

      Adherence, in fact, implies the correct management of drugs and the constant and assiduous
      presence at pre-established check-ups at the transplant center, taking the required exams and
      promptly reporting any complications. In kidney transplant patients, adherence to
      immunosuppressive therapies becomes fundamental to reduce the risk of organ rejection or, in
      the most extreme cases, the risk of death. Several studies show the importance of adherence
      to post-operative course treatment in different types of transplant. Furthermore, it has been
      shown that poor levels of adherence, recognized as a risk factor for organ rejection, are
      associated with an increase in healthcare costs.

      Young age, depression, anxiety and avoidant-type adaptation strategies (eg avoiding the
      stressful event) are some of the risk factors of non-adherence in kidney transplant patients.
      Also alexithymia (known as the inability to identify and describe emotions), the inability to
      regulate intense emotional states, and attachment style, are associated with poor levels of
      post-transplant adherence.

      Possemato and collaborators (2010), showed the efficacy of an intervention that uses
      expressive writing in the reduction of post-traumatic stress symptoms in kidney transplant
      patients. This technique seems to be effective also in patients with chronic pathologies and
      cancer, in particular in the reduction of symptoms , in the management of disease and
      psychophysical symptoms in cancer patients. The ways in which this technique acts are not yet
      clear, however it is hypothesized that the externalization and processing of traumatic events
      linked to the disease may favor an improvement in the ability to express emotions, and the
      reduction of negative thoughts and feelings associated. These studies suggest that using the
      technique of expressive writing in kidney transplant patients would allow them to externalize
      and process emotions, feelings and thoughts related to illness, transplantation and
      consequent changes (constant controls and therapies, sudden life style change, drug therapies
      and its effects, physical modifications), and this can favor a mental reorganization of
      negative events, a greater expression and emotions regulation, and an improvement in the
      interpersonal skills with family members and medical staff. Furthermore, this could be
      associated with a greater ability to cope with the consequences and psychophysical changes
      following transplantation and encourage greater levels of adherence with effects on the risk
      of organ rejection and health costs.

      The objective of the study was to verify the effects of the expressive writing, on the
      post-operative course, in term of organ rejection, psychological well-being, adherence and
      healthcare spending in patients undergoing kidney transplantation.

      Thirty-five patients were recruited at the kidney transplant center of the Policlinico
      Umberto I, Sapienza University of Rome. Each participant completed an informed consent form.
      The sample was divided into two groups in a randomized way. Of the 35 patients, 3 were
      excluded for not completing the task, due to logistical problems and due to the hospital
      situation, 1 refuse to perform the writing task, and finally 3 dropped to T2 (3rd
      post-transplant month). Of the remaining 28, 2 had an acute rejection before starting the
      writing task. The final sample is n = 26.

      The study had 3 phases:

        1. Pre-operative phase (T0)

           The time of admission, just before the kidney transplant. In this phase to all
           participants were asked socio-demographic information and specific characteristics of
           the pathology in progress (eg.duration of dialysis treatment, date of transplantation,
           onset of disease). Then, they completed the following self-administered questionnaires:

           Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) for the evaluation of depression, State Trait Anxiety
           Inventory I and II (STAI Y1 - STAI Y2) for the evaluation of trait and state anxiety,
           Toronto Alexythymia Scale 20-item (TAS-20) for assessing the ability to identify and
           describe one's emotions, Interpersonal Reactivity index (IRI) for the evaluation of
           empathy and the Health Locus of Control for the evaluation of the patient's beliefs on
           his state of health and a questionnaire for the evaluation of healthcare costs, built ad
           hoc.

           To assess the level of adherence, each patient answered to the following question: "Have
           you ever forgotten to take drugs prescribed by your treatment plan? "with dichotomous
           answer yes / no. Finally, in order to assess the pre-transplant renal function values,
           such as Creatinine, CDK-EPI and azotemia were collected.

        2. Writing Phase (WP) Five days after the operation, patients belonging to the experimental
           group, performed the writing task related to their deepest emotions, thoughts and
           concerns focused on the disease and the transplant itself, for 3 consecutive days, for
           20 minutes a day. They performed the writing session in a closed and silent room, which
           guaranteed their privacy. The instructions were according to the standard delivery by
           Pennebaker, creator of the technique, translated and adapted for the specific hospital
           situation already proposed in a study on urological patients by Solano et al. (2007).
           Instead, the control group performed the neutral writing task, related to the
           description of an object in their room, without mentioning emotions, but just describing
           in a neutral way what they saw, for 3 consecutive days, 20 minutes each day.

        3. The day of discharge Phase (T1) and 4) three months follow up (T2) All participants
           filled the questionnaire completed before the operation and they had the blood analysis
           according to the hospital protocol for transplanted patients.
    
  