
    
      Each patient had an outpatient screening evaluation, and two 22 h overnight hospital
      admissions separated by a 2- to 4-week waiting period. Each inpatient admission began at
      15:00 and ended at 13:00 on the following day. Subjects ate dinners and lunches with
      carbohydrate content that was the same at admission 1 and admission 2 and had identical
      morning meals of Ensure Plus (Abbott Nutrition, Columbus, OH). Two days before each
      admission, two Freestyle Navigator CGM devices (Abbott Diabetes Care) continuous glucose
      monitors were applied to the patient to allow for stabilization of the sensors and for
      assessment of their performance.

      During admission 1, open-loop control was used, with the subjects' usual insulin routine and
      their personal insulin pump. During admission 2, an OmniPod Insulin Management System
      (Insulet Corp.) was inserted and used for closed-loop control of blood glucose. Insulin
      lispro (Eli Lilly, Indianapolis, IN), chosen based on commercial assays available, was used
      during both inpatient admissions.

      At the beginning of admission 2, one of the two CGM devices was designated as primary, and
      the closed-loop control algorithm used the data of that system, unless a problem was
      detected. At 17:00, the model-predictive control (MPC) was initiated in a data-collection
      mode, automatically receiving CGM data every minute. Administration of the predinner insulin
      bolus was overseen by the attending physician. MPC, closed-loop control began at 21:30 and
      continued until 12:00 the next day for a total of 14.5 h.

      Per FDA restrictions, the algorithm did not automatically control the insulin pump. Instead,
      the algorithm suggested insulin boluses every 15 min, which, if accepted, were programmed
      into the insulin pump by the attending physician. This was done for safety reasons, allowing
      the physician to override insulin delivery suggestions at any time. Reference blood glucose
      (using a YSI Life Sciences or a Beckman glucose analyzer) was sampled every 30 min. The
      protocol required switching to more frequent 15 min reference blood glucose sampling if
      hypoglycemia occurred or was imminent. Fast-acting carbohydrate (glucose tablets or fruit
      juice) was given when reference blood glucose fell below 3.9 mmol/liter, regardless of the
      CGM readings.
    
  