
    
      The use of stents has become common practice in the percutaneous treatment of coronary artery
      disease. Restenosis affected 20-40% of de novo coronary lesions treated with bare metal
      stents. Drug-eluting stents (DES) have emerged as the most effective strategy for the
      prevention of restenosis. The first available DES were the Sirolimus-eluting Cypher and the
      Paclitaxel-eluting Taxus stent. Although their mid-term efficacy has been well-established,
      there is an ongoing debate on the potential of an increased incidence of late stent
      thrombosis, as well as of delayed onset of restenosis or catch-up phenomenon with DES. Recent
      evidence demonstrates that there might be differences between various DES in terms of safety
      and efficacy. The differences might be related to the drug, polymer or stent design.
      Everolimus (SDZ-RAD) and zotarolimus (ABT-578) are new antiproliferative agents that share
      some common structural and biological properties with sirolimus ("limus-group"). Both drugs
      bind to the intracellular sirolimus receptor, FK 506-binding protein 12 (FKBP 12). The
      drug-FKBP12 complex inhibits cell cycle progression via inactivation of the mammalian target
      of Rapamycin (mTOR) thereby regulating vascular smooth muscle cell migration and
      proliferation. Preclinical studies showed improved endothelialization and limited chronic
      inflammation of the everolimus-eluting stent compared with previous drug-eluting stents.
      Moreover, first randomized clinical trials of everolimus-eluting stents have shown promising
      results regarding safety, feasibility and efficacy in the suppression of neointimal
      proliferation. Safety and efficacy of the zotarolimus-eluting Endeavor stent have been
      investigated in the Endeavor clinical program. In the Endeavor III and IV trials, the
      Endeavour stent proved inferior to the Cypher and Taxus stents regarding angiographic
      endpoints. However, rates of target vessel failure were similar in both groups. The Endeavor
      RESOLUTE stent platform uses a new polymer with potential improvements of drug release
      compared to the Endeavor stent. The RESOLUTE clinical trial is the first-in man,
      observational, uncontrolled, non-randomized study evaluating the Endeavor Resolute
      drug-eluting stent with the new polymer. The trial enrolled a total of 130 patients with
      native coronary artery lesions. There are no data available comparing the zotarolimus-eluting
      Endeavor Resolute stent with the everolimus-eluting Xience V stent. Thus the aim of this
      prospective, randomized study is to compare the efficacy and safety of these two "new
      generation" drug-eluting stent platforms in a real world population.
    
  