
    
      Hypercapnic respiratory failure is a prevalent medical problem, comprising a substantial
      number of ED visits and readmissions. The target population that are at high risk for
      developing hypercapnia are patients with obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS), chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), sleep disordered breathing (SDB) overlapping with COPD,
      and patients with neuromuscular disorders. These patients are commonly managed in the
      progressive care units or the intensive care unit for extended periods of time, which can
      over-utilize health systems resources. Einstein Medical Center's patient population includes
      multiple low-income communities / neighborhoods. Their educational background varies and
      constant education and counseling is an integral part of the treatment plan. These patients
      are particularly vulnerable due to a lack of geographic access and difficulty contacting
      healthcare providers via phone. Some of the patients may not be able to afford co-pays for
      clinic visits or are not able to follow up with a physician. In addition, patients treated
      with non-invasive ventilation in the hospital and require home therapy either never receive
      the device or are sub-optimally trained in its appropriate utilization. These patients may
      also be morbidly obese with mobility issues, which is another obstacle preventing patients
      from following up with their providers.

      Positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy/ non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV)
      are effective treatments to avoid acute hypercapnic respiratory failure; however, low
      compliance and poor follow-up are often recurring issues. These high-risk patients present in
      the emergency department acutely hypercapnic and encephalopathic with subsequent ICU
      admission and mechanical ventilation.This Telemedicine Outreach Program aims to utilize
      E-touch devices (Vivify-Go) in collaboration with home visits by EMS (Emergency medical
      services) to improve compliance and the efficiency of healthcare delivery. These efforts will
      hopefully lead to a decrease in acute decompensated respiratory states and hospital
      readmission rates.
    
  