
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the safety of cyclophosphamide-modulated vaccination with vs without
           trastuzumab in patients with breast cancer that does not overexpress HER-2/neu.

        -  To compare the clinical benefit of cyclophosphamide-modulated vaccination with vs
           without trastuzumab in these patients.

        -  To measure HER-2/neu-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell immunity by delayed-type
           hypersensitivity (DTH) and ELISPOT.

        -  To measure the pharmacodynamics of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells by flow cytometry.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the impact of trastuzumab on immune priming in vivo by immunohistochemistry of
           vaccine-site biopsies at day +3 and day +7 of courses 1 and 3 on the two study arms,
           comparing cellular infiltrates to those seen in previous preclinical and clinical
           models.

        -  To measure hTERT-specific CD8+ T-cell immunity by ELISPOT.

        -  To characterize the peripheral-memory T-cell pool.

      Tertiary

        -  To determine baseline and change in vaccine site-draining lymph node immunohistology and
           gene expression profile.

        -  To develop the tandem tetramer/CD107a cytotoxicity assay for HER-2/neu-specific CD8+ T
           cells.

        -  To measure novel T-cell responses induced by trastuzumab and cyclophosphamide-modulated
           vaccination.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day -1 and allogeneic
           GM-CSF-secreting breast cancer vaccine intradermally on day 0. Courses repeat every 4-6
           weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Patients then receive a fourth vaccination at 6-8 months.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cyclophosphamide and the vaccine as in arm I and trastuzumab IV
           over 30-90 minutes on day -1. Courses repeat every 4-6 weeks for 3 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive a fourth
           vaccination at 6-8 months.

      Skin punch and lymph node biopsies are collected at baseline and on days +3 and +7 of courses
      1 and 3 for biomarker analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  