
    
      Trial locations:

      Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Borders (MSF) is one of the worlds leading
      independent organizations for medical humanitarian aid. MSF conducts an emergency trauma
      project in the Ministry of Health hospital in Ar Ramtha, Jordan, less than five kilometers
      from the border with Daraa governorate in Syria. A majority of patients within the project
      receive treatment for blast- and gunshot-related trauma wounds originating from the Syrian
      armed conflict. Within the project wound management has been difficult, often complicated by
      infection and antibiotic resistance. A need for wound therapy alternatives better than the
      conventional wound dressing method currently used has been identified.

      Emergency hospital in Erbil, Iraq is a trauma hospital. Patients originate from armed
      conflicts in Mosul and the Iraqi Kurdistan region.

      Background:

      Extremity wounds and fractures constitute the majority of war-associated traumatic injuries,
      both for civilians (Aboutanos & Baker 1997) and combatants (Owens et al. 2007).
      Conflict-related injuries often result in soft and boney tissue being contaminated with
      foreign material, generally leading to secondary infection (Fares et al. 2013; Covey et al.
      2000). Negative-pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is widely used in the treatment of wounds and
      is considered to promote wound healing and prevent infectious complications. The technique
      involves the application of a wound dressing through which a negative pressure is applied.
      Any wound and tissue fluid is drawn away from the area and collected into a canister. The
      risk of wound contamination is reduced by a plastic film overlaying the wound. NPWT is
      supported for use in a range of surgical applications, including after or in between
      debridements as a bridge to definite closure of soft tissue wounds (Krug et al. 2011). The
      technique has previously been used in the treatment of acute conflict-related wounds with
      satisfactory results (Machen 2006; Peck et al. 2007; Leininger et al. 2006).

      Cochrane reviews of NPWT for the treatment of chronic wounds (Ubbink et al. 2008) and
      surgical wounds (Webster & Scuffham 2014) were inconclusive due to the lack of suitably
      powered, high-quality trials. A recent systematic review of randomized, controlled trials
      (RCTs) of NPWT for the treatment of acute and chronic wounds concluded there is a lack of
      evidence and that good RCTs are needed (Peinemann & Sauerland 2011). For the use in limb
      trauma, NPWT is considered suitable for complex soft tissue injuries (Bovill et al. 2008).
      NPWT appears to be an effective and safe adjunctive treatment of high-energy combat wounds
      but existing results are retrospective and lack follow-up (Hinck et al. 2010). The support of
      RCTs is needed to establish best treatment strategies.

      Summary of potential risks and benefits:

      Both treatment methods (NPWT and conventional dressings) are well established and used in
      Jordan for the treatment of acute and chronic wounds. As neither of the two treatment
      modalities are known to be better in terms of outcome neither patient group may be regarded
      as receiving preferential treatment. NPWT is generally considered a safe treatment method.
      Potential benefits are shortened healing time and fewer infectious complications. Potential
      risks are pain, mainly associated with dressing changes (Krasner 2002) and bleeding,
      predominantly minor bleeding from granulation tissue (Argenta, Louis Morykwas 1997).
      Conventional wound dressing has the potential benefit of being a safe treatment method used
      for many years. Since this method permits air into the wound there is a potential risk of
      contamination and the development of wound infection.

      Objectives:

      We aim to evaluate the efficacy and safety of NPWT in the treatment of traumatic extremity
      wounds in a context associated with a high level of contamination and infection.

      Design:

      A prospective, randomized, controlled trial comparing NPWT to conventional dressing methods
      in the treatment of conflict-related extremity wounds. Patients will continuously be included
      as they present at the emergency department of the hospital in Ar Ramtha.

      Information for patients and consent:

      Written and oral information in English and Arabic will be given to eligible participants.
      English versions of the participation information sheet and the consent form are provided as
      appendices to this document. Participants will be informed regarding their right to withdraw
      from the study and issues concerning confidentiality and the information sheet will remain
      with the participant. No incentives or inducements will be provided to any participant.

      Eligible concomitant therapies:

      Any signs of infection will be treated according to local standard protocols. Wounds in need
      of debridement will be debrided according to International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
      war surgery protocols.

      Interventions:

      Patients randomly assigned to NPWT will receive treatment according to manufacturer treatment
      guidelines. Patients in the control group will be treated with conventional wound therapy
      according to local treatment protocols. In both groups dressing changes will be performed
      according to ICRC war surgery protocols.
    
  