
    
      Lower extremity orthopaedic surgery and malignancy are both known major risk factors for
      venous thromboembolism (VTE). Guidelines from high quality data exist with regards to VTE
      prophylaxis in patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery, particularly joint arthroplasty. Far
      fewer data are available regarding the efficacy of various methods of pharmacologic VTE
      prophylaxis in patients undergoing surgery for primary or metastatic musculoskeletal
      malignancies as malignancy itself is known to confer a hypercoagulable state. The existing
      data, including published data from our institution, are almost exclusively from
      retrospective studies. Given the limited external validity of existing guidelines and
      limitations inherent in applying data from retrospective studies, a randomized, prospective
      study comparing two of the most common methods of pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis would help to
      guide clinical care of this patient population. In addition, large dead spaces susceptible to
      hematoma formation are often created from tumor resections in orthopaedic oncology. Our
      retrospective data suggest that hematoma formation may be an independent predictor of
      infection. An important risk of chemical VTE prophylaxis is an increased incidence of
      bleeding into these dead spaces, leading to hematomas. This illustrates the complexity of
      selecting a method of VTE prophylaxis in patients at both high risk of VTE and hematoma
      formation and the need for high quality data to guide clinical decision-making in this
      patient population.

      The specific aim of this study is to compare the post operative incidence of symptomatic deep
      vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolus (PE) between patients who receive low molecular
      weight heparin (LMWH) versus aspirin for prophylaxis after having undergone pelvic or lower
      extremity orthopaedic oncology surgery (primary bone sarcomas, soft tissue sarcomas, and
      metastatic osseous disease).

      Our secondary aim is to compare the incidence of hematoma formation and wound complications
      between these methods of pharmacologic prophylaxis in the aforementioned patient population.

      Our hypothesis is that there is no significant difference in the incidence rate of
      symptomatic DVT/PE in patients administered LMWH versus aspirin for prophylaxis; however
      there may exist a difference in the rate of wound complications between these prophylaxis
      methods.
    
  