
    
      Histologic studies have determined that graft ligamentization following anterior cruciate
      ligament (ACL) reconstruction may take from 6 to 18 months. (1) It has been reported that
      incomplete graft maturation and incorporation is one cause of clinical graft failure. Animal
      studies have illustrated improved tendon healing/integration in ACL models augmented with
      stem cell technologies. (2-4). Basic scientists theorize that optimization of stem cell
      treatments for tissue regeneration requires that a "regenerative triad" be employed, i.e.,
      use of a scaffold, stem cells and growth factors. In the intra-articular environment,
      research has shown that a scaffold such as an amnion wrap is necessary to contain the stem
      cells and growth factors in close proximity to the ACL graft. (2, 4, 5) The normal, uninjured
      human ACL is covered by a layer of synovial tissue which contributes to the blood supply and
      nutrition of the native ACL. It is theorized that the lack of a synovial lining after injury
      and following traditional ACL reconstruction contributes to slow ligamentization and possible
      failure of reconstructed grafts.(5) Two studies have demonstrated accelerated maturation and
      ligamentization of human ACL graft augmented with point of care blood products. (6, 7) In
      one, leucocyte poor platelet rich plasma was injected directly into the body of the graft.
      (6) In the other, the platelet derived growth factors were loaded in a gelatin carrier which
      was wrapped around the graft. (7) In both studies accelerated and increased ligament
      maturation was documented compared to the controls. Collagen membranes derived from amniotic
      tissue have been successful to aid healing when used in difficult wounds and meniscal repair
      surgery. (8, 9) Investigators believe that use of a collagen based -membrane derived from
      amniotic tissue can be used to help reestablish the natural synovial lining of the
      reconstructed ACL, in effect acting as both a barrier from the synovial fluid and as a
      scaffold to contain autologous mesenchymal stem cells and growth factors contiguous with the
      graft, thus aiding and perhaps accelerating the natural maturation and ligamentization
      process of the implanted graft tissue. Acceleration and improvement in graft maturation and
      strength would be a significant advancement in sports medicine allowing safer and earlier
      return to sports and activity.
    
  