
    
      Intermittent catheterisation involves the insertion and removal of a hollow flexible tube
      called a catheter to drain urine from the bladder. Intermittent catheterisation allows the
      individual to empty their bladder without the need for a long term indwelling catheter and
      can be implemented for people who have difficulty emptying their bladder due to neurogenic
      disorders.

      One of the complaints of female patients performing intermittent self-catheterization for
      neurological bladder is the occurrence of urethral pain on insertion or removal of the
      catheter, in particular in patients retaining sensitivity at this level.

      The GentleCath™ Air catheter was designed to improve its tolerance and in particular to
      reduce the risk of pain. However, no studies have addressed this in real life. Therefore, the
      purpose of this study is to investigate the rate of occurrence of urethral pain when using
      GentleCath™ Air catheters as a bladder emptying method.

      In this multicentre observational study each subject will participate for 90 days. Women
      under the care of the participating investigator and receiving their first prescription of
      GentleCath Air catheter for urinary dysfunction due to neurological disorders will be
      approached for potential participation in the study.

      The primary outcome will be the pain assessment score measured on a VAS (Visual Analog Scale)
      during insertion and removal of the GentleCath™ Air catheter in naive female patients with
      confirmed neurological pathway on D1, D3, D7, D14, D21, D28, D35, D45 and D90.

      The secondary outcomes will be to assess the patients' satisfaction of self-catheterization
      (based on InCaSaQ score) at D45 and D90, to describe patient compliance on D45 and D90, to
      measure the post-voiding residue on inclusion on D45 and D90, to assess compliance with the
      self-catheterization throughout study duration, to describe the tolerance of the GentleCath™
      Air catheter throughout study duration and to measure the overall satisfaction on Gentle Cath
      Air on D90.
    
  