
    
      It is estimated that approximately 75% to 80% of patients with AIDS experience anemia, which
      can be caused by AIDS or by the therapy patients receive for AIDS treatment (for example,
      AZT). Anemia is a condition in which a patient has below normal levels of hemoglobin, the
      substance in red blood cells that carries oxygen to all parts of the body. People with severe
      anemia may experience fatigue and shortness of breath with activity. Therefore, this
      condition can have a negative influence on a person's quality of life. Epoetin alfa, used to
      treat anemia, is a genetically engineered form of a natural hormone, erythropoietin, that
      stimulates red blood cell production. This is a randomized, double-blind (neither the patient
      nor the physician knows whether the patient is receiving epoetin alfa or placebo),
      placebo-controlled, parallel group study with an open-label follow-up period that is designed
      to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of epoetin alfa treatment in patients with AIDS who
      are being treated with AZT. The study consists of 3 periods: a screening period to determine
      if patients are eligible for the study, a double-blind period, and an open-label period.
      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: a group receiving epoetin
      alfa 200 U/kg or a group receiving a matching placebo. Patients will be treated with study
      medication injected under the skin 3 times per week for 12 weeks (or until their hematocrit
      reaches 38% to 40%). In the open-label period, all patients receive epoetin alfa injected
      under the skin for up to 6 months. Effectiveness will be determined by the change in
      hemoglobin and hematocrit (laboratory tests used to evaluate the severity of anemia),
      transfusion requirements, the patient's quality of life assessment, and the physician's
      global evaluation of the drug effect. Safety assessments include the incidence and severity
      of adverse events during the study, and changes in clinical laboratory tests (hematology,
      biochemistry, and urinalysis), vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and physical
      examination findings. The study hypothesis is that AIDS patients who are receiving AZT and
      who are treated with epoetin alfa will have a lower incident of anemia compared with patients
      receiving placebo. Double-blind: epoetin alfa (200 U/kg) or placebo given under the skin 3
      times a week for 12 weeks or until hematocrit reaches 38% to 40%. Open-label: epoetin alfa
      250 U/kg 3 times a week for up to 6 months (once weekly after hematocrit reaches 38% to 40%).
      Dosage may be adjusted up to 300 U/kg.
    
  