
    
      Epidural anesthesia and analgesia has shown benefits over standard anesthesia/analgesia in
      many types of Vascular, GI, and Thoracic surgeries. The benefits extended are varied, and
      include: improvements in cardiac and pulmonary function, decreases in hypercoagulability,
      reduction of post-operative ileus and decreases in post-operative pain. 1 Epidural pain
      relief works by exposing the epidural space, with its network of nerve roots, to a flood of
      analgesics and/or local anesthetic. This is thought to prevent the release of
      neurotransmitters from afferent pain fibers or interrupt the transmission of pain related
      information to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. 2 Several studies have been done on
      patients undergoing GI surgery with adjunct epidurals (particularly colorectal procedures)
      and they have shown that ileus and length of stay, is greatly reduced. 3No one has yet
      extended these benefits to patients undergoing hernia repair.

      Laparoscopic ventral hernia repair has recently become a popular choice for both patients and
      surgeons alike, and has been shown in some studies to reduce wound complications and length
      of hospital stay. But improvements in post-operative pain, ileus and return to work have been
      less than hoped for, and as such, adjuncts are being investigated to improve some of these
      outcomes. In one study of 850 patients in 4 different academic institutions patients had a
      mean hospital stay of 2.3 days (although a great portion of cases were small ventral hernias
      that resulted in same-day discharges) and 3% remained hospitalized with a prolonged ileus.
      The proportion of patients who had prolonged ileus and subsequently longer hospital stays was
      much greater amongst the patients with larger ventral hernia repairs as well as the patients
      with recurrences.4 Moreover there has been some suggestion by Ramshaw and colleagues that
      Laparoscopic Ventral hernia repair is more painful than the classical open hernia operation.
      5 One of the explanations is that there may be a component of parietal as well as visceral
      pain to this procedure; with the visceral pain accompanying the counter-traction on the
      herniated contents of the sac when taking down adhesions, and the parietal pain from the many
      full thickness sutures and 3mm tacks used to secure the prosthesis into the abdominal wall.6
      In this study, we will test the benefits of epidural anesthesia/analgesia on these patients
      with complicated Laparoscopic ventral hernia repairs.

      As of yet there have been no studies that compare the use of epidural analgesia/anesthesia to
      conventional anesthesia and narcotics for these patients in relation to their expected length
      of stay, post-op pain, ileus, or other complications.

        1. Moraca RJ, Sheldon DG, Thirlby RC The role of Epidural Anesthesia and Analgesia in
           Surgical Practice. Annals of Surgery 2003;238 663-673.

        2. R. J. Fotiadis1, S. Badvie1, M. D.Weston2 and T. G. Allen-Mersh1 Epidural analgesia in
           gastrointestinal surgery British Journal of Surgery 2004; 91: 828-841

        3. Rodgers A, Walker N et al. Reduction of Post Operative Mortality and Morbidity With
           Epidural or Spinal Anaesthesia: Results From an Overview of Randomized Trials. Br Med
           Journal 2000; 321: 1493-1497

        4. Heniford BT. Park A. Ramshaw BJ. Voeller G. Laparoscopic repair of ventral hernias: nine
           years' experience with 850 consecutive hernias. Annals of Surgery. 238(3):391-9;
           discussion 399-400, 2003 Sep

        5. Ramshaw B, Esartia Et Al.Comparison of Laparoscopic and open Ventral Hernia Repair; The
           American Surgeon; Sept 1999; Vol 65: 9 pg 827

        6. Heniford BT, Park, A, ramshaw BJ, Voeller G Laparoscopic Ventral Hernia Repair in 407
           Patients. Journal of the American College of Surgeons. Vol 190: 6 PP 645-650 June 2000
    
  