
    
      Abstract of Research Proposal:

      Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease, with various subtypes demonstrating differing
      biological behavior, prognosis, and response to therapeutic agents. Improving the
      understanding of the biology of breast cancer can result in better prognostication and
      therapy in individual patients, and has important clinical implications. While valuable
      scientific knowledge is generated from studies of breast cancer cell lines or animal models,
      such information generated in vitro may not fully reflect the in vivo model. Direct analysis
      of patient samples is important to validate in vitro findings, and represents a step closer
      to clinical application. Studying patient tumor samples for genetic and protein markers and
      correlating these analyses with clinical characteristics and outcomes could provide valuable
      insights into tumor biology in vivo, and leads to better understanding of tumor biology and
      resistance mechanisms. This is a single-centre study of biomarker analysis in breast tumors.
      A total of 400 patients with breast lesions for whom a diagnostic core biopsy is planned will
      be enrolled over 2 years. During the diagnostic tumor core biopsy, 3-4 additional tumor
      samples will be obtained through the same needle track for the purpose of this study. The
      tumor cores will be stored in liquid nitrogen for subsequent histopathological analysis; DNA,
      RNA and protein will be extracted from tumor cores for genetic, gene expression and
      proteomics studies. The patient's clinical progress will be tracked through the clinical case
      files. For patients in whom the clinical diagnostic biopsy yields a benign result, the
      samples obtained from them will serve as control specimens. For patients in whom the clinical
      diagnostic core biopsy confirms the diagnosis of breast cancer, the samples will be
      considered cases, and the following information will be tracked: histopathological
      characteristics of the tumor including ER/PR/c-erbB2 status and other known prognostic and
      predictive immunohistochemical markers (e.g., Ki67, p53, etc), anti-cancer treatment,
      progression-free and overall survival.
    
  