
    
      The Basic Biology of Bitter Taste. The perception of bitter taste is thought to have evolved
      as a mechanism to protect against the ingestion of toxic materials, and is the result of
      ligand-activation of one of more than 25 different bitter taste receptors, so-called T2Rs
      (1). These receptors are found on the tongue in what are called fungiform papillae,
      mushroom-like structures that contain taste buds with receptors responding to a variety of
      tastes including sweet, salty, sour, umami, and bitter. A prototypical example of one of
      these bitter ligands is phenylthiocarbamide (PTC), which actives the T2R38 receptor. While
      initially identified in type II taste cells, T2R38 is also expressed in nasal epithelium,
      where it participates in innate immune defense responses to invading bacteria (2-6).

      TAS2R38: A Model System for Genotype-Phenotype Studies. Prior studies have identified two
      main forms of T2R38, active and inactive, which are characterized by three genetic variants
      in the TAS2R38 gene. These variants result in three amino acid changes, proline (P) to
      alanine (A) at position 49, alanine (A) to valine (V) at position 262, and valine (V) to
      isoleucine (I) at position 296 in the T2R38 receptor. Individuals who are homozygous for the
      active (PAV/PAV) form detect bitterness in compounds containing a thiourea (-N-C=S) moiety,
      including PTC, 6-n-propylthiouracil (PROP), and the plant compound goitrin, common in foods
      such as green vegetables (7-9). They also respond to acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs), a class
      of compounds produced as signaling molecules by certain bacteria, triggering a rapid defense
      reaction consisting of increased ciliary beat frequency (CBF) to facilitate mucociliary
      clearance, and generation of nitric oxide (NO), a gas that can diffuse into the airway and
      kill bacteria (4). In contrast, those who are homozygous for all three variants (AVI/AVI)
      consume these compounds without perceiving them as bitter and do not appear to respond to
      AHLs (10). The frequency of both the active and inactive forms of TAS2R38 is at a near
      balance of 50:50 in many human racial groups, including Americans of European and African
      descent.

      The Heterozygote Hypothesis. Interestingly, individuals heterozygous for the active form of
      the receptor (AVI/PAV) exhibit highly variable phenotypes, with some people very sensitive to
      bitter compounds, and others needing high concentrations to taste them at all (11). While the
      investigators know that taste papillae density plays at least some role in this variability

      , our preliminary taste data suggest that the range of response is tied to how much mRNA is
      expressed from the active (PAV) form of the receptor, a concept called allele-specific
      expression (12). For example, this is the case when analyzing caffeine consumption, which
      strongly correlates with active mRNA expression (12). The investigators therefore hypothesize
      that the abundance of active TAS2R38 mRNA in heterozygous individuals also predicts the
      biologically significant change in magnitude of defensive responses in the presence of AHLs
      (13-15). The proposed study will determine whether this is in fact the case, and whether
      those people who have high mRNA abundance in taste tissue (fungiform papillae) also have
      correspondingly high abundance in nasal epithelium, or whether regulation is
      tissue-dependent. This will allow us to determine whether taste tests could provide a
      reliable representation of receptor function in other tissues and cell types. Should mRNA
      abundance prove to be a key factor, the investigators will determine whether high expressers
      sustain this expression over time.

      Of note, a study performed by Dr. Reed and collaborators found that the population in
      Philadelphia contained 18% of individuals in the homozygous nontaster (AVI) group, 17% in the
      homozygous taster (PAV) group and 37% in the common heterozygous group (AVI/PAV) (16). The
      remaining 28% were distributed among ten other less common genotypes, which will not be
      analyzed in this study. Thus, as the majority of the population is heterozygous, a thorough
      understanding of their ability to fight infection is clinically important.

      Clinical Significance. As one of the most common chronic conditions in the United States,
      chronic rhinosinusitis invokes a direct treatment cost of $3.5-5 billion annually. Its
      incidence is 146 per 1,000 and increasing (17). Our prior studies have shown that individuals
      with two copies of the active form of T2R38 have nasal epithelium that defends very
      effectively against certain bacteria, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and are less likely to
      develop severe chronic rhinosinusitis requiring surgery, while those with two inactive forms
      cannot defend themselves as effectively, and are more likely to develop severe chronic
      rhinosinusitis requiring surgical intervention. Because the treatment of chronic
      rhinosinusitis involves multiple rounds of antibiotics and often surgical management through
      functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS), this research has significant implications for
      antibiotic stewardship, surgical morbidity and mortality, and health care expenditures.
    
  