
    
      Elderly, old person and senior citizen are all the terms generally used for geriatric
      population. According to WHO, most developed countries have accepted the chronological age of
      65 years as definition of elderly or older population which cannot be applied to developing
      third world countries as the life expectancy is between 60 to 70 years. The United Nation
      agreed cutoff is 60+ years to refer to old age. Adding to difficulty of defining actual birth
      dates is often unknown in some areas because many people do not have official birth records.

      Aging is characterized by gradual irreversible changes in structure and function of an
      individual that occur as a result of the passage of time. It is additionally subject to the
      developments by which general public understands maturity. It is associated with declines in
      different systems of body, resulting in an impaired capacity to perform daily activities
      placing a large economic burden on society. Life of the elderly is characterized by a high
      risk of multimorbidity accompanied by a high prevalence of cognitive impairment short of
      dementia. A decline in cognitive abilities, such as perception, reasoning, and memory, is
      part of the normal cognitive aging process. It is a process that is genetically defined and
      environmentally modulated. In fact, advancing age is the major risk factor for a number of
      chronic diseases in humans. A decrease in cognitive performance in older adults is
      predominant in most individuals. During next 40 years, it is anticipated that there will be
      an epidemic of dementia worldwide, with a 3- to 4-fold increase in the number of prevalent
      cases owing to longer life expectancies and demographic changes. Attention is turning toward
      identification of preclinical disease and development of treatments to prevent or delay the
      onset of dementia. Cognitive impairment is a health problem that almost concerns to every
      second elderly person.

      There is of evidence from epidemiological studies, experimental trials, and basic
      neurosciences that suggesting that cognitive decline related to aging can be cut off by
      different intellectual activities which makes you less prone to cognitive problems faced at
      later ages. There is always a debate whether cognitive mental activities are more better or
      physical activity is better solution for these age related cognitive decline .Some studies
      showed that cognitive training is effective when cognitive skills are practiced.

      Cognitive decline due to aging leads to functional limitation and disability which leaves the
      society with a huge economic burden. That is why, intervention and plan should be designed to
      lessen this economic burden furthermore maintain and control epidemics like dementia and
      other cognitive disorders. Physical activity has shown tremendous results in improving
      cognition function in healthy older adults and as well as in older adults affected with
      cognitive diseases and disorders. Evidence from epidemiological studies shows that physical
      activity of high levels and for longer follow-ups showed better results in decreasing the
      likelihood of developing cognitive impairments as compared to people with low levels of
      physical activity .Therefore, it is hypothesized that physical activity plays an important
      role in alleviating cognitive decline in older adults. Physical movement has been appeared to
      have an intense up regulating impact on neurogenesis and to result in increased concentration
      of brain derived neurotropic factor.

      Despite of the beneficial effects observed in cognitive outcomes with aerobic exercise
      training in Previous studies aerobic exercise was associated with progress in neurocognitive
      functions in older adults whether cognitive impairment is present or not . A study conducted
      in 2012 reported significant improvements in memory domain and few other studies showed
      significant improvements in executive function after following aerobic training protocol. But
      there was lack of consistent evidence to show the beneficial effects of aerobic training on
      cognition in elderly population. Many other researchers focused on resistive training
      exercises for improving cognitive and memory functions.With advancement of time and
      technology newer exercise techniques and modalities have been developed to maximize
      functional capacities of older adults. In these days of development multi-component exercises
      is a new combination of training exercise in which aerobic, resistance training is combined
      with balance ,coordination, flexibility to decrease disability in older
      adults.Multi-component is the most effective approach in addressing functional capacity in
      frail older adults and limiting disability.Functional benefits of this exercise are well
      established ,however evidence is less consistent regarding cognitive gains associated with
      multi-component exercise training. A study reported that aerobic and resistance training
      combined has better gains in working memory as compared to aerobic training alone.

      In the light of literature review studies were conducted to determine the effects of
      different types of physical activity on cognition of elderly people and in prevention of
      decreasing cognitive levels in elderly people. The impact of exercises including aerobic
      training, resistive training, aerobic training versus stretching, resistive training versus
      stretching, resistive training with no intervention were previously examined however, results
      were less clear and consistent.
    
  