
    
      This is a prospective case-series study collecting data of patients treated with HoLEP at a
      single academic center. Patients submitted to surgery for bladder outlet obstruction (BOO)
      due to BPH will be consecutively included. All surgeries will be performed by two experienced
      surgeons with more than 1000 procedures performed (FM; GB).

      Patients with neurological diseases and those with a history of previous surgery of the lower
      urinary tract (e.g. urethra and prostate surgery) will be excluded.

      At the time of primary screening, all patients will be assessed with a comprehensive medical
      history; other pre-operative data will include: prostate volume (as assessed with
      trans-rectal prostate ultrasound); uroflowmetry parameters; total Prostate specific Antigen
      (PSA); baseline haemoglobin and creatinine level. Moreover, all patients will be invited to
      fill psychometric validated questionnaires assessing pre-operative urinary and sexual
      function, thus including: the International Prostatic Symptoms Score (IPSS); the
      International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF); the International Consultation on
      Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF); and the Overactive Bladder Questionnaire
      (OABq). Moreover, urinary continence (UC) will be further assessed with a single question,
      and UC defined as no-pad use. Patients' medications will be also recorded.

      Intra-operative data will be collected at the time of surgery, including: patients' systolic
      blood pressure; laser settings; enucleation efficiency (weight of enucleated tissue divided
      by lasing time) and morcellation efficiency (weight of enucleated tissue divided by
      morcellation time). Moreover, surgeons will be requested to provide a subjective estimation
      of the difficulty of the procedure with a 10-point Likert scale.

      Post-operative data including: length of stay; timing of catheter removal and complications,
      will be also collected.

      All patients will be re-assessed at 1 week after surgery to check for UC. Subjective
      symptoms, as assessed with validated questionnaires (IPSS; IIEF, ICIQ-SF; OABq), along with
      post-operative complications and medications used, will be firstly assessed at 1 month after
      surgery. All patients will undergo a first uroflowmetry evaluation at 3 months after surgery;
      at this time-point data on blood tests (total PSA, haemoglobin and creatinine), urine culture
      and symptoms scores will be collected.

      A final assessment will be performed at 1 year after surgery including: blood tests,
      uroflowmetry, IPSS, IIEF, ICIQ-SF, OABq and complications.

      Over the follow-up period, the prevalence of patients needing medications for disturbing
      symptoms will be recorded; moreover, pelvic floor training (PFT) will be suggested to each
      patient reporting pad-use for urinary incontinence.
    
  