
    
      Background: Nontuberculous mycobacteria Lung disease (NTM-LD) becomes an important clinical
      concern, because its incidence has increased over the last decade. Mycobacterium avium
      complex (MAC) is the most common responsible species for NTM-LD in Taiwan. The clinical
      relevance of MAC in sputum is, however, only 35~42% because it exists in the environment
      ubiquitously. According to the guideline of the American Thoracic Society, the diagnosis of
      MAC-LD is based on clinical, radiographic, and mycobacteriology criteria which require two or
      more positive sputum cultures for MAC. The major limitation of mycobacterial culture is the
      long turn-around-time, usually 2-4 weeks. In addition, both mycobacterial culture and nucleic
      acid amplification test cannot discriminate true MAC infection and colonization because
      airway colonization of MAC is not uncommon. Therefore, diagnosis of MAC-LD remains a big
      challenge in clinical practice, and rapid and accurate diagnostic test should be developed.

      Beyond the contemporary diagnostic criteria, the host immune response in NTM disease has
      recently been proposed to help diagnosis. Inflammatory markers may represent host response
      and discriminate MAC infection from colonization. But inflammatory markers can be influenced
      by infection other than MAC infection. By contrast, lymphocyte response to antigen
      stimulation may be more specific in diagnosis. In our preliminary results, in-vitro response
      of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) is lower in MAC-LD than healthy controls. The
      underlying mechanism responsible for the reduced PBMC response in MAC-LD is not fully
      understood. In previous studies conducted in tuberculosis patients, interaction between
      programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) from dendritic cells and programmed cell death-1
      (PD-1) in T cells leads to apoptosis or anergy of T lymphocyte and thus suppresses cellular
      immunity. Therefore, it is possible that similar alteration in immune response also occurs in
      patients with MAC-LD and correlates with the PBMC response as well as disease severity.
    
  