
    
      In September 2019, the National Institute on Drug Abuse cited research that found smoking
      rates as high as 85% among patients in treatment for substance use disorder, which is
      substantially higher than 14% in the general population. Substance use disorder patients tend
      to start smoking at a younger age and are more likely to be heavy smokers. Due to the many
      conflicting priorities in this population, smoking cessation is often overlooked and ignored
      by both patients and their healthcare providers. There are many common misconceptions about
      comorbid smoking in the substance use disorder population, such as smoking cessation can
      introduce additional stress that can precipitate relapse. However, this has been proven to be
      false, as many researchers have found that smoking cessation has positive effects on
      abstinence from other drugs, as smoking appears to increase craving for and the likelihood of
      using drugs. In 2018, the National Institute on Drug Abuse cited research that found
      cigarette smoking increased the likelihood of relapse among people in recovery from substance
      use disorder. Despite evidence demonstrating the success of concurrent treatment for tobacco
      and other substances and the positive effects of smoking cessation on substance use outcomes,
      the substance use disorder population is still systematically undertreated. As of 2008, only
      2 out of 5 addiction treatment programs in the US offer behavioral treatment for smoking
      cessation, and less than 1 in 5 offer pharmacotherapy. Healthcare providers have been urged
      to do more to help smokers quit. The burden of smoking-related morbidity and mortality in
      this population is substantial but poorly studied: one study estimated that over half of
      deaths in patients who recovered from substance use disorder is due to smoking.

      While current treatment recommendations include counseling and nicotine replacement therapy,
      national average annual quit rates remain low at 7%. The quit rate of substance use disorder
      patients without smoking cessation interventions are as low as 3%, but one meta-analysis
      found that it increased to 12% with interventions that are incorporated into substance use
      programs. This demonstrates that strategic investments for this population can induce
      significant improvements in quit rates. In 2014, the CDC's recommended minimum annual
      investment for cessation interventions in Ohio was $35.7 million (their ideal investment was
      $57.7 million)-but the actual expenditures for cessation interventions in Ohio in 2015 were
      only $7.6 million. Although the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act increased
      coverage for tobacco cessation services nationwide, coverage of tobacco cessation counseling
      is lagging behind coverage of cessation medications. Barriers to access include copayments
      and prior authorizations. While the cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation interventions for
      the substance use disorder population is not well studied, we expect that it is
      cost-effective because, as mentioned previously, smoking cessation can help improve
      abstinence, which can further reduce healthcare costs. In addition, concomitant drug use and
      tobacco use have been found to increase health consequences by 50% compared to drug use and
      smoking individually.

      Current tobacco cessation efforts at BrightView include nicotine replacement therapy and
      counseling, but quit success rates remain low. Staff are trained to provide patients with the
      multiple components of medication-assisted treatment (MAT), counseling, and community
      resources to combat both their addiction(s) and the complex biopsychosocial factors that
      contribute to them. Despite these resources, tobacco use remains a health problem for the
      majority patients. Many of them are unemployed and lack reliable transportation, face
      unstable housing, and have family histories or belong to communities wherein smoking is
      common and limited cessation services are available.

      Contingency Management (CM) is a highly effective, evidence-based methodology. It has been
      demonstrated to be effective at reducing the use of all types of substances in over 100
      randomized controlled trials and 7 meta-analyses. It is often overlooked due to
      administrative complexities and lack of funding. DynamiCare Health is a multi-service
      platform, combining software, hardware, and service. It is an innovative technology platform
      that has automated Contingency Management to support smoking cessation, removing
      administrative barriers. The DynamiCare app rewards participants for their negative substance
      and smoking tests to incentivize abstinence and retention in treatment. The app also
      incentives appointment attendance, using GPS tracking via smartphone. Smoking status is
      monitored using a pocket-sized carbon monoxide (CO) smokerlyzer.

      BrightView and DynamiCare have partnered with Interact for Health to fund and implement a
      Smartphone Contingency Management Intervention, which seeks to reduce tobacco disparities for
      low-income adults by providing a successfully tested, evidence-based, innovative digital
      platform for the treatment of nicotine dependence in participants with substance use
      disorder. Tobacco abstinence rates will be compared pre- and post- intervention, as well as
      to the to the national rate quoted in the literature, which is between 7-12%. The goal of the
      study is to improve abstinence rates to 18%-20%. As a secondary outcome, substance test
      results will also be evaluated to determine if this smoking cessation intervention had any
      effect on other substance use behavior.
    
  