
    
      The proposed study has the potential to transform current research and clinical practice
      paradigms of prediction and decision making about independent living. This is accomplished by
      shifting from reliance on episodic, self-reported or crisis event provoked data to the use of
      ecologically valid multidimensional and continuous physiological, activity, and behavioral
      data. This approach has great potential to substantially improve care need and transition
      decisions. In achieving this goal several innovations beyond available systems and ongoing
      research are notable. First, grounded by prior studies associating static clinical measures
      to future placement outcomes, we now contemporaneously and continuously will acquire
      fundamental physiological measures (weight and walking speed), activity and behavioral
      measures, thereby improving our ability to proactively discriminate important health and
      functional change in real time. Using existing in-home activity data collected longitudinally
      in an aging population combined with simulated data from additional new sensed measures
      (phone use, medication taking, body composition) we will generate derived novel metrics -
      AIMs - to provide objective dynamic measures of activity and behaviors that are essential to
      maintaining independence. These metrics will be used to develop prediction algorithms based
      on documented transition outcomes from the original data set to be used by care teams (Aim
      1). Working care transition professionals will be iteratively queried for the refinement of
      these objective measures (Aim 2). These care providers' expertise and understanding of key
      changes that impact independence is invaluable to identification of ambient independence
      measures that matter, and lead to meaningful care implementation pathways. The efficacy of
      the final set of measures chosen and built into a user friendly interface for the care team
      to use (Aim 2) will then be tested (Aim 3) by comparing independently living seniors in one
      of three comparison groups: 1) installed technology, from which AIMs data will be extracted
      and provided to the care transition team to aid in transition decisions; 2) installed
      technology, from which AIMs data will be extracted but will not be available to the
      transition team; and 3) no technology. We may have insufficient power to recognize
      significant change between the validation group and the control group. However, this
      primarily study is intended to test the feasibility of the approach, and to identify those
      types of AIMs data that are most useful for making transition decisions, which will be used
      to inform larger, more definitive studies in the future.
    
  