
    
      Incidence rate of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) is 10-15 per million per year.
      Although very rare, it is the most common mesenchymal tumor of the gastrointestinal tract,
      and the stomach is the most common affected organ with up to 55.6%. Despite recent drug
      discoveries have greatly impacted the treatment, complete surgical resection with adequate
      safety margin is still the only potentially curative treatment for primary gastric GIST with
      no evidence of metastasis. As sarcomas in general, most GISTs also metastasize hematogenously
      to the liver, disseminate peritoneally, and rarely show lymph node metastasis, therefore
      systematic or prophylactic lymph node dissection is usually unnecessary; a pick-up sampling
      is considered sufficient when a perilesional lymph node enlargement is found. In addition to
      that, these tumors tend to be soft and friable. Therefore pseudocapsule may be tearing
      spontaneously or inadvertently during surgery and tumor cells can be disseminating
      intraperitoneally which results in increased risk for recurrence and decreased survival.

      Considering these properties of the tumor, the goals of surgery for primary gastric GIST are
      handling the tumor with great care to avoid tumor rupture as well as performing a complete
      resection with a negative surgical margin and preserving the organ function as much as
      possible. This can be accomplished by the traditional open, or more recently by the various
      total or hybrid laparoscopic techniques. Despite laparoscopic surgical treatment of the GISTs
      had not been recommended owing to the higher risk of tumor rupture and subsequent peritoneal
      seeding in consensus meetings in the United States and Europe in 2004 and 2005 respectively,
      it has experienced a rapid and major evolutionary process and currently it is being advised
      to be a standard approach for gastric GISTs irrespective of its size or location.

      In addition to achieve an R0 resection without a tear in the tumor, the most important issue
      for the laparoscopic gastric GIST surgery is the preserving the function and not to cause a
      stenosis in the stomach as much as possible. According to the morphologic characteristics of
      the tumor and the area in the three-dimensional anatomical configuration of the stomach that
      involved by the tumor, a lot of laparoscopic surgical scenarios can be produced. Among them,
      to achieve the best alternative which meets all above criteria the authors generated a
      morpho-anatomical classification system by which they could plan preoperatively to tailor the
      gastric resection and all operational requirements. This system was partly inspired by the
      TNM classification for GISTs and Japanese classification of gastric carcinoma, has long been
      used in authors' institution when planning a laparoscopic intervention for various gastric
      lesions in patients in whom an appropriate preoperative patient evaluation is needed. It is
      then specifically composed and standardized to adapt for primary gastric GISTs and it was
      being used for large tumors up to 10 cm.

      The aims of the study was to demonstrate the feasibility of laparoscopic surgery for primary
      gastric GISTs larger than 5 cm, to find out the accuracy and practicality of the
      classification system in the development a preoperative strategy and the extent to which this
      strategy overlaps with the reality.
    
  