
    
      -  Day 1: Subjects will sign informed consent and will go over the introduction, purpose,
           procedures, and compliance with student investigators. Subjects will then be given a
           sample of ginger tea that will be used for the study and will be asked if they think
           they can drink this daily for a month. They will also be asked if they have regular
           menstrual cycles and agree to stop home remedies and stop taking pain medications or
           herbal supplements for a period of three menstruation cycles.

        -  Start/During the first menstruation cycle: Subjects will meet with student investigators
           at a convenient location to the subject and will complete surveys and questionnaires.
           Subjects will be given visual analog pain scales and symptom checklists that need to be
           completed during their second menstruation cycle.

        -  End of the first menstruation cycle - Start of the second menstruation cycle: Subjects
           will not take ginger tea, avoid home remedies, and refrain from taking pain medications
           or supplements.

        -  Start of the second menstruation cycle - End of the second menstruation cycle: Subjects
           will rate discomfort using the visual analog pain scales and symptom checklist during
           menstruation. Subjects will meet with student investigators at a convenient location to
           the subject and will complete surveys and questionnaires. Subjects will be given daily
           logs, visual analog pain scales, symptom checklists, and supplies for the ginger tea.

        -  End of the second menstruation cycle - Start of the third menstruation cycle: Subjects
           will take ginger tea daily, avoid home remedies, refrain from taking pain medications
           and supplements, and keep track of ginger tea intake by placing a check mark each day in
           the daily log checklist.

        -  Start of the third menstruation cycle - End of the third menstruation cycle: Subjects
           will rate discomfort using the visual analog pains scales and symptom checklist during
           menstruation.

        -  After the third menstruation cycle ends: Subjects will meet with student investigators
           at a location convenient to the subject to turn in daily logs, visual analog pain
           scales, and symptom checklists.
    
  