
    
      Hearing loss is one of the most common chronic disabilities in the older adult population and
      affects their quality of life. Hearing aid use can improve one's quality of life by
      increasing a person's ability to detect, differentiate and locate sound, and improve speech
      recognition. Several factors seem to reduce motivation to use a hearing aid. Fears of
      exclusion and shame due to hearing loss are major deterrents to hearing aid use. MI is a
      counselling style aimed at creating desire in the patient to change their behavior.

      To our knowledge, there have been no studies that investigated the impact of group MI on
      hearing aid use.

      Hypothesis Standard care with motivational interviewing in a group setting does not alter the
      hearing aid usage when compared to the standard care alone in the new hearing aid users.

      Study Methodology

      Trial Objectives:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of group MI in improving adherence to
      hearing aid use, and to report the adverse effects of group MI if they exist.

      Trial Design

        1. Settings The study will be a multi-center, prospective, randomized patient-blind
           controlled trial and employ a between-subject, pretest-posttest design.

           Study participants will be recruited at the audiology clinics located within the greater
           Vancouver region, BC. Audiology clinics will comply with Work safe BC and the Provincial
           Health Officer's COVID-19 orders as related to safety plans and best practices.

        2. Sample size determination Previous pilot research by Aazh (2016) suggests using a
           conservative estimation of effect size where d = 0.6 to estimate the sample size. A
           sample size of 180 participants (n = 90 in each group) will be required to achieve a
           level of significance of p = 0.05, power of 90%, at a randomization ratio of 1:1 and
           allowing for a 50% drop-out rate. We use a higher dropout rate than Aazh's study (50%
           vs. 20%) to compensate for the uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 pandemic. The estimated
           period for recruitment, intervention and data acquisition for this study is 48 months.

        3. Outcomes Differences in hearing aid use hours will be measured at each time point. This
           is a quantitative measure indicated by the mean number of hours the aid is used as
           recorded by the hearing aids' data logging feature. For bilateral hearing aid users, the
           mean number of hours will be calculated by averaging the left and right hearing aid use
           hours.

           Participants will also be asked to fill out the International Outcome Inventory for
           Hearing Aids (IOI-HA) questionnaire (Cox & Alexander, 2002) at each time point. This
           self-reported questionnaire is designed to measure the effectiveness of hearing aid
           interventions. The IOI-HA have been rigorously tested for their validity, reliability,
           and sensitivity (Cox & Alexander, 2002; Vestergaard, 2006).

        4. Randomization Individuals who meet the inclusion criteria and provide informed consent
           will be assigned to a non-identifiable number sequence. Each sequence will have been
           previously allocated using block randomization to either treatment or control groups
           using a statistical software package, such as STATA. Block size variation will be used
           to prevent prediction of treatment. Creation of allocation lists will be done by the
           study coordinator, who will not be involved in data collection.

             -  Treatment Group (MI group session + Standard care) Each participant in the
                treatment group will attend a 1-hour MI group session with 9 other participants
                hosted by a practicing MI therapies via Zoom at one month after the initial visit.
                This session will utilize MI to elicit motivation in each participant. Participants
                will also receive standard care delivered at in-person audiology clinic visits.

             -  Control Group (Standard care) Each participant in the control group will receive
                standard care as typically delivered by audiologists at in-person audiology clinic
                visits. No additional treatment will be provided.

        5. Statistical Analysis Descriptive Statistics (means, standard deviation, frequency) will
           be used to summarize sample statistics. Repeated Measures (RM)-ANOVA tests will be
           conducted at each sampling interval to determine if there is a significant difference
           between the intervention and control groups with respect to the average number of hours
           the hearing aids are activated per day. Pearson's correlations will also be used to
           measure the strength of associations between hearing aid use hours via the data-logging
           feature and self-reported measures via the IOI-HA questionnaire. Data will be analyzed
           using STATA.
    
  