
    
      The objective of the proposed minimal-risk, non-interventional retrospective (January 2012
      onwards) as well as prospective, cross-sectional observational study (i.e., NCCU Research
      Repository) is to better understand the common pathophysiological pathways of
      life-threatening neurological illnesses, examine how systemic complications (e.g., fever,
      hyperglycemia, undernutrition, and infections) and our standard-of care management of them
      may exacerbate brain injury, and determine the impact of injury and intervention on
      functionally-relevant outcomes.

      A systematically collected cohort may have an especially important role in the NCCU where
      RCTs are difficult to implement or may lack generalizability, and wherein there are pitfalls
      in research derived solely from administrative databases. This relational database will
      capture all patients admitted to University of Maryland's dedicated 22-bed adult NCCU. The
      investigators will not initially collect all potentially relevant fields unique to specific
      diagnoses. However, future disease-specific studies will allow the addition of data fields in
      this flexible database environment. This approach will include the tiered acquisition of
      patient characteristics (age, sex), clinical characteristics, standard-of-care medical
      treatments and surgical interventions, physiological data (such as vital signs, cerebral
      blood flow, intracranial pressure, cerebral oximetry etc), laboratory data, and diagnostic
      studies--particularly neurophysiology, neuropathology, and neuroimaging. Some data elements
      are inherently less reliable when abstracted from the electronic medical record (e.g., a more
      detailed social history, establishing premorbid functional status, and independent
      confirmation of past medical history), and will require an informed consent process to allow
      the research team to approach subjects or their surrogates.

      Similar databases exist at other centers for neurocritical care and have been central to the
      identification of characteristics, both predictive and associative, of patient outcomes. Done
      properly, this repository can facilitate many NCCU priorities including hypothesis
      generating, determining feasibility of single-site trials or involvement in multi-center
      trials, multimodal monitoring, biomarker research, quality improvement, and resident
      education.

      All data will be collected from the patient medical record, patient bedside monitors,
      radiology PACS, and laboratory systems. The collection of data will not affect nor delay
      patient treatment at any instance.

      Potential subjects will include patients admitted to University of Maryland's 22-bed NCCU for
      treatment of a life-threatening neurological illness. All patients 18 years of age and older
      will be eligible for participation in the study.

      At the time study personnel approach the patient or the patient's surrogate to discuss the
      study, they will be provided with three options: (a) Full Consent, (b) Partial Refusal, or
      (c) Complete Refusal.

      Subject's medical treatment will conform to existing clinical management protocols including
      routine ICU care. Standard ICU protocols call for assessments of mental status several times
      a day. The investigators would like to prospectively record the results of these exams in a
      rigorous, standardized manner. The investigators will attempt to correlate these assessments
      with clinical events and outcome. In addition to standard clinical treatment, details of each
      subject's hospitalization, demographic profile, past medical history, family history will be
      obtained by questionnaire and chart review. At discharge or 2 weeks after admission, a brief
      examination and mental status test will be performed. The subject and a family member or
      caregiver may also be asked to return for follow up evaluations 3 and 12 months after initial
      brain or spinal cord injury, in order to evaluate their longterm neurological status,
      disability, emotional status, cognitive functioning, and overall quality of life. These
      interviews may be conducted in person and will take approximately one hour each. For those
      patients unable to return in person, a shorter telephone interview will be conducted. Outcome
      measures may include the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS), the extended Glasgow Outcome Scale
      (eGOS), Modified Rankin Scale, Lawton Activities of Daily Living Index, Barthel Index,
      Sickness Impact Profile (SIP), NIH Stroke Scale, psychosocial assessments, memory and
      cognitive neuropsychometric tests (e.g. the Montreal Cognitive Assessment-MoCA).

      Variables recorded during hospitalization will be examined for statistical correlation with
      neuropsychometric test results. Candidate pathophysiologic variables with independent
      predictive value for cognitive dysfunction, (e.g., including severity of illness upon
      admission, hydrocephalus, ischemia from vasospasm, and laboratory test results) will be
      identified using Pearson correlation and forward stepwise logistic regression. Relationships
      between acute pathology (e.g., lesions on neuroimaging or malignant electrical patterns on
      electroencephalography) and dysfunction within various cognitive domains (memory, attention,
      visuospatial ability, language) will be examined using contingency tables, Pearson
      correlation, linear regression, and the Wilcoxon signed rank test. If necessary, multivariate
      models will be used to confirm that significant independent relationships exist.

      Blood samples will be analyzed to identify the factors causing secondary brain injury (e.g.,
      the narrowing of the blood vessels (vasospasm) after initial hemorrhage).

      For patients requiring an External Ventricular Drain (EVD) as part of their medical
      treatment, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is drained into a collection bag, the amount of
      drainage recorded and the CSF discarded. The investigators may collect a 1 cc sample of the
      CSF daily prior to discard until it is medically warranted to remove the EVD or 14 days
      whichever comes first. NO EVD will be placed for the purposes of clinical research.
    
  