
    
      Basic demographic information will be obtained for each subject. The subject's primary care
      physician's name, contact information, and specialty will be recorded.

      All patients will have an initial medical history, physical examination, electrocardiogram,
      blood studies, urinalysis, height, weight, and blood pressure measurement. Blood pressure
      measurements will be obtained in the left arm of seated participants after 5 minutes of quiet
      rest. A minimum of 3 BP readings will be taken. Systolic and diastolic BP will be recorded.
      Waist circumference will be measured to the nearest 1 cm at the level of the iliac crest
      while the subject is standing at minimal respiration. A fasting blood sample will be obtained
      to determine serum cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, creatinine, and glucose levels. All
      participants will receive their values together with a brochure regarding life-style
      modification (weight loss, smoking cessation, increased physical activity etc as
      appropriate). The subjects will take a cardiovascular knowledge questionnaire and the CAHPS®
      Clinician & Group Survey (CAHPS 2006).

      Control Patients. Management of the patient's medical condition will be done by the patient's
      primary care physician. No restriction will be placed on patient care or the number of office
      visits with their physician(s). If a subject does not have a primary care physician, we will
      arrange for the subject to be followed in a Temple based primary care practice. At the final
      visit at 6 months, the control patients will be given the opportunity to be followed by the
      telemedicine system.

      Computer Training: Patients randomized to the telemedicine group will be trained on use of a
      computer and the Internet and on how to access the Internet and web-site. Each patient will
      be instructed on the details of Telemedicine system on a demonstration terminal in the
      research center. At that time, the patient will be provided with login name and password to
      gain access to the secure telemedicine site. The patient will make data entries with coaching
      by the research team.

      An important feature of the Telemedicine system will be telephone-based data entry and
      communication. This will be added to the current Internet-based system using an Interactive
      Voice Recognition (IVR) system, which will enable information transmitted via telephone or
      Internet to be collected in the central database. Training on use of the IVR system (i.e.,
      how to respond to prompts) will be incorporated into the patient training program for the
      Internet.

      The study patients randomized to the telemedicine group will be given a sphygmomanometer with
      memory, a scale if needed, and a pedometer to count their steps per day. The participants
      will receive instructions regarding proper use of these devices. Initially, the subjects will
      wear a pedometer for 7 consecutive days and record the total number of steps taken each day
      to obtain their baseline physical activity level. The participants will be given
      recommendations for a gradual progression toward 10,000 steps/day. Ten thousand steps per day
      are consistent with approximately 5 miles of walking per day. All participants will be given
      a logbook and encouraged to record their measurements at least once a week (i.e., blood
      pressure, weight, average number of steps) over the course of the study. Life style changes,
      increased exercise and weight loss, can make a significant impact on blood pressure; a weight
      loss of as little as 10 lbs can reduce blood pressure.

      Patients in the telemedicine group will also be provided with a toll-free number with which
      to access the IVR system (a separate toll-free number will be provided to Hispanic patients
      for a Spanish language IVR system). This system can be used as an alternate to the web-based
      data entry screens available to all patients in the Internet arm. Basically, the patient will
      dial the 800 number and a voice message will ask for the patient ID and password (character
      strings entered via telephone keypad or spoken in sequence). The numerical values for blood
      pressure, steps, weight, and cigarettes smoked can be entered via voice recognition or by the
      keypad. Voice messages from the patient will also be permitted. These will be spoken after a
      prompt, and will be designed to provide a short (i.e. 1 minute) voice transmission that will
      be stored as a voice file (WAV) to the telemedicine system database. Data entered via the IVR
      system will be inserted into the patient's personal health record stored in the Telemedicine
      database.
    
  