
    
      Inadequately treated postoperative pain after gynecological surgery may untowardly affect
      early recovery and also lead to the development of chronic pain. Laparoscopic surgery is
      associated with diminished postoperative pain but this does not mean that patients subjected
      to laparoscopic operations are not in need for analgesia intra- and postoperatively.
      Opioid-based analgesia is associated with side-effects, such as respiratory depression,
      postoperative nausea and vomiting and occasional induction of tolerance and hyperalgesia.
      Therefore, in recent years research has focused on the quest for non-opioid-based regimens
      for perioperative analgesia in the context of multimodal analgesic techniques. These
      techniques have been shown to possess significant advantages, such as allowing earlier
      mobilization after surgery, early resumption of enteral feeding and reduced hospital length
      of stay.

      In this context, the intraoperative intravenous injection of lidocaine has been reported to
      improve postoperative pain control, reduce opioid consumption and improve the quality of
      postoperative functional recovery after general anesthesia. Intraoperative infusions of
      ketamine (an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor inhibitor) have also been correlated with reduced
      pain scores and a decrease in analgesic requirements postoperatively. Lastly, dexmedetomidine
      is a highly selective alfa-2 adreno-ceptor agonist that provides sedation, analgesia, and
      sympatholysis. Its perioperative intravenous administration has been associated with a
      reduction in postoperative pain intensity, analgesic consumption and nausea.

      There is insufficient data in literature investigating the effect of combinations of these
      agents intraoperatively. It would be of interest to demonstrate whether the administration of
      combinations can be used towards the achievement of a completely opioid-free anesthetic
      regimen. Additionally, we can hypothesize that the combination of non-opioid drugs with
      different targets can lead to enhanced postoperative recovery, an improved opioid-sparing
      effect and a decrease in the development of chronic pain as compared to the administration of
      opioids.

      Therefore, the aim of this study will be to investigate the effect of a combination of
      intravenous infusions of lidocaine-ketamine-dexmedetomidine versus fentanyl on recovery
      profile, quality of recovery and postoperative pain after elective laparoscopic gynecological
      surgery.
    
  