
    
      We have therefore designed a prospective study in order to evaluate the effect of PPI and
      SSRI therapy for different subtypes of NCCP patients using multichannel intraluminal
      impedance and pH (MII-pH) monitoring.

      METHODS

      Patients with non cardiac chest pain symptoms presenting to the participating centres, will
      be prospectively screened for entry into the study.

      They should have undergone a comprehensive diagnostic evaluation by cardiologists in order to
      exclude a cardiac source for their chest pain. Patients recruited in the study should have
      either a normal coronary angiogram or lack of ischemic heart disease on exercise treadmill or
      stress thallium testing

      Inclusion criteria i) patients should have at least 3 episodes of chest pain per week in the
      previous 3 months.

      The exclusion criteria will be:

      i) thoracic, esophageal or gastric surgery ii) primary or secondary esophageal motility
      disorders iii) use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin iv) presence of
      Barrett's esophagus, erosive esophagitis, peptic stricture and duodenal or gastric ulcer on
      upper endoscopy v) eosinophilic esophagitis vi) underlying psychiatric illness vii) pregnancy
      in women viii) refusal to participate.

      Study protocol

      All subjects who will agree to participate in the study should undergo an upper endoscopy to
      assess the presence or absence of esophageal mucosal injury. Patients with Barrett's
      esophagus and erosive esophagitis will not be included in the present study. Furthermore,
      biopsies will be taken and patients with eosinophilic esophagitis will also be excluded.

      All patients will also be subjected to stationary esophageal manometry and those with
      motility abnormalities will be excluded. During esophageal manometry the lower esophageal
      sphincter (LES) will be located.

      Esophageal impedance-pH monitoring will be performed in all participating subjects using an
      ambulatory multichannel intraluminal impedance (MII) and pH monitoring system (Sleuth;
      Sandhill Scientific, Inc. Higland Ranch, CO, USA). During the test, each subject will eat
      three standard meals, while the beginning and ending times of every meal will be indicated in
      a diary. Subjects will also be instructed to press the event marker button on the data logger
      whenever they experience chest pain. Data recording will be concluded after 24 hours, when
      patients will return to the endoscopy unit for the catheter removal.

      The impedance and pH data will be used to determine in each patient the number and type of
      reflux episodes and the total 24-hour esophageal acid exposure, defined as the total time at
      pH below 4 divided by the time monitoring. Total distal esophageal acid exposure (i.e., %
      time pH < 4) less than 4.2% over 24 hours will be considered normal.

      In each patient we will calculate the symptom index (SI) for chest pain. Bioview analysis
      software will be used for the calculation of SI. According to the setting of this software
      the symptoms will be considered as being related to reflux if they occur within a 2-min time
      window after the onset of the reflux episode. SI will be defined as the number of symptoms
      associated with reflux divided by the total number of symptoms. A positive SI is declared if
      ≥ 50% (i.e, at least half of the symptoms are associated with reflux).

      Treatment

      Patients will abnormal distal acid esophageal exposure will receive PPI twice daily for 8
      weeks .

      Patients with positive symptom index for chest pain will receive citalopram 20 mg once daily
      and PPI once daily for 8 weeks.

      Patients with a negative symptom index for chest pain will receive citalopram 20mg once daily
      for 8 weeks.

      All patients will be evaluated at the end of the 8-week period and will be asked about the
      presence or absence of chest pain. Treatment success will be defined as the complete
      disappearance of the chest pain, while the presence of mild or infrequent symptoms will be
      considered as treatment failure.
    
  