
    
      The Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics is conducting an 8-year collaborative
      randomized multi-intervention trial with the Beijing Institute for Cancer Research to
      evaluate the etiologic role of Helicobacter pylori, garlic, and certain micronutrients in the
      multi-step process of gastric carcinogenesis. The primary endpoint will not be cancer, but
      rather the precancerous lesions severe chronic atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and
      dysplasia. The study is designed to detect a stabilizing or mild decrease in the expected
      age-related progression of precancerous lesions over the course of the trial. Thus the trial
      can be considered a study of the potential inhibitors of the process of gastric
      carcinogenesis. The trial will also provide an evaluation of therapy for H. pylori, including
      an assessment of reinfection rates, a critical need for formulating strategies for infection
      control in China and other developing countries. Participating in the trial are approximately
      3400 adults aged 35-70 who were part of an ongoing survey of precancerous gastric lesions in
      13 Linqu villages in Shandong Province. Linqu appears to be an ideal setting for the trial
      since stomach cancer rates are among the highest in the world, precancerous gastric lesions
      are prevalent, and the population is stable and well characterized. These individuals will be
      randomly assigned (taking H. pylori positivity into account) into 8 intervention groups
      according to a 2(3) factorial design. The interventions are: 1) initial treatment of H.
      pylori infection with omeprazole and amoxicillin followed by 2) daily supplementation with a
      combination of alpha-tocopherol, vitamin C, and selenium; and 3) daily supplementation with
      garlic extracts. Compliance was excellent and no serious side effects were seen from any of
      the interventions.

      As part of the ongoing study in Linqu, all participants received an endoscopic exam in the
      fall of 1994. Repeat gastroscopic exams with biopsies at 7 standard gastric sites conducted
      during March to May, 1999 and March to April, 2003 to detect early cancers and to evaluate
      gastric mucosal status. The subjects will be categorized according to the most advanced
      lesions detected in all biopsies and assigned a severity score. The three major endpoints for
      analysis will be: 1) prevalence of dysplasia or cancer 2) prevalence of severe chronic
      atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, dysplasia, or cancer; and 3) average severity
      score.

      The major endpoint paper was published in JNCI in 2006. Additional analyses of the trial data
      are underway. A continuation study is proceeding that will allow for follow-up of the
      approximately 3070 remaining trial participants through 2010 on the long-term effects of the
      previous treatments on gastric cancer incidence and on cause-specific death rates and allow
      approximately 364 participants in the previous study with advanced gastric lesions in 2003 an
      opportunity for annual endoscopic screening for gastric cancer.
    
  