
    
      Since its introduction in daily medical practice in the late 20th century, fiberoptic
      bronchoscopy (FOB) has had an increasing role in the everyday life of the pulmonologist. Not
      only for diagnosis, but also for therapeutic interventions, it has achieved widespread use
      and is now performed in a diversity of clinical scenarios. For several reasons, from easy
      performance in trained hands to versatility, diagnostic reliability, and safety, flexible
      bronchoscopy is now widely accepted and increasingly used in the management of critically ill
      patients.

      A wide range of indications exists for FOB in the intensive care unit (ICU). Most correspond
      to basic bronchoscopy with exploration, lavage, brushing, and forceps sampling as the primary
      used techniques. It is recommended that intensive care units account for the facility to
      perform urgent and timely FOB for a range of therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. Critical
      care settings demand that respiratory system problems be resolved and clinical decisions be
      made in a timely manner.

      Although one can generally group the indications for bronchoscopy into diagnostic and
      therapeutic, there are circumstances in which the examination serves both purposes. The main
      indications for flexible bronchoscopy in the intensive care unit are the visualization of the
      airways, sampling for diagnostic purposes and management of the artificial airways.

      Respiratory infections account for significant morbidity, mortality, and healthcare-related
      expenditure in patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Respiratory infections
      account for 3.5 million deaths worldwide and 79 million loss of disability-adjusted
      life-years.

      The bacteriological profile of pulmonary infections varies within the same country, with time
      due to differences in the frequency of use of antibiotics, environmental factors, and
      ventilation in the critically ill patients. Likewise, an expanded variety of emerging
      pathogens provide challenges for the microbiology laboratory. It has been reported clinical
      microbiologists in diagnostic laboratories have a critical role to play in the diagnosis and
      management of lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) as overtreatment of acute
      uncomplicated pulmonary infections led to unparalleled levels of multi drug resistance among
      pathogens. Since the etiological agents of pulmonary infections (LRTI) cannot be determined
      clinically, microbial investigation is required for both treatment and management of
      individual case and for epidemiological purposes. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) is an ideal
      sample that allows the recovery of pathogens cellular and non-cellular components from the
      epithelial surface of lower respiratory tract. Bronchoalveolar lavage has improved
      sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic techniques in diagnosis of pulmonary infection. It
      is increasingly utilized as diagnostic tool though in the past it remained as investigative
      and research tool as the sputum culture yields diagnosis in fewer than 50% of patients with
      pulmonary infections. Early diagnosis and proper choice of antimicrobials is crucial for
      management of these patients. The advent of bronchoscopy and quantitative analysis of BAL
      have improved sensitivity and specificity in diagnosis of pulmonary infections.

      Antibiotics form the main stay of treatment of various respiratory infections which are often
      initiated empirically based on their previous experiences, hence, leading to the
      inappropriate use of antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance. Resistance to antibiotics has
      emerged recently due to misuse of antibiotics and is a threat to health-care system,
      especially in developing countries where there are no antimicrobial stewardship programs in
      most ICUs.

      Antimicrobial resistance results in increased economic burden on patients due to the higher
      cost of antibiotics, prolonged ICU stay, and increased mortality. Prescribing appropriate
      antibiotics for the right duration is very important to prevent drug resistance. Local
      knowledge regarding the most common organisms and their resistance pattern in various
      infections will greatly assist clinicians in choosing appropriate initial antibiotic therapy.
      Hence, it is important to know the antibiotic prescribing pattern and resistance patterns in
      ICU.

      In critically ill patients, mechanical ventilation might cause ventilator-induced lung injury
      and hospital-acquired pneumonia, both conditions promote atelectasis and stagnant secretions
      that may worsen oxygenation and delay weaning from ventilator.

      Atelectasis may result from numerous causes, for example, from congestion of mucus in the
      central airways, from increased sputum production, from decreased mucociliary clearance, from
      decreased cough effectiveness, from increased sputum viscosity, or by a combination of these
      factors. Treatment of atelectasis in intensive care unit (ICU) patients has been focused on
      blind airway suctioning, bronchoscopy with or without adjuncts such as nebulization of
      N-acetylcysteine, and chest physiotherapy. Bronchoscopy is regarded as an attractive method
      for endobronchial mucus clearing, which possibly results in a more effective airway clearance
      as it is performed under direct visualization of the airways.

      Therefore, removing the sputum is important for patient management, but blind negative
      pressure aspiration can damage the airway mucosa and leave sputum in place, worsening the
      patient's condition. Removing sputum under bronchoscopy could allow the precise removal of
      all sputum while minimizing mucosa damage.

      Acute respiratory failure (ARF) has long been a challenge for physicians who perform
      bronchoscopy for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. Hypoxaemia is aggravated when
      implementing bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) or therapeutic intervention. Many physicians lose
      their chance to perform bronchoscopy and acquire adequate samples for appropriate treatment.
      Since undergoing a bronchoscopy can be hazardous to patients with ARF, intubation is
      preferred and physicians are reluctant to achieve BAL sample. Therefore, bronchoscopic
      procedures in high-risk patients, especially those with hypoxaemia, have long been a
      challenge in this field. Few clinical studies have shown the effectiveness of performing
      bronchoscopy using high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) in ARF for diagnostic purpose.
    
  