
    
      Symptomatic veterans will receive standardized acupressure treatment, first with one-thumb
      pressing applied to the head at acupoints of GV-20 (Bai Hui), EX-HN-3 (Yin Tang), Du-24 (Shen
      Ting), ST-8 (Tou Wei), EX-HN-5 (Tai Yang). B-2 (Zan Zhu), M-HN-6 (Yu Yao), and SJ-23 (Si Zhu
      Kong) for ~5 s on each acupoint until the subject gets the sense of soreness and numbness,
      and the procedure will be repeated three times. The frequency of one-thumb pressing is 120±10
      times per minute and the force is 10±2 Newtons. Kneading massage will be applied around eyes
      and forehead, and face will be swabbed by palm for ~ 5 min. Manipulation of these acupoints
      is aimed at helping to calm and ease the subject, lighten headache and migraine, relieve
      fatigue, and alleviate insomnia. Finally, LI- 4 (He Gu), LI-11 (Qu Chi), HT-7(Shen Men),
      ST-32 (Fu Tu), SP-10 (Xue Hai), ST-36 (Zu San Li), and KI-3 (Tai Xi) acupoints will be
      one-thumb pressed for 10 min. Manipulations on these acupoints and meridians located on the
      limbs is to relax muscles, alleviate muscle and joint pain, and improve mobility. This
      protocol is based on our consultant's previous acupressure research and clinical practice,
      our pilot case study for CFS patient, and the basic rationale in traditional Chinese
      acupressure medicine (Yan, 2003; Cao, 2006).

      A matter of great concern in investigating oriental alternative and complementary
      interventions is standardizability and repeatability of experiments. In this proposed study
      the process of identifying the location of acupoints and underlying meridians for each
      subject will be carried out using Western anatomy and the World Health Organization's
      Standard Acupuncture Point Locations (Lim, 2009). The level of manipulation (force and
      frequency of pressing and kneading) will be monitored by the TN-II manipulation radiometer
      (Shangxin Medical Science & Technology Co. Ltd, Shanghai, China), which has been successfully
      used to normalize acupressure manipulation in previous research (Ma et al., 2006). In this
      manner, the whole treatment design would be standardized as much as possible and could be
      repeated in the future by our own and other groups.

      Reiki: Veterans in the control group will receive reiki treatment with the same dosage (40
      min/session, 12 sessions in 6 wks). The practitioner will place the hands on the recipient in
      various positions covering head, the back of the torso, and the 4 limbs with fixed set of 12
      hand positions. These covered areas will then be tapped and stroked, and practitioner will
      focus his/her gaze on these areas for 2-3 min, through which the healing energy is
      transferred to the subjects.
    
  