
    
      This pilot study will examine the effects of clown visits by RED NOSES Clowndoctors Austria
      on physiological and psychological stress indicators in approximately 40 children and
      adolescents aged between 7 and 18 years in Austrian inpatient or outpatient psychiatric
      health care institutions (without control group).

      The data collection process will start with a baseline assessment on participants' general
      mental and physical health status, perceived stress, and coping with stress using
      standardized questionnaires. Subsequently, both salivary cortisol as well as self-reported
      stress and mood states of children and adolescents will be collected before and after each
      clown visit on a weekly basis over four consecutive weeks (pre-/post-test design). Saliva
      samples of cortisol are collected as a marker for the physiological stress response of
      participants. We will use Salicaps collection devices consisting of collection tubes and
      straws. Participants will be thoroughly instructed to collect accumulated saliva for two
      minutes without swallowing. After the two minutes, participants will transfer the accumulated
      saliva into the Salicap tube via the straw. Furthermore, self-reported stress levels and
      different dimensions of current mood states (good - bad mood; alertness - tiredness; calmness
      - restlessness) of children and adolescents are assessed by self-developed visual analogue
      scales and standardized questionnaires. In addition, representatives of the care staff at the
      health facilities will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their personal perception
      on the effects of clown visits on their own individual mood, the atmosphere within the care
      team, and the patients' well-being after each clown visit within the same time period of four
      weeks. The application of questionnaires is paper-based (paper-pencil). All data collected
      will be treated in a pseudonymized form.

      Participants will be recruited from selected psychiatric health care facilities in Austria.
      The recruitment process of children and adolescents will be initiated by a briefing interview
      with the care staff at the relevant facilities. In this briefing, the staff will be informed
      in detail about the study goals and all data collection procedures and will have the
      opportunity to evaluate the participation of the children and adolescents independently (cf.
      eligibility criteria). No sensitive data will be shared with the research team at that point.
      The staff will further support in obtaining the written consent from parents or legal
      guardians prior to the start of data collection.
    
  