
    
      The investigators assume a difference in BMI (body mass index; kg/m x m) of 2 units, a
      standard deviation of 4.5 units, a power of 80 %, an alfa error of 5 % I a two-tailed test,
      the investigators would need at least 80 individuals in the experimental group and in the
      control group, respectively.

      With 80 individuals in each group and the assumption of 5 % adherence (4 individuals) in the
      control group, the investigators would be able to detect an adherence of 21 % or higher (at
      least 17 individuals) in the experimental group with 80 % power. The alfa error is set to 5 %
      in a two-tailed test with the null hypothesis that the adherence is the same in both groups.

      Therefore the investigators plan a study with at least 100 individuals in each group and
      assume that 20 % will not complete the study.

      The evaluation of the quantitative studies will be performed in three ways: 1) Process
      evaluation, that will focus on intermediate outcomes such as knowledge, attitudes, motivation
      and readiness for change. 2) Effect evaluation will be used to evaluate the effect of the
      intervention programme on the subjects' behavior such as dietary intake and physical activity
      level. 3) Outcome evaluation will measure the total effect of the intervention programme, in
      this case variables that measures indicators for health and disease, such as SF-36, EQ-5D,
      SHIS, serum cholesterol, blood pressure, BMI, waist circumference etc.

      Intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis will be used to assess effects on outcome measures.
      Variables not normally distributed will be logarithmically transformed. Paired t-test will be
      used to assess change within groups and unpaired t-tests to compare mean changes between
      groups. Non-parametric statistics, Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test and Mann-Whitney U-Test will be
      used for ordinal data such as questionnaires. Two-tailed tests will be used and a p-value
      less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Qualitative data will be analyzed by content analysis.
    
  