
    
      Objective: To determine whether the addition of prednisone to the first 4 weeks of
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) reduces the risk of paradoxical TB-IRIS in HIV-infected patients
      being treated for TB who are at high risk of developing TB-IRIS (CD4 <100 cells/μl and
      starting ART within 30 days of TB treatment).

      Design: A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the incidence of
      paradoxical TB-IRIS over the first 12 weeks of ART in participants who receive a 4 week
      course of prednisone versus participants who receive a 4 week course of placebo.

      Primary efficacy endpoint:

      The development of paradoxical TB-IRIS within 12 weeks of starting ART (defined using the
      International Network for the Study of HIV-associated IRIS (INSHI) consensus case
      definition).

      Secondary efficacy endpoints:

        1. Time to IRIS event

        2. Severity of IRIS events (defined by the following: need for hospitalisation for IRIS,
           C-reactive protein, and neurological involvement)

        3. Duration of TB-IRIS event (from onset of symptoms/signs to resolution of TB-IRIS
           symptoms/signs)

        4. Mortality attributed to TB and TB-IRIS

        5. All-cause mortality

        6. Composite endpoint of death, hospitalization, or hepatotoxicity (using the
           protocol-specified definition of Grade 3 or 4 increase in ALT or bilirubin).

        7. Other (non-TB) IRIS events

        8. Quality of life assessment (measured using PROQOL-HIV, EQ-5D-3L, HIV symptom index and
           Karnofsky score)

        9. Adverse events and severe adverse events ascribed to TB treatment, ART or
           co-trimoxazole. This will include a pre-specified analysis of drug-induced liver injury
           and drug rash. This assessment will include the number of treatment interruptions for
           drug adverse events.

       10. Discontinuation of either ART or TB treatment for > 5 days due to adverse events

       11. Number of hospitalizations and total days hospitalized

      Safety and tolerability endpoints:

        1. Corticosteroid-associated adverse events, classified by severity and relation to study
           drug. These will include hypertension, hyperglycaemia, hypomania/mania, depression,
           acne, epigastric pain, upper gastro-intestinal bleeding, Cushingoid features, new oedema
           and avascular bone necrosis.

        2. Laboratory safety data: glucose, full blood count and electrolytes

        3. Other infections (AIDS-related, bacterial, fungal and viral) and malignancies (Kaposi's
           sarcoma)

        4. All grade 1, 2, 3 and 4 adverse events (clinical and laboratory using the ACTG grading
           system)

      Sample size: 240 participants will be enrolled over 13 months. Each participant will be
      followed for 12 weeks.

      Population: HIV-infected, ART-naïve adult (≥ 18 years) patients diagnosed with active
      tuberculosis who have a CD4 < 100 cells/μL and who start ART within 30 days of starting TB
      treatment. Other inclusion criteria include: diagnosis of TB (smear, culture, Xpert MTB/RIF
      test, histology or strong clinical and radiological evidence of TB with symptomatic response
      to TB treatment), eligible for and consent to starting ART and written informed consent for
      trial. Exclusion criteria include: Kaposi's sarcoma, pregnancy, TB meningitis or tuberculoma
      at TB diagnosis (because these patients receive corticosteroids), known rifampicin-resistant
      TB, being on corticosteroids for another indication within the past 7 days, on other
      immunosuppressive medication within the past 7 days and uncontrolled diabetes mellitus.

      TB treatment and ART: TB treatment will be prescribed and monitored by the clinical staff in
      the local HIV-TB clinic. TB treatment will be given according to South African Department of
      Health guidelines. This involves rifampicin (R), isoniazid (H), ethambutol (E) and
      pyrazinamide (Z) for 2 months followed by RH for 4 months. ART will be prescribed by the
      clinical staff at the HIV-TB clinic according to South African Department of Health
      guidelines. Standard first line ART in TB patients is tenofovir, emtricitabine (or
      lamivudine) and efavirenz. Co-trimoxazole prophylaxis will be prescribed to all patients
      unless a contra-indication exists.

      Intervention: Oral prednisone 40mg daily for 14 doses started on the first day that ART is
      taken, followed by 20mg daily for 14 doses (or identical placebo). A total of 28 days of
      study medication will thus be prescribed.

      Follow-up: Patients will be screened once established on TB treatment, but before starting
      ART. If the patient is eligible, written informed consent will be taken. There will be six
      planned study visits that will be in relation to the start of ART: week 0 (the day ART is
      initiated), week 1, week 2, week 4, week 8 and week 12. Patients will be seen at unscheduled
      visits if clinical deterioration occurs. If paradoxical TB-IRIS is diagnosed this will be
      treated with open label prednisone at clinician discretion if symptoms are moderate or
      severe. If patients experience clinical complications (eg. TB-IRIS) follow-up will be
      prolonged beyond week 12 in order to stabilize their condition before referral back to the
      general TB-HIV clinical service for ongoing management.

      Data monitoring: The trial will be monitored by an independent Data and Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB) comprising 3 independent researchers and an independent statistician. After an
      initial meeting for agreeing on their Charter, the DSMB will meet twice (after 80 and 160
      participants have completed follow-up) to review data quality and data with respect to safety
      and trial endpoints. If there is evidence of harm related to study medication or trial
      conduct the DSMB may advise the sponsor that trial enrollment should be stopped.

      Clinical trial site: Khayelitsha Site B HIV-TB clinic (Ubuntu clinic)

      Co-investigators:

      Lut Lynen (Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium) Gary Maartens (University of
      Cape Town) Robert J. Wilkinson (Imperial College London and University of Cape Town) Robert
      Colebunders (Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium)
    
  