
    
      "Big data analytics in cancer care holds immense potential to unlock valuable clinical
      insights from an abundance of patient medical records, aided by sophisticated statistical
      models, that will lead to improved population-based outcomes and deeper personalization of
      cancer treatment. However, the clinical data (which includes medical images, clinical
      examinations and laboratory results) has been locked away in disconnected "silos" within
      every clinic. Additionally, patient information is exceedingly sensitive to privacy issues
      and confidentiality breaches.

      The investigators have pioneered the innovative Personal Health Train approach, whereby
      support for choosing the best treatment (i.e. decision support) is accessible without any
      patient records ever leaving the clinic of origin. This extends our current work on an
      extensible data architecture to learn from quantitative imaging data in India and The
      Netherlands (without images being taken out of the clinic) - NWO/DeITy BIONIC. The
      investigators have now developed numerous models of clinical outcome after treatment,
      including those for undesirable side-effects of treatment. The investigators continue to lead
      big data integration work within multicenter clinical decision support projects such as
      KWF-ProTraIT and Horizon2020-BD2DECIDE.

      The overall aim of the TRAIN project is to combine big data (including images, laboratory
      tests and clinical examinations) to improve the outcomes for head & neck cancer patients in
      both India and The Netherlands. The investigators will do this by creating data-driven
      Decision Support Systems to predict which treatment gives the best outcome given individual
      patient characteristics, and local diagnostic and treatment capabilities. Cancer specialists
      in both countries will lead the design and clinical evaluation of this decision support
      system, which could be deployed in multiple clinics across all of the settings encountered in
      India and The Netherlands.

      Head and neck cancer is a relatively rare condition in the Netherlands, such that the data
      volume available to learn from is much smaller than in India. Conversely, Indian patients
      typically present at a more advanced stage of cancer compared to Dutch patients. These
      differences in patients and treatments can be leveraged by machine learning algorithms to
      learn better predictive models. Decision support systems are essential, since guideline
      deviations in both countries are common due to individual patient characteristics, patient
      preferences and uneven distribution of treatment capacity outside major urban centers.

      To achieve the above, The investigators first deploy the ICT infrastructure (in collaboration
      with Philips India) to connect local hospital information systems so that clinical, imaging
      and outcome data on head & neck cancer patients becomes findable, accessible, interoperable
      and reusable (FAIR) big data. The investigators then deploy learning algorithms that traverse
      the big data repositories of each participating hospital, using the privacy-preserving
      Personal Health Train approach, to develop a decision support system. Cancer specialists in
      India and the Netherlands will jointly evaluate the clinical utility of the decision support
      system by means of a prospective randomized clinical trial."
    
  