
    
      The goal of the proposed study is to gather preliminary feasibility and efficacy data for an
      innovative intervention (Narrative Exposure Therapy: NET) to promote adolescent mental health
      related to interpersonal trauma (IPT). Among those at highest risk for interpersonal violence
      and its sequelae are youth from urban, low-resourced neighborhoods. Post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD) is a common outcome associated with IPT. Substance misuse (SUB) is a frequent
      concomitant of PTSD. NET is a promising intervention to reduce PTSD symptoms and associated
      psychological distress, via the supported reconstruction (narrative telling) of the traumas.
      NET has a critical advantage over existing PTSD treatments in that it can be delivered in a
      brief format, in community settings where at-risk adolescents are likely to be found. Despite
      its promise in treating adolescent distress, NET has yet to be tested as an intervention for
      those who have interpersonal trauma-related PTSD. Further NET's influence on SUB has not been
      examined.

      Accordingly, the objective of this project is to conduct a pilot study (N=30) to estimate NET
      treatment effects on PTSD symptoms and SUB in IPT-exposed urban adolescents (ages 16-21).
      Both feasibility and preliminary efficacy data will be collected to serve as pilot work for a
      larger-scale NIH proposal. Recruitment and intervention will be set within community partners
      where the adolescents already are connected and are receiving social or psychological
      services. Outcome data will be collected at: (T0) Baseline, and at 1(T1), and 3 months (T2)
      follow-up assessments. Participant responses to the intervention will be assessed
      post-intervention. Change in PTSD, SUB will be estimated with effect sizes and inferential
      tests. Preliminary evidence of efficacy and feasibility will pave the way for further NET
      development to offer a patient-oriented, community-based, intervention that will promote
      adolescent mental health for those at greatest risk for health access and outcomes
      disparities.
    
  