
    
      Objective: The role of mesencephalic dopamine neurons in reward processing has been
      established in primates using electrophysiological techniques and in humans using functional
      neuroimaging. They have rich projections to both the prefrontal and motor cortices where they
      synapse on interneurons and cortical pyramidal cells, producing primarily inhibition. Though
      their function is not fully understood, these projections clearly play an important role in
      motivation and learning. We recently developed a paradigm to detect reward-related signals in
      the primary motor cortex, using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), and demonstrated
      increased inhibition in primary motor cortex under conditions of increased reward expectancy.
      These results suggest that motor learning, which depends critically on the motor cortex, may
      be influenced by reward, which may take the form of simple performance feedback in humans.
      This kind of feedback also allows subjects to predict the outcome of actions. Thus, our
      present objective is to investigate the influence of reward/feedback/prediction on the
      activity of primary motor cortex during motor learning and in particular during instances of
      increased reward expectancy. Further, we will examine the role of a brain derived
      neurotrophic factor (BDNF) single nucleotide polymorphism on motor learning.

      Study Population: The population that we will study will be healthy volunteers between the
      ages of 18-50, without any significant medical history or contraindication to functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Design: All experiments will employ within- or between-subjects fMRI and magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy (MRS) to measure changes in activations of different cortical areas in response
      to motor learning and reward.

      Outcome Measures: The outcome measures will be (a) graded changes in blood oxygen
      level-dependent (BOLD) in response to motor learning and reward and (b) variations in GABA
      concentration in response to motor learning and reward, and c) variations in response time in
      the behavioral performance of a learning task.
    
  