
    
      Multicenter randomized controlled trial including patients with fecal or diffuse peritonitis*
      to either vacuum assisted closure or relaparotomy "on-demand". The aim with our study is to
      compare the postoperative complications between vacuum assisted closure and relaparotomy
      "on-demand".

      Primary endpoint is to compare peritonitis related complications and Comprehensive
      Complication Index (CCI) between NPWT treatment (VAC) and conventional treatment (ROD) at 30,
      90 days and 1 year.

      Secondary outcome parameters are: Mortality and peritonitis related complications at 30, 90
      days and 1 year, quality of life after 3 and 12 months (SF-36 questionnaire), ventral hernia
      after 3 and 12 months. (assessed by CT) and cost-effective analysis. A power calculation was
      made which concluded that 320 patients should be included.

      *Diffuse fecal peritonitis is defined as contamination of 2 out of the 4 abdominal quadrants
      with fecal contamination starting from the small intestine, colon or rectum.

      Design

      Multicentre randomized non-blinded clinical trial comprising > 4 centres. The first 15-20
      patients will be included from Surgical Department A, Odense University Hospital and
      Svendborg Hospital before inclusion of other centres. This is to ensure that
      adjustments/corrections in design or protocol can be introduced with the least inconvenience
      for other centres.

      All patients over 18 with suspected diffuse peritonitis caused by perforation of the small
      intestine, colon or rectum with contamination in minimum 2 out of 4 abdominal quadrants, will
      be included.

      Exclusion criteria are;

        -  Diffuse peritonitis originating from a different focus than the small intestine, colon
           or rectum

             -  Perforated ventricle or duodenal ulcer

             -  Perforated gallbladder

             -  Necrotizing pancreatitis

             -  Salpingitis

             -  Peritoneal Dialysis

        -  Primary peritonitis

             -  Immune-deficient patients

             -  Chronic parenchymal liver disease

             -  Haemodialysis patients

        -  Abdominal trauma

        -  Lack of consent

        -  Not finding diffuse/faecal peritonitis perioperatively

      Randomization

      Patients will be included upon suspicion fecal/diffuse peritonitis with focus from the small
      intestine, colon or rectum and CT scan of the abdomen with free air. Consent will be obtained
      from the surgical equipoise*, after which the project manager will be contacted by phone and
      randomize the patient web-based via OPEN in blocks of 2, 4 and 6 for primary closure with ROD
      or application of VAC. Stratification will be carried out for each centre and age above or
      below 65 years. Patients who cannot be treated according to randomization will be analysed
      according to intention-to-treat principles in the arm they are randomized to.

      *Consent from the surgical equipoise is obtained before the intervention/surgery is
      completed. Subjects will not be included to the study until consent from the surgical
      equipoise and informed consent from patient or guardian is obtained (please see illustration
      under appendix 3). In addition, consent will be obtained for the storage of biological
      material in the research biobank. Oral and written consent is obtained during hospitalization
      as soon as the included patient is in a habitual state, either on the ward or the intensive
      care unit. The surgical equipoise is appointed according to professional knowledge, first and
      foremost, it should be surgeon who have experience with VAC treatments. At a smaller hospital
      (not a university hospital) where the trial will take place and where such doctors are not
      present, a urologist could be appointed as a surgical equipoise.

      How to apply Vacuum Assisted Closure (VAC)

      The intestines, including the lateral aspects, were covered by VAC® Abdominal Dressing
      System, visceral protective layer (protective non-adherent and/or fenestrated layer). The
      first layer of foam is placed flat in the wound, approximately 5 cm underneath the fascia. A
      minimum of one piece of foam is folded and placed in the laparostoma above the first layer of
      foam. Afterwards there will be applied an occlusive drape loosely in 10-15 cm wide strips.
      During the application of the negative pressure, the facial edges should be approximated
      manually towards the midline. This is done to make the laparostoma opening as narrow as
      possible. We used a standard negative pressure of -125 mmHg, but when an anastomosis was
      performed, the negative pressure was sometimes reduced to as low as -25 mmHg, because
      lowering the pressure will protect the anastomosis, and a pressure of -25mmHg was high enough
      to prevent the lateralisation of fascial edges. Each dressing change should be performed at
      the operation theatre, and in general anaesthesia at maximum relaxation.

      How to do primary closure

      The abdominal wall is closed according to the Isreaelsson principle where it is sewn
      continuously in the fascia at a distance between the sutures of 5 mm and the distance to the
      facade edge of 5-10 mm. Monofilament PDS 0-0 (Ethicon) (or equivalent) is used. The suturing
      is started cranially and caudally, and the sutures are tied at the end of the continuous
      thread with self-locking knots. 4 times as much suture material as the length of the wound
      must be consumed (44).

      How the fascia is closed after VAC treatment

      The fascia can be closed according to the Israelssons principle as described above or by.
      However, the method of closure is decided by the surgeon. If the laparastoma cannot be
      completely closed, we recommend closing the fascia cranially and distally as much as possible
      successively and placing a new VAC-system until the laparastoma is fully closed, if possible.

      When to make relaparotomy-on demand

      Relaparotomy should be performed in patients with clinical deterioration or lack of clinical
      improvement with a probable intra-abdominal cause and/or after exclusion of other infectious
      foci (e.g. pneumonia) in blood tests and relevant imaging or in surgical emergencies.

        -  Clinical deterioration is defined as:

           o Increase of SOFA score ≥2 after last operative intervention

        -  Lack of clinical improvement is defined as the following:

             -  Signs of persistent sepsis

             -  SOFA score unchanged for at least 48 hours after the index laparotomy or previous
                relaparotomy or VAC shift

        -  Surgical emergencies are defined as:

             -  Abdominal compartment syndrome

             -  Intra-abdominal bleeding with sustained decrease in hemoglobin despite replacement
                or hemodynamic instability

             -  Peritoneal reaction

             -  Perforation of a hollow organ in the abdomen

             -  Anastomotic leakage

             -  Intra-abdominal abscess that cannot drain percutaneously

             -  Ischemia or necrosis of a visceral organ.

      The clinician should only be guided by the scoring systems. The final decision lies with the
      attending clinicians.

      Per-operative course

      Within the first 24-36 hours after hospitalization, patients must be scored with Acute
      Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) by the on-call anaesthesiologist.
      Peroperatively, the abdomen is scored according to Björck's classification, by the operating
      surgeon.

      In patients where the abdomen cannot be closed, i.e. VAC has to be placed or who is scheduled
      for "second look", they will be as above mentioned analysed according
      intention-to-treat-principles in the arm they are randomized to. This may be due to inability
      to close the abdomen, intrabdominal hypertension or non-anatomic post-surgical anatomy (ie,
      surgically placed permanent packing or bowel that the operating surgeon believes must be left
      in discontinuity after resection). These patients will be treated according to usual
      practice. Daily monitoring, scoring, follow-up and registration of peritonitis related
      complications are done in the same way as the other two randomization arms according to
      intention-to-treat principles.

      How to apply Vacuum Assisted Closure (VAC)

      The intestines, including the lateral aspects, were covered by VAC® Abdominal Dressing
      System, visceral protective layer (protective non-adherent and/or fenestrated layer). The
      first layer of foam is placed flat in the wound, approximately 5 cm underneath the fascia. A
      minimum of one piece of foam is folded and placed in the laparostoma above the first layer of
      foam. Afterwards there will be applied an occlusive drape loosely in 10-15 cm wide strips.
      During the application of the negative pressure, the facial edges should be approximated
      manually towards the midline. This is done to make the laparostoma opening as narrow as
      possible. We used a standard negative pressure of -125 mmHg, but when an anastomosis was
      performed, the negative pressure was sometimes reduced to as low as -25 mmHg, because
      lowering the pressure will protect the anastomosis, and a pressure of -25mmHg was high enough
      to prevent the lateralisation of fascial edges. Each dressing change should be performed at
      the operation theatre, and in general anaesthesia at maximum relaxation.

      How to do primary closure

      The abdominal wall is closed according to the Isreaelsson principle where it is sewn
      continuously in the fascia at a distance between the sutures of 5 mm and the distance to the
      facade edge of 5-10 mm. Monofilament PDS 0-0 (Ethicon) (or equivalent) is used. The suturing
      is started cranially and caudally, and the sutures are tied at the end of the continuous
      thread with self-locking knots. 4 times as much suture material as the length of the wound
      must be consumed (44).

      How the fascia is closed after VAC treatment

      The fascia can be closed according to the Israelssons principle as described above or by
      single interrupted far-near-near-far sutures with Prolene 0-0. However, the method of closure
      is decided by the surgeon. If the laparastoma cannot be completely closed, we recommend
      closing the fascia cranially and distally as much as possible successively and placing a new
      VAC-system until the laparastoma is fully closed, if possible.

      When to make relaparotomy-on demand

      Relaparotomy should be performed in patients with clinical deterioration or lack of clinical
      improvement with a probable intra-abdominal cause and/or after exclusion of other infectious
      foci (e.g. pneumonia) in blood tests and relevant imaging or in surgical emergencies.

        -  Clinical deterioration is defined as:

           o Increase of SOFA score ≥2 after last operative intervention

        -  Lack of clinical improvement is defined as the following:

             -  Signs of persistent sepsis

             -  SOFA score unchanged for at least 48 hours after the index laparotomy or previous
                relaparotomy or VAC shift

        -  Surgical emergencies are defined as:

             -  Abdominal compartment syndrome

             -  Intra-abdominal bleeding with sustained decrease in hemoglobin despite replacement
                or hemodynamic instability

             -  Peritoneal reaction

             -  Perforation of a hollow organ in the abdomen

             -  Anastomotic leakage

             -  Intra-abdominal abscess that cannot drain percutaneously

             -  Ischemia or necrosis of a visceral organ.

      The clinician should only be guided by the scoring systems. The final decision lies with the
      attending clinicians.

      Postoperative course

        -  Immediately after the operation the surgeon completes Baseline, Postoperative record and
           Björck's classification

        -  All patients should be transferred post-operatively to the intensive care unit

        -  Patients will be APACHE II and SOFA scored upon arrival at intensive care unit by the
           anesthesiologist on call

           o When an intensive care doctor assesses that there no need for further intensive care,
           the patient is transferred to the ward

        -  Patients should be SOFA scored daily for the first 7 days after the index operation.

             -  This should be done by doctors going rounds (applies to both the intensive care
                unit and the surgical ward)

             -  As soon as the patient is transferred to the ward, blood tests should be ordered
                daily (CRP, d-dimer, procalcitonin, creatinine, bilirubin, platelets)

             -  At daily rounds the patients must be GCS scored, a-gas needs to be taken and MAP
                calculated, which should all be recorded in the journal (in-order to calculate
                SOFA).

        -  Responsible physician completes SOFA score sheet, which can be found in the patient's
           project folder

        -  Patients randomized to VAC treatment are booked for VAC change after 48 hours by a
           specialist, where the following events can happen

             -  VAC is changed

             -  VAC is changed and closure is started

             -  The abdomen is closed

             -  The peritoneal fluid should be cultured at index operation and at closure

        -  Patients randomized to primary closure with the ROD of the abdomen will be assessed at
           the department / intensive care unit of the project manager and a specialist in surgery
           before the 48-hour surgery, where the following events can happen

             -  No operation

             -  Re-operation with closure of the abdomen

             -  Re-operation with establishment of VAC treatment

             -  The peritoneal fluid should be cultured upon closure

      After completion of treatment

      At the end of treatment all patients are booked for follow-up after 12 months in the
      outpatient clinic by the project manager. The abdomen is palpated in a standing and supine
      position with regard to clinical hernias. Prior to the outpatient follow-up, CT will be
      performed with iv. contrast with and without Valsalva maneuver in order to detect ventral
      hernia.

      The SF-36 questionnaire will be used to measure quality of life at follow-up after 3 and 12
      months.

      Statistics

      Power calculation with the following assumptions:

      ROD group with peritonitis-related complications of 40% (17), VAC group with estimated
      peritonitis-related complications of 25% after review of literature and local numbers
      (38,42), Power of 80%, Alpha of 0.05, expected dropout of 5% resulted in the need for 150
      patients in each group after drop-out of A total of 320 patients are required for 5%.

      Peritonitis related complications and Comprehensive Complication Index between NPWT treatment
      (VAC) and conventional treatment (ROD) will be compared at 30, 90 days and 1 year.

      Interim analysis will be done at 25%, 50% and 75% of recruited patients on the peritonitis
      related complications and mortality parameter, with the aim of detecting significant
      differences between the groups as early as possible. The interim analyses will only be done
      on complication outcome and mortality, but not on the cost-effectiveness analysis.

      Primarily, superiority analysis will be conducted with the aim of investigating whether VAC
      treatment is better than primary closure with ROD.

      Secondarily, non-inferiority analysis will be performed to investigate whether VAC treatment
      is not inferior to primary closure with ROD.

      Patients who cannot follow the randomized treatment plan will be included in the results and
      analysed according to the "intention-to-treat" principle.

      Univariate analysis will be performed on each type of complication (abscess, leakage, etc.),
      as well as on complications as a whole (peritonitis related complications). Fisher's exact or
      Chi2 test will be used to compare treatments depending on the number of observations.

      Adjusted analysis by logistic regression, for complications as a whole, as well as for
      individual complications and outcome, where the following covariate will be adjusted:

        -  Age

        -  Performance status

        -  Co-morbidity

      The above analyses will also be performed as subgroup analysis where patients with APACHE-II
      score> 10 will only be included. This is to evaluate VAC and ROD in the sickest part of the
      patient population.

      Cost-effective analysis where, based on average treatment costs, the costs for the following
      are calculated and compared this between the treatment groups. T-tests or rank sum test
      analysis will be performed, depending on whether data are normally distributed (controlled by
      quantile-quantile plot).

        -  The number of days at ICU

        -  The number of days per department

        -  Radiological interventions

        -  Number of operations + VAC

        -  Number of operations minus VAC

      Patient characteristics will be summarized by frequencies and proportions (for categorical
      variables) or by means ± standard deviation, median values, quartiles, range, and minimum and
      maximum values (for numerical variables). Categorical variables will be compared using a
      Fisher's exact test and continuous variables with a Wilcoxon's rank sum test.

      All of the above analyses will be performed as both intention-to-treat (patients will be
      analysed according to their randomization group) as well as per protocol analysis (what
      actually happened).

      P values less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Statistical
      calculations will be performed using Stata software (version 15, Stata Corp LP, Texas, USA).

      Ethics

      The study has been approved by the Danish Medical Ethics committee with a rather special
      permission to include patients with a surgical equipoise and afterwards when the subject(s)
      are in habitual state the informed consent should be obtained.
    
  