
    
      There is a high prevalence of physical inactivity (AF) in the world and in Brazil. Offering
      programs of physical activity becomes a convenient option to increase the physical activity
      level of the population and promote aging process more active and healthy over the life.
      There is need for greater depth in relation to the operation of programs to promote physical
      activity and the effects of these programs on different biopsychosocial aspects, especially
      those offered in primary care settings. This research aims to evaluate a walking program
      geared to adults and seniors on the following aspects:

        1. Characteristics and operation of the intervention,

        2. effects of behavior change to physical activity, and

        3. biopsychosocial effects of physical activity.

      It is a quasi experimental and controlled study, with: 1) intervention group (n = 71), 2) and
      control group (n = 71). The intervention will last for six months, with a subsequent
      follow-up period of six months after the intervention. The program will offer supervised
      exercise twice a week, lasting an hour. The classes will consist of recreational activities,
      walking and educational strategies of behavior change for physical activity. Variables will
      be evaluated for attendance, barriers to physical activity, waiver reasons, physical activity
      level, sociodemographic, socioeconomic and biopsychosocial aspects. Most females, aged over
      40 years, low levels of education, income and varied biopsychosocial characteristics are
      expected. After the intervention, it is expected that the program present characteristics of
      low adhesion and retention, especially because of the barrier "lack of time". Still, the
      promotion of supervised walking increase levels of physical activity beyond the time provided
      by the program and it will improve the biopsychosocial conditions of the participants.
    
  