
    
      The proposed research project is a prospective, observational study. Data will be collected
      from each institution and entered into a secure REDCap database. Two phases of data
      collection will occur: 1) patient demographics and specific clinical variables which may be
      associated with IAI which are available and recorded during the initial trauma evaluation 2)
      laboratory and imaging results available after the initial assessment, identified injuries,
      patient disposition, interventions and outcomes.

      Primary Outcome Variables: 1) Intra-abdominal injury (IAI) (presence of solid or hollow organ
      injury (spleen, liver, kidney, GI tract, adrenal, pancreas, intra-abdominal vascular
      structure, bladder, ureter, gallbladder, abdominal wall fascia)) 2) IAI requiring
      intervention (abdominal operation, angio-embolization, blood transfusion)

      Time Course: The initial data collection period will extend for one year. Data will be
      recorded in a password protected redcap database which is readily available online to all
      participating institutions.

      Study setting: Eleven Level One Pediatric Trauma Centers

      Data collection points: demographics (age, mechanism, alert level), physical exam, labs (AST,
      HCT, amylase, UA, base deficit), FAST, imaging results, injuries, outcomes (admission, ICU
      admit, need for intervention, missed injuries, ISS).

      Data Analysis: De-identified data will be used during the data analysis phase to minimize the
      risk of loss of confidentiality to the patients. Data analysis with development of a clinical
      prediction rule (CPM) will be performed as follows. A logistic regression will be used to fit
      a predictive model for both IAI and IAI requiring interventions. SAS 9.3 will be used for the
      statistical analysis. Validation (including sensitivity and negative predictive value) of the
      derived CPM would then be performed in a subsequent study using a second population of
      patients. Internal validation of the prediction model was assessed by creating a split sample
      using a random selection process; half of the sample was used as the initial cohort to
      develop the prediction model for estimates of all covariates, and the remaining half was used
      as the validation cohort to compare the true to the predicted outcomes. A receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curve is created by plotting sensitivity against (1- specificity) for
      different cut-off points of the predicted outcome. A bootstrap study of 1000 replications was
      performed on the level of sensitivity, specificity and TP/FP/FN/TN validation. Validation
      (including sensitivity and negative predictive value) of the derived CPM would then be
      performed in a subsequent study using a second population of patients.

      Quality assurance plan: Data quality will be evaluated bi-monthly by a team consisting of the
      PI, an expert in clinical prediction models and a statistician. This panel will be able to
      review de-identified data from all institutions but will not have access to make any changes
      in the data entered in the centralized database.

      Data checks to compare data entered into the registry against predefined rules for range or
      consistency: Data checks to compare entered registry data against predefined rules for range
      and consistency will be performed bi-monthly.

      Source data verification: Source data collection is the responsibility of each individual
      institution. A data analysis team consisting of a statistician and an expert in clinical
      prediction models will evaluate the data bi-monthly to look for wide outliers (beyond
      pre-defined range) and impossible data values (not clinically possible) and request
      clarification from the individual institutions when necessary.

      Data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of each variable: The vast majority of
      the data collection points are discrete variables with no opportunity for "free text" data
      entry. Many of these variables are specifically described on the data collection tools. Data
      definitions and question from the individual sites are addressed in a frequently updated
      Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) document which is sent out to the sites bi-monthly following
      data verification review.

      Standard Operating Procedures to address registry operations and analysis activities: The
      database is established through a secure Vanderbilt Redcap web-based site. Individual site
      data collection will be analyzed and reviewed bi-monthly with feedback to each of the sites
      if data inconsistencies exist.

      Plan for missing data to address situations where variables are reported as missing,
      unavailable, "non-reported," cannot be interpreted, or considered missing because of data
      inconsistency or out-of-range results: Critical data which are missing, unavailable or not
      reported will not be utilized for the development of the blunt abdominal trauma clinical
      prediction model (BAT CPM). The investigators will attempt clarification for out of range
      results prior to data analysis. Variables which are available and reported in less than 50%
      of the patients will likely be excluded from the CPM because they will not form the basis of
      a practicable risk stratification model. The developed CPM will require validation in a
      second un-related population prior to widespread application of the CPM.
    
  