
    
      Background: Strict glycaemic control reduces risk of complications and improves quality of
      life in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Real Time Continuous Glucose Monitoring
      System (RT-CGMS) is a novel system which can provide patients and health care professionals
      with real time information about the blood glucose level without the need for multiple
      invasive measurements. Furthermore, with continuous monitoring it is possible to identify
      trends in glycaemic profiles. Its effectiveness and safety have never been tested in a
      population of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus treated with insulin through an
      implanted pump.

      Objective: To investigate the effectiveness and safety of the RT-CGMS in patients treated
      with intraperitoneal continuous insulin infusion (CIPII).

      Study design: Open label, randomized cross-over, single-center controlled trial.

      Study population: Patients on CIPII. Intervention: There are 3 study phases. In the Baseline
      phase, all patients will have the RT-CGMS blinded so that no information on blood glucose
      values measured and stored by the RT-CGMS will be available to care-givers, investigators or
      patients during this study period. Randomization will determine the sequence of blinded and
      unblinded RT-CGMS in the 2nd and 3rd phase. When the RT-CGMS is not blinded, the system will
      alert whenever a glucose level falls below or rises above preset values. Sensor values are
      not intended to be used directly for making therapy adjustments. Whenever a value is below or
      above the preset value, the blood glucose level will be measured using a blood glucose meter
      and therapy adjustments based on this value will be done according to protocol.

      Study endpoints: Primary: Percentage of time spent in euglycaemia. Secondary: percentage of
      time spent in hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia, incidence and severity of hypoglycaemia (as
      measured with SMBG), incidence of adverse effects, number of measurements of blood glucose
      (SMBG) performed, number of adjustments of insulin therapy, patient satisfaction, agreement
      of paired SMBG and RT-CGMS measurements.
    
  