
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated doses and the recommended phase II doses of modified
      fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX) given in combination with alisertib
      (MLN8237) in patients with gastrointestinal cancers.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe any anti-tumor activity associated with this treatment. II. To assess baseline
      tumor expression by immunohistochemistry of aurora kinase A (AURKA), v-akt murine thymoma
      viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT), phosphorylated (phospho)-AKT (serine [Ser]473), tumor protein
      p53 (p53), tumor protein p73 (p73), beta (b)-catenin, v-myc myelocytomatosis viral oncogene
      homolog (avian) (c-MYC), and cleaved caspase 3.

      III. To assess baseline messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of AURKA, vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), c-MYC, human double minute 2 (HDM2), and cyclin D1 (CCND1),
      and correlate with response to therapy.

      IV. To obtain post-treatment biopsy specimens and confirm target inhibition by assaying for
      AURKA, phosphorylated (p)AURKA T288, p53, p73, MYC, HDM2, and cleaved caspase 3.

      V. To perform quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) on post-treatment specimens for AURKA oncogenic targets:
      p53-regulated apoptosis inducing protein 1 (p53AIP1), VEGF, HDM2, and MYC.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of alisertib.

      Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3 and mFOLFOX regimen
      comprising oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on day 2, leucovorin calcium IV over 2
      hours on day 2, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 2-4. Courses repeat
      every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  