
    
      Basketball is considered as the highly demanding sports due to high demand and complexity of
      the game. The overhead throwing activities makes it more vulnerable to the injuries. In
      repetitive throwing there are different type of violet forces placed on shoulder joint It
      causes adaptation in soft tissue anatomically which in turn limits ROM of shoulder joint and
      Posterior shoulder tightness.

      Posterior capsule tightness can result due to abnormal humeral head motion which decreases
      subacromial space during overhead activities leading to compression of tissues causing
      limited shoulder flexion, internal rotation and horizontal adduction. Posterior capsule
      tightening occurs when the capsular tissue and musculature of the shoulder tighten, usually
      due to "repeated overload in the eccentric portion of arm deceleration. This loss of internal
      rotation results from contracture and tightening of the posterior inferior portion of the
      glenohumeral joint capsule, which occurs from the repetitive microtrauma imparted during the
      deceleration phase of the throwing motion. Repetitive throwing motion creates adaptive
      increased external rotation and decreased internal rotation in the dominant shoulder joint
      which is termed as GIRD (Glenohumeral internal rotation deficit).Posterior capsule tightness
      is often treated without surgery. It can be treated by strengthening, stretching,
      neuromuscular control exercises. Strengthening protocol can perform specifically on Weak
      muscles by using resistance and weight. The neuromuscular training helps the body to act and
      react on different pattern of stress demand on it through neural pathways. The mainstay of
      the posterior capsule tightness treatment for athlete is the stretching of the posterior
      capsule. One author proposed the modified forms, the modified sleeper stretch and the
      modified cross body stretch. And found these modified stretching more effective and
      beneficial than the sleeper and cross body stretch Literature review: Kevin et al
      investigated the acute effects of sleeper stretch on posterior shoulder tightness and
      internal rotation of shoulder. There was significant improvement in results.

      A study conducted in 2018 to determine whether posterior shoulder stretch was effective in
      increasing internal rotation and horizontal adduction ROM in volleyball and tennis players
      with internal rotation deficit >¬¬15 degrees. The intervention group performs the sleeper
      stretch daily for 8 weeks. Results showed significant improvement in internal rotation and
      horizontal adduction.

      Another article was published in 2014, with the aim to compare the effects of horizontal
      adduction stretch with scapular stabilization versus horizontal adduction stretch without
      scapular stabilization on posterior shoulder tightness and passive internal rotation. Results
      showed significant improvement among the scapular stabilization group.

      A RCT conducted in which each subject completed stretching interventions for two days.
      Purpose of the study was to investigate acute effects of modified sleeper stretch and
      modified cross body stretch on posterior shoulder tightness and glenohumral internal rotation
      deficit with more than 10-degree loss.
    
  