
    
      Purpose: Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide and the third
      leading cause of vision loss in the United States. It is estimated that greater than 4.3
      million Americans will have glaucoma in 2030. The treatment options are topical medications,
      laser surgery, and incisional surgery. The goal of therapy is to lower intraocular pressure
      (IOP). Despite adequate lowering of IOP, many patients continue to lose vision due to
      progressive glaucomatous optic atrophy. This is likely related to the poor understanding of
      glaucoma pathogenesis. There are two theories which explain the mechanism of primary open
      angle glaucoma (POAG). The mechanical theory posits that intraocular pressure (IOP) can
      produce optic nerve damage through biomechanical or structural factors. All current
      therapeutic interventions are aimed at this particular mechanism. The vascular theory
      suggests that compromise of the optic nerve microvasculature induces glaucomatous optic nerve
      damage. There is a significant body of literature supporting the role of ocular hemodynamic
      (OHD) changes in the development and progression of glaucoma. However, there have been
      limited investigations of the effect of surgical interventions on OHD. This is primarily due
      to a lack of non-invasive, cost-effective methods of assessing OHD factors. Today, the
      technology exists to assess these factors in such a manner. Thus, the purpose of this study
      is to assess the response of OHD factors to surgical intervention in glaucoma patients.
      Participants: Seventy-five participants with varying degrees of open angle glaucoma (OAG)
      that meet clinical criteria for cataract or glaucoma surgery will be recruited from the
      glaucoma clinics at the University of North Carolina (UNC) Kittner Eye Center. Once they have
      been determined to be eligible, they will be assigned to one of three groups based upon
      surgical indication. Group 1 is cataract surgery only. Group 2 is cataract surgery with
      iStent (Glaukos Corp., Laguna Hills, CA) implantation. Group 3 is implantation of a glaucoma
      drainage device. Each procedure will be completed in a standardized fashion with
      standardization of the post-operative medications. An effort will be made to gender and age
      match each surgical group as well as provide reasonable racial and ethnic diversity.
      Procedures (methods): Participants will undergo assessment of 24 hour IOP and ocular
      perfusion pressure (OPP), retinal oxygen saturation (RSO2), and optic nerve blood flow
      (ONBF), within 10 days of their assigned surgical procedure and again 6-8 weeks
      post-operatively. Ambulatory IOP and OPP: IOP will be measured using the Triggerfish®
      (Sensimed AG, Lausanne, Switzerland) contact lens sensor (CLS) every five minutes. Blood
      pressure (BP) will be measured with an ambulatory BP measure (ABPM) every 30 minutes during
      the day and every hour overnight. Participants will have the CLS and ABPM placed by study
      personnel, wear them for 24 hours assuming their typical daily activity and sleep regimen,
      then return to clinic the following day to have the devices removed. Optic Nerve Blood Flow
      and Retinal Oximetry: Prior to placement of the CLS and ABPM participants will undergo
      assessment of the ONBF using Doppler spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT)
      and RSO2 using the Oxymap T1 (Oxymap, Reykjavik, Iceland) retinal oximeter.
    
  