
    
      Participant:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 1 questionnaire about your overall
      satisfaction of the care you have received in the hospital, a question about how much
      distress you have had before your transfer to the PCU, and a question about your level of
      comfort with being transferred to the PCU. You will be asked to answer these questions based
      on your experience with the inpatient oncology service. These questionnaires should take
      about 10 minutes to complete. Your caregiver will also be invited to participate in the
      study.

      After you complete the first set of questionnaires, you will complete the same questionnaires
      about your overall satisfaction of the care you have received in the PCU, a question about
      how much distress you have had in the past 2 days, and a question about your level of comfort
      with being transferred to the PCU. You will be asked to answer these questions based on your
      experience in the PCU. One (1) new questionnaire will ask you to compare the care you
      received with the palliative care consult service with the care you received in the PCU.
      These questionnaires should also take about 10 minutes to complete.

      Information from your medical record (age, gender, educational level, marital status,
      religion, ethnicity, cancer diagnosis, stage of cancer, time since diagnosis, and the reasons
      you have been transferred to the PCU) will be collected.

      Length of Study Your participation on this study will be over after you complete the second
      set of questionnaires.

      Caregiver:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete a questionnaire about your
      demographic information (such as your age, ethnicity, educational level, marital status, your
      relationship to the patient, and your religious preference). It should take about 5-10
      minutes to complete.

      You will complete 1 questionnaire about your overall satisfaction of the care your family
      member or friend has received in the hospital, as well as a question about how much distress
      you have had before their transfer to the PCU, and a question about the level of comfort you
      have with your family member/friend being transferred to the PCU. You will be asked to answer
      these questions based on your experience with the inpatient oncology service. These
      questionnaires should take about 10 minutes to complete.

      After you complete the first set of questionnaires, you will complete the same questionnaires
      about your overall satisfaction of the care your family member or friend received in the PCU,
      how much distress you have had in the past 2 days, and level of comfort you have with your
      family member/friend being transferred to the PCU. You will be asked to answer these
      questions based on your experience in the PCU. One (1) new questionnaire will ask you to
      compare the care your family member or friend received with the palliative care consult
      service to the care your family member/friend received in the PCU. These questionnaires
      should take also about 10 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study You participation on this study will be over after you complete the second
      set of questionnaires.
    
  