
    
      A prospective randomized study has been designed to assess and characterize OSD/DE in
      consecutive patients presenting for cataract surgery evaluation and to identify eventual
      changes on biomarkers of the tear film of the same population postoperatively. At the same
      time, 2 different postoperative eye drops regimen will be evaluated in order to determine its
      impact on postoperative OSD/DE.

      All group of patients will be subjected to Dry Eye assessment using diagnosis criteria and
      methodologies recommended by the 2017 Dry Eye Workshop (DEWS II) (2), which includes the
      assessment of a battery of symptoms (OSDI questionnaire), signs (tear meniscus height,
      corneal and conjunctival lissamine green/fluorescein staining), laboratory tests (Schirmer I,
      TBUT assessment, tear osmolarity, tear MMP-9, meibography, ocular redness, lipid layer
      thickness) and physical examination (lid, meibum gland assessment). This assessment will be
      carried out in all groups preoperative and at postoperative week 4 and postoperative week 12.

      Altogether, by identifying definite changes either in novel tear film biomarkers or non
      invasive ocular tests of patients subjected to cataract surgery, we expect to contribute to
      the understanding of the pathophysiology of the OSD and Dry Eye associated to cataract
      surgery and to give lights on the utility of those changes as biomarkers in diagnosis and
      therapy assessment in these conditions committing the ocular surface.

      The research hypothesis is that there is a high prevalence of ocular surface dysfunction
      among patients presenting for cataract surgery as measured by point-of-care objective tear
      tests and cataract surgery results in altered ocular surface in a major fraction of patients.
      Dry eye symptoms are not necessary associated with objective signs in the ocular surface, but
      are less in the group of patients treated with associated lubricant eyedrops postoperatively.
      Patients more symptomatic in the postoperative period tend to have multiple preoperative
      OSD/DE biomarkers altered.

      Consecutive patients presenting for cataract surgery evaluation will be recruited at the
      Fundacion Oftalmologica Los Andes (FOLA) Ophthalmology Clinic (Santiago, Chile). Patients
      will be eligible according to inclusion and exclusion criteria indicated. Eligible patients
      will be invited to participate voluntary in the study. The study will comprise three groups
      with 30-35 patients per group. Dry eye patients will be diagnosed according to TFOS DEWS II
      report and to the recommendations of the Dry Eye Workshop of 2017. It will basically consist
      of: a) patient history: symptoms and signs (e.g. ocular irritation, dryness or foreign body
      sensation, redness, etc), exacerbating conditions, duration of symptoms, etc., will be
      obtained by using the Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI). b) physical examination: visual
      acuity measurement, external examination and slit lamp biomicroscopy (tear film, tear
      meniscus, eyelashes, eyelid margins, conjunctiva, cornea, lens and retina). c) Diagnostic
      tests: Tear film osmolarity (using Tearlab), Tear film MMP-9 levels (using InflammaDry).
      Non-invasive tests will be performed using Keratograph 5M, which includes: non-invasive tear
      film break up time tear meniscus height, lipid layer thickness, ocular redness and
      meibography.

      The study will comprise three groups. Each group will comprise 30-35 patients. Each of the
      100 patients will be featured by a list of clinical parameters (ocular signs and symptoms and
      laboratory tests used conventionally for Dry Eye diagnostic). It is expected to observe
      differences in parameters before and after cataract surgery and between the control group and
      the two interventional groups. Association of those differences with the type of
      postoperative regimen will be defined statistically by using Student t-test and ANOVA for
      parametric data and U-test of Mann-Whitney for non-parametric data (p<0.05 will be taken as
      significant). Altogether, it is expected that such a multiplicity of signs and symptoms will
      give valuable data on specificities of Dry Eye after cataract surgery.

      All the participant surgeons will have a summary document of the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and a flowchart of the patient's enrollment process to improve compliance. The data
      will be stored on an external digital platform and only the data analyst will have access to
      it. In addition, there will be written records of each enrolled patient.
    
  