
    
      Bracing is the mainstay treatment for preventing adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS)
      progression and the main purpose for treatment is to prevent deformities from reaching the
      surgical threshold. It has been shown to be effective at reducing curve progression
      especially in patients with good compliance to treatment. However, bracing should not be used
      indiscriminately as certain complications have been reported. Bracing too early is safe for
      curve control but may subject children to prolonged discomfort with the bracing and increased
      consumption of resources for periodic brace fabrication. Prolonged bracing also reduces
      spinal mobility, lead to poor body image and self-esteem, and worsen quality of life.
      Additional risks of osteoporosis and muscular atrophy may also occur. Hence, being able to
      initiate prompt and appropriate bracing is crucial for achieving optimal curve control and
      avoiding complications.

      Yet, there are still have difficulties identifying patients who may deteriorate. Generally
      speaking, skeletally immature AIS patients with curves of 20-40 degrees should consider
      bracing. However, not all of these patients require bracing and some may not need any
      treatment. More importantly, the resulting curve magnitude on radiographs may not correlate
      directly with health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measures. As such, the relationship of
      the Cobb angle prior to initiating brace treatment with long-term HRQOL measures is unknown.
      The above suggest that there is a significant gap in our knowledge of the optimal timing of
      brace initiation for managing AIS patients.

      In the current setting of rising health-care expenditures, it is also important to assess the
      "value" of management options and provide the best and cost-effective care for our AIS
      patients without compromising outcomes or safety. Some clinicians may be more aggressive by
      bracing children with minor curves while some are content with prescribing braces only when
      deterioration occurs in moderate curves. In this modern era of healthcare, there is
      increasing emphasis placed on monitoring and controlling health-care costs to the patient,
      hospital and insurance companies. Hence, it is an appropriate time to consider the
      relationship of cost-effectiveness factors and HRQOL measures in designing bracing protocols
      for AIS patients. With increasing health-care costs, consumption of resources, and the
      imperative to provide the best healthcare to these children, and focus on a cost-effective
      delivery of care.

      It is thus timely for us to perform this prospective cost-effectiveness comparative study to
      identify the best indications for initiating brace treatment for AIS patients. Evidence for
      the best HRQOL outcomes at the lowest cost from both the patient and health-care perspective
      is necessary to further improve the care for AIS patients. There is potential for the derived
      model to be applied in other healthcare systems by using a more personalized approach.

      For this study, the investigators will utilize mathematical modeling based on factors
      including initial Cobb angle, maturity status, brace duration, and HRQOL measures to
      determine the best cost-effective indications for brace treatment. Outcomes will be dependent
      on the Cobb angle at the end of bracing, HRQOL measures and the overall costs incurred to
      patients and infrastructure. Our hypothesis is given an AIS patient with significant growth
      potential, a Cobb angle of 25 degrees is most cost-effective for initiating bracing. On the
      contrary, bracing for subjects with Cobb angles of 40 degrees or more is not cost-effective
      regardless of remaining growth.

      The main objectives of this study are:

        1. To assess the cost-effectiveness of current bracing protocols for AIS.

        2. To create a mathematical model that will determine the most cost-effective threshold for
           initiating brace treatment based on health quality of life measures.

      This is a prospective comparative cost-effectiveness analysis between bracing groups. This
      study will be carried out at the Duchess of Kent Children's Hospital (DKCH). Prospective
      collection of data from AIS patients including clinical and radiographic information. The
      investigators will only include AIS patients seen in the first setting with remaining growth
      potential (Risser 0-2) that may be considered for bracing, and will be prescribed with either
      underarm (Boston) or Milwaukee bracing. The investigators will collect a minimum of two-year
      longitudinal data, having at least 5 follow-up data points or clinic visits. It is clinic
      protocol that all subjects undergo weight, height and arm span measurements, radiographs and
      doctor assessments at these visits. For this study, HRQOL and utility measurements are vital
      to its success. Thus, the SRS-22r and EQ-5D-5L questionnaire will be provided at every visit.
      Three subgroups for analysis between groups. For groups of baseline Cobb angles (20-<35,
      35-40, >40 degrees)

      Direct and indirect cost will be analyzed. The medical cost (direct costs) for each patient
      since the first presentation will be obtained. The cost includes the expenses for clinic
      follow-up, any form of outpatient and inpatient treatment (including physiotherapy, scoliosis
      specific exercises, bracing) and complications. Unit cost of investigation, treatment and
      follow-up will be based on the Hospital Authority official charges to non-eligible persons
      available in the 2013 Hong Kong Government Gazette and updated charges in Hospital Authority
      website. Brace costs include the number of orthotic visits, per visit consultation cost for
      the orthotist fabrication of the brace, consumables for use, number of exchanges or
      modifications, and the thermal sensor for monitoring compliance. In addition to the
      orthotist, other allied health professionals are also part of the bracing program which
      further increases the cost. Physiotherapists are involved to maintain body posture and
      teach/perform scoliosis specific exercises. A clinical psychologist will periodically assess
      the patient and family to maintain mental health. will be included in the cost analysis. For
      subjects with failed conservative treatment meaning progression of the curve and no longer
      indicated for bracing or further bracing will undergo surgical intervention. These subjects
      are still analyzed but an addition cost item of "surgery" (one lump-sum to cover general cost
      of implants, hospital length of stay, operating theater cost) will be included. The cost of
      family members missing work (indirect costs) will also be assessed.

      Cost-effectiveness analysis of initiating for bracing will be performed via Markov modelling
      that will simulate the clinical management of AIS patients since first presentation assuming
      at age of 11 years (female). Each patient starting at the assumed age 11 will thus follow an
      annual cycle with a time horizon until 18 years of age. Modelling will be carried out for the
      AIS patients as a whole, and by the 5 Cobb angle magnitude groups (20-25 degrees, >25-30
      degrees, >30-35 degrees, >35-40 degrees, and >40 degrees). For each cycle year, patients
      initiating bracing may wear the brace until maturity, stop wearing (compliance rate), or
      switch to surgical approach over the years. Patients with failed bracing will proceed to
      surgery, and stay with a post-operation health status from operation date to the end. Costs
      and utility data for AIS patients initiating bracing will be obtained from above prospective
      study. Clinical model parameters related to compliance rate of bracing, maturity rate of
      bracing, probability of treatment switch from bracing to surgery will also be identified
      through a comprehensive review of local and overseas literature as reference. Based on the
      regression model found, the investigators will estimate the effects of bracing at variable
      initial curvature and maturity status on direct and indirect costs, SRS-22r domain and total
      scores, and EQ-5D utility scores. The cost-effectiveness analysis will also recommend a
      threshold of curvature and maturity combination to indicate when bracing initiated will be
      the most cost-effective or even cost-saving treatment option for AIS patients.
    
  