
    
      This project is a prospective international multicentre study to validate two new rating
      scales in different languages: the Neuropsychiatric Fluctuations Scale (NFS) and the Shame in
      PARKinson's disease (SPARK) Scale.

      The project population consists a minimum of 300 PD patients with and without fluctuations in
      the participant countries: Spain, Germany, France, Switzerland, Romania and Greece.

      The NFS is specifically designed to detect neuropsychiatric fluctuations between off- and
      on-medication condition in PD. It is composed of 20 items, 10 items measuring the
      on-neuropsychological symptoms and 10 items for the off-neuropsychological manifestations.
      The validation of this scale, based on the most frequently experienced symptoms by the
      patients, would allow a crucial breakthrough in the improvement of management of PD patients.

      Shame and embarrassment are poorly recognized by physicians in PD. PD-related shame and
      embarrassment may emerge from motor and non-motor symptoms, from self-perception of
      inadequacy due to loss of autonomy and need for help, or from perceived deterioration of body
      image. The current available scales are not specific for PD. Based on reports of persons
      affected with PD and a literature review about shame and stigmatization in PD a 25-items
      self-questionnaire for shame and embarrassment in PD was created. The scale includes 6
      different subscales (1. Shame arising from PD symptoms; 2. Shame arising from the increasing
      physical dependence and need for help induced by PD; 3. Shame arising from the patient's
      assumption of breaking certain social rules; 4. Shame arising from the deteriorated body
      image; 5. Consequence of related shame and embarrassment on patients' health-related quality
      of life; 6. Stigmatization). The validation of this scale will give a tool for physicians and
      researchers to better understand the impact of PD on patient's quality of life.
    
  