
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is recognised as one of the most common and important
      infectious complication of allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT).
      Despite the serious clinical implications of CMV reactivation, there is a paucity of data
      informing clinicians on how to best identify 'at risk' patients, timely commencement of
      management of the infection.

      This study consists of two parts: 1) Part 1, a retrospective part, and 2) Part 2, a
      prospective part.

      In Part 1, a retrospective cohort of 250 recipients of allo-HSCT at the Royal Melbourne
      Hospital will be reviewed. The study period will be between January 2012- December 2017,
      inclusive. The follow up period will be 6 months from the day of transplantation (ie. day 0
      to 180). Data on patient demographics (age, sex, ethnicity), primary indication for
      transplantation, donor type (match, unmatched, minor mismatch, related or unrelated), graft
      source (stem cell, bone marrow, umbilical cord) conditioning regimen (myeloablative reduced
      intensity conditioning), graft versus host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis eg. T-cell depletion,
      days to neutrophil recovery, occurrence of acute and chronic GVHD and the therapy for GVHD
      (including steroid intensity, use of ATG etc.), associated bacterial and fungal infections,
      relapse and mortality, will be collected for analyses. CMV-negative patients will be used as
      control for economic comparisons.

      In Part 2, 120 recipients of allo-HSCT will be recruited from 4 Australian hospitals (the
      Royal Melbourne Hospital, Austin Hospital, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, and Westmead
      Hospital). Participants will be reviewed pre-transplant, 6, 12, 24 and 52 weeks following
      HSCT during routine clinical visits. Clinical assessment will be made such as CMV viremia,
      transplant related complications and current medications. In addition, participants who are
      at high risk of CMV will have study bloods taken to assess immune functions with
      Quantiferon-CMV®, Quantiferon-Monitor® assay, CMV Elispot, peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMCs) and plasma for storage at time-points of 0, 6 and 12 weeks +/- 2 weeks after
      commencing anti-CMV treatment. The Quantiferon-Monitor® assay will be performed at the
      additional time points of 4, 18 and 26 weeks following HSCT.
    
  