
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a rigorous treatment for blood cancer
      patients that can be life-saving, but often causes psychological distress. The investigators
      hope that this study will help the research team to develop and implement a positive
      psychological intervention designed to help HSCT patients increase positive emotions such as
      hope, gratitude, and fulfillment while recovering from a stem cell transplant. Participants
      will be selected after receiving an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant treatment
      in the past 30 days at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI).

      In this project, the investigators hope to:

        1. Test the feasibility and acceptability of a novel, 8-week, phone-based positive
           psychology intervention in a small cohort of post-HSCT patients (N = 20).

        2. Explore potential benefits of completing the intervention on outcomes of interest, such
           as positive affect and overall function.

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from patients from the
      electronic medical record as required for characterization of our population. This
      information will include data regarding medical history, current medical variables,
      medications, and sociodemographic data.

      Participants will be approached upon nearing their discharge from the hospital, approximately
      30 days after their transplant. Between the time of their discharge and their 100-day
      post-transplant visit, there will be three check-in/psychosocial support phone calls at weeks
      4, 8, and 12 after discharge to build rapport and discuss their recovery. Then, at week 14,
      participants will meet with the principal investigator to complete self-assessment
      questionnaires. The participants will then complete an 8-week phone-based positive psychology
      intervention, at the end of which the self-assessment questionnaires will be repeated.
    
  