
    
      Screening Visit (Day -14 to -7): To avoid confusion, all study visits will occur at the
      Clayton Sleep Institute. A spouse or caregiver is required to attend all visits.

      During the screening visit potential patients will provide informed consent, which must
      signed by both the patient and the caregiver, followed by a medical and sleep history and
      physical, completion of the Morse Fall Scale, CDR scale, and the Mini-Mental Status exam
      (MMSE), as well as the drawing of clinical labs, collection of urine drug screen, and
      completion of 12-lead ECG. Mild AD patients must have a previous clinical diagnosis according
      to established criteria. Review of concomitant medications, stimulant usage, and vital signs
      will also be recorded. In order to assess for sleep quality, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality
      Index (PSQI) will be administered.

      Participants who meet study criteria will be asked to continuously wear a wrist actigraph
      (Actiwatch Score; Mini Mitter Co., Inc, Sunriver, OR) from the screening visit through the
      baseline visit. Each subject will be instructed to press an event button at bedtime and upon
      awakening in the morning. Data collection will be in 60 second epochs. A handwritten sleep
      and caregiver diary will be maintained for the duration of the study period to document daily
      bedtime, wake time, stimulant usage as well as provide daily estimates of sleep latency,
      total sleep time, and sleep quality, as well as dosing compliance, adverse events, and
      behavior.

      Baseline Visit (Day 0-2): The baseline visit will occur 1-2 weeks after the screening visit
      to allow for a medication washout period if needed. Participants will be asked to arrive at
      the sleep center at 7:30 PM each of the three nights. During the evening of all three testing
      nights, concomitant medication and stimulant usage and adverse events will be reviewed, as
      well as gait stability assessment and vital signs performed. Night one will consist of a
      screening PSG to assess for potential sleep disorders. Patients who do not meet exclusion
      criteria for sleep disorders after night one will be excluded from the study. Participants
      will be allowed to leave in the morning after the screening PSG and return that evening.
      Night two will again consist of a full PSG, with this night serving as baseline data.

      Two hours after the completion of the PSG, patients will complete a battery of tests
      measuring daytime functioning, memory function, and neurobehavioral testing. Measures include
      the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Clayton Daytime Functioning
      Scale (CDFS), PSQI, PVT, the National Adult Reading Test- Revised (NART-R), Rey Auditory
      Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Kendrick Object Learning Task (KOLT), and the Cambridge
      Cognitive Examination (CAMCOG). Following the battery of measurements, a study physician will
      complete the Clinician's Interview-Based Impression of Severity (CIBIS) during this visit for
      the mild AD patients and complete the Caregiver Distress Scale (NPI-CDS). Finally, the
      Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) questionnaire will be given and completed.

      Night three will once again be an all night PSG to specifically monitor and assess compliance
      and side effects with the first study drug dosage. A dosage of 4.5 g/day of sodium oxybate
      will be used for this study night and for the first week of treatment. Prior to the PSG the
      subject and caregiver will be given instructions for the usage of the study drug with the
      caregiver to assist in the measuring and dosing of the study drug. Following completion of
      the PSG, enough study drug for one week will be dispensed. The actigraph and sleep/caregiver
      diary will be collected, with new diaries given to be completed until the next visit. Phone
      follow-up will be made 3 days later to assess study drug compliance and any adverse events.

      Treatment Visit 1 (Day 7): Approximately one week after completion of the baseline visit, the
      patient and caregiver will return to the sleep center for a daytime visit to assess study
      drug compliance, adverse events, and caregiver report via the diary and CDS. The study
      physician, with caregiver input, will complete the Caregiver Clinical Global Assessment of
      Change (CCGIC) to assess any change in disease severity from baseline. Concomitant
      medications and stimulant usage, gait stability, and vital signs will be assessed. The
      battery of daytime functioning, sleep quality, memory and neurobehavioral, and quality of
      life measures will be administered. Finally, remaining study drug will be collected and new
      study drug dispensed with instructions to dose at 6 g/day of sodium oxybate provided to the
      patient and caregiver. A new sleep/caregiver diary will be provided and an actigraph again
      dispensed to be worn continuously through Treatment Visit 2. Phone follow-up will be made one
      week later to assess study drug compliance and any adverse events.

      Treatment Visit 2 (Day 21): Approximately three weeks after completion of the baseline visit,
      the patient and caregiver will return to the sleep center for a daytime visit. All procedures
      and assessments to be performed will be similar to Treatment Visit 1, with the addition of
      clinical labs collected and a 12-lead ECG performed. Once again, remaining study drug will be
      collected and new study drug dispensed with instructions to dose at 9 g/day of sodium oxybate
      provided to the patient and caregiver, pending tolerability of the patient. If patient is
      unable to tolerate the increased dosage or in the opinion of the investigator there is
      question of tolerability, the dosage will remain at 6 g/day. The first phone follow-up will
      be made 3 days post-visit to assess tolerability if the dosage was increased. Once again if
      tolerability is in question, the dosage may be titrated back to 6 g/day. A new
      sleep/caregiver diary will be provided. Phone follow-up will be made each week to assess
      study drug compliance and any adverse events. Finally, the actigraph will dispensed once more
      around day 30 (either mailed to the patient or picked up from the sleep center) with
      instructions for the patient to continuously wear the actigraph through the final visit and
      to press the event button at bedtime and waketime.

      Treatment Visit 3 (Day 42): Approximately six weeks after completion of the baseline visit,
      the patient and caregiver will return to the sleep center for Treatment Visit 3. The patient
      and caregiver will arrive to the sleep center at 7:30 PM for both nights of PSG testing
      performed at this study visit. Night one will serve as an adaptation night and night two for
      data collection. All procedures and assessments to be performed will be similar to Treatment
      Visit 2, with the battery of assessments following completion of PSG night two. All study
      medication, sleep/caregiver diaries, and actigraph will be collected. An end of study
      physical will be performed in conjunction with the other assessments. Active participation in
      the study will be concluded with this visit. A final follow-up phone call will be made at one
      week post final study visit to assess any final adverse events, especially as study drug is
      withdrawn.
    
  