
    
      The validation was carried out in two stages, before and after pilot. First, expert
      evaluation , in terms of five validation criteria: clarity, impartiality, relevance, and
      importance of each relevant question or reagents. Secondly, the results of application to
      pilot sample were analyzed in two ways, question by question, according to contribution of
      the same, and by dimensions and sub-dimensions in terms of common factors that these have.

      Data collected in the instrument by interviewers is contrasted with information in the
      clinical file of patients. The none Data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of
      each variable has been used by the registry.

      Recruitment of patients: The selected patients are contacted via telephone and are summoned
      to a meeting at CESFAM to publicize the project, answer questions and if they wish to
      participate, sign informed consent. Volunteers who cannot attend these meetings are visited
      in their homes and the same procedure described above is performed.

      Data collection: The application of the instrument is carried out by student surveyor, with
      home visits and paper records, trained by the research team and under the permanent
      supervision of 2 researchers.

      Clinical data that include vital signs, exams and controls are compiled from the
      corresponding CESFAM, each study group having a researcher in charge. Data for medication
      administration are automatically registered in AFAM-Health Web App.

      Data fingering: The data of the instrument recorded on paper are typed by an external
      professional.

      Data analysis: Databases are delivered to a statistical researcher for data analysis Type of
      design: The comparisons to be made are of two types, between groups (Control and two
      treatments) and within each group (baseline measurements and measurements with intervention).
      In both cases, they have paired samples, since it is proposed to pair the groups.

      Comparisons between groups: To calculate the sample size of each group, the specification of
      the correlation of scores between groups is required; but the more correlated the groups are,
      the smaller the sample sizes, so the worst case was chosen, that is, calculating sample sizes
      relative to comparison of independent samples (unpaired), a method known as "Analysis of
      Variance ", so that this sample is more than sufficient for any correlation achieved between
      groups. Under the specifications outlined above, n = 99 cases are required for each group
      Comparisons within the same group: To calculate the sample size of each group, it is required
      to specify the standard deviation of the differences, which is less than the standard
      deviation by itself; therefore, the same value of the standard deviation was considered,
      which leads to sampling sizes higher than those required, so that the calculated sample is
      more than sufficient for the case of interest. Under the specifications outlined above, n =
      37 cases are required for each group.

      In view of the above, samples of size n = 100 for each group are more than sufficient for the
      proposed objectives.

      The statistical analysis will be developed in several stages Stage 1: Verification of the
      homogeneity of the groups in the pre-intervention stage, in relation to all available
      variables. For this purpose, it is assessed that there is, in the three groups: Equality of
      means of the quantitative variable Age. The statistical test is ANOVA (Alternative
      nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis, in the absence of normality). Equality of the proportions of
      the categorical variables sex, socioeconomic level, educational level, Marital status, Live
      children; These proportions must be similar by pairing. The statistical test is the
      homogeneity of Chi-Square proportions (Fisher's exact test, R-Project software).Homogeneity
      of variables not used in pairing. Tests analogous to those previously known (number of living
      children, digital literacy, etc.).

      Stage 2: Once the groups are constituted according to their homogeneity with respect to the
      independent variables, the homogeneity of the groups in the pre-intervention stage is
      verified, in relation to the variables Pharmacological Adherence of the Antihypertensive
      Treatment (dependent) and Self-efficacy (independent ) in pre-test version. For this purpose,
      it will be evaluated that there is, in the three groups:

      Equality of means of the quantitative variable Self-efficacy. Statistical test: ANOVA;
      alternative: Kruskal-Wallis.

      Equality of proportions for variable Adherence. Statistical test: Square Chi; Alternative:
      Fisher's Exact Test.Homogeneity of the relationships between adherence and self-efficacy.
      Statistical test: ANOVA, two-ways (Adherence and Group). It is expected that none of the
      groups reflect a significant baseline relationship between these variables.

      In case of lack of homogeneity, the pairing will be reviewed, to achieve homogeneous groups
      at the base level.

      Stage 3: After 3 months of intervention (period of the first post-test measurement), the
      instrument is again applied to measure adherence in the three groups. At this time, the
      effect of desertions (dropouts) on the results of the study should be considered, verifying
      the homogeneity of the groups by repeating the statistical tests of stages 1 and 2 for the
      groups that remain in the study. If the homogeneity is altered, the complete trio linked to
      each subject that defects will be eliminated from the measurements. Otherwise, it continues
      with the groups as they are in this stage.

      Stage 4: Once the groups of people who remain in the study have been defined, the effect of
      the intervention (in its 2 levels, A and B) must be evaluated, with respect to the results of
      group C (control), through measurements of the post-test third month.

      For this purpose, it will be evaluated in the three groups there is:

      Homogeneity of proportions for Adherence in the three groups. Statistical test: McNemar,
      Significant differences are expected in treatment A and eventually B, and homogeneity of the
      control group; Alternative: Logistic regression (covariables: Group, Basal Adherence,
      Baseline Self-efficacy, Response Adherence to month 3, the Group is expected to be
      significant).

      In case of significant differences (alpha = 0.05), the effect size is evaluated, expecting
      greater effects in Group A, followed by B and C.

      Stages 5 and 7: They coincide with stage 3, but in months 6 and 12, respectively.

      Stage 6: After 6 months of intervention, defined the participants who continue in the study
      (by stage 5), the procedure of stage 4 is repeated, to define if there are changes in the
      Adherence, with respect to basal adherence and with respect to the adherence to month 3
      (which is added as a covariate).

      In addition, counting on Self-efficacy measurement, it is interesting to evaluate their
      changes:

      It is verified if there is equality of means for Self-efficacy of month 6. Statistical test:
      ANOVA; alternative: Kruskal-Wallis. Factors: Group and Adherence to month 3, covariate:
      Baseline self-efficacy, with different slopes according to the group. It would be expected
      that there is a significant group effect and a difference in slopes.

      If significant differences are found (alpha = 0.05), the groups that present these
      differences are evaluated. Statistical test: multiple LSD-Fisher comparisons; alternatives:
      non-parametric type Bonferroni (lacking normality). They also compare slopes. Statistical
      test: contrasts.

      Step 2 is repeated for homogeneity of adherence-self-efficacy relationships. Stage 8: After
      12 months of intervention, that is, at the end of the study period, stage 6 is repeated.

      Stage 9: With all the data of evolution of pharmacological adherence to antihypertensive
      treatment by the members of the three samples and their respective self-efficacy, an analysis
      of repeated measures is performed. This analysis allows discriminating between individual,
      temporary and treatment effects; evaluating the longitudinal aspect of the intervention. It
      is completed by measuring again the correlation between adherence and self-efficacy.
    
  