
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Respiratory diseases are strongly related with exposure in the workplace. A considerable
      proportion of adult onset asthma is associated with these exposures. The importance of
      occupational risk factors for asthma has been underestimated, particularly among women. The
      occupational asthma study (ECRHS-OA) forms part of a wider international multicentre survey
      on respiratory health (European Community Respiratory Health Survey-ECRHS). The first phase
      of the ECRHS was conducted in 1991/92 and examined risk factors for asthma and atopy in
      subjects aged 20-44 years. The study updated (ECRHS-II), following-up approximately 17,000
      young adults from 12 countries (Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Iceland, Italy, Norway,
      Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA).

      The study provided valid and precise estimates on the importance of specific occupations,
      industries and exposures in relation to asthma incidence and prevalence, similar estimates
      for other respiratory symptoms and diseases and also for declines in pulmonary function.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Longitudinal, community-based, multicenter study. Those subjects who took part in the first
      occupational asthma study survey were re-contacted in 1999, to determine risk factors for
      incidence and remission of asthma, other respiratory symptoms, atopy, changes in bronchial
      responsiveness and lung function. Subjects were asked to perform a forced spirometry,
      methacholine challenge and to provide blood samples for IgE testing. A questionnaire
      administrated by trained interviewers was delivered requesting information on respiratory
      symptoms and diseases, socio-demographic factors, tobacco smoking, complete occupational
      history since the last survey, environmental exposures, family history, diet, treatment and
      use of health services. Modular occupational questionnaires were developed for subjects
      employed as cleaners, homemakers, welders, metal workers, nurses, and subjects exposed to
      organic dusts in the paper and textile industries.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  