
    
      A randomised controlled trial (RCT) was conducted at the single academic tertiary institution
      (Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital (DGMAH), South Africa). Patients were recruited over a
      13-month period (from 1st November 2014 to 30th November 2015). All haemodynamically stable
      patients undergoing either emergency or elective laparoscopic procedures were offered to
      participate in the study. General surgical patients 18 years or older who were eligible to
      provide an informed written consent were included in the study. Patients younger than 18
      years old and haemodynamically unstable patients were excluded from the study. The success
      rate and complications related to the technique were recorded and analysed.

      All included patients were randomised by computer program into one of two arms of the study:
      the arm A (Veress needle) or the arm B (Hasson). Participating surgeons were fully proficient
      with both techniques. The periumbilical area and the left hypochondrium (Palmer's point) were
      the recommended sites of entry, however, depending on clinical situation a surgeon could opt
      the other areas. In the A arm, a standard reusable Veress needle was used guided by tactile
      clicks feeling and water drop test. After pneumoperitoneum was established, the trocar was
      introduced in the same area. In the B arm, the standard open Hasson technique was used by
      dissecting tissues and dividing peritoneum between two forceps and introducing the port (a
      sleeve) without a trocar under direct visualization. Failed entry was defined as an inability
      to access the peritoneal cavity by a surgeon using the access technique initially selected.

      An anonymized data collection form was completed by the general surgeon responsible for the
      procedure. Patients' age, gender, height, weight, diagnosis, type of surgery, previous
      abdominal surgery, previous abdominal tuberculosis (TB), primary port site placement, a
      surgeon, intraabdominal findings, complications and their type were recorded. Body Mass Index
      (BMI) was calculated and patients were categorised into weight groups: BMI above 30 and below
      30.

      All patients were followed up in 24 hours to detect the early entry-site complications. The
      complication after 24 hours, including surgical site infection and port-site hernia were not
      included in the design of this study.
    
  