
    
      Illiterate, with a higher rate in the elder and in multi-cultural population reaching, then,
      20%. Most of these patients are not usually included in research studies.

      Thus, AVILL would specifically focus on lower educated and illiterate patients and on use of
      PET imaging for early diagnosis. This study would take advantage of the collaboration with
      the recently launched Memento cohort.

      RATIONALE:

        1. The diagnosis of AD at the early stages of the disease appears to be crucial. MCI is now
           considered as the 1st clinical stage of the disease, after a long pre-clinical period.

        2. Cognitive reserve modulates the relationship between cerebral lesions and their clinical
           manifestations by limiting the negative impact of cerebral lesion on cognition.
           Education is a commonly-used proxy of cognitive reserve. Education interacts with AD
           pathology such that a greater pathological burden is required to show an effect on
           cognition among subjects with more education. Lower education and illiteracy are thus
           considered as risk factor of developing AD

        3. Diagnosing MCI and AD in lower educated and illiterate patients is a real challenge
           because of:

             1. -difficulties in cognitive evaluation which mostly relies on educational background
                and reading abilities,

             2. -poor adaptation of neuropsychological tests,

             3. -lack of clinical and imaging data concerning these patients, who are often
                excluded from studies, and poor knowledge of the evolution of the disease from the
                earlier signs (MCI) to dementia.

        4. Quantification of amyloid deposit by PET imaging could therefore be useful for the
           diagnosis of AD in illiterate patients.

      GENERAL OBJECTIVES:

        -  non educated patient amyloid load could differ from educated patient amyloid load at the
           same stage of cognitive impairment

        -  PET amyloid imaging using florbetapir F 18 could detect non educated patients with AD
           risk at early stage and could help clinical evaluation which is particularly difficult
           in this population.

        -  uptake level of florbetapir F 18 could be different in MCI and AD non educated patients
           compared to educated patients which are the basis of the objectives.
    
  