
    
      Mitochondrial myopathies are caused by mutant mitochondrial DNA, genetic defects in parts of
      the mitochondrial DNA. These defects can include missing or deleted DNA that typically codes
      for certain proteins involved in energy production. These mutations cause individual
      mitochondria and the body on a whole to produce energy less efficiently. Because muscle cells
      require extensive energy to function properly, they are particularly impaired by
      mitochondrial dysfunction. The onset of most mitochondrial myopathies occurs before the age
      of 20. Initially a person may experience muscle weakness and fatigue during physical
      activity. Other symptoms may include limited eye mobility, heart arrhythmias, slurred speech,
      swallowing difficulties, and impaired movement.

      There is no cure yet for mitochondrial myopathies, nor is there any adequate treatment to
      stall disease progression. Exercise, known to boost the production and function of
      mitochondria in healthy people, may reduce symptoms in people with mitochondrial myopathies
      by increasing the number and function of normal mitochondria in an individual muscle cell.
      The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of exercise training versus inactivity
      on the expression of normal and mutant mitochondrial DNA and on mitochondrial production
      within muscle cells in people with mitochondrial myopathies. The study will also assess how
      cell function, physical endurance, heart function, and quality of life are affected by
      exercise training and inactivity.

      Participants in this 2-year study will first undergo physiological exercise testing, magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) of heart and skeletal muscles, a needle biopsy of muscle, and a
      questionnaire on quality of life. Participants will then be randomly assigned to partake in
      regular exercise training or no training for 6 months. After 6 months, all participants will
      undergo repeat testing of initial evaluations. Participants who had been in the exercising
      group will then switch to no exercise training for 6 months, and participants who had been in
      the non-exercising group will switch to regular exercise training for 6 months. The second
      6-month period will also be followed by repeat testing of initial evaluations. Participants
      will then be encouraged to continue exercise training for an additional 1 year, with
      retesting at the end of the second year. Each of the four evaluations will take about 15
      hours over 5 days.
    
  