
    
      The study is proposed to be a randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled study with
      parallel groups. The duration of the study will be 12 weeks.

      For cognition and Anxiety part, each selected subject will be paying 4 visits to clinical
      site for the whole study. Screening/selection will be done on visit 1, baseline on visit 2
      and post-intervention assessment on visit 3. Subjects will be asked to appear for an
      interview before the investigators once more within one month of completion of intervention
      to take care of issues, if any. This will be 4th and last visit.

      Each subject will be assessed at baseline (Week 1, Day 1); while post intervention assessment
      will be carried out immediately on the completion of the 12 weeks. Considering the 84 days
      duration of the study, + 3 days for the intervention period will be acceptable. The exact
      intervention duration will be documented in days for each subject.

      On each of the two measurement days (baseline and post intervention), the same test battery
      will be administered by the same examiner. The outcome measures of this battery include
      Verbal Learning and Memory, Information Processing, Attention and Interference and Anxiety.
      The test battery will be administered in English.

      On each of the measurement day the subject will spend a maximum of 1½ hours at the clinical
      site. Subjects will be examined in the morning at approximately the same time during both
      measurement days to keep conditions constant across the subjects and for baseline and post
      intervention assessments.

      Each subject participating in Pharmacokinetics (PK) part, will pay 6 visits. Visit 1 will be
      screening, Visit 2,3 and 4 for initial blood withdrawal and visit 5 will post intervention
      blood sampling. Subjects will be asked to appear for an interview before the investigators
      once more within one month of completion of intervention to take care of issues, if any,
      which will be visit 6.

      Blood sampling will be done at 0,1,2,4,8,24,48 hours and one sample at the endo of 12 weeks
      intervention.
    
  