
    
      Study Design: Prospective open-label, randomized two arms, multicenter study for the patients
      with suboptimal response to standard Tx to evaluate efficacy & safety of dasatinib (100mg qd)
      & imatinib (600mg daily) by CyR & MoR at 3, 6 & 12 months.

        -  Randomized 1:1

        -  Crossover to alternate be permitted after confirmed PD at 3M (AP, BC & loss of CHR or
           MCyR) & absence of any response at 6M.

      Duration of Study: Subjects will be treated for up to 12 months, unless disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity occurs, the subject withdraws, or the study is discontinued.

      Duration of Study: Subjects will be treated for up to 12 months, unless disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity occurs, the subject withdraws, or the study is discontinued.

      Number of Subjects: A total of 90 subjects will be randomized in 1:1 randomization ratio

      Study Population: Subjects 18 years of age or older with CP Ph+ CML and who are imatinib
      failures or ave achieved only a suboptimal response after 3 - 18 months (12 - 77 weeks) of
      treatment with 400 mg/day of imatinib monotherapy.

      Test Product, Dose and Mode of Administration, Duration of Treatment:

      Subjects in the dasatinib arm will begin treatment with dasatinib at an oral dose of 100 mg
      QD. One dose reduction to 70 mg due to toxicity will be allowed. One dose escalation to 140
      mg is allowed under specified circumstances.

      Reference Therapy, Dose and Mode of Administration, Duration of Treatment:

      Subjects in the imatinib arm will begin treatment with imatinib at an oral dose of 600 mg QD
      Doses of imatinib can be escalated to 800 mg for patients with inadequate response at 3
      months and dose reduction of imatinib is not permitted for any cases of patients.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

      Efficacy:

        -  Primary Endpoint: CCyR rate at 6 months after randomization.

        -  Secondary Endpoints:

             -  MMR rates at 3, 6, and 12 months

             -  CCyR rates at 3, 6 and 12 months

             -  CHR rates at 3, 6and 12 months

             -  Time to-, and duration of-, MMR and CCyR

             -  Progression free survival (PFS)

      Safety:

      Adverse experiences associated with dasatinib or imatinib treatment will be reported for all
      treated subjects. Adverse events will be assessed continuously and graded according to the
      NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0.
    
  