
    
      The purported incidence of Krabbe disease is 1/250,000 live births. It is believed that
      80-90% of affected children will have the early-infantile form of the disease. Other forms of
      the disease, however, occur throughout life. Unfortunately neither enzyme activity levels nor
      specific genetic mutation reliably predict phenotype. Since the only treatment for Krabbe
      disease is bone marrow transplantation, it is crucial to be able to identify prognostic
      factors, which will accurately predict the disease course. At this time the medical
      literature is limited regarding the clinical signs and symptoms of the later-onset forms of
      Krabbe disease, as well as their age of onset, and survival of these individuals.

      Early-infantile Krabbe disease has a uniformly fatal outcome if untreated, and later-onset
      forms remain at-risk for developing symptoms. The only available treatment, pooled cord-blood
      transplantation, has a 10-20% mortality rate.

      The vast majority of children who screen positively for Krabbe disease during newborn
      screening have an uncertain prognosis. No single diagnostic test available currently can
      accurately predict the onset of symptoms. Consequently, improved phenotypic understanding
      will enhance the diagnostic paradigm for Krabbe disease, and will facilitate more timely
      diagnosis and treatment.

      The information collected in the registry will be used to improve accuracy of diagnosis, and
      to prevent children who are not destined to develop Krabbe from being subjected unnecessarily
      to treatment.

      The hypotheses to be tested include:

        -  a detailed database will broaden phenotypic understanding of Krabbe disease;

        -  new therapies will result from better phenotypic understanding of this disorder.

      A questionnaire will be collected at time of enrollment with information pertaining to an
      individual affected by Krabbe disease. Clinical information to be collected will include: age
      at onset of symptoms; type of symptoms; age at diagnosis; level of GALC enzyme activity;
      identification of the specific genetic mutation; results of any available brain MRI imaging
      evaluations; results of any available spinal fluid protein analyses; results of any available
      brainstem auditory evoked response evaluations; results of any available visual evoked
      response evaluations; and results of any available nerve-conduction-velocity studies. If
      possible, CD-ROMs containing the imaging data and physician reports of brain MRI imaging
      evaluations will be obtained. Potential prognostic indicators based on molecular genetic
      results, GALC enzyme level, detected potential biomarkers, and neurodiagnostic testing will
      be analyzed. Information on the status of participant's general health, disease progression,
      impact of the disease, neurologic symptoms, and developmental milestones will be collected
      through follow-up phone calls with parents or caregivers.

      After de-identification, the data will be entered into the Krabbe clinical database at the
      University at Buffalo's Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics, and/or the Population Health
      Observatory on the South Campus, and/or the Longitudinal Pediatric Data Resource, a tool
      provided by the Newborn Screening Translational Research Network.
    
  