
    
      HPV status and tobacco use are the major independent prognostic factors for patients with
      OPSCC. Patients with HPV-associated OPSCC have a favorable prognosis when treated with
      chemotherapy, radiation, and/or surgery. This has resulted in national trials investigating
      de-intensification strategies for good-risk patients with HPV-associated OPSCC, where current
      multimodality paradigms may represent overtreatment.

      The PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling network, a mitogenic pathway regulating cellular metabolism,
      proliferation and survival, plays a major role in HPV biology. Starting with early infection,
      activation of PI3K suppresses autophagy and induces functional protein translational
      machinery. Activation of the pathway is a nearly universal aspect of mammalian viral
      infection, and is of particular importance for dsDNA viruses such as HPV. The oncoproteins
      E5, E6 and E7 also have direct roles in pathway activation. Moreover, HPV-associated OPSCC
      demonstrates a strikingly high prevalence of genomic activation of the PI3K pathway,
      including activating PIK3CA mutations (27-31%), PIK3CA amplification (20%), and loss of PTEN
      (30%), the negative regulator of PI3K. Overall genomic events hypothesized to result in PI3K
      pathway activation are present in approximately 45-60% of HPV-transformed OPSCC.

      BYL719 is an oral, small molecule, alpha-specific inhibitor of PI3-Kinase. Because
      HPV-associated OPSCC demonstrates a high rate of both genomic and non-genomic PI3K pathway
      activation, we hypothesize that adding BYL719 to platinum-taxane induction chemotherapy in
      HPV-associated OPSCC will increase clinico-radiologic complete response relative to
      historical control. In this phase I/II trial, eligible patients wiht HPV-associated OPSCC
      will be treated with 3 cycles of induction BYL719, cisplatin and paclitaxel. Induction will
      be followed by minimally-invasive, transoral surgery (TORS or TLM) then risk-adapted IMRT.
    
  