
    
      A novel erythropoiesis stimulating protein, Darbepoetin alfa (Darbepoetin) has been developed
      by Amgen Inc. and has been shown to be effective in increasing hematocrit using once weekly
      or once every other week dosing in adults with anemia due to end stage renal disease or
      cancer. However, it is presently being evaluated for use in children with hyporegenerative
      anemias, and has not yet been evaluated for use in infants with anemia of prematurity.
      Preterm infants respond to human recombinant erythropoietin (Epo) by increasing
      reticulocytes, yet the multiple subcutaneous doses diminish its routine use in the NICU. With
      the possibility of once a week or once every other week dosing, the use of Darbepoetin in
      this population appears promising. While it is likely that the use of red cell growth factors
      such as rHuEpo or darbepoetin will not eliminate the need for all erythrocyte transfusions in
      all infants, it is reasonable to postulate that the use of darbepoetin will eliminate the
      need for transfusion in some preterm infants, and reduce the need in others. European studies
      evaluating rHuEpo in preterm infants have successfully decreased donor exposure to 1 per
      patient. Our goal is to achieve similar success, which we define as a donor exposure of ≤1
      donor per infant in clinical practice. This can be achieved through the use of red cell
      growth factors, judicious use of blood work for monitoring, and stringent transfusion
      guidelines. By decreasing total transfusions to <4 per infant, we can achieve this goal of ≤1
      donor exposure per infant.

      There will remain a population of extremely small, extremely ill infants in whom phlebotomy
      losses exceed the capacity to increase red cell mass through the use of Epo. Some
      investigators believe a combination of single donor erythrocyte transfusions and recombinant
      erythropoietin can serve to maintain an adequate circulating erythrocyte volume. A reasonable
      algorithm can be developed to assist in these determinations only through continued research.
      Continued critical evaluation of transfusion criteria, outcomes, new technologies limiting
      phlebotomy loss, and novel biologic and pharmacologic treatments can only serve to improve
      the care of ELBW infants who are highest risk for repeated transfusions. Our research aim is
      to study the safety and efficacy of darbepoetin in preterm infants in order to improve the
      outcomes of preterm infants by significantly decreasing the number of transfusions. Moreover,
      improving neurodevelopmental outcomes for preterm infants continues to be a goal for neonatal
      care providers that might begin to be approached through darbepoetin therapy. This study
      differs from previous erythropoietin studies in the following ways:

        1. Darbepoetin will be compared to placebo and to rHuEpo, allowing two thirds of the
           patients to receive some form of red cell growth factor, and allowing SC dosing to occur
           once a week in the darbepoetin recipients compared with the usual three times a week SC
           dosing in the rHuEpo recipients (those in the placebo group will not receive sham
           injections)

        2. Dosing will begin 1-2 days earlier on average than in any previously published study

        3. Transfusion guidelines are the most rigorous applied to date, and will be used at sites
           that are all at altitudes > 4,000 feet

        4. A target Epo concentration of >500 mU/mL in the treatment group is proposed in order to
           evaluate neurodevelopmental differences between groups, and the study is powered to
           determine a difference between treatment groups and placebo
    
  