
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To prospectively evaluate whether an increase in cardiac biomarker levels can predict
           cardiac dysfunction in women with HER2/neu-positive breast cancer treated with
           trastuzumab as curative intent.

      Secondary

        -  To develop a predictive model for use in this patient population based on the most
           accurate and sensitive combination of biomarkers.

      This is an observational study with all patients having

        -  Blood tests for BNP, Nt-pro BNP, CRP and Troponin-T every 42 days (6 weeks) whilst on
           treatment with chemotherapy and/or Trastuzumab.

        -  Echocardiograph or MUGA before treatment, after completion of anthracycline therapy
           where applicable, and every twelve weeks whilst on Trastuzumab. Assessment of ejection
           fraction may be carried out at any time for symptoms. All Echocardiographs and MUGAs
           will be carried out locally. 2-D Echocardiograph is the preferred method for assessment
           of LVEF. Where possible, the same cardiac imaging facility should be used for all LVEF
           assessments. A sample study from each participating institution will be reviewed by the
           principal investigating cardiologist. Results of left ventricular function assessment
           will be used to make treatment decisions as normal. Managing clinicians will not be made
           aware of the results of biomarker assessments, thus this study is blinded.

        -  Cardiorespiratory symptom assessment, ECOG score, vitals, weight and NYHA (if
           applicable) prior to each dose of anthracyclines and every 6 weeks whilst on
           Paclitaxel-trastuzumab and on single agent Trastuzumab.

      Patients on BETH :

      The LVEF monitoring sequence required by CADY will be altered to parallel that required by
      BETH. Thus, echocardiograph or MUGA will be carried out according to the BETH cardiac safety
      monitoring protocol. This altered schedule applies only to patients enrolled in both studies.
      Of note, for patients on the BETH study, all LVEF assessments must be performed by the same
      method used at baseline.

      Patients on ALTTO:

      It is possible that a patient who is enrolled on both CADY and ALLTO may not eventually
      receive Trastuzumab. Nonetheless, as Lapatinib is also associated with a risk of
      cardiotoxicity, such patients should remain on study whilst receiving single agent Lapatinib.
      The schedule of on study assessments will be identical to that of patients receiving
      Trastuzumab.

      For patients enrolled in both studies, the LVEF monitoring sequence required by CADY will be
      altered to parallel that required by ALLTO. Thus, echocardiograph or MUGA will be carried out
      according to the ALLTO cardiac safety monitoring protocol Of note, for patients on the ALLTO
      study, all LVEF assessments must be performed by the same method used at baseline.
    
  