
    
      AGHD is widely recognized as a specific clinical entity and recombinant human growth hormone
      (r-hGH) therapy has become a standard practice since 90s thanks to its beneficial effects on
      body composition, muscle strength, bone mass, cardiovascular risk and patients' exercise
      capacity and QoL. All the beneficial effects of r-hGH in AGHD patients have been established
      mainly on selected populations by both few randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and several
      clinical trials. Real life studies are also available, but they are mainly based on data
      collected through multicenter sponsored studies such as the Pharmacia & Upjohn International
      Metabolic Database (KIMS) and the Hypopituitary Control and Complications Study International
      Advisory Board (HYPOCCS). All these observational studies suffer from missing data in the
      original databases and/or lack adequate control group (i.e. untreated GHD patients).
      Well-conducted real life studies have the advantage to provide information on long-term
      effects of therapies, as well as on safety, adherence and persistence to therapy.
      Accordingly, in clinical practice it is common to find a disparity between hormonal levels
      and patients' subjective well-being: some individuals with a full-blown AGHD do not report
      any symptom and turn out reluctant to start a treatment, while others with slight GHD
      experience a deterioration in their QoL that deeply improves after GH replacement. This is
      mainly due to the fact that clinical presentation of AGHD is frequently based on nonspecific
      symptoms. Similarly, individual differences in responsiveness to r-hGH are common findings in
      the real life. Moreover, when other hormonal deficits coexist and patients have to face with
      a polytherapy, it can be difficult both for clinicians and patients to relate symptoms to the
      sole AGHD and to verify benefits after treatment. Finally, there is a lack of tools assessing
      patients' physical activity, which is an important factor to consider when evaluating energy
      levels, exercise performance, and well-being. Thus, a gap still remains in the real life
      setting concerning how to measure the improvements occurring in r-hGH treated patients and
      how to make patients and clinicians more aware of these changes. Nowadays, considering the
      shortage of established predictive factors for the overall therapeutic response, the decision
      to whether or not continue treatment depends often on the ratio of perceived and expected
      beneﬁts over cost and risks of treatment, as well as on the persistent motivation of the
      patient. These aspects involve also physician's attitude and patient's propensity to start
      r-hGH replacement therapy. Vice versa the lack of information useful to predict patients'
      individual response to treatment poses some clinical troubles about how to select patients
      who may beneficiate from r-hGH therapy. Considering that r-hGH treatment is a chronic therapy
      requiring a daily self-injection, long-term compliance is still a considerable problem in
      this setting and is influenced by all the above mentioned issues. It is estimated that about
      20 to 30% of patients discontinue the treatment, permanently or for extended periods, making
      therefore an objective evaluation of the therapeutic effects difficult. All these aspects are
      enhanced by the paucity of tools available to improve patients' education and awareness of
      AGHD.

      The widespread use of Smartphone applications and wearable devices presents an opportunity to
      overcome these difficulties in the AGHD management. Although several apps exist to monitor
      chronic endocrinological diseases, no specific app has been tested in AGHD till now.

      In a prospective, 24 months, open-label, monocentric study, an interactive smartphone app
      (MAGHD App) will be developed, connected to an Integrated Framework (MAGHD Framework) and
      tested by automatic software testing procedures before the real validation on patients.
      Subsequently it will be validated on an estimated number of 100 AGHD patients; this system
      will allow to combine patients' information and HCPs clinical outcomes in a single virtual
      platform and to return easily accessible data to both AGHD patients and clinicians.

      The MAGHD App and the integrated MAGHD Framework will be provided by DataRiver, the research
      and technological Partner of the study, which is a Contract Research Organization certified
      by AIFA (Italian drug agency) and accredited as a Research Innovation Institution by the
      Emilia Romagna Region. The MAGHD software framework will allow integrating patient's Physical
      Activity data (PA-D), constantly collected by wearable devices (which will be rented and
      given to patients in the second part of the study), with patient related outcomes data
      (ePRO-D) and HCP data (HCP-D):

        -  PA-D will be obtained through wearable devices and will guarantee the automatic
           collection of data regarding patients' daily life activities. PA recorded by the
           wearable devices will include: physical activity type, daily steps number, daily walking
           distance, daily calories burned, sleep duration, sleep quality.

        -  ePRO-D will be collected via the MAGHD App, which will periodically generate a short
           question extrapolated from the items of validated questionnaires: AGHDA questionnaire
           and QLS-H questionnaire for QoL, the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-Being Scale (WEMWBS)
           for well-being evaluation, the International Index of Erectile Function Questionnaire
           (IIEF-15) and the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) for sexual function evaluation (in
           men and women respectively), the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ)
           for physical activity evaluation and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) for sleep
           quality evaluation. Additional information on sexual function, working environment,
           hobbies and adherence to r-hGH therapy (the latter only in Group 1) will be collected
           through a simple series of questions taken from a specific chart.

      The App will record the number of the user answers as well as the missing ones and will
      periodically provide a visual satisfaction analogue scale on the use of MAGHD App usability.
      Patients will be notified by the MAGHD App to promptly answer the periodic surveys. The daily
      surveys could expire after a predefined time interval to prevent the participants to complete
      them retrospectively, reducing the risk for recall bias.

        -  HCP data will include:

             -  Data obtained from patient's record chart or by interview: anagraphic data, medical
                history information, comorbidities.

             -  Data obtained at baseline and at subsequent visits by physical examination,
                anthropometric parameters, clinical data and symptoms, r-hGH therapy (weekly dose
                and duration of therapy in months), if ongoing, other hormone replacement
                treatments (and relative dosage) in case of multiple pituitary deficits.

             -  Data obtained at baseline and at subsequent visits by clinical (biochemical and
                radiological) examinations:

        -  pituitary hormones serum levels (IGF-1, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3,
           adrenocorticotropic hormone, cortisol, 24-hour urinary free cortisol,
           thyroid-stimulating hormone, free thyroxine, free triiodothyronine, luteinizing hormone,
           follicle-stimulating hormone, estradiol and progesterone (in females), testosterone and
           sex hormone-binding globulin (in men), prolactin;

        -  biochemical values (haemoglobin, haematocrit, erythrocytes, leukocytes, platelets, renal
           and hepatic function, electrolytes, glycaemia, TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, triglycerides, bone
           metabolism);

        -  dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan for assessing body composition, bone
           mineral content and bone mineral density on whole skeleton, at lumbar site and at
           femoral site.

      The hormonal-biochemical data will be collected at each visit, while the DEXA scan will be
      performed at baseline, at 12 months and at the end of the study.

      PA-D, ePRO-D and HCP-D will converge in the MAGHD Framework where they will be integrated,
      analyzed and used to create graphs and tables visible both to patients (in MAGHD App) and
      clinicians (by a monitoring dashboard).

      Patients will receive periodically a feedback concerning: i) %change of their QoL,
      well-being, sleep quality, sexual function and ii) changes in daily physical activities. This
      kind of report will enhance patient's awareness on day-by-day changes related to their
      clinical condition. In particular frequent feedback on QoL and well-being will provide a more
      objective evaluation of these parameters, thus minimizing possible interference due to life
      events occurred close to the day in which the questionnaires are filled. Moreover, a summary
      of the patient's clinical outcomes will be provided through the MAGHD App in a simple
      graphical way in order to communicate changes in serum IGF-1 and lipid profile.

      The project will be carried out in 24 months. Months 1-6 will focus on: 1) App development,
      2) Integrated Framework development, 3) App testing.

      Patient enrollment and baseline visits will occur between months 1 and 6, then six-month
      visits (visit 1, visit 2, visit 3 and visit 4) will occur in the next 2 years. In the first
      phase (12 months) the recruited patients, after having signed the informed consent, will be
      followed every six months according to our normal clinical practice without using the App and
      the wearable device (baseline, visit 1 and visit 2). Then they will be trained to use the
      MAGHD App prior to enter the second phase (following 12 months), in which they will be
      evaluated every six months during the use of the App and the wearable device (visit 3 and
      visit 4).

      HCP data will be collected both in phase 1 (usual follow-up without the use of MAGHD App) and
      phase 2 (during the use of MAGHD App). Anamnestic, clinical and biochemical data will be
      collected at each visit (baseline, visit 2, visit 3, visit 4), while DEXA scan (radiological
      data) will be performed only twice (at baseline and at the end of the protocol).

      All the other data will be collected differently in the two consecutive phases:

        -  QoL and well-being data:

             -  In Phase 1 AGHDA questionnaire, QLS-H questionnaire and WEMWBS will be administered
                to patients in paper form at baseline, visit 1 and visit 2.

             -  In Phase 2 MAGHD App will periodically generate a short question extrapolated from
                the items of the same validated questionnaires.

        -  Sexual function:

             -  In Phase 1 IIEF-5 questionnaire (for men) and FSFI questionnaire (for woman) will
                be administered to patients in paper form at baseline, visit 1 and visit 2.

             -  In Phase 2 MAGHD App will periodically generate a short question extrapolated from
                the items of the same validated questionnaires.

        -  Physical activity and sleep quality:

             -  In Phase 1 physical activity will be evaluated through the IPAQ questionnaire and
                sleep quality through the PSQI questionnaire; both will be administered to patients
                in paper form at baseline, visit 1 and visit 2.

             -  In Phase 2 MAGHD App will periodically generate a short question extrapolated from
                the items of the same validated questionnaires; data on physical activity and sleep
                quality will be also automatically collected through wearable devices.

        -  Additional information on sexual function, working environment, hobbies and adherence to
           r-hGH therapy (the latter only in Group 1):

             -  In Phase 1 these aspects will be evaluated at baseline, visit 1 and visit 2,
                through a specific chart in paper form.

             -  In Phase 2 the same questions will be sent through the MAGHD App.
    
  