
    
      We propose a prospective, randomized controlled study evaluating the effects of mindfulness
      meditation and concentration meditation on pain, fatigue, and physical functioning in
      patients with either multiple sclerosis MS or a generalized polyneuropathy (PN). A secondary
      endpoint for the MS arm will include spasticity and for the PN arm will be the physical
      examination findings of sensory changes and weakness. Meditation classes of 90 minutes
      duration will be led by a Buddhist monk with over 20 years experience in meditation. Sessions
      will be held once weekly over a 3-month period. There will be an initial introduction session
      that will last approximately 180 minutes for the adminsitration of formal instructions and a
      training session on how to do the meditation. Outcome assessments will be answered
      electronically on a secure system or in written form that will be able to be completed at
      home or at the site of the meditation class. The data will be directly downloaded into a
      queriable database. Outcome assessments will be based on the Short Form (SF)-36 health survey
      and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain at baseline and at 3 months. Additionally, the
      Neuropathy Impairment Score (NIS) will be used for the PN pts. The PDDS spasticity
      questionnaire and the fatigue portion of the MSQLI for fatigue will be used for the MS
      patients. We plan to recruit adult patients with either MS or PN through the current patient
      population in the Mellen Center and Neuromuscular Center and flyers placed throughout the
      Cleveland Clinic. Patients will be excluded if they have performed meditation within the last
      6 months, are cognitively impaired, or have an underlying illness that would preclude
      comprehension of the instructions. Other exclusion criteria include a history of symptomatic
      cardiopulmonary disease, uncontrolled HTN, current alcohol or drug abuse, and kidney or renal
      failure. Patients must be ambulatory and able to toilet themselves.
    
  