
    
      Subject fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria and willing to participate in the
      study will be enrolled. All participants will receive all 4 treatments at the varying power
      settings (low, 1, 1.5, 2).

      The patients will be prepped for their surgery in the usual fashion. This portion of the
      procedure is not experimental and is an elective surgery that the patients are choosing to
      undergo prior to enrolling in the study. This procedure is performed in the operating room.
      After adequate anesthesia is achieved, subcutaneous 2% lidocaine with epinephrine with 0.5%
      marcaine, and vitrase is injected into the lower eyelids and lateral canthal areas. The face
      is prepped and draped in sterile fashion using topical Betadine. A corneal shield will be
      placed into the fornix at this time. A lateral canthal incision is then made using a #15
      blade. Straight Stevens scissors are used to perform a canthotomy and monopolar cautery was
      used to incise the inferior crus of the lateral canthal tendon. Hemostasis is maintained. The
      freed lower eyelid is draped over the zygoma. The excess eyelid is then excised
      full-thickness with Westcott scissors. (If this excess eyelid skin is at least 5 mm on both
      sides, the study will be performed and the treatments will be applied at this point). The
      tissue will be marked and divided into 4 equal sections (2 sections on each lid). Each
      section will be treated with the designated power setting in the following manner.

      The probe will be inserted into the follicle under direct visualization to a depth of
      approximately 1.4 mm. The designated power will be applied for 1 second. All lashes in each
      segment will be treated. The segments will then be excised and placed into labelled and coded
      containers of formalin.

      Attention will then be directed back to completing the lateral tarsal strip/eyelid surgery.
      The remainder of the surgery will be performed in the usual fashion and is not part of the
      experimental portion of the study. One 4-0 Vicryl on P-2 needle is then passed through the
      tarsus backhanded anterior inferiorly exiting posterior superiorly within the wound and then
      passed back through the periosteum approximately 3 mm from the orbital rim at the level of
      the superior crus of the lateral canthal tendon and temporarily tied. This procedure is
      repeated in full on the other side. The sides are compared. Once the proper contour and
      tightness is achieved, the suture is permanently tied in a horizontal mattress fashion after
      passing back through the remnants of the inferior crus. Attention is then turned to the upper
      lid, whose lateral mucocutaneous junction is trimmed using Westcott scissors. The gray lines
      of the lateral upper and lower eyelids arre reapposed using 6-0 Vicryl. The lateral canthal
      incisions are closed with a running 6-0 Prolene suture. Tobradex ointment is applied to the
      eye and eyelid. The patient is awakened and extubated and taken to the recovery room in
      stable condition. The patients will be examined at their post-operative week 1 and month 1
      visits as per the usual standard of care. After the 1 month visit, their participation in the
      study is complete.

      The tissue sections will be sent to the pathology department for sectioning and staining. The
      tissue will be sectioned through the follicles. The slides will be stained with hemotoxylin
      and eosin and Masson-Trichrome. The extent of tissue damage will be measured as the diameter
      of abnormal/damaged tissue in microns. The severity will be graded on a numerical scale from
      0-3. The results will be compared among the 4 power settings.
    
  