
    
      Deferiprone (brand name Ferriprox®) is an iron chelator that is approved in the United States
      and over 60 other countries for the treatment of iron overload in patients with thalassemia,
      when other treatments are inadequate. This study has been designed to evaluate the efficacy,
      safety, and tolerability of deferiprone vs. deferoxamine in patients who have SCD or other
      anemias, and who require chelation because of the extra iron they are taking in through blood
      transfusions.

      About 300 people from North America, South America, Europe, and the Middle East will take
      part in this study. Participants will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive therapy for 52
      weeks with either deferiprone or deferoxamine, another type of iron chelator. Patients who
      are randomized to the deferiprone group can choose to get the drug as either tablets or
      liquid, and must take it three times daily. Patients who are randomized to the deferoxamine
      group will receive it as a subcutaneous infusion that lasts from 8 to 12 hours and is given 5
      to 7 days per week. For both drugs, the starting dosage is based on how much extra iron they
      have taken in through transfusions in the last 3 months and on the severity of iron load, as
      measured by serum ferritin levels in the blood and by the amount of iron in the liver and the
      heart. For deferiprone, the starting dosage will be increased each week over the first 3
      weeks; and for both drugs, the dosage may be adjusted up or down during the study based on
      the level of iron overload and on safety considerations.

      Patients will need to have their blood count checked every week for the first 26 weeks, then
      every other week for the remaining 26 weeks; they will also have to give a blood sample for
      more detailed safety testing every month; and to give a blood sample for the measurement of
      serum ferritin every 3 months. Every six months, they will undergo an ECG and an MRI scan,
      and will be asked to complete a quality of life survey.

      At the end of the 52 weeks, participants will be invited to enter a 2-year study in which all
      patients will receive deferiprone, including those who were randomized to receive
      deferoxamine in the first year.
    
  