
    
      The ONAIR project will consist of the two sub-studies described below:

      SUBSTUDY 1

      1.1 Design: A two-part time series analysis of the association between the concentration of
      the main air pollutants (PM2.5, PM10, NO2, O3) between 2006 and 2022 and the daily
      antimicrobial consumption by the general population.

      1.2 Scope of the study and authorized sources of information: The study will be carried out
      in the 11 cities in Catalonia with more than 100,000 inhabitants, distributed in the four
      provinces of the region. These cities are home to 3,283,501 people. Daily data on air
      pollution will be obtained from the Atmospheric Pollution Monitoring and Forecasting Network
      (XVPCA). Daily consumption of antimicrobials will be estimated from the official prescription
      data recorded by the Council of the College of Pharmacists of Catalonia (CCFC) authorized by
      the Department of Health in Catalonia. The secondary clinical variables under study will be
      obtained through the Agency for Quality and Health Assessment of Catalonia.

      1.3 Study subjects: Adults and children living in the 11 cities under study.

      1.4 Definitions: Air pollution. This is defined as the detection of any substance in the air
      that can damage the health of humans, animals or plants, or cause material damage. Air
      pollution comes from different sources; it varies according to its composition which, in
      turn, varies according to the temperature and humidity of the environment. For the purposes
      of this study, since not all air quality monitoring stations record data on all the
      compounds, PM10, PM2.5, NO2 and 03 will be analysed. DDD (defined daily dose). This is the
      technical unit of measurement and comparison equivalent to the mean daily maintenance dose of
      a drug when used in its main indication via a specified route of administration in adults,
      expressed in terms of the amount of the active principle. It is defined and updated by the
      World Health Organization (WHO)
      (https://www.whocc.no/ddd/definition_and_general_considera/#General). DDD/TID (defined daily
      dose per thousand inhabitants per day). This parameter is designed to compare the consumption
      of drugs expressed in numbers of DDD for different geographical areas and/or time periods. It
      is calculated by multiplying the number of DDD consumed per thousand inhabitants and dividing
      by the number of days in the period considered and by the number of inhabitants. DDD/TID
      formula = (nºP x NºF x AF x 1000) / (DDD x nº of inhabitants x nº of days) (nºP = number of
      packages dispensed daily. NºF = number of pharmaceutical forms (i.e., pills, capsules etc.)
      per package. AP = amount of active principle per pharmaceutical form). Population
      denominator: to calculate the number of inhabitants, the population (users with individual
      health cards and assigned to a care centre) under the care of each practitioner will be used,
      calculated from the data of the primary care information system, also including the nursing
      home population.

      1.5 Description of the variables: Main outcome variable: defined daily dose of antimicrobials
      per 1000 inhabitants-day. Main independent variables: concentrations of PM10, PM2.5, NO2 and
      03.

      Confounding variables: Year, day of the week, temperature and relative humidity.

      Secondary outcome variables: Defined daily costs of antimicrobials per 1000inhabitants-day,
      mortality due to natural causes, mortality due to respiratory causes, hospital admissions due
      to respiratory causes and primary care consultations due to respiratory symptoms.

      1.6 Data collection: Pollution data: Data on pollution in the 11 cities under study from 2006
      to 2020 will be obtained from the XVPCA for time series analysis. In each air quality zone,
      distinct areas can be identified according to land use (level 1: urban, suburban or rural
      areas) and the type of sources of emission (level 2: traffic, industrial or background).

      The time series of the mean daily temperature and relative humidity from 2006 to 2020,
      measured by the Catalan Meteorological Service, will be recorded. Daily data on pollution,
      temperature and humidity in these areas in 2021 and 2022 will be collected prospectively. The
      day of the week and the time series of daily influenza cases will also be considered as
      confounding variables. The associations of concentrations of the main pollutants, the daily
      consumption of antimicrobials (DDD/TID) and the secondary variables described will be
      evaluated in separate analyses using a standard time series approach, a two-stage analytical
      protocol that has been widely applied in previous time series studies in many different
      cities. Population and antimicrobial consumption data. Data will be collected by age (> 65
      years), sex and region.

      For the calculation of the DDD/TID and dispensed cost/TID the following daily data will be
      collected by postal code: the medication (combination of active principle + pharmaceutical
      form + dose + number of pharmaceutical forms per package), ATC code, number of packages
      dispensed, date of dispensing and official price of each package. The number of users with
      individual health card and an assigned care centre will also be recorded.

      1.7 Statistical analysis: In the first stage, associations between the daily dose of
      antibiotic therapy and the air pollutants evaluated will be estimated in each city using
      quasi-Poisson generalized linear models. As in previous studies, the following covariates
      will be included in the main model: the year (smoothed by cubic splines) to control the trend
      and temporal seasonality of the indicators; a variable indicating the day of the week to take
      into account weekly short-term variations; and temperature (smoothed by splines) and relative
      humidity (smoothed by splines) to control potential nonlinear confounding effects of weather
      in areas in which this information is available. Since the possible effect of a pollutant on
      the daily antibiotic dose may be projected over the following days, a range of time lags will
      be explored in the estimated models. The same procedure will be applied to the temperature.
      In the second stage, a random effects model will be used to meta-analyse estimates of the
      association between the pollutant and the daily antimicrobial consumption obtained in each
      city. Thus, it will be obtained the aggregate estimates and their 95% confidence intervals of
      the percentage change in daily antimicrobial consumption for each increase of 10μg/m3. The I²
      test will be used to evaluate the heterogeneity between cities. Similarly, models will be
      estimated to assess associations between secondary outcome variables and air pollutants. The
      statistical analysis will be carried out using the R statistical package (version 3.6.1 or
      higher (R Foundation for Statistical Computing) using mgcv for the main models and rmeta for
      the random effects model. Statistical significance will be considered for p <0.05.

      1.8 Limitations: A possible limitation may be the difficulty in distinguishing between the
      impact of pollution on antibiotic consumption as a direct cause-effect relationship or as a
      confounding factor in the cause-effect relationship between air pollution and respiratory
      exacerbations of previous pathology.

      SUBSTUDY 2

      2.1 Design: Descriptive observational study of the concentration of antibiotic resistance
      genes (ARG) in the area of Barcelona during the period 2021-2023. The differences between the
      concentration of these genes at an air quality monitoring station close to a hospital and at
      another station elsewhere in the city, will be evaluated, as well as the interseasonal and
      inter-monthly differences. The presence of certain resistance genes will be assessed in
      relation to the consumption of certain groups of antimicrobials in the study population.

      2.2 Scope of the study and sources of information: The study will be carried out in the city
      of Barcelona. The air pollution samples will be obtained for analysis from three of the
      XVPCA's air quality monitoring stations: one of them in the city centre where there is a
      significant volume of traffic, and the other one located near a third level hospital.

      2.3 Study subjects: Adults and children living in the city of Barcelona.

      2.4 Definitions: ARG (antibiotic resistance gene): the fragment of the genome of a
      microorganism that encodes antimicrobial resistance mechanisms. Microorganisms can acquire
      ARGs either via inheritance or through horizontal transfer of genes from other
      microorganisms. Air pollution: see the definition in subproject 1, section 1.4.

      2.5 Study variables: Main outcome variable: Concentration of antibiotic resistance
      genes/month. Main independent variable: defined daily dose of antimicrobials per 1000
      inhabitants-day.

      2.6 Collection: Sample collection: Samples from the filters used to measure PM concentrations
      will be collected at three stations in XVPCA zone 1, corresponding to the city of Barcelona.
      Samples will be collected at two stations representative of urban traffic-related pollution
      (Plaça Universitat and Poble Nou) and at another station representative of a hospital area
      (Parc de Vall D'Hebron). The sampling will take place on the first Tuesday of each month. In
      this way, three monthly measurements will be made over a total of 30 months, so a total of 90
      samples will be collected. If there is an episode of high contamination during the study,
      extra sampling will be assessed. Meteorological data corresponding to each measurement day
      will also be recorded.

      Sample processing: Samples will be collected through Pallflex high volume (30m3) quartz fiber
      filters (15cm in diameter). Before use, the filters will be sterilized at 205°C for 5 hours
      and conditioned for 48 hours at 20°C and 50% relative humidity. Each filter will be weighed
      three times every 24 hours in a microbalance with 1g sensitivity. After sampling, the filters
      will be taken to the microbiology laboratory where samples of PM2.5 will be extracted, as
      follows. First, the filter will be cut with a sterilized cutter. Then, each filter fragment
      will be added to 2mL of sterile purified water with 0.05% Tween 20 solution in a sterile
      centrifuge tub; then, a 20 minute sonication will be performed followed by 40 minutes of
      vortex agitation at 2800rpm. The PM2.5 samples will be stored at -20ºC until they are
      definitively processed. DNA extraction and shotgun sequencing of microbial DNA: From the
      dilution obtained, 1mg/mL will be extracted. DNA extraction will be performed automatically
      using KingFisher (ThermoFisher) equipment with the MagMaxTM Microbiome Ultra Nucleic Acid
      Isolation (ThermoFisher) kit. The libraries will be constructed using the Illumina
      Nextera-XT® kit.

      Sequencing will be done 2x150bp on a NextSeq550® by Illumina. The quality of the sequences
      will be analysed with the FastQC1 program and the corresponding filtering will be performed
      with the Trimmomatic2 program. Human contamination will be eliminated by mapping the
      sequences filtered against the human genome with the Bowtie 23 program. Metaphlan v24
      software will be used to infer the microbial composition. To study the resistome, the
      acquired antibiotic resistance genes and the chromosomal point mutations will be identified
      with ResFinder 3.05. Population data and antimicrobial consumption data: These data will be
      collected in the same way as described for subproject 1 (see section), but in the area of
      Barcelona, and specifically in the postal codes corresponding to the areas where metagenomic
      data are collected.

      2.7 Statistical analysis: Heatmaps will be created for the relative abundance of ARG based on
      the differences of 2-ΔCT. A network analysis will be performed based on Spearman's rank
      correlations to visualize the coincidence of ARG subtypes in the air and in bacteria
      communities. The ARG concentrations in different months and seasons will be compared using
      boxplots. In addition, a Pearson correlation will be made to relate the concentration of ARG
      to the consumption of antimicrobials in the areas under study. To assess the richness and
      diversity of the bacterial community, Alpha diversity will be calculated using Mothur 1.30.1
      in accordance with the literature (Schloss et al, 2009) for a confidence level of 95%. The
      statistical analysis will be carried out using the R statistical package version 3.6.1 or
      higher (R Foundation for Statistical Computing).

      2.8 Limitations: The main limitation of this substudy is its descriptive nature. The period
      of time under study does not allow the establishment of direct temporal relationships between
      the degree of air pollution and the concentration of ARG in a particular day. In addition,
      due to the complexity of the technique, only a limited number of ARG determinations can be
      performed; therefore, the analysis of their relationship with the consumption of
      antimicrobials by the population will have to be descriptive.

      3. ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS: This biomedical research project has been evaluated by the
      Research Ethics Committee of the Bellvitge University Hospital. It will be carried out under
      the precepts of the Declaration of Helsinki (Fortaleza, 2013). Aggregate clinical data from
      the database of the Department of Health of Catalonia will be used. For this reason, the
      informed consent requirement has been waived by the Ethics Committeee. Nonetheless, the data
      will be treated in accordance with Spanish (Organic Law 3/2018) and European (Regulation [EU)
      2016/679) regulations.
    
  