
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Gemtuzumab ozogamicin is designed to attach to Sialic acid-binding Ig-like lectin 3 (CD33), a
      certain protein that is often found in leukemia cells, causing them to die.

      Decitabine is designed to damage the DNA (the genetic material) of cells, which may cause
      cancer cells to die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive decitabine
      through a needle in your vein over 1 and 1/2 hours on Days 1-5 of each cycle. You will also
      receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin by vein over about 1 hour after you receive decitabine on Day 5
      of each 4-6 week cycle.

      During Cycle 1 only, if a bone marrow test done 2 weeks after you receive your first study
      drug treatment shows abnormal leukemia cells, you will receive another treatment with
      decitabine intravenously over 1 and 1/2 hours for 5 days.

      Gemtuzumab may cause allergic reactions, nausea, and vomiting. To help prevent such side
      effects, you will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and hydrocortisone. You may receive
      these drugs by vein, or by mouth on the days you get gemtuzumab ozogamicin during the entire
      study.

      Study Visits:

      During Cycle 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn at least 1 time each week for routine
      tests. If the doctor thinks it is necessary, you may be asked to have additional blood drawn.

      During Cycle 1, after approximately 2 weeks of your first study drug administration , you
      will have a bone marrow aspiration to decide whether you will receive additional decitabine
      in Cycle 1.

      During Cycles 2-3, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests at least 2 times
      each month.

      During Cycles 4 and beyond, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests at
      least 1 time each month.

      If the doctor thinks it is necessary, you may have a bone marrow aspirate every 1 to 3 months
      to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive the combination of decitabine and gemtuzumab ozogamicin for up to 6 cycles.
      After this, if your doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you may continue to take
      decitabine alone for up to 24 cycles. You will be taken off study early if the disease gets
      worse, you experience intolerable side effects, or your doctor thinks that it is no longer in
      your best interest to receive the study drug(s).

      Long-term Follow-up:

      Once you are off study, you will have follow up visits every month for up to 2 years. At
      these visits, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Gemtuzumab ozogamicin is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of AML that has come back after treatment in patients over the
      age of 65 years. Decitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of
      MDS. The use of gemtuzumab ozogamicin and decitabine in combination is investigational.

      Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  