
    
      This is a phase 1b, single arm, open-labeled study of ficlatuzumab and cetuximab in
      recurrent/metastatic HNSCC with biomarker correlatives. The primary objective of this study
      is to establish the recommended-for-phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination of ficlatuzumab
      and Cetuximab. In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse event(s), treatment may
      continue until disease progression or until one of the following criteria applies:

        -  Disease progression,

        -  Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment,

        -  Unacceptable adverse event(s),

        -  Patient decides to withdraw from the study, or

        -  General or specific changes in the patients condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

      After progressive disease, subjects will be followed for survival every 3 months for 2 years.

      Cetuximab and ficlatuzumab are administered every other week on day 1 and 15 of a 28-day
      cycle. Ficlatuzumab will be administered as an IV infusion, over 30-60 minutes,10 mg/kg every
      2 weeks, on the same day as the first dose of cetuximab. Ficlatuzumab will be administered
      30-60 minutes after the completion of the cetuximab infusion. Cetuximab will be administered
      prior to ficlatuzumab as an IV infusion. The first dose will be administered over 120 minutes
      (± 15 minutes). Subsequent doses may be infused over 60 minutes (± 15 minutes).The starting
      dose of cetuximab (dose tier 1) will be 500 mg/m2 every 2 weeks.

      Subjects will be monitored for adverse events and toxicity during study treatment and for 30
      days after last dose of ficlatuzumab. Blood will be drawn for correlative studies at
      baseline, and at the end of every even cycle. Prior to initiation of protocol treatment,
      patients will undergo a mandatory research biopsy.
    
  