
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication of hospitalized patients and is associated
      with increased morbidity and mortality 1. The pathogenesis of AKI is a complex, time
      dependent process involving multiple variables including significant reductions in renal
      blood flow (RBF), interstitial infiltration by activated neutrophils and obstruction of
      tubule lumens with necrotic debris. In both human studies and animal models, the change in
      RBF is an early event with reductions in RBF between 40-50%. The mechanisms by which blood
      flow falls after the onset of AKI is unknown, but release of multiple vasoconstrictors
      coupled with a loss of autoregulation leads to prolonged reductions in RBF 2. The loss of the
      ability to vasodilate and autoregulate renal blood flow increases the sensitivity to
      additional ischemic and nephrotoxic insults.

      Because reductions in RBF contribute to progression of AKI, clinical maneuvers that restore
      blood flow to ischemic kidneys offer the potential to significantly reduce patient
      mortality3. Consequently, numerous vasodilators have been investigated to determine whether
      restoring blood flow clinically to reduces the incidence of dialysis dependent AKI. Some
      agents including fenoldopam mesylate have shown encouraging results in specific
      sub-populations, but the benefits of other agents including atrial natriuretic peptide were
      offset by the development of systemic hypotension. The hypotenisve effects of these agents
      are a significant limitation to efforts to restore blood flow to ischemic kidneys. Moreover,
      the potential for additive hypotension and other side effects impedes the creation of
      "cocktails" of multiple agents which could have the ability to simultaneously activate
      numerous different protective pathways. Recent work using the FlowMedica Benephit catheter
      has shown that intra-renal delivery of vasodilators allows for targeted organ protection
      without the development of systemic side-effects. Moreover, the intra-renal delivery of
      fenoldopam mesylate and other vasodilators allows for supra-pharmacologic doses leading to
      and prolonged beneficial effects on RBF and GFR. We hypothesize that intra-renal delivery of
      fenoldopam mesylate to patients with early AKI will significantly reduce the number patients
      requiring renal replacement therapy. To investigate this hypothesis, we propose to study
      patients with "diuretic-resistant" AKI and randomize patients to supportive care with
      intermittent diuretics versus a 24 hour intra-renal infusion of fenoldopam mesylate in
      combination with intermittent diuretic therapy. The trial will be a randomized prospective,
      open-labeled study of 35 patients with early AKI defined as a 1.0 mg/dl rise in serum
      creatinine above baseline and/or two consecutive hours of urine output less than 20 mls/hr.
      The primary endpoint of the study will be peak serum creatinine at day #4 and the number of
      patients requiring renal replacement therapy or dying within 8 days of the onset of AKI.
      Additional data will be collected on the safety of implementation and the complications
      associated with a 24 hour infusion of fenoldopam using the Angiodynamics Benephit catheter
    
  