
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications continue to be one of the main causes of morbidity,
      mortality and increase in hospital stay in patients undergoing surgical procedures requiring
      anesthesia. Its incidence in lung resection surgery is greater than in other non-cardiac
      major surgeries due to damage of structures related to respiratory function.

      Furthermore, during lung resection surgery there is an exaggerated pulmonary inflammatory
      response related to the use of one-lung ventilation and / or the lung damage produced by the
      collapse of the operated lung as well as the surgical manipulation itself.

      Recently, in a clinical trial on 180 patients (NCT 02168751), our researcher group observed
      that the attenuation of the pulmonary inflammatory response through the use of halogenated
      anesthetic agents, was related to a decrease in the appearance of postoperative pulmonary
      complications after lung resection surgery. In addition, the presence, in bronchoalveolar
      lavages, of elevated levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukine(IL)-6 and the IL-6 /
      IL10 ratio were independent predictors of the risk of developing postoperative pulmonary
      complications.

      Lidocaine is a local anesthetic that blocks nerve conduction by blocking sodium channels. In
      addition it has been known for experimental and clinical studies of its immunomodulatory
      properties.

      Clinical studies performed in different surgeries show that a continuous intravenous infusion
      of lidocaine during surgery is associated with a lower inflammatory response assessed by
      monitoring plasma cytokines, as well as less postoperative pain, a shorter duration of
      postoperative paralytic ileus and a early hospital discharge.

      Currently, there is no clinical study that has evaluated the role of intravenous lidocaine on
      the pulmonary inflammatory response and the subsequent lung damage that inevitably occurs
      during lung resection surgery with periods of one lung ventilation.

      Currently, some experts are proposing the replacement of thoracic epidural and paravertebral
      analgesia by the intravenous infusion of lidocaine and minor analgesics, for fast-track
      programs, based on their analgesic and anti-inflammatory capacity and on avoiding the risks
      inherent in the insertion of an epidural or paravertebral catheter.

      Hypothesis: The administration of intravenous or paravertebral lidocaine during lung
      resection surgery attenuates the exaggerated inflammatory response that inevitably occurs in
      this surgical intervention. The lower expression of pro-inflammatory mediators will be
      associated with a lower rate of postoperative complications that are related to the
      perioperative inflammatory process.
    
  