
    
      Hypothesis: Postoperative pain will be equivalent in patients receiving preemptive oral
      acetaminophen as compared to patients receiving preemptive intravenous acetaminophen
      following minimally invasive benign gynecologic surgery.

      Importance/significance: Adequate control of postoperative pain is important for patient
      satisfaction, adequate healing, and optimizing length of stay. The idea of preemptive
      analgesia (giving an analgesic prior to first skin incision to prevent sensitization of nerve
      pathways from the trauma of surgery) has been shown in many studies to improve postoperative
      pain. Intravenous acetaminophen has been found to be an effective agent when given
      preemptively, and many surgeons have adopted this practice. Unfortunately, the IV formulation
      of acetaminophen, unlike the oral formulation, is expensive as it is a relatively new drug.
      There are other oral analgesics (i.e. Celebrex) that have been found to be efficacious for
      postoperative pain control when given preemptively. There are no studies in gynecologic
      surgery, however, comparing the effectiveness of PO acetaminophen with IV acetaminophen.
      Given that PO acetaminophen is significantly cheaper than the IV formulation, this could
      result in cost savings for hospital systems while maintaining adequate patient comfort and
      satisfaction.

      Primary outcome:

        1. Difference in postoperative pain comparing preemptive use of PO versus IV acetaminophen

        2. Mean VAS scores will be compared between the intervention group (PO acetaminophen) and
           the control group (IV acetaminophen).

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Difference in postoperative analgesic use between groups - Narcotics, NSAIDs

        2. Difference in postoperative N/V between groups

        3. Patient rated measure - none, mild, moderate, severe

        4. Cost comparison between drugs

      Methods:

      Patients scheduled to undergo minimally invasive benign gynecologic surgery will be
      randomized to one of two groups:

      Group 1: acetaminophen 1 gram PO 30min before surgery, then saline placebo IV after
      anesthesia induction but before skin incision

      Group 2: receives placebo pill PO 30min before surgery, then acetaminophen 1 gram IV after
      anesthesia induction but before skin incision

      Primary outcome: After surgery, postoperative pain measured at various time points by blinded
      investigator

      2 hours postop, 4 hours postop, 24 hours postop

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Evaluate N/V - self-rated as none, mild, moderate, severe

        2. Document amount of analgesic use (narcotic, NSAIDs) during hospital course

        3. Compute cost comparison between medications

      Demographics to collect:

      Age, parity, BMI, procedure indication, pathology including uterine weight, procedure length
    
  