
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and objective response rate of patients with relapsed or
           refractory multiple myeloma treated with vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone
           (VAD) with or without PSC 833.

        -  Compare event free survival and subjective response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Correlate treatment outcome with p-glycoprotein expression.

        -  Determine whether prognostic factors previously determined to be useful in untreated
           patients (i.e., plasma cell labeling index and multidrug resistance determined from bone
           marrow aspirates, serum beta 2-microglobulin and interleukin-6 receptor levels)
           correlate with objective and subjective response and event-free and overall survival in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of VAD with or without PSC 833.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by response to
      prior treatment, prior doxorubicin and/or vincristine, prior autologous peripheral blood stem
      cell transplantation, and center.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

        -  Arm I: The first group receives vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone (VAD).
           Patients receive higher dose vincristine IV over 96 hours and higher dose doxorubicin IV
           over 96 hours on days 1-4 and oral dexamethasone daily on days 1-4 and 15-18.

        -  Arm II: The second group receives VAD plus oral PSC 833. Patients receive oral PSC 833
           every 6 hours beginning on day 1 and continuing for 20 doses. Patients receive lower
           dose vincristine IV over 96 hours and lower dose doxorubicin IV over 96 hours on days
           2-5 and oral dexamethasone daily on days 2-5 and 16-19.

      Treatment in both arms repeats every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 2 courses, patients are reevaluated, and those
      with stable or responding disease continue treatment for 2 courses beyond maximum response.
      Doxorubicin is discontinued in patients who receive a maximum lifetime dose but still have
      stable or responding disease.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 360 patients will be accrued for this study over approximately
      20 months.
    
  