
    
      Methodology Research Design. This study has been designed using a quasi-experimental design
      to allow patients the freedom to choose which treatment modality they would like to
      participate in. This research design aims to be naturalistic by mimicking the decisions made
      by patients and physicians regarding course of treatment and type of pharmacotherapy
      prescribed within mental health services across Ontario. The treatments provided within the
      study also aim to replicate evidence-based best practice clinical guidelines for treatment of
      GAD.

      Research Participants. Patients will be referred to the study by primary care physicians
      within Toronto and Kingston, Ontario. Patients will be referred to the Anxiety Outpatient
      Clinic at the Hotel Dieu Hospital site of Kingston Health Sciences Centre or the Mood and
      Anxiety Clinic within the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (both sites herein referred
      to as "the clinic"). Upon receiving a referral to the clinic, participants will be contacted
      by the study's Research Coordinator and asked to indicate their interest (or lack thereof) in
      the study. If interest is indicated and the study's inclusion criteria are met, the patient
      will have a study intake appointment scheduled for the same day as their intake appointment
      at the clinic. To be considered for inclusion within the study, patients must:

        -  be 18 years of age or older

        -  have consistent and reliable access to the internet

        -  be diagnosed with GAD according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
           Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-V) by a clinician

        -  meet the criteria for GAD according to the GAD-7 Screener (GAD-7)

        -  Be competent to consent to participate

        -  Speak and read English Patients will be deemed ineligible for participation in the study
           if they are in acute distress.

      Allocation of Subjects between Arms of the Study. Subjects will be presented with all three
      arms of the study within their study intake appointment by the Research Coordinator. After
      obtaining informed consent, patients will meet with one of the study's psychiatrists during
      their clinic intake appointment and discuss the recommended treatment plan. In collaboration
      with the psychiatrist, patients will decide whether or not they would like to begin
      pharmacotherapy and/or e-CBT treatment.

      Criteria for Discontinuation. Patients' participation in the study will be discontinued if
      they are found to be noncompliant to their treatment. This will be defined as stopping
      medications all together or reportedly skipping more than two days in a row of medication.
      Patients will be found noncompliant with e-CBT treatment if they miss more than two weeks of
      e-CBT sessions or fail to complete weekly homework assignments. Patients' participation
      within the study will also be halted if they are deemed to be in acute crisis by self-report
      or the psychiatrist in charge of their care.

      Study Protocol. After being referred to the study by a clinician uninvolved within the study,
      patients will be contacted by the Research Coordinator to determine the patient's interest in
      participating in the study. If interest is indicated, an intake appointment for the study
      will be scheduled for the same date as the intake appointment to the clinic.

      Intake appointment. Upon attending the intake appointment, the Research Coordinator will
      explain all three arms of the study and review the study's letter of information. After
      sufficient time has been provided to ensure the patient understands the study, informed
      consent will be obtained by the Research Coordinator and the patient will complete the State
      Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), a demographics questionnaire, Quality of Life Enjoyment and
      Satisfaction Questionnaire - Short Form (Q-LES-QSF), GAD-7 and the 42-item Depression Anxiety
      Stress Scales (DASS-42). Following the intake appointment, patients will, in collaboration
      with their psychiatrist, decide on which treatment modalities they would like to participate
      in (e-CBT and/or pharmacotherapy). Treatment will then proceed according to the arms below,
      with patients participating in e-CBT and pharmacotherapy commencing both arms simultaneously
      within their clinic intake appointment.

      e-CBT. Weekly sessions of e-CBT through OPTT will consist of approximately 30 slides. Each
      session is expected to last approximately 50 minutes. The content and format of each weekly
      online session was designed to mirror live CBT. The slides will highlight a different topic
      each week and include general information, an overview of skills and homework on that topic.
      The homework included in each session will be submitted through OPTT and reviewed by the
      clinicians with personalized feedback provided by clinicians within three days of submission.
      Weekly homework submission for feedback will be mandatory before being eligible for the next
      session. Biweekly GAD-7, DASS-42 and Q-LES-SF questionnaires will be completed through OPTT.
      A second STAI will be completed in the final week of e-CBT treatment.

      Pharmacotherapy. If patients chose to participate in the pharmacotherapy stream of treatment,
      they will attend biweekly medication reconciliation appointments with their psychiatrist at
      the clinic. If the patient is participating solely in the pharmacotherapy arm, they will
      complete the biweekly GAD-7, DASS-42 and Q-LES-SF within each of their appointments. If the
      patient is completing both pharmacotherapy and e-CBT, questionnaires will only be completed
      through OPTT. Upon attending their clinic intake appointment, the patient's medication
      history (including any current medications) will be collected and all medications prescribed
      for GAD prior to the study will be switched to the medications suggested in the protocol and
      if needed to be continued the dose will be unchanged 6 weeks prior to start of the study and
      during the study. Within the patient's clinic intake appointment, they will commence
      pharmacotherapy with the medication class decided according the "starting medication"
      protocol below, which was developed in accordance with Canada's best practice guidelines for
      the treatment of GAD. The pharmacotherapy protocol is summarized in Figure 1.

      General 6-week protocol. At the patient's second appointment (2 weeks on the medication),
      their medication will be maintained and optimized, regardless of whether or not a response is
      reported. At the patient's third appointment (4 weeks on the medication), the medication will
      be optimized if a partial response is reported or the medication will be switched according
      to the "medication switch protocol" if no response is reported. Partial response will be
      defined as an improvement of 20% or greater in their GAD-7 score compared to baseline. If the
      medication is switched (the patient reports less than a 20% improvement in their GAD-7 score
      compared to baseline), the 6-week protocol will recommence with the new medication. At the
      patient's fourth appointment (6 weeks on the medication), their dosage will be optimized if
      the patient is responding well to the medication and reports an improvement greater than 50%
      if within the primary medication arm, or 20% if within the secondary medication arm, in their
      GAD-7 score compared to baseline, the patient will remain on said medication for the
      remainder of the 12-week study. If the patient does not report an improvement of more than
      20% in their GAD-7 score compared to baseline, the patient's medication will be switched
      according to the "medication switch protocol" and the 6-week protocol will recommence with
      the new medication. If the patient is within the primary medication arm and reports a 20-50%
      improvement in GAD symptoms compared to baseline after six weeks on the new medication, the
      medication with be augmented with either olanzapine, risperidone or benzodiazepines.

      Starting Medication. If the patient has never taken an SSRI or SNRI, the patient will
      commence the primary medication arm. The two classes of medications within the primary arm
      will be described to the patient and, with the recommendation of the prescribing
      psychiatrist, the patient will begin either an SSRI (sertraline or escitalopram) or
      pregabalin/an SNRI (duloxetine or venlafaxine).

      If, prior to the beginning of the study, the patient has been deemed unresponsive to either
      an SSRI or an SNRI/pregabalin, the patient will commence the primary medication arm. The
      patient will start the medication class that they have not been previously deemed
      unresponsive to (i.e., if previously unresponsive to sertraline, the patient will commence
      the SNRI class). A patient will be considered previously unresponsive if their anxiety did
      not improve after treatment with the maximum tolerated dose of the specific medication for an
      eight-week duration.

      If the patient has been deemed unresponsive to both an SSRI and an SNRI/pregabalin, the
      patient will commence the secondary medication arm. The two classes of medications within the
      secondary arm will be described to the patient and, with the recommendation of the
      prescribing psychiatrist, the patient will begin either bupropion/mirtazepine or
      buspirone/imipramine.

      Medication switch protocol. If the patient is deemed unresponsive to a medication after 4 or
      6 weeks of administration (the patient reports less than a 20% improvement in their GAD-7
      score compared to baseline), their medication should be switched to another class. If the
      patient has a history of non-response to any of the four medication classes, these classes
      should be removed as pharmacotherapy options for their treatment within the study (i.e., if a
      patient was deemed unresponsive to SSRIs prior to commencing the study, the patient should
      not be prescribed sertraline or escitalopram at any point within the study). If the patient
      was started in the primary or secondary medication arm and has not previously demonstrated
      non-response to the second class of medications within that arm, the patient should be
      switched to the second class of pharmaceuticals within that arm. If the patient was started
      in the primary arm and was previously deemed unresponsive to the second class of
      pharmaceuticals within that arm, the patient should begin the secondary medication arm if
      non-response indicates a medication switch is necessary.

      Six Month Follow-up. All patients will be contacted through telephone by the Research
      Coordinator 6 months after their 12 weeks within the study have ended to complete follow-up
      questionnaires. The patients will complete a third STAI and another Q-LES-SF, DASS-42 and
      GAD-7. These measurements will act to determine the longevity of treatment effects.
    
  