
    
      Subjects: Patient recruitment will be performed at the Department of Gastroenterology,
      Hepatology and Metabolism at the Internal Clinic of the First Faculty of Medicine of the
      Charles University and the Military University Hospital in Prague (MUH Prague). The selection
      of sample set sizes is clarified below (subsection Data collection and statistical analysis).

      Group A: ~100 patients with liver cirrhosis with the HCC diagnosis confirmed according to
      standard diagnostic criteria published recently by European Association for the study of the
      liver (EASL). Patients of all HCC stages according to Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC),
      in our department ~40-50 patients per year, will be included.

      Group B: ~100 patients with liver cirrhosis without HCC or dysplastic nodules at the time of
      examination and within the next 12 months of follow-up. The patients will be monitored by
      regular clinical visits with general laboratory exams and liver ultrasound in 6-month
      intervals (recommended surveillance for patients with liver cirrhosis in risk of HCC
      development).

      Group C: ~50 healthy volunteers without liver cirrhosis (Czech Army recruits, Czech Army
      active military personnel).

      Routinely examined biochemistry (e.g. total protein, albumin, alpha feto protein, etc.) of
      all studied groups will be correlated with the newly identified spectroscopic/metabolomic
      biomarkers. A signed informed consent will be secured from each subject included in the study
      (Inclusion/exclusion criteria listed below). Plasma preparation: Following the already
      established procedure for sample collection, preparation and analysis, the whole
      anticoagulant-treated (K3EDTA) blood of all subjects will be collected by venipuncture and
      centrifuged at 1500 × g for 10 minutes. The plasma fractions will be frozen immediately
      (stored at -80 °C) and transported to the UCT Prague for spectroscopic and metabolomics
      analyses. Prior to each analysis, the samples will be thawed at room temperature (~25 °C) and
      centrifuged through a 0.45 μm membrane filter at 13,000 × g for 10 minutes. Subsequently, the
      spectral measurements will be carried out (in the case of ROA and Raman, a kinetic
      fluorescence quencher will be added to suppress the spectrally broad background of large
      amplitude, which overlaps the signals of interest and is caused by a high content of
      fluorescing molecules in blood plasma).

      Spectroscopic analysis: To meet the project objectives, the investigators will utilize a
      unique combination of two chiroptical methods - ECD and ROA - supplemented by non-polarized
      variants - IR absorption and Raman spectroscopy. While ECD detects the absorption difference
      between left and right circularly polarized radiation, the commercially available scattered
      circular polarization ROA setup operates with the small intensity difference between the
      circularly polarized components in the scattered light using non-polarized incident
      radiation. Both of these methods exhibit inherent sensitivity to the 3D structure and
      conformation of several chiral biomolecules, such as peptides, proteins, saccharides, nucleic
      acids and others (20). Some of these types of compounds might be among those, whose 3D
      structure or concentration in blood plasma varies during HCC development. While ECD
      sensitively reflects the overall conformation of chiral molecules, ROA focuses on particular
      bond types; and thus, reflects rather the structural details. In addition to the
      peptide-backbone bands from regular secondary structure elements, specifically helices and
      beta-sheets, the ROA spectra contain distinct bands from loops and turns and, as such; they
      provide information on the tertiary structure. Therefore, the simultaneous use of ECD, ROA
      and the non-polarized spectroscopic methods will enhance the reliability of the particular
      findings.

      Moreover, combining different analytical approaches and technologies not yet established in
      clinical practice will increase the likelihood of detecting minor changes within the spectral
      features reflecting the conformational and concentration alterations of the HCC-related
      molecules and/or their metabolites in blood plasma. To the best of our knowledge, our
      laboratory at the Department of Analytical Chemistry, UCT Prague is the only one in the world
      to have all of these techniques available, simultaneously having a long-term experience with
      biofluid analysis. All equipment used for the analyses is commercially available and, thus;
      may be purchased by clinical laboratories.
    
  