
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents in left main (LM) disease
      has demonstrated similar results than surgical revascularization in patients with SYNTAX
      score < 33, being the main drawback of PCI a higher rate of new revascularization. A small
      study found a reduction in the composite end-point of cardiac death, myocardial infarction
      and urgent revascularization with a routine angiographic follow-up. The investigators have
      designed a prospective, randomized, controlled, two-arm multicenter study in patients aged
      18-85 with LM disease and SYNTAX score <33 and in cases ≥ 33 based on the Heart Team decision
      to assess the benefit of a routine angiographic follow-up 6 months after LM stenting. After
      the index procedure and before hospital discharge the patient will be randomized to routine
      invasive angiographic follow-up at 6 months plus clinical follow-up at 6 months, 1, 2 and 3
      years vs. the control arm, which would be followed clinically at 6 months, 1, 2 and 3 years.
      Based on our calculations, an adequately powered trial would require 1009 patients per arm
      but due to the uncertainty of the results and the current economical restrictions we have
      designed a pilot study in 400 patients to find out the convenience of an adequately powered
      trial. All the lesions should be treated with an everolimus eluting stent with permanent
      fluoropolymer. It will be desirable to achieve complete revascularization and it will be
      highly recommended to perform the procedures guided with an intravascular image technique
      (OCT or IVUS (IntraVascular UltraSound) according to operator´s criteria). The main outcome
      will be death, myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accident at 3 years. The initial
      percutaneous technique and the decision about the convenience and way of revascularization in
      case of restenosis in the follow-up will be left at the operator´s discretion, according in
      the most adequate way to the current guidelines. Nonetheless, the investigators are strongly
      encouraged to rely on intravascular techniques, based on either imaging or physiology. In
      those cases with in-stent hyperplasia with doubts about possible restenosis, FFR and RFR
      (Resting full-cycle ratio) will be performed, with low threshold to achieve a high rate of
      ruling out the restenosis.
    
  