
    
      Globally the proportion of childhood deaths that occur in the neonatal period is increasing.
      Since 1990 there has been a 47% reduction in deaths in children less than five years of age.
      However, this rate of reduction has not been seen in infants four weeks of age or younger
      (neonates). The reasons why the fall in neonatal mortality has not mirrored that seen in
      children mortality, is complex and one that is not well explored in the literature. One
      proposed explanation is that interventions that have been successfully employed to reduce
      childhood death do not reach the community and it is in the community where most neonates
      die. Another pervasive perceived barrier to providing neonatal care, particularly in remote
      and rural areas, is the misconception that neonatal care is difficult and expensive.

      Many health problems are rooted in powerlessness. Health education that involves community
      involvement: dialogue and problem solving, rather than just message giving, is more
      empowering. Addressing social needs and empowering communities to make decisions about health
      care needs allows for the design of programmes that account for local practices and beliefs.
      Up to two-thirds of neonatal deaths could be prevented if neonates were given proper care
      during and immediately after birth, because the majority of neonatal deaths occur around the
      time of delivery. Training primary level health care workers to deal with emergency
      situations that occur around the time of delivery, has been shown to decrease maternal
      mortality and neonatal mortality It is reported that 79% of deliveries in Cambodia occur in
      healthcare facilities. The majority of these will occur at primary care facilities. Babies
      born in primary care facilities who require further care are transferred to the referral
      hospital. The majority of referral hospitals in Cambodia do not have the resources or skills
      to effectively deal with neonatal complications for babies born either in health centres or
      in their on-site maternity wards.

      The central hypothesis of this study is that a neonatal healthcare programme that has a
      significant impact on neonatal mortality and which spans the healthcare journey from village
      to referral hospital can be developed and implemented in a low-resource rural setting.

      This study is a five-year stepped-wedge cluster-randomised trial, covering the whole of Preah
      Vihear province in North-Eastern Cambodia, which is a rural and isolated province. A cluster
      is defined as a primary care administrative group, as recognised by the provincial health
      department, and includes all primary care facilities, primary care workers, community health
      workers, villagers and villages in that geographical area. The study area is divided into 21
      clusters. Clusters were pre-assigned to one of three sequences for crossover from the control
      to intervention arm. The first sequence has only four clusters, to incorporate a pilot phase
      into study design.

      The intervention of this study is the Saving Babies' Lives programme which is a
      comprehensive, contextual and adaptive neonatal healthcare package. The Saving Babies' Lives
      Programme will be developed in partnership with the Kingdom of Cambodia Ministry of Health.
      The programme will be approved by the Ministry of Health and a memorandum of understanding
      signed with the provincial health director of Preah Vihear province. The control is no
      intervention; standard government service continues.

      The primary care facility intervention component of the Saving Babies' Lives programme
      involves course-based training combined with continuous in-situ mentoring to support doctors,
      nurses and midwives and other health worker cadres to improve their practical daily skills in
      emergency and clinical neonatal care. Essential equipment will be identified and included in
      the package.

      Meetings attended by community health workers (two from each of the villages) will be held to
      identify problems and concerns around neonatal health care in their own village. Monthly
      meetings will take place for the group to discuss problems, attempt to arrive at solutions,
      and share learning. These meetings will be facilitated by the study team who will use
      participatory action research methodology to: identify problems with provision of, and
      barriers to seeking, neonatal health care; develop interventions to improve care; implement
      these interventions; assess the group's perception of the effectiveness of interventions.

      A neonatal healthcare assessment tool will be developed that is quantitative and qualitative
      in nature. It will be based on the 'KAP' survey method of analysing Knowledge, Attitudes and
      Practice. In addition, two further domains will be added, equipment and staffing, leading to
      a 'KAPES' model of assessment.

      Data will be collected and used to assess the impact of the programme, its perceived
      facilitators and barriers and its successes and failures. This information will be used to
      iterate the programme content and structure in order to improve it, with the intention of
      creating a scalable blueprint.
    
  