
    
      Pediatric migraine is a prevalent disorder that results in significant pain and disability
      for children and adolescents. Despite the prevalence and cost, commonly used pharmacologic
      treatments to treat pediatric migraine have limited evidence of efficacy over placebo in
      preventing migraine in youth. In our prior research, published in NEJM (Trial of
      Amitriptyline, Topiramate, and Placebo for Pediatric Migraine. N Engl J Med.
      2017;376(2):115-124),we have shown in a large, national, multicenter trial that the most
      widely used conventional preventive medications, amitriptyline (AMI) and topiramate, are no
      more effective than placebo. Psychological therapies for pediatric headache (in particular,
      cognitive behavioral therapy [CBT]) result in better outcomes than control conditions by
      effectively reducing headache days and disability in children and adolescents with migraine.
      Our own work indicates that youth receiving combined CBT plus amitriptyline (AMI, the most
      widely used migraine prophylactic in youth) had greater reductions in headache days and
      disability than a group receiving education control plus AMI. Specifically, we found that CBT
      combined with AMI improved outcomes for about 2 out of 3 pediatric chronic migraineurs (ages
      10-17). Reduction in headache days by ≥ 50% was seen within the first 8 weeks of this 5-month
      trial (Powers SW, Kashikar-Zuck SM, Allen JR, et al. Cognitive behavioral therapy plus
      amitriptyline for chronic migraine in children and adolescents: a randomized clinical trial.
      JAMA. 2013;310(24):2622-2630).

      Despite this evidence of efficacy, the mechanisms supporting CBT for migraine remain poorly
      understood. This lack of mechanistic understanding leaves patients, providers, and payers
      reluctant to promote CBT as a primary treatment modality. Moreover, opportunities to optimize
      and individualize CBT remain unrealized because of limited basic understanding by which
      different components of CBT exert their effects. Little remains known about the specific
      brain mechanisms by which CBT reduces pain. Therefore, it is critical that we understand how
      and why CBT may improve headache outcomes in contrast to pill-taking treatments, specifically
      placebo. Brain imaging and quantitative sensory testing are novel tools to investigate
      possible mechanisms of CBT, placebo, and medication. In addition understanding the components
      of CBT and how they may work at the brain and pain processing levels is important. As such,
      two broad components of CBT represent clear targets for investigation: relaxation and
      cognitive reappraisal.

      Evolving consensus in the pain community and at a national level suggests that examining
      biological mechanisms of how mind and body approaches lead to benefits for patients will
      advance care, improve outcomes, and legitimize non-pharmacological treatment for pediatric
      chronic pain. As such, this mechanistic/basic science study seeks to identify the neural
      mechanisms by which youth with migraine improve in response to preventive treatment.
      Pediatric medical and behavioral clinicians can use mechanistic insights from this study to
      provide patients and families with a stronger rationale for treatment, thereby decreasing
      stigma and increasing confidence in and commitment to the care plan.
    
  