
    
      Stroke is the second-leading cause of death worldwide and a leading cause of serious,
      long-term disability. The most common type is acute ischemic stroke (AIS) which occurs in 85%
      of cases. Acute cerebral thromboembolism leads to an area of permanent damage (infarct core)
      in the most severely hypoperfused area and a surrounding area of impaired, yet salvageable
      tissue known as the "ischemic penumbra".

      Intravenous alteplase (IV tPA) and endovascular treatment (EVT) are approved acute
      reperfusion treatments of AIS to be started within the first 4½-6 hours (in some up to 24
      hours) and as soon as possible after symptom onset to prevent the evolution of the infarct
      core. However, reperfusion itself may paradoxically result in tissue damage (reperfusion
      injury) and may contribute to infarct growth. Infarct progression can continue for days
      following a stroke, and failure of the collateral flow is a critical factor determining
      infarct growth.

      On the other hand, in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) the culprit is an eruption of blood into
      the brain parenchyma causing tissue destruction with a massive effect on adjacent brain
      tissues. Hematoma expansion as well as inflammatory pathways that are activated lead to
      further tissue damage, edema, and penumbral hypoperfusion. The prognosis after ICH is poor
      with a one-month mortality of 40%.

      Novel therapeutics and neuroprotective strategies that can be started ultra-early after
      symptom onset are urgently needed to reduce disability in both AIS and ICH.

      Ischemic conditioning is one of the most potent activators of endogenous protection against
      ischemia-reperfusion injury. Remote Ischemic Conditioning (RIC) can be applied as repeated
      short-lasting ischemia in a distant tissue that results in protection against subsequent
      long-lasting ischemic injury in the target organ. This protection can be applied prior to or
      during a prolonged ischemic event as remote ischemic pre-conditioning (RIPreC) and
      per-conditioning (RIPerC), respectively, or immediate after reperfusion as remote ischemic
      post-conditioning (RIPostC). RIC is commonly achieved by inflation of a blood pressure cuff
      to induce 5-minute cycles of limb ischemia alternating with 5 minutes of reperfusion.

      Preclinical studies show that RIC induces a promising infarct reduction in an experimental
      stroke model. Results from a recent proof-of-concept study at our institution indicate that
      RIPerC applied during ambulance transportation as an adjunctive to in-hospital IV tPA
      increases brain tissue survival after one month. Furthermore, RIPerC patients had less severe
      neurological symptoms at admission and tended to have decreased perfusion deficits.

      To-date, no serious adverse events have been documented in RIC.

      RIC is a non-pharmacologic and non-invasive treatment without noticeable discomfort that has
      first-aid potential worldwide. However, whether combined remote ischemic per- and
      postconditioning can improve long-term recovery in AIS and ICH has never been investigated in
      a randomized controlled trial.
    
  