
    
      This investigation is a prospective, open-labeled clinical trial determining the safety of
      the use of tissue engineered vascular grafts as conduits for EC TCPC. Patients will be
      monitored for adverse events (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE). Special attention will be
      paid to the incidence of stenosis. We will determine graft-related morbidity and mortality
      for the second generation TEVGs which will include any post-operative complication such as
      any aneurismal dilation, stenosis, thromboembolic or infectious event that requires treatment
      and is thought to be caused by the graft as determined by the investigators and confirmed by
      the data safety monitoring board. The graft related complication rates will be compared
      between the first and second generation TEVGs. An interim analysis will be performed to
      assess the incidence of early (<6 month) graft-related complications in the first 6 enrolled
      patients. Safety and tolerability will be assessed through serial imaging, to determine the
      effect of growth and remodeling on graft performance through echocardiography and
      4-dimensional MRI. All appropriate patients requiring EC TCPC who meet study
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be evaluated for enrollment in the clinical trial. All
      enrolled subjects will be required to have follow-up visits at Nationwide Children's Hospital
      for a minimum of 2 years following implant. After obtaining informed consent for the
      patient's parents, patients with single ventricle cardiac anomalies will undergo EC TCPC
      using a tissue engineered conduit. Post-operative care and monitoring will follow an
      established, standardized, clinical algorithm in which the patient's clinical status
      including complications and measurements of graft function will be serially evaluated and
      recorded over a two year period using physical examination, echocardiography, and MRI.
    
  