
    
      Primary Objectives: The primary objective will be to demonstrate the feasibility of radiology
      completing real time review of radiation oncology treatment plans within 4 business days of
      the date of CT simulation (defined as day = 0). If 50% of plans can be reviewed by any member
      of the thoracic radiology team (Includes radiology PI and co-investigators) and feedback is
      submitted to radiation oncology with Appendix D within 4 business days of the date of
      simulation, then we will consider this workflow feasible.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Our primary secondary objective will be to estimate the proportion of patients whose RT
           plans are changed as a result this workflow.

        -  For patients whose radiation therapy plans are changed as a result this workflow,
           determine the absolute and percentage volume changes in the gross tumor volume, clinical
           target volume and planning target volume as a result of these changes implemented.

        -  For patients whose radiation therapy plans are changed as a result of this workflow:
           determine if recommended changes in the gross tumor volume resulted in improved
           dosimetry to surrounding normal structures. Specifically, determine the absolute and
           percentage changes in the dose delivered to the lungs (V5, V10, V20) and esophagus
           (mean, V60) as a result of changes in the gross tumor volume.

        -  For patients whose radiation therapy plans are changed as a result of this workflow,
           determine if changes led to treatment delays from their standard planned start date.

        -  For patients whose radiation therapy plans are changed as a result of this workflow, to
           describe the most common types of changes recommended (i.e. modification of parenchymal
           lung volumes, missing involved lymph nodes, covering too much normal tissue in the gross
           tumor volume).

        -  Determine whether acute esophagitis incidence changed in our entire sample as a result
           of this review during treatment and within 4 weeks following treatment, compared to
           institutional historical control databases of patients treated without formal radiology
           review.

        -  Determine whether tumor response at 4 weeks post treatment differs in our entire sample
           compared to institutional historical control databases of patients treated without
           formal radiology review.
    
  