
    
      The Primary objectives are to asses the safety and the physical performance of the
      SenseUrine's sensor unit and to validate the concept of determining bladder volume by
      measuring heat flow. The Secondary objective is to optimize the device accuracy Primary
      endpoints: To show that the sensor has no negative effect on the subject, to determine
      bladder urine volume, based on the sensor's signals, in an accuracy of ±10% compared to the
      actual volume. Secondary endpoint - to determine bladder urine volume, in an accuracy of
      ±10%, in different ambient conditions (temperature and clothing).

      Inclusion criteria - All subjects will be aged 18-50, active, in good general health and
      without urinary complaints or documented urinary tract dysfunctions. Exclusion criteria -
      Pregnancy, breast feeding, known allergic sensitivity to medical adhesive tapes, cognitive
      incompatibility and mental incompetence.

      On the first visit, the subject will sign an informed consent form. A medical intake
      including demographic data will be collected. Stage 1 will serve for basic testing of the
      sensor unit and for measuring the maximal and minimal bladder volume. The sensor will be
      attached to the lower abdomen wall and checked for functionality. Each subject will fill up
      his bladder (by drinking water) until sensing a strong urge to void. The subject will then
      void until he is empty into a measurement cup. Ultrasound measurement (US) of bladder volume,
      and sensor signal will be read and recorded by a standard miliVoltmeter just before and
      immediately after emptying the bladder. Sensor, US and cup measurement readings will not be
      done by the same investigator. Continuing to stage 2 will depend on the preliminary results
      (sensor readings compared to the measured volume and US readings) determining feasibility..
      Stage 2 will serve for measuring the dynamics of bladder heat conductivity during the filling
      and voiding phases. On the 2nd visit the subject will fill up his bladder by gradually
      drinking 500CC of water (over 60-90 minutes) until sensing a strong urge to void. The subject
      will drink an additional 50-100CC of water and wait around 10 minutes in the aim of achieving
      maximal bladder capacity. The sensor signals will be recorded from the beginning of this
      bladder filling stage every 5-10 minutes. Then, the subject will be requested to void in a
      controlled manner and to intentionally stop urinating after emptying 50-100CC of urine
      (voided volume will be determined by the measurement cup). The controlled voiding of 50-100CC
      will be repeated until the bladder is empty. The sensor signals will be read and recorded
      during both stages. Visit 3 will be performed in the same manner but in different positions
      during measurements (supine-on the back, sides and front, sitting, and standing). Visit 4
      (final visit) will serve for demonstrating the sensor unit's performance in different ambient
      temperature and clothing. Two subjects will be randomly selected to examine the sensor in an
      ambient of 15ºC (this will be controlled by an air-conditioned room with an external
      thermometer) for measuring the dynamic range (maximal and minimal bladder capacity). The same
      will be done at room temperature twice- with light and heavy clothing. The other 2 subjects
      will be randomly selected to examine the sensor's performance in an ambient of 40ºC (hot
      temperature will be achieved by an electric heater in a small room controlled with an
      external thermometer) for measuring the dynamic range (maximal and minimal bladder capacity).
      The same will be done at room temperature twice- with light and heavy clothing.

      All output signals will be logged and processed to show the correlation between the
      calculated heat conductance of the bladder and the volume. A table consisting the calculated
      indexes of conductivity vs. bladder volumes will be designed.

      General: 10 subjects will be recruited by advertisement with notification of some
      compensation for their time and travel to the study site. Every session will last about 4
      hours long. In each working day 3-5 subjects will participate and the total trial period is
      expected to be approximately 20 working days.
    
  