
    
      In this one year pilot study we will enroll 3-5 people with SCI, and aim to develop a simple,
      convenient BP cuff method to elicit AD (i.e., using a BP cuff applied to the leg as a mild
      noxious stimulus), and then use that method to preliminarily evaluate the effects of the
      antihypertensive drug mecamylamine on AD. Study participants will complete up to 5 research
      visits, will undergo AD provocation using the leg cuff protocol, and will receive escalating
      doses of mecamylamine, as needed and tolerated, in order to prevent AD:

      After signing the informed consent form, at visit 1, subjects will complete an interview to
      evaluate past medical history, an autonomic dysfunction questionnaire, a physical examination
      (including an autonomic assessment and specialty SCI exam), vital signs measurement, and
      baseline testing of the electrical activity of the heart (electrocardiography or ECG
      testing).

      At visit 2, subjects will complete a preparation procedure including: baseline vital signs
      measurement, an interview to document all medications and/or supplements taken in the prior
      24 hours, confirmation of completed bladder/bowel evacuation before the visit, confirmation
      of no significant illness/injury since last visit, and documentation of any meals before the
      visit. Next, the subject will be connected to an ECG monitor and a (second) BP cuff will be
      applied to the arm (for measuring BP response to the leg cuff procedure). With the ECG and
      arm cuff in place, s/he will undergo the AD provocation procedure: The BP cuff placed around
      the leg just below the knee will be inflated for up to 10 minutes, as a means of providing
      sensory stimulation to elicit AD. BP will be measured using the arm cuff every 2 minutes
      during the leg cuff inflation, and periodically after the leg cuff is deflated, until BP and
      heart rate are back to baseline values. Physical manifestations and symptoms of AD will be
      recorded during the period of leg cuff inflation and thereafter, throughout recovery. This BP
      cuff protocol will be repeated twice during the same visit, with trials separated by a
      30-minute recovery period. The leg cuff will be deflated immediately if the blood
      pressure-measuring cuff shows that systolic BP exceeds 180 mmHg, diastolic BP exceeds 100
      mmHg, heart rate is less than 40 or greater than 100 beats per minute, adverse ECG changes
      are evident, or symptoms are unacceptable to the subject. An established safety plan will be
      followed in the event of a significant adverse reaction to the leg compression or study drug.
      If the leg cuff inflation fails to elicit AD, then the subject will be dropped from the
      study.

      At visit 3, a similar visit preparation procedure will be completed as in visit 2. Three
      hours prior to AD provocation testing with the leg cuff, subjects will receive 2.5 mg of
      mecamylamine in tablet form, to try to prevent AD. Physical manifestations and symptoms of AD
      will be recorded during the period of cuff inflation and thereafter, throughout recovery. The
      leg cuff will be deflated after 10 minutes, or immediately as appropriate according to the
      same criteria as listed for visit 2. After a 30-minute recovery, the leg cuff inflation will
      be repeated once during the same session, to confirm whether or not 2.5 mg of mecamylamine
      eliminates AD, or at least reduces the associated BP elevation, as well as the other
      manifestations and symptoms. If the dose of 2.5 mg mecamylamine is effective, the subject
      will not be asked to return for testing with a higher dose and study participation will end
      with visit 3. If either trial of leg cuff inflation still elicits AD despite premedication
      with 2.5 mg mecamylamine, then s/he will be scheduled to come back for visit 4.

      At visit 4, the visit preparation will be completed as in visits 2 and 3. Three hours prior
      to testing with the AD provocation procedure, 5 mg of mecamylamine will be given to the
      participant to try to prevent AD, since the lower dose failed to do so. The same procedures
      described above for visit 3 will be followed; subjects will again undergo 2 trials of AD
      provocation with the leg squeezing procedure. If both are successful (i.e., no AD is
      observed), the subject's participation in the study will end. If, despite premedication with
      mecamylamine 5 mg, the subject still experiences AD, then s/he will be asked to return for
      visit 5.

      At visit 5, all the procedures as in visit 4 will be repeated, except that subjects will
      receive 7.5 mg of mecamylamine. Regardless if the medication does not prevent AD, subjects
      will not be scheduled to come for a follow up, as no further dose escalation will be
      attempted.

      If at visit 3, 4, or 5 a subject experiences symptomatic low blood pressure after taking
      mecamylamine (manifest as dizziness, lightheadedness, or change in vision; this is considered
      unlikely based on the published literature), s/he will be asked to drink several glasses of
      cold water, and possibly to lay down for up to 30 minutes to try to alleviate those symptoms.
      In the event symptomatic low blood pressure persists, the subject will be given 10 mg of
      midodrine, a medication to elevate blood pressure. Midodrine would be expected to promptly
      (in less than an hour) elevate blood pressure and alleviate those symptoms. Upon adequate
      elevation of blood pressure to cause resolution of the symptoms, the subject will be
      discharged from the study, because of the adverse effect of mecamylamine. If the midodrine 10
      mg fails to resolve symptomatic low blood pressure, then further evaluation and treatment
      will be provided as appropriate (e.g., intravenous fluids). The latter scenario is considered
      to be extremely unlikely.

      note - visits will be separated by no more than one month
    
  