
    
      Study Subtype: Ancillary/Correlative Observational Study Model: Cohort Time Perspective:
      Retrospective Biospecimen Retention: Samples With DNA Biospecimen Description: Tissue Study
      Population Description: Patients previously enrolled on clinical trial COG-ANBL00B1 Sampling
      Method: Non-Probability Sample

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To comprehensively identify and characterize the spectrum and frequency of mutations in
      ALK across all neuroblastoma disease subsets using methodologies that will be resource
      neutral to the Children's Oncology Group Neuroblastoma Nucleic Acids Bank.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To formulate genetic screening recommendations for newly diagnosed patients with or
      without a family history of neuroblastoma.

      II. To identify the functionally relevant ALK mutations that can be pharmacologically
      inhibited.

      III. To test for the prognostic capability of ALK alterations. IV. To determine the clinical
      significance of ALK mutations and/or genomic rearrangements by combining ALK mutation,
      amplification, and translocation data overall and within each neuroblastoma risk group and
      correlating this information with clinical phenotype (i.e., age, International Neuroblastoma
      Staging System stage, and International Neuroblastoma Pathology Classification); genetic
      factors (i.e., ploidy, MYCN status); and patient outcome.

      OUTLINE:

      Tumor DNA samples are examined by mutation analysis for germline and somatic mutations in the
      ALK tyrosine kinase domain. Samples are analyzed by whole genome amplification using
      polymerase chain reaction and then sequenced for DNA alterations in the entire ALK coding
      sequence. Samples are also examined for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) by
      polymorphism analysis. Exploratory multivariable analysis is performed to test for the
      prognostic ability of ALK mutations in the presence of other known prognostic variables
      (i.e., age, International Neuroblastoma Staging System stage, MYCN status, International
      Neuroblastoma Pathology Classification, and diploidy).

      A subset of tumor DNA samples from high-risk patients will be resequenced for DNA alterations
      to determine whether or not additional regions in ALK, outside of the tyrosine kinase domain,
      are prone to mutations and should be sequenced in a larger panel.
    
  