
    
      Rationale for this Study Primary Existing routine health statistics underestimates the rate
      of morbidity due to diabetes complications. To provide more realistic estimation of
      morbidity, repeated epidemiological studies are essential in assessment of tendencies in
      diabetes medical care at the country level. They allow to reveal issues, which, being
      resolved, can contribute to the improvement of diabetes medical care effectiveness.
      Guidelines developed with this study data may save healthcare budgets and prevent financial
      losses due to diabetes-related morbidity and disability.

      Objectives of the Study • Primary objective: To determine the prevalence of individual
      microvascular and macrovascular complications among patients with diabetes mellitus type 1
      and type 2

      • Secondary objective: To determine the percentage of patients with diabetes mellitus type 1
      and type 2 achieved HbA1c <7,0%.

      Study design The hired medical team (9 specialists) is going to perform the technical
      study-related tasks in Moscow Region.

      Target population includes approximately 147,000 diabetes mellitus patients included in
      Regional Diabetes Mellitus Register, from which patients will be selected via random sampling
      (600 patients).

      A special rented medical bus will accommodate the study personnel at the place and all the
      local study-related activities.

      After obtaining a written Informed Consent Form by local endocrinologist the each study
      subject will have one study visit, when he or she should appear fasting and the following
      data will be collected, tests and examination performed:

        -  date of the diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus;

        -  medical history including coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, coronary
           revascularization, cerebrovascular disease (ischaemic stroke, a transient ischemic
           attack), peripheral artery disease, diabetic retinopathy (type, stage, year of
           diagnosis), diabetic neuropathy, chronic kidney disease, diabetic foot;

        -  blood tests for HbA1c, serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL- cholesterol, serum
           creatinine and estimation estimated Glomerular filtration rate by standard CKD-EPI,
           alanine-aminotransferase, aspartate-aminotransferase;

        -  urine analysis for albumin in spot urine;

        -  measurement of height, weight/BMI;

        -  measurement of sitting blood pressure, Electocardiogramm;

        -  eye examination, including fundoscopy;

        -  foot examination, including tests for touch, pain, temperature, and vibration sensation
           of the toes and mini-doppler ultrasound vessel study;

        -  current pharmacological therapy regimen (medications, daily doses). The medical team
           will admit up to 35 study subjects per day. This study has descriptive character. There
           is no any comparison to be performed.
    
  