
    
      This is a controlled observational longitudinal study designed to capture Cystic Fibrosis
      Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (CFTR) modulator therapy naive Cystic Fibrosis (CF)
      subjects with F508del(+/+) mutations before they age into the FDA approved treatment window
      for the CFTR modulator orkambi (ivacaftor/lumacaftor). These subjects will be compared to
      disease controls. The treatment group will be observed twice (at least 28 days apart and up
      to 18 months) before clinically starting orkambi and observed twice (at about 3 months and
      about 18 months) after clinically starting orkambi .

      This study takes advantage of the timely development of Ultrashort Echo Time Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (UTE MRI), Hyperpolarized Xenon (129Xe) MRI, Lung Clearance Index (LCI),
      and the approval of F508del CFTR-directed CF therapy in children. The proposal will:

      i) validate the emerging biomarker (UTE MRI) within CF children independent of genotype, ii)
      define the trajectory of UTE MRI and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) changes
      before and after initiating orkambi therapy compared with age-matched CF controls, and iii)
      determine the relationships between regional structural abnormalities (UTE MRI) and regional
      (129Xe MRI) and global (LCI) functional measures of ventilation. Results will establish MRI
      as a sensitive lung imaging tool that is translatable to all CF centers and can be applied
      throughout the lifespan of CF patients.

      CF patients with one or two copies of the F508del CFTR mutation who are 6-12 years old will
      undergo UTE MRI soon after a clinical computerized tomography (CT) scan, with disease
      quantification using an established scoring system for both modalities. Quantitative imaging
      data and LCI will be compared with spirometry (gold standard for CF lung disease) and
      clinical predictors of disease progression.

      The F508del(+/+) patient cohort will differ genotypically from the control cohort
      (F508del[+/-]). All patients in the F508del(+/-) cohort will be pancreatic insufficient and
      also have a nonfunctional second allele (Class I or II mutation, not candidates for modulator
      therapy). These two cohorts are phenotypically indistinguishable without modulator treatment,
      and therefore the untreated cohort will serve as an ideal age and time-matched control group
      for the F508del(+/+) subjects who clinically initiate orkambi.

      Disease trajectories in the two groups, as quantified by changes in pulmonary UTE MRI, will
      be compared with FEV1. MRI analysis will include quantitative and reader-based "Brody"
      scoring for the whole lung, lung lobes, and for subcategories of the Brody scoring system (in
      particular bronchiectasis, bronchial wall thickening, and mucus plugging).

      The longitudinal study will capture both cohorts at their scheduled annual CF visits when
      possible over about 4 years with modifications to the timeline for the treatment group based
      on when they are clinically scheduled to begin orkambi treatment.

      As FDA approved indications for orkambi change, subjects in the F508del(+/+) cohort will
      become candidates for modulators prior to their 12th birthday. The FDA is currently reviewing
      for approval in Fall 2016 to lower the prescribing age to 6 years and the investigators will
      be enrolling to meet the changes at that time.
    
  