
    
      Background: MDD (Major Depressive disorder) and BD (Bipolar disorder), whose specific
      pathogenesis is still unclear, are both a multi-factorial disease being caused by biological,
      psychological and social factors. Accumulating evidence suggests that gut microbiota play an
      important role in brain functions and in the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric diseases, such
      as autism, anxiety, as well as depression. No study has thus far compared the human gut
      microbiota among BD, MDD and the healthy control (HC). The aim of this study is to compare
      the composition of fecal microbiota among BD, MDD and HC. Furthermore, investigators aim at
      identifying direct correlations between human fecal microbiota (as a proxy for gut
      microbiota) and symptoms.

      Methods:

        1. Investigators aim at recruiting human subjects in total 240, which including mania
           episode of bipolar disorder (40), depressive episode of bipolar disorder (40), mixed
           episode of bipolar disorder (40), first episode of major depressive disorder (40),
           recurrent episode of major depressive disorder (40), and healthy control (40). All
           patients, diagnosed according to the research criteria of the 10th revision of the
           International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems
           (ICD-10）, come from The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University and
           controls are healthy volunteers.

        2. Collecting blood and stool samples, evaluating clinical scales including
           Montgomery-Asberg Depression Scale (MADRS), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Hamilton
           Depression Scale (HAMD), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA), Measurement And Treatment
           Research To Improve Cognition In Schizophrenia (MATRICS) Consensus Cognitive Battery
           (MCCB), Clinical Global Impression (CGI) are all finished in first day after threshold.

        3. Measure the metabolon in blood such as S-CFA, and gut microbiota.

        4. Using Statistical Program for Social Sciences (SPSS) to compare general and clinical
           data among groups and analyze the correlation between the microbiota and symptoms.
    
  