
    
      Parental mental health status is linked to the development and quality of caregiving, as well
      as physiological and psychosocial outcomes for the infant/child with a heart defect.

      This is an evolving population of parents with most challenged prenatally with a fetal
      diagnosis and later as caregivers for medically complex infants. Parents with pre- and
      postnatally diagnosed infants are at risk for sub-optimal mental health. Parents' experiences
      and needs differ by timing of diagnosis.

      Several gaps in the literature exist. First, advances in technology raise questions about how
      becoming a caregiver is experienced considering the timing of the diagnosis. Second, little
      is known about how the timing of the diagnosis could influence parents' mental health status
      and caregiving after diagnosis. Finally, more study is needed to identify the type, timing
      and duration of intervention to support these parents as caregivers and optimize their
      infants' health.

      Data collected for this study included demographic and health information (from parents and
      infant health records), measures of distress (symptoms of depression, anxiety and trauma),
      and interviews. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with parents in person in the
      hospital and home settings. Interviews with each couple in the prenatally diagnosed group
      were conducted once during the third trimester of pregnancy and once within 12 weeks after
      birth. Interviews with each couple or mother in the postnatally diagnosed group were
      conducted once within 12 weeks after birth. Interviews lasted 1-3 hours, were audio-recorded
      and transcribed verbatim for analysis. Field notes were also written and audio recorded for
      use in analysis.

      Directed content analysis has been used to describe parents' experiences and caregiving
      motivations in relation to parental distress and severity of infant illness. Analysis of data
      is ongoing. Additional analyses are expected to further improve knowledge on the differing
      needs of parents of pre- and postnatally diagnosed infants, as well as parents' experiences
      and caregiving motivations in the context of discharge from tertiary care.
    
  