
    
      Full venous duplex ultrasonography was performed using Medical ultrasound scan. Cognizant of
      the negative consequences of standing and sitting for long periods of time (e.g. venous
      hypertension, venous reflux), we scheduled investigations for early morning, thus ensuring
      examination of the physiological status of the venous system in each patient. Ultrasound
      examinations of reflux at the saphenofemoral junction (SFJ) were performed using the Valsalva
      maneuver. Ultrasound examination of GSV reflux was performed by manually compressing the calf
      followed by sudden release. Reverse flow that lasted more than 0.5 seconds was considered
      pathological. Preoperative venous duplex mapping was done in the upright position. Further
      measurements of the GSV diameter 15 cm below the SFJ level were conducted to describe the
      severity of varicose veins more accurately.

      The diameter of GSV at the 15-cm below the SFJ level was the main criterion to identify two
      groups of patients. Those with the GSV diameter ≤ 6 mm were treated with ASVAL. If the
      diameter of GSV was > 6 mm, EVLA with concomitant phlebectomy was performed.

      All surgical procedures were accomplished by the same surgeon, using tumescent local
      anesthesia (i.e. 0,1% lidocaine and sodium bicarbonate solution without epinephrine).The EVLA
      was done under duplex guidance with a 1560-nm diode laser using bare fibres via a Seldinger
      wire technique. The GSV was cannulated at the lowest point of the reflux. The laser fiber was
      advanced below the SFJ at the level of v. epigastrica sup. after which the GSV was ablated
      during gradual withdrawal of the fibre. The 15 Watts laser power was delivered in a
      continuous pull back traction. The average applied linear endovenous energy dose (LEED) was
      75,3 J/cm.

      Peripheral side branches were removed by multiple stab avulsions in both groups. After the
      treatment, the leg was wrapped in sterile absorbent bandages, and compression stockings class
      II (23-32 mm Hg) were put on and recommended to wear for two weeks. All patients were
      discharged on the day of the treatment and were invited to a follow-up duplex ultrasonography
      (DUS) on the 1st post-operative day, 2 years and 5 years after the operation (patients were
      contacted by phone). DUS at follow-up visits was carried out by an independent specialist who
      was not involved in the initial treatment of the patients. To report clinical recurrence
      after EVLA we have used Group d' Evaluation des Lasers et de l'Echographie Vasculare (GELEV)
      score.
    
  