
    
      Breastfeeding provides general health, growth, and development benefits to an infant and
      significantly decreases the risk of certain acute and chronic diseases. Breastfeeding also
      decreases financial burden on the mother by decreasing the need for infant formula and health
      care for the infant. However, clinical evidence has shown that HIV can be readily transmitted
      through breast milk, although the risk of HIV MTCT over time while breastfeeding has been
      difficult to determine. Given the many advantages of breastfeeding and the significant
      obstacles to substituting formula for breast milk in developing countries, there is an urgent
      need to make breastfeeding by HIV infected women safe. This study will evaluate the safety
      and efficacy of an extended NVP regimen for prevention of MTCT of HIV through breastfeeding.

      This study will last approximately 3.5 years. Mother/infant pairs will be enrolled over a
      period of 18 to 24 months. During the third trimester of pregnancy, HIV infected participants
      will receive HIV counseling and the intrapartum/neonatal two-dose NVP prophylaxis regimen to
      prevent MTCT. Mothers will also be given infant feeding options counseling and information on
      administering the study drug to the infant. Infants who were randomly assigned to receive a
      placebo and older than 6 weeks of age as of 08/10/07 OR to receive NVP will continue their
      treatment assignment. Infants who were randomly assigned to receive a placebo and are 6 weeks
      of age or less as of 08/10/07 will receive open-label NVP through Day 42 of life. For all
      other participants, all randomized infants will receive extended NVP through 6 weeks (Day 42)
      of life. All eligible infants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups at Week 6
      following birth. The first group will receive extended NVP treatment; the second group will
      receive nevirapine placebo. Randomized infants will receive the extended NVP or NVP placebo
      through the first 6 months of life or until cessation of breastfeeding, whichever occurs
      earlier. Mothers will be instructed to begin giving their infants their assigned intervention
      starting at Day 3 to Day 7 postpartum. All mothers and infants outside of the study will be
      offered the local standard of care antiretroviral (ARV) regimen for the prevention of MTCT,
      but these ARVs will not be provided by the study.

      Follow-up evaluations will be conducted at Weeks 2 and 6 and Months 3, 6, 12, and 18 for
      mothers, and at Weeks 2, 5, 6, and 8 and Months 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 12, and 18 for infants. Study
      visits will include physical examinations, blood tests (including HIV tests), and medical
      histories. Study participants will be followed for up to 3.5 years.
    
  