
    
      The overall purpose of the study is to identify biomarkers for FD in order to improve early
      detection and diagnosis, define pathological phenotypes and facilitate the monitoring of the
      disease and its response to therapy.

      4.1 Primary objective o Identification of biomarkers for FD, mainly linked with phenotype
      (classic vs late onset); clinical manifestations (renal, cardiac and cerebrovascular FD
      associated complications) and treatment response.

      4.2 Secondary objective o Correlate proteomic and transcriptomic data with geno-phenotype and
      especially with Lyso-Gb3 levels.

      5 Methods

      5.1 Study design This clinical study is an international, multicenter, prospective, open,
      with control group protocol, collecting biological samples (blood plasma) in patients
      diagnosed with FD (treated and non-treated patients) and healthy subjects. The same
      procedures will be done both control and FD patients.

      All participants will be recruited during 15 months and all procedures will be placed over a
      single visit. The study will include two groups:

        -  FD patients (treated and untreated)

        -  Healthy controls

      This study will be carried out with 3'omics analytical platforms (metabolomics,
      transcriptomics and proteomics) will be applied. Patients will be recruited through the
      Association of Lysosomal Patients-MPS Spain and Portugal and clinicians from Expert Centers
      in Spain and Portugal in this disorder. Children and adults of both sexes with a diagnosis of
      FD are eligible (refer to Section 5.2.1 Inclusion criteria).

      This study will be performed in accordance with guidelines approved by the Galician (Spain)
      and Portuguese Ethics Committees. Expressed consent from patients or legal guardian/legal
      representative members if available will be written indicating that they understand the
      purpose and the procedures required for the study and are willing to participate in the
      study.

      The informed consent must be obtained before performance of any study-related activity.

      Information related to the following variables will be collected from each subject: age, sex,
      age at diagnosis, clinical symptoms at diagnosis, time of evolution, concomitant medications
      and start date, genetic study, lyso-Gb3 levels and α-GalA enzymatic activity. Blood samples
      (EDTA anti-coagulated, PAXgene Blood RNA, and Serum tubes) from each centre will be sent to
      our laboratory for proteomic and transcriptomic research assessment. If subjects are under
      ERT for FD, preinfusion and postinfusion samples will be obtained.

      Disease diagnosis and phenotype will be classified as classic or later onset according
      internationally established criteria [17,18]. Recruited patients can be included in the study
      without receiving prior treatment or with some of the pharmacological alternatives authorized
      for commercialization, either replacement enzyme therapy and/or pharmacological chaperones.
      The same evaluations will also be carried out in healthy agesex matched controls.

      5.2 Study Population

      The study will obtain biological samples (one sample of blood plasma per participant) from
      patients with diagnosis of FD, treated and non-treated, recruited through the Association of
      Lysosomal Patients-MPS Spain and Portugal and clinicians from Expert Centres in Spain and
      Portugal in this disorder. An age and sex-matched group of healthy subjects will serve as
      controls. Controls will be identified from volunteers and nonmedical staff at the Clinical
      Hospital University of Santiago. Controls will be required to have a negative family history
      for lysosomal storage disorders and no clinical signs of FD.
    
  