
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A large part of the U.S. population is exposed to ambient ozone (O3) concentrations that are
      associated with acute respiratory health effects; however, little is known about the effects
      on human respiratory health of long-term exposure to such ambient concentrations. Chronic
      exposure of non-human primates to high concentrations of O3 are associated with pathologic
      changes in the centriacinar region of the lung that are similar to changes observed in young
      cigarette smokers. This is the first detailed epidemiologic study of the effects of chronic
      exposure to an air pollutant based on individual estimates of lifetime exposure and
      controlled exposure data. The study tests a specific toxicologic model in humans that has
      relevance for chronic respiratory disease and explores mechanisms of effects.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study tested the hypothesis that, in humans, there was an exposure-response relationship
      between the amount of chronic exposure to ambient O3 and measures of lung function that
      reflected changes in the centriacinar region of the human lung (FEF25-75); and this
      relationship was not seen with measures of more proximal airway function (FEV1). First-year
      UC Berkeley students, ages 18-21 yrs, who were lifelong residents of the Los Angles Basin,
      (high O3) and the San Francisco Bay Area, (low O3) were studied. Lifetime exposure to ambient
      O3 was estimated with methods developed by the investigators that combined questionnaire and
      ambient O3 data. Lung function was assessed with maximum expiratory flow-volume curves.
      Students were studied after 4-6 months of low ambient O3 exposure and immediately after 2-3
      months of exposure to summertime O3. Students from each area who were at the upper and lower
      tails of the FEF25-75 distribution underwent two controlled O3 exposures (seasonal as above)
      followed by bronchoalveolar lavage/biopsy to evaluate relationships between measures of
      inflammation, injury/repair and oxidant induced damage/repair and FEF25-75. Regression was
      used to evaluate relationships between lifetime O3 exposure and lung function, adjusted for
      past and family respiratory history, allergy history, home characteristics, exposure to
      environmental tobacco smoke and particle air pollution and NO2.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  