
    
      This is a prospective randomized trial comparing the efficacy of a low venous pressure
      general anesthesia (LVPGA) technique vs. combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSE) in
      decreasing intraoperative blood loss in patients undergoing open radical retropubic
      prostatectomy (RRP) for newly diagnosed clinically localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
      The study design involves the enrollment of 246 patients scheduled for RRP. To control for
      surgeon technique in the varibility of intraoperative blood loss, the study will be limited
      to the patient population of two surgeons who perform greater than 150 radical
      prostatectomies per year. Patients will be stratified for each surgeon and will be randomized
      to receive either a LVPGA or CSE. Preoperatively patients will be encouraged to donate
      autologous blood as is the current practice at MSKCC. Perioperative measurement and
      management of fluid administration, estimation of blood loss and urine output, and
      transfusion criteria will be standardized for both anesthesia groups. Transfusion of blood
      products will be at the discretion of the attending surgeon and anesthesiologist following
      the guidelines described in the protocol. Autologous blood will not routinely be transfused
      back if the hemoglobin is >= 8.0 and the patient is not symptomatic. Patients randomized to
      the CSE arm will also receive postoperative epidural analgesia, while patients randomized to
      LVPGA will receive intravenous PCA analgesia as per our current standard of care. Pain relief
      will be assessed by a standardized pain scale and recorded in the PACU and then twice daily
      until discharge. All patients will receive routine preoperative evaluation, as well as
      routine intraoperative and postoperative monitoring and care. All patients will be placed on
      a routine postoperative pathway. The MSKCC Morbidity/Mortality DMT Documentation System will
      be utilized to document postoperative complications as per our routine practice. The Surgical
      Secondary Events (SSE) program is designed to provide risk adjusted postoperative morbidity
      and mortality data for institutional comparisons and as a decision support project,
      generating, reporting and analyzing events to promote change and improvement in patient
      management. SSE are grouped in 6 grades depending on the severity of the complication and the
      treatment requirements: Grade 0, no event observed beyond 30 days postop. Grade 1, use of
      oral medications, bedside interventions to treat an event. Grade 2, use of I.V. medications,
      TPN, enteral nutrition, or blood transfusion to treat an event. Grade 3, interventional
      radiology, therapeutic endoscopy, intubation, angiography or operation required to treat an
      event. Grade 4, residual and lasting disability requiring major rehabilitation or organ
      resection. Grade 5, event resulting in death of patient.
    
  