
    
      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the role of Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y Gastric
      bypass(LRYGBP), Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG) and Standard medical management in
      patients of type II diabetes and BMI between 27.5 - 32.5 kg / m²."

        -  A. Partial Remission

        -  B. Complete Remission

        -  C. No Remission

      Secondary Objective is to evaluate the role of LRYGB, LSG and SMM on other metabolic disorder
      parameters like

        -  Dyslipidemia

        -  Hypertension

        -  Waist Circumference

      This is a study comparing the role of LRYGB, LSG and SMM in subjects suffering from Type II
      diabetes mellitus with BMI between 27.5 - 32.5 kg/m². Diabetic patients shall be enrolled as
      per the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The study treatment will be LRYGB surgery or LSG or
      SMM in subjects who qualify the inclusion/ exclusion criteria.

      Post discharge the study subjects will be followed up at the following intervals:

      1 Month, 3 Months 12 Months and 24 Months respectively At follow up subjects shall have an
      overall clinical examination, adverse events and complication shall be recorded and blood
      samples for laboratory investigation shall be collected.

      Number of Subjects

      Planned: 150 qualified subjects

      To be Analyzed: 150 qualified subjects

      Statistical Methods:

      Study Population Male and female subjects 30-60 years of age with Type II Diabetes and BMI
      between 27.5 - 32.5 kg/m2, who fulfill all the inclusion criteria and do not meet any
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the Study.

      Sample Size In this study 150 eligible subjects will be enrolled. One Fifty subjects enrolled
      would provide the 95% of confidence interval with 10% absolute precision.

      Statistical Analysis In this study first normality of the data will be checked. Normally
      distributed data will be analysed by paired t-test. For non- parametric data Wilcox-on signed
      rank sum test will be used.

      As same Subject will be examined at different time points (more than two time points) the
      ANOVA of Repeated measures will be used. All tests will be two-tailed and the significance
      level will be 0.05
    
  