
    
      Speech and communication quality depend on respiration efficiency. The respiratory
      involvement observed in neuromuscular disorders can impair speech quality in patients, while
      the underlying disease may also contribute to alter phonation.

      Nowadays, the first line treatment of neuromuscular chronic neuromuscular respiratory failure
      is noninvasive ventilation (NIV). With disease progression, it is used with increasingly
      duration during daytime. In that situation, mouthpiece ventilation is preferred as it allows
      efficient ventilation while being more comfortable for patients who can chose when they want
      to be ventilated. However, in that situation, patients do not receive ventilatory support
      while they are speaking which puts them in a less favorable situation for speech. We think
      that pre-phonation inspiratory volume is an essential part of speech quality. Without
      mechanical ventilation, this volume is reduced as a consequence of respiratory failure but it
      is liable to increase significantly if the patient used the volume delivered by the
      ventilator .

      We believe that phonation is improved by NIV by applying specific ventilation parameters in
      patients dependant on mechanical ventilation. The modification could be used by neuromuscular
      patients to improve speech quality; the patients would then be able to use their usual
      ventilatory support to improve phonation and modulation of their speech.

      In this crossover open labelled, randomised study, done in a single center (home ventilation
      unit of the referral center of Hospital Raymond Poincaré HUPIFO (University Hospital of
      Western Paris and Ile de France) (Garches, France)), phonation characteristics will be
      studied in 3 situations (during spontaneous breathing without ventilatory support, with the
      usual NIV parameters, with speech-specific NIV parameters) during which speech trials will be
      performed.
    
  