
    
      Randomised trial comparing TVT-O & TOT in surgical management of USI (Urodynamic Stress
      Incontinence):

      Aim: To compare two transobturator tension free vaginal tape procedures; TVT-O Gynecare vs.
      TOT mentor for management of USI. This study will compare the surgical approach & tape
      material in both procedures [In-Out (TVT-O) Vs. the Out-In (TOT)] as regards to; Complication
      rates, Objective & subjective cure rates, Patient satisfaction & quality of life (QoL)
      changes.

      Design: Randomised trial in a regional referral centre, approved by ethical committee.

      Background: Transobturator tension free vaginal tape is currently the first choice
      mid-urethral tape procedure for surgical treatment of USI in our unit. The choice of the
      surgical approach and tape material; In-Out (TVT-O) vs. the Out-In (TOT) is currently taken
      predominately according to the surgeon preference without any solid clinical evidence to
      support that one approach or one tape is superior to the other.

      Methods: All women undergoing transobturator tension free vaginal tape procedure in our
      department for pure USI, done as a primary anti-incontinence procedure and as the sole
      procedure at time of surgery, will be invited to participate in the study and will receive an
      information leaflet and will sign a consent form. All would have had failed or declined
      physiotherapy treatment. Procedures mainly take place in the surgery unit under general
      anaesthesia; those that are done in the main surgical list are due to patients' associated
      medical conditions or needing spinal anaesthesia or living in remote areas. Randomisation
      will be performed using sealed opaque envelopes. TVT-O & TOT will be done as originally
      described, we do not perform cough stress test routinely. All patients will receive
      intra-operative; prophylactic antibiotics & anti- inflammatory drugs if not contraindicated.
      Lidocaine 1% will be infiltrated into the needle pathway at the end of the procedure; 10mls.
      on each side. Satisfactory postoperative voiding - for the purpose of this study - is defined
      as passing at least 200mls with post-voiding residual urinary volume <100mls assessed at
      least twice.

      Preoperative assessment would include:

        -  Detailed history & pelvic examination.

        -  Urodynamic assessment.

        -  Preoperative quality of life assessment will include:

             -  Completion of the King's Health Questionnaire- version 7 (KHQ).

             -  Incontinence Bothersome Scale.

             -  Bristol Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Questionnaire (BULTS).

             -  Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Function Questionnaire (PISQ-12).

      Operative assessment would include:

        -  Operative time

        -  Blood loss.

        -  Surgeon assessment of procedure difficulty using visual analogue score (VAS)

        -  Intra-operative complications:

             -  Bladder/Urethral injury.

             -  Haemorrhage (>200 mls.).

        -  Further procedures needed.

        -  Immediate postoperative assessment:

             -  Postoperative pain assessment will include:

                  -  Patient self assessment using visual analogue score (VAS).

                  -  Unscheduled ward admission for postoperative pain.

        -  Postoperative voiding dysfunction will be defined as any deviation from satisfactory
           postoperative voiding described above. This will include assessment of:

             -  Days of catheterization.

             -  Intermittent self catheterization or permanent supra-pubic catheter.

             -  Urethral dilatation.

             -  Surgical release/excision of the tape.

             -  Postoperative pyrexia,

             -  Urinary tract infection (UTI).

             -  Hospital stay (for medical reasons).

      Outpatient postoperative assessment:

      Patients will be reviewed at three months for:

        -  Urodynamic assessment.

        -  Completion of the King's Health Questionnaire- version 7 (KHQ).

        -  Completion of the Incontinence Bothersome Scale.

        -  Completion of the Patient Satisfaction questionnaire.

        -  Bristol Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Questionnaire (BULTS).

        -  Complications: Tape erosions, De-novo urgency, Worsening of pre-existing urgency,
           long-term voiding dysfunction.

      Patients will be reviewed at Six month, 12 month, 3 years & 5 years for:

        -  24 hour Pad test.

        -  Completion of the King's Health Questionnaire- version 7 (KHQ).

        -  Completion of the Incontinence Bothersome Scale.

        -  Bristol Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Questionnaire (BULTS).

        -  Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Function Questionnaire (PISQ-12).

        -  Completion of the Patient Satisfaction questionnaire.

        -  Complications: Tape erosions, De-novo Urgency, Worsening of pre-existing urgency,
           long-term voiding dysfunction.

        -  Further treatment needed.
    
  