
    
      Ventilator-associated pneumoniae (VAP) is the most common infection acquired in the intensive
      care unit (ICU). To date, there is no diagnostic gold standard for VAP, and its diagnosis is
      based on scores that include radiologic, clinical, laboratory, and microbiologic parameters.
      In addition, there is no univocal recommendation regarding the type of microbiological
      diagnostics. Some guidelines suggest the use of noninvasive methods (endotracheal aspiration,
      ETA) with semiquantitative cultures, while others suggest the collection of distal
      respiratory samples (bronchoalveolar lavage, BAL) with quantitative cultures. While the
      former method is characterized by higher sensitivity and lower specificity, the latter in
      contrast has higher specificity. To date, there is no evidence that one method is superior to
      the other in terms of clinical outcome.

      In patients with severe SARS-CoV-2 infection, COVID-19 disease itself and immunomodulatory
      therapies have a direct impact on most of the clinical, laboratory and radiologic parameters
      required to achieve VAP diagnosis. In this setting, a diagnostic approach characterized by
      higher sensitivity coupled with lower specificity could lead to of a high number of false
      positives. The greatest risk is that of an overdiagnosis of VAP and a consequent
      overtreatment, with the related therapeutic toxicity and increased antibiotic resistance.

      At the investigators' Hospital, the diagnosis of VAP is based on clinical-radiological
      suspicion according to the Johanson score (new finding or progression of infiltrates on lung
      radiography + at least two of the following three clinical criteria: fever > 38°C,
      leukocytosis or leukopenia, purulent secretions), widely validated in non-COVID patients.
      Until the end of 2020, microbiological data to confirm the diagnosis of clinically suspected
      VAP and to guide antibiotic therapy were based on the performance of biweekly surveillance
      ETA. In view of the limited specificity of this approach in COVID-19 setting, from the end of
      2020 patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection and suspected VAP undergo, if clinically possible, to
      collection of distal respiratory specimens by performing BAL/mini-BAL.

      The present prospective-retrospective cohort study aims to evaluate the incidence of
      microbiologically confirmed VAP with BAL (prospective part) and biweekly surveillance ETA
      (retrospective part) in mechanically ventilated patients with COVID-19 in the ICU. In the
      prospective part, immunological and virological analyses will be performed on biological
      samples (blood, respiratory tract) collected from patients at VAP diagnosis.

      The study will last 12 months.
    
  