
    
      Genetic linkage and association studies in Icelandic patients with a history of myocardial
      infarction and stroke showed common haplotypes in two genes, 5-lipoxygenase activating
      protein(FLAP)and Leukotriene A4 Hydrolase(LTA4H), that each conferred significant risk for MI
      and stroke. The FLAP haplotype had a RR of 1.8 for MI and 2.1 for those with MI and stroke.
      LTA4H haplotype had a RR of 1.1 for MI and 1.5 for MI and stroke.Both gene associations were
      replicated in European and US Caucasian groups and were independent of the conventional risk
      factors such as LDL-cholesterol, hypertension, and diabetes. The haplotype for the LTA4H
      pathway showed a modest relative risk of 1.2 in US Caucasian cohorts for all MI and 1.4 for
      MI and stroke. However, the LTA4H haplotype had a much higher relative risk of 3.5 for
      myocardial infarction in African-Americans (p=0.000022).

      Self identified African American patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) were selected
      for this study as this population has the highest risk identified to date for developing an
      MI related to the HapK genetic variant in the leukotriene pathway. The study will be enriched
      to include African American patients randomized by an algorithm designed to assure that
      approximately 80% of the study population will be Hap K positive and 20% will not have the
      Hap K positive result.

      All patients will be screened for eligibility based on the haplotype status. Patients will be
      randomized to either veliflapon or placebo on top of standard care. Patients are randomized
      within 5-30 days of their ACS event.

      This is an events driven study with the time of the first occurrence of any of the following
      elements: hospitalization for UA or urgent revascularization, fatal/non-fatal MI,
      fatal/non-fatal stroke and CV related death comprising the primary endpoint. The primary null
      hypothesis of efficacy is that time to first CV event among African American patients with a
      positive LTA4H HapK Variant assay test is no different from placebo when either is given in
      addition to standard of care therapy. A total of 3450 eligible patients will be randomized in
      this study.

      The treatment duration for patients enrolled in the study will be a target of at least 6
      months (based on approximate time of last patient enrolled) and up to 36 months (from first
      patient enrolled). All cardiac clinical events endpoints will be adjudicated by an
      independent Clinical Endpoint Committee (CEC).
    
  