
    
      This study was a multicentred, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to assess the
      safety and the effecacy of a newly developed gastrointestinal vibrating capsule (VC) in
      treating patients with functional constipation (FC). The whole process included two weeks
      run-in period, six weeks double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period, and a follow-up
      period until the discharge of all swallowed capsules. During treatment period, patients were
      required to swallow one capsule every three to four days and a total of twelve capsules.

      For each patient, a face to face follow-up was required for at least 6 times, once every two
      weeks through the whole study.

      Run-in period (Visit 1) Face to face consultation in gastroenterology outpatient clinic and
      sign of written informed consents; Barium enema or colonoscopy (no re-examination is needed
      if the patient has undergone barium enema or total colonoscopy within a year); Distribution
      of bisacodyl tablets and diary cards; Perform the following examinations: vital signs,
      physical examination and laboratory examination; Eligibility evaluation based on the
      entry/discharge criteria; Record of past medical history, concomitant diseases and
      medication; Collection of the baseline characteristics of the enrolled patients including
      age, sex, duration of constipation, mean SCBMs, spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs), BMs,
      frequency of bisacodyl tablets taken and Bristol Score.

      Treatment period Visit 2： Randomization; Patients were asked to fill in PAC-SYM, PAC-QOL and
      Comprehensive Evaluation Questionnaire; Record of vital signs and physical examination;
      Distribution of bisacodyl tablets, capsule retrieving bags and VCs; Instruct patients how to
      use the control board and start the vibration of VCs; Recycle of bisacodine tablets;
      Distribution and collection of diary cards; Record of adverse events, concomitant diseases
      and medication. Visit 3, Visit 4： Patients were asked to fill in PAC-SYM, PAC-QOL and
      Comprehensive Evaluation Questionnaire; Record of vital signs and physical examination;
      Recheck fecal routine and occult blood examination; Distribution of bisacodyl tablets,
      capsule retrieving bags and VCs; Recycle of bisacodyl tablets and VCs; Distribution and
      collection of diary cards; Record of adverse events, concomitant diseases and medication.
      Visit 5： Patients were asked to fill in PAC-SYM, PAC-QOL and Comprehensive Evaluation
      Questionnaire; Record of vital signs and physical examination; ECG; Blood routine/blood
      biochemistry/urine routine; Fecal routine and occult blood; Recycle of bisacodyl tablets and
      VCs; Distribution and collection of diary cards; Distribution of capsule retrieving bags;
      Record of adverse events, concomitant diseases and medication.

      Follow-up period (Visit6):

      Determine the discharge of all capsules; Recycle of capsules; Collection of diary cards;
      During the follow-up period, once the capsule was discharged the follow-up would be ended. If
      the capsules were still in the body, the patients must continue the follow-up until the
      capsules were all discharged.

      The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with SBM increased more than 1 time
      during treatment period. Secondary endpoints including mean SCBM , SBM , bowel movement (BM)
      and their improvements , Bristol Score, capsule evacuation time and satisfaction level.
      Patients were continuously monitored for adverse events (AE) at baseline and at each visit.
      Satisfaction level were evaluated based on Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality of Life
      questionnaire (PAC-QOL) and Patient Assessment of Constipation Symptom (PAC-SYM) at each
      visit.
    
  