
    
      Patients undergoing either an autologous or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant
      (HSCT) and receiving preparative chemotherapy experience a considerable amount of
      chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). Current strategies at reducing CINV in this
      patient population are suboptimal due to lack of efficacy and supportive evidence, potential
      for increased adverse events, and drug-drug and drug-disease contraindications. This study
      will be an open-label, prospective trial randomizing patients at a 1:1 ratio, to either one
      of two 5-hydroxytrytamine 3 (5-HT3) antagonists, transdermal granisetron or intravenous
      (i.v.) ondansetron, in combination with other standard, routinely administered anti-emetic
      drugs (dexamethasone). Rescue antiemetics will be administered at any time during the study
      period for vomiting or severe nausea at the request of the patients or as recommended by the
      attending physicians. For the granisetron treatment arm, patients will be educated and
      instructed to self-administer a single transdermal granisetron patch one-two days
      (approximately 24-48 hours) prior to start of the preparative regimen. An additional dose of
      transdermal granisetron will be administered 7 days after the initial granisetron dose. For
      the ondansetron treatment arm, patients will receive the standard dose and schedule of
      intravenous ondansetron that is routinely administered for each respective preparative
      regimen. Use of rescue medications will be assessed daily during chemotherapy, and for 7 days
      after the last chemotherapy drug administration (delayed phase). Nausea, vomiting, and
      treatment-related side effects will be documented and followed during this same time period.
      A quality of life questionnaire (MDASI-BMT) will be administered at Day + 7 (7 days after day
      of infusion). All other aspects of patient care (i.e., chemotherapy administration,
      supportive care, etc.) and laboratory monitoring will adhere to the routine standard of care
      operating procedures for stem cell transplant patients.
    
  