
    
      Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is very effective in the management of complex
      coronary artery disease (CAD). Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is commonly employed to achieve a
      still and bloodless field, which facilitates the creation of technically impeccable coronary
      anastomoses. Multiple adverse effects that stem from exposure of blood to a non-endothelial
      surface contrast the clear benefit of CPB. Neurological damage remains one of the most
      dreaded complications following CABG. While the incidence of new focal motor deficits is low,
      postoperative neurocognitive dysfunction (POCD) is seen commonly. The increasing risk profile
      of contemporary CABG patients makes neuroprotective strategies progressively more important.

      Ischemic preconditioning is an endogenous protective response triggered by brief episodes of
      nonlethal ischemia and reperfusion. In clinical practice remote ischemic preconditioning
      (RIPC) is achieved by inducing short periods of ischemia of the upper extremity, followed by
      restitution of flow. This non-pharmacological strategy for inducing ischemic tolerance is
      cost-free and non-invasive, with potentially wide clinical applicability.

      The "Impact of Remote Ischemic Preconditioning preceding Coronary Artery bypass Grafting on
      inducing nEuroprotection (RIPCAGE) trial" will recruit 70 patients scheduled for elective
      CABG at a single academic center. The hypothesis tested in this research proposal is that
      RIPC will decrease the extent of postoperative neuronal damage and lead to a reduction in
      POCD among CABG patients. Specifically, the investigators aim to determine whether RIPC can
      reduce magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) detectable brain damage and attenuate the
      neurocognitive decline universally seen in patients after CABG.

      The primary composite outcome will consist of a composite of new ischemic lesions on brain
      MRI and POCD.

      The secondary endpoints will be the following:

        1. Brain connectivity profiles on resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI).

        2. Pooled ischemic volumes of new diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) hyperintensity.

        3. Percent declines of components in individual neurocognitive tests.

      Patients will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to either receive RIPC or no intervention
      (control group). In the intervention arm, transient upper extremity ischemia will be induced
      after induction of anesthesia by inflating a blood pressure cuff to 200 mmHg for 5 min,
      followed by a 5 min cuff deflation. This sequence will be repeated 3 times. Patients in the
      control group will also have a blood pressure cuff placed, but it will not be inflated. All
      patients will undergo preoperative neurocognitive testing coupled with baseline brain MRI.
      The neurocognitive evaluation will consist of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test
      and the Trail Making Test (TMT). Decreased cognitive function for each test will be defined
      as an individual decrease of at least 1 standard deviation of the group baseline mean for
      that test. POCD will be defined as a decrease in two or more tests. The patients will have a
      repeat neurocognitive evaluation prior to discharge from hospital.

      Standard MRI sequences will be performed in all patients. DWI will be utilized for volumetric
      analysis of brain tissue exhibiting stigmata of ischemic injury. The timing of apparent
      diffusion coefficient quantification will be standardized to postoperative day 7, as it
      normalizes over time. Additional MRI sequences will include susceptibility weighted imaging
      (SWI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Resting state functional MRI will be performed in
      order to investigate the coordination of activity across brain networks. Pre- and
      postprocedural rs-fMRI data will be subsequently compared with each other. Disruption in the
      connectivity of neural circuits induced by the operation will be thereby be objectivized.

      Patients will be followed for a total of 3 months, during which time all adverse events will
      be recorded and adjudicated by an independent clinical events committee.
    
  