
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess whether the addition of panitumumab (a dual-epidermal growth factor receptor
           inhibitor) to standard chemotherapy comprising gemcitabine hydrochloride and erlotinib
           hydrochloride results in an improvement in overall survival of patients with previously
           untreated, metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

      Secondary

        -  To compare objective response rates, progression-free survival, time to treatment
           failure, quality of life, and adverse event rates in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To evaluate the downstream marker, KRAS, in stool specimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance
      status (0 vs 1) and prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no). The first 6 patients are
      assigned to arm II. Subsequent patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and
           15 and oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28
           days for 2 courses. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) after 2 courses receive
           2 additional courses of treatment; patients achieving a partial response (PR) receive
           retreatment as above in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Patients achieving a CR after 4 courses of treatment receive maintenance therapy
           comprising erlotinib hydrochloride daily until the first disease progression. After the
           first progression, patients are retreated with gemcitabine hydrochloride and erlotinib
           hydrochloride until second progression (using the first progression tumor measurements
           as the new baseline reference).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and erlotinib hydrochloride as in arm
           I and panitumumab IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2
           courses. Patients achieving a CR after 2 courses receive 2 additional courses of
           treatment; patients achieving a PR receive retreatment as above in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a CR after 4 courses of
           treatment receive maintenance therapy comprising erlotinib hydrochloride daily and
           panitumumab every 2 weeks until the first disease progression. After the first
           progression, patients are retreated with gemcitabine hydrochloride, erlotinib
           hydrochloride, and panitumumab until second progression (using the first progression
           tumor measurements as the new baseline reference).

      Stool samples are collected at baseline and analyzed for KRAS mutations via protein analyses.

      Quality of life will be assessed at baseline, every 2 courses during treatment, and at the
      end of treatment.

      After the second progression, patients are followed every 3-6 months for 2 years.
    
  