
    
      This investigator-initiated, one-armed study is designed to evaluate the safety and function
      of the FAST PV and mGFR Technology in patients with CHF. Data from the FAST PV and mGFR
      Technology will not be evaluable by the treating physician, but will be made available to the
      study investigators and to an adjudication committee.

      Patients enrolled in the study will be administered the VFI (Day 1) and with a second dose
      occurring 24-48 hours after the initial dose (Day 3).

      After consenting to be enrolled in the study, patients meeting the enrollment criteria will
      receive a single dose of VFI. Blood draws (3 mL) will be collected pre-dose and at 15, 30,
      60, and 180 minutes post-dose, which will be subsequently used to determine the patient's
      blood volume and mGFR using the FAST PV and mGFR Technology. Patients will be treated
      according to standard of care throughout the time of their hospitalization. A second dose of
      VFI will be administered 48 (+/- 5) hours after the initial dosing. Again, blood draws (3 mL)
      will be collected pre-dose and at 15, 30, 60, and 180 minutes post-dose.

      Study-related blood samples will be obtained on days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 to measure serum
      creatinine (days 1-5), hematocrit (days 1, 3), and N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide
      (NT-pro-BNP), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin total and direct, and international
      normalized ratio (INR) (days 1, 3, and 5); and will be stored for future testing of
      additional parameters in the research fields of acute decompensated heart failure and acute
      kidney injury.

      The available laboratory values will be entered in the Dosing Day Case Report Form (CRF),
      along with any copies of physician's notes and orders entered that day. Prior to
      administering the first and second dose of VFI, the physician will be asked to complete a
      very brief survey to provide a qualitative assessment of the patient's perceived volume
      status and renal function prior to initiating the FAST PV and mGFR measurements.

      Laboratory values and assessments will be captured on each day that the VFI is administered,
      and these data will be entered into the CRF. Any adverse events (AEs) determined by the
      investigator to be related or possibly related to the VFI will be captured. Patients will
      receive a followup phone call 7 days (± 2 days) after the first dose of VFI was administered,
      and a second follow up call 30 days after the first dose of VFI was administered as an end of
      study (EOS) follow up call. Any AEs determined by the investigator will be captured during
      the follow up calls and will be followed to resolution. Additionally, in-person follow-up
      visits may be scheduled as needed.

      Upon conclusion of the study, the recorded clinical data will be provided to an independent
      data adjudication committee (DAC) in a pseudonymized fashion. The DAC will be asked to review
      the available data at the time of the first dosing, and the measured GFR and PV data for the
      first dosing day will be provided. The DAC will then be asked to fill out a survey asking
      whether the mGFR and PV data would have influenced their treatment decision, and if so,
      indicate what they would have done differently.

      Following the evaluation of mGFR and PV data at the time of the initial VFI dose, the mGFR
      and PV data determined from the second VFI dosing point will be provided to the DAC. The DAC
      will then be asked to fill out a separate survey asking how the actual measured PV and GFR
      differ from the clinical assessments, whether the mGFR and PV data would influence their
      treatment decision, and if so, indicate what they would have done differently.

      After all assessments have been completed, the DAC will review the results of their analyses
      and compile a summary report on the secondary endpoints as well as their assessment of the
      overall impact of the PV and mGFR on clinical decision making.
    
  