
    
      Primary hyperhidrosis is a disorder characterized by excessive, chronic sweating in the
      absence of a sweating trigger. This condition must be differentiated from secondary
      hyperhidrosis, which is due to a lot of stimuli as infection, malignancy, drugs, anxiety,
      neurological and endocrine disorders.

      Primary hyperhidrosis is caused by hyperactivity of the sympathetic system. The etiology of
      the disease is unknown and appears simultaneously. It affects patients between 15 and 40
      years of age and may cause serious damage to their quality of life.

      The first line of treatment of hyperhidrosis is non-surgical methods as topical
      antiperspirants, anti-cholinergic and Botox, but the disadvantages of this treatment are
      short term relieve, so repetition of this treatment is required.

      Thoracoscopic Sympathectomy of the sympathetic chain between T2 and T4 is considered the
      gold-standard treatment in severe cases of hyperhidrosis. These procedures are performed in
      surgical units under general anaesthesia which needs special anesthetic considerations in the
      form of double lumen tube and one lung ventilation.

      Complications like pneumothorax, surgical emphysema, lung injury, lobar collapse,
      atelectasis, pleural effusion; bleeding, Horner's syndrome and neuritis have been described.
      Postoperative pain is more severe which can occasionally require opiate analgesia.

      Radiofrequency ablation of the sympathetic chain is considered alternative to thoracoscopic
      sympathectomy for hyperhidrosis. The procedure is safe, inexpensive and done under sedation
      with local anaesthesia in an outpatient setting, but its success rate is still significantly
      lower than endoscopic sympathectomy.

      McCormack et al. concluded that there are anatomical variations in the position of
      sympathetic trunk which are thought to be one of the main causes of failure and patient
      dissatisfaction after thoracic sympathetic neurolysis in hyperhidrosis.

      Previous studies tried to increase the efficacy of radiofrequency ablation of T2, T3
      sympathetic ganglia in hyperhidrosis via adding alcohol 100% to cover the anatomical
      variations of the sympathetic trunk. Alcohol is intensely painful during injection, so large
      volume of local anaesthetics is injected prior to alcohol. Also, it is hypobaric, water
      soluble and spread rapidly from the injection site, so large volume is required. In addition,
      the incidence of neuritis is very high with its injection.

      Phenol is primarily a local anesthetic at lower concentrations and becomes more neurolytic at
      higher concentration. Unlike alcohol, it is not painful on injection. It is prepared in a
      mixture with glycerin so it is highly soluble and hyperbaric and diffuses slowly into the
      local tissues.

      In this study, the effect of adding phenol 6% with percutaneous fluoroscopy guided
      radiofrequency ablation of T2, T3 sympathetic ganglia in hyperhidrosis will be evaluated. The
      study hypothesizes that adding phenol 6% in a mixture with glycerin will increase the
      efficacy of radiofrequency ablation of T2, T3 sympathetic ganglia in hyperhidrosis in
      comparison to surgery without significant side effects to provide safe and effective method
      rather than surgery for hyperhidrosis.
    
  