
    
      Among patients with opioid use disorder (OUD), 90% report lifetime trauma exposure and 33%
      meet criteria for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The co-occurrence of OUD and PTSD is
      associated with more severe mental health symptoms and worse opioid agonist treatment (OAT)
      outcomes relative to either diagnosis alone. Prolonged exposure therapy (PET) is an
      efficacious manualized cognitive-behavioral treatment for reducing PTSD severity. Although
      preliminary findings indicate that PET may reduce PTSD symptom severity among patients
      receiving treatment for concomitant OUD, it is unclear to what extent observed improvements
      were a function of PET versus the psychopharmacological effects of OAT itself. Therefore, the
      question of whether OAT alone may attenuate PTSD symptomatology in the absence of intensive
      cognitive-behavioral therapy remains unanswered and is important given the prevalence and
      deleterious effects of PTSD among OAT patients, as well as the ever-present constraints on
      mental health resources in substance use treatment settings.

      The present study will investigate the contribution of PET above and beyond OAT alone for
      reducing PTSD symptomatology among adults with concurrent PTSD and OUD. Eligible participants
      who complete the informed consent process will be randomized to one of three conditions: (a)
      OAT as usual, (b) OAT + PET, or (c) OAT + Enhanced PET (OAT+PET+). Those randomized to OAT as
      usual will continue to receive standard buprenorphine or methadone treatment from their
      current treatment provider and complete assessments of PTSD symptom severity, psychosocial
      functioning and drug use at intake and Study Weeks 4, 8, and 12. In addition to receiving OAT
      and completing monthly assessments, OAT+PET participants will receive PET consisting of 12
      weekly, individual sessions with a trained therapist. Finally, OAT+PET+ participants will
      receive the procedures noted above for the OAT+PET group plus monetary incentives delivered
      contingent upon completion of PET sessions. Given the poor PET adherence rates reported among
      patients with substance use disorder (SUDs), the use of incentives will ensure that we
      evaluate PET effects among patients who receive a sufficient dose of therapy.

      For inclusion in the study, participants must meet the following criteria: (a) > 18 years of
      age, (b) currently maintained on a stable methadone or buprenorphine dose for the treatment
      of OUD for >1 month prior to the study, (c) endorse >1 lifetime traumatic event, (c) meet the
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-V) PTSD diagnostic
      criteria (American Psychiatric Association, 2013), (d) and report clinically significant
      trauma-related symptom severity during the past month. Exclusion criteria include: (a) the
      presence of an acute psychotic disorder, bipolar disorder with an active manic episode (but
      not simply the presence of bipolar disorder), (b) imminent risk for suicide, (c) a medical
      condition that may interfere with consent or participation (e.g., organic brain syndrome,
      dementia, head injury, neuropathy, etc.), and (d) illiteracy in English.

      Participants randomized to OAT as usual will continue to receive standard buprenorphine or
      methadone maintenance from their current treatment provider and complete assessments of PTSD
      symptom severity, psychosocial functioning and drug use at Study Weeks 4, 8, and 12. In
      addition to receiving standard buprenorphine- or methadone-maintenance treatment as described
      above and completing monthly assessments, OAT+PET participants will also receive 12
      individual sessions of PET. Beginning in Study Week 1, OAT+PET participants will complete
      weekly 60-minute PET sessions provided by a therapist trained in PET. Participants randomized
      to the OAT+PET+ condition will receive the procedures noted above for the OAT+PET group plus
      monetary incentives delivered contingent upon completion of PET sessions. Each consecutive
      attended session will increase the voucher amount so that each consecutively attended
      appointment is worth an incrementally higher dollar amount. To support completion of the full
      12-week PET protocol, we will also incorporate additional strategically-placed bonuses into
      the reinforcement schedule with the goal of maximizing the percentage of subjects who
      complete the full 12-session protocol. First, to support consistent (vs. sporadic)
      attendance, participants will receive a bonus for every two consecutive sessions attended.
      Second, to support completion of the full PET protocol, participants will receive an
      additional bonus upon completion of Session 12.
    
  