
    
      A.1 The primary aim of the study was to determine the effect of a physical activity
      intervention designed to increase physical activity for sedentary Veterans at VAPHS.

      A.2. Secondary aims were to assess key health-related outcomes related to the intervention
      including health and quality of life. The specific outcomes were to (a) estimate the impact
      of the intervention on physical function, health-related quality of life (HRQL), weight,
      blood pressure, and serum lipids; and (b) characterize variation in intervention
      effectiveness by participant sociodemographic and health characteristics, such as age, race,
      and baseline health status.

      232 Veterans were randomized to either the physical activity intervention group or the
      attention control group. Participants randomized to the physical activity intervention group
      participated in an individualized physical activity counseling session at baseline, conducted
      by an exercise physiologist, with guided goal setting to increase physical activity gradually
      to at least 150 minutes/week of moderate intensity. An additional 14 intervention counseling
      contacts, generated by participants' responses to physical activity questionnaires and
      individually tailored computer-generated expert system feedback messages based on stages of
      the motivational readiness for change model, were conducted via postal mail over the
      subsequent 12 months in parallel with routine primary care. Newsletters providing additional
      support and suggestions for increasing physical activity were also part of the mailed
      counseling contacts. Participants randomized to the attention control group participated in a
      generalized healthy lifestyle counseling session at baseline, conducted by a health educator,
      which included limited advice to become more physically active. Fourteen follow-up wellness
      newsletters that focused on healthy lifestyle issues other than physical activity were sent
      to participants via postal mail over the subsequent 12 months with the same frequency of
      contact as for the physical activity intervention group and in parallel with routine primary
      care. Assessment of effectiveness occurred at baseline, 6, and 12 months.
    
  