
    
      The investigators are proposing to enroll 31 patients with type 2 DM following an outpatient
      visit to the MGH Diabetes Center or during admission to Ellison 9-11 inpatient units (or
      sometime in the following 14 days if the participant is not available to complete the
      interview after consenting for the study).

      For these interviews, the investigators will discuss positive emotional states that patients
      have experienced and talk about ways they might increase these states. The investigators will
      also touch on health behaviors in which the patient has engaged and whether positive emotions
      played a role in completing these behaviors. To enhance the accessibility of this project,
      the investigators chose to allow patients to complete interviews over the phone. Interactions
      by phone (rather than in-person visits) can allow for patients who are being discharged from
      the hospital or have no time to complete the interview during a clinic visit.

      The investigators will also conduct a follow up phone call 3 months post-hospitalization
      during which the investigators will collect mood and anxiety data from participants. The
      purpose of this data will be to better characterize the population, allowing the
      investigators to better customize the intervention for this population.

      There are two study visits (the first of which can be broken into two parts if the
      participant cannot complete the interview in the hospital after consenting to the study). The
      first visit will consist of three brief scales of mood and anxiety (Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale, Positive and Negative Affect Schedule, and Life Orientation Test-Revised)
      that will take 10 minutes, followed by a 45 minute interview. Participants also will report
      their race and ethnicity. The second visit will take place 3 months after the initial visit
      and will be conducted over the phone. This second visit will consist of the same three brief
      scales of mood and anxiety.

      Baseline Data: Baseline information about enrolled subjects will also be obtained from the
      patients, care providers, the structured assessments of mood and anxiety symptoms as above,
      and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of our population. This
      information will include data regarding medical history (history of cardiac illness, diabetes
      mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and current smoking), current medical variables (admission
      diagnosis if applicable, HbA1c), medications, length of hospital stay if applicable, and
      sociodemographic data (age, gender, race/ethnicity, living alone). This information will help
      the investigators to ensure that the population the investigators recruit is a representative
      population of patients with type 2 DM.

      Qualitative Data: Subjects will undergo an open-ended, one-hour structured interview. The
      interview will be performed by study staff trained in qualitative research methods by the
      study PI, Dr. Huffman, using frameworks from Dr. Huffman's prior work. First, subjects will
      be asked open-ended questions about positive emotional/cognitive experiences. Interviewers
      will ask about subjects' experience with positive thoughts and feelings recently, and will
      attempt to elicit both the frequency/intensity of such experiences and the range of such
      states (e.g., elation vs. optimism). Next, subjects will be asked in an open-ended manner
      about ideas that they may have to increase the frequency and breadth of their own positive
      experiences, and then will be asked their opinion about the potential utility of several
      different existing positive psychology exercises. The interviewers will then inquire about
      the impact that positive thoughts/feelings may have on our specific diabetes-related health
      behaviors of interest.

      Follow-up 3 Month Phone Call: Three months after discharge from the hospital, a study RA will
      call subjects to repeat the measures of mood and anxiety completed at baseline (HADS, PANAS,
      and LOT-R). The investigators will record specific times at enrollment that subjects would
      prefer to be called (and not to be called) to reduce intrusion on subjects' lives. The
      investigators will also remind subjects of their upcoming call, in case they need to
      reschedule. If subjects would rather complete the questions in written form rather than over
      the phone, the investigators will send them a written packet at the time of each follow-up.
    
  