
    
      The Swedish Intensive Care Registry (SIR) collects a comprehensive data set of patient
      characteristics, intensive care procedures, severity of illness scores, workload and outcomes
      using detailed guidelines.

      Continuous data are collected as raw data, validated locally and transferred electronically
      to the registry for central validation (confirmed to be within prespecified limits and
      inconsistencies and illogical entries identified). If necessary, data are returned for
      correction and revalidation before being accepted and added to the master database. No data
      are changed by SIR. At SIR's homepage there are numerous open reports, updated as soon as new
      incoming data are processed by SIR.

      SIR has an annual 2-day course for all ICU's in registration techniques and problems and
      daily telephone support possibilities concerning registration questions, problems and
      guidance. SIR has, however not yet a systematic on-site auditing program.

      Missing data regarding treatment strategy are registered and are accounted for in the study.
      There are no missing data regarding organ donation.

      The investigators calculate the proportion of treatment limitations per ICU as the number of
      deaths with any treatment limitation divided by all deaths in the same ICU.

      Continuous variables are expressed as mean (standard deviations) or median (interquartile
      range).

      Differences in proportions are analysed using the χ2-test. Changes over time are analysed
      using the non-parametric trend test. Survival are examined using the Kaplan-Meier estimate
      and differences in survival are analysed with the log-rank test.

      Logistic regression is used to examine associations between patient and ICU characteristics
      and DBD as dependent variable. Mixed-effects logistic regression clustered per ICU is used to
      assess associations between treatment limitation and DBD after adjusting for patient age,
      sex, comorbidities, the Simplified Acute Physiology Score III (SAPS3) probability of death,
      principal diagnostic category, presence of treatment limitation and type of hospital.

      Significance was assumed if P < 0.05.
    
  