
    
      Despite decades of research showing adverse neural consequences of abnormal vision, little
      has changed for amblyopic children. Over the past 40 years, data have shown that most
      children with amblyopia are detected late. In our health care system, primary care physicians
      play a pivotal role in translating findings about amblyopia into practice. But, our
      experience with the Maternal and Child Health Bureau (MCHB) / NEI expert panel on Vision
      Screening in the Preschool Child and the MCHB/ American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Project
      Universal Preschool Vision Screening revealed that primary care physicians get very little
      training about amblyopia and risk factors. Consequently, many do not screen aggressively for
      these conditions.

      The University of Alabama Departments of Optometry, Pediatrics and Continuing Medical
      Education, in collaboration Medicaid Agencies in Alabama, South Carolina and Illinois, have
      developed a novel, internet-based, multi-modal strategy to increase the understanding and
      recognition of amblyopia and its risk factors by pediatricians and primary care physicians in
      office based settings. We have designed a cluster-randomized, controlled clinical trial to
      test whether our intervention results in improved performance by "intervention" physicians
      compared to control physicians (exposed to a web-based intervention for pediatric blood
      pressure screening and adolescent chlamydia screening). Our design, along with pre /
      post-intervention and control / intervention performance measures, will evaluate changes in
      practice attributable to the intervention versus those occurring from other sources over
      time. Our final analysis will show whether preschool patients of intervention physicians are
      more likely to be identified with strabismus or amblyopia. This research forges a critical
      link between the truly phenomenal body of amblyopia research fostered by the NEI and the
      health care offered to American children.
    
  