
    
      Intervention with antipsychotic medications during the early stages of schizophrenia may
      result in a better outcome for patients, with a higher number of patients achieving full
      remission, a shorter time to remission and decreased risk of relapse. In addition, there is
      evidence to suggest that a critical window of opportunity exists in the early period of
      syndromal differentiation, when pharmacological intervention and intensive engagement of the
      patient may impact favourably on symptoms in the longer term.

      The long-acting injectable formulation of risperidone has shown improvements in measures of
      disease severity over the oral formulation, and demonstrated an improved safety and
      tolerability profile because of its lower peak-trough levels. A recent study has demonstrated
      that patients in the early phase of their illness (0-3 years) benefit from treatment with
      RLAI.

      Although premorbid functioning is accepted to be a predictor of outcome and to affect
      treatment adherence, prospective clinical data are scarce. RLAI addresses the problem of
      adherence by eliminating the need for daily medication intake. In this study we investigate
      whether patients with good premorbid functioning respond better to treatment with RLAI
      compared to patients with poor premorbid functioning. Moreover, patients with schizophrenia
      often fail to acknowledge their illness and need for treatment - so-called 'lack of insight'.
      Previous studies investigating the relationship between acute psychopathology and insight
      have produced conflicting results. Multiple administrations of a structured measure of
      insight (SAI-E) and symptom measures will provide here a means to evaluate whether insight is
      correlated with clinical change, whether insight changes over time and whether changes in
      insight are related to changes in psychopathology.

      A physical examination will be performed, including heart rate, blood pressure, and weight.
      Interviews and assessments will be made to complete standard rating scales (Positive and
      Negative Symptom Score (PANSS), Scale for Assessment of Insight-Expanded version (SAI-E),
      Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), and Extrapyramidal
      Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS)). The Short-Form-36 questionnaire (SF-36) will be completed by
      the patient. Any health problems and medicines of the patient will be recorded.

      The primary hypothesis, that patients with "Stable-good" premorbid functioning will have
      better outcomes than those with "Stable-poor" premorbid functioning will be examined by
      dividing patients into a "Stable-good" and "Stable-poor" premorbid functioning groups based
      on their total scores on the Premorbid Adjustment Scale (PAS). Statistically significant
      differences between the "Stable-good" vs. "Stable-poor" pre-morbid groups on the combined
      change measure at the 5% level will be interpreted as supporting the hypothesis.

      Association of insight and outcomes will be examined using Scale for Assessment of
      Insight-Expanded version (SAI-E )and insight item (G 12) from Positive and Negative Symptom
      Score (PANSS). Effectiveness [Clinical Global Impression (CGI-S/C), PANSS, retention rate),
      functioning [Short-Form-36 questionnaire (SF-36, rehospitalisation rates)] and safety and
      tolerability will be assessed. The observation period is 6 months. RLAI is given as
      intramuscular injections every 2 weeks. The starting dose of RLAI will be in accordance with
      the product label (usually 25 mg). If necessary, the dosage of the injection may be increased
      gradually. Treatment duration is 26 weeks. To ensure continued antipsychotic coverage until
      the main release of risperidone from the microspheres, previous antipsychotic therapy will be
      continued concomitantly during the first three weeks of the study.
    
  