
    
      High pre-pregnancy BMI and excessive GWG are associated with many unfavourable maternal and
      neonatal outcomes and are independent risk factors for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM)
      and large for gestatiola age (LGA) babies. Overweight/obese women should be counselled
      regarding their body weight before conception; however, most women have access to
      obstetricians only when they are pregnant. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) revised the
      guidelines of recommended GWG according to the BMI; however, only a minority of women succeed
      in reaching the recommended GWG. Among the interventions aimed at preventing excessive GWG,
      few have demonstrated efficacy in high-risk populations; the principal issues are population
      heterogeneity, the interventional methods, and the timing of the interventional programs.
      Additionally, lifestyle interventions did not have a substantial effect on other clinical
      outcomes. Dietary advice to prevent gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) appears to be
      beneficial in general, although the results are overly heterogeneous. A systematic review
      concerning exercise alone demonstrated no effect on preventing GDM, whereas another study
      showed only a slight protective effect. The reports evaluating the efficacy of diverse
      approaches (exercise, diet, lifestyle interventions, dietary supplements) to prevent GDM are
      of poor quality. Adherence to lifestyle recommendations could be a major determinant of their
      efficacy, specifically among overweight/obese women. Previous studies investigated adherence
      to specific dietary patterns and their effect on pregnancy outcomes; however, no study has
      investigated adherence among overweight/obese pregnant women and its effect on the onset of
      GDM. Nowadays, there are insufficient evidences for recommend a specific diet in preventing
      LGA babies.

      This study aimed to determine whether the prescription of an early lifestyle program,
      consisting of a low-glycemic index (GI) caloric restriction and physical activity (PA), in
      overweight and obese women could affect the occurrence of LGA newborns. It also aimed to
      determine whether this kind of prescription influences the adherence to healthier eating
      habits, and how this, in turn, can influence the occurrence of LGA babies.
    
  