
    
      Cervical degenerative disc disease (CDDD) results from degeneration of cervical
      intervertebral disc(s) and/or the adjoining vertebral bodies. This causes clinical symptoms
      of cervical myelopathy, radiculopathy or myeloradiculopathy. Surgical treatment can be an
      option if non-surgical treatment options provide insufficient relief. The standard surgical
      technique for treating single or multilevel CDDD is anterior cervical discectomy, either
      without (ACD) or with fusion (ACDF). Both ACD and ACDF have good short-term clinical results
      in 90-100% of patients. Both techniques also have a high rate of fusion, respectively 70-80%
      and 95-100% 1. After 7-20 years, patient satisfaction slowly drops to 68-96% 2. The reason
      for this decline is thought to be due to the development of adjacent segment disease (ASDis).
      This is defined as the development of new complaints of radiculopathy or myelopathy due to
      degeneration one level above or below the previously operated segment. This occurs in
      approximately 25% of patients during 10 years follow-up and more than 2/3 of these patients
      need additional surgery 3. The underlying mechanism is thought to be compensation of loss of
      motion in the fused segment, resulting in overstraining of the adjacent segments 4. Anterior
      cervical discectomy with arthroplasty (ACDA) is developed in an effort to reduce the
      incidence of ASDis by preserving physiological motion in the operated segment.

      Although the term 'physiological motion' is commonly used, a proper definition has been
      lacking for a long time. Segmental range of motion (sROM, e.g. the amount of sagittal
      rotation in a segment between maximal flexion and maximal extension position of the entire
      cervical spine) is most commonly used to study motion. SROM, however, suffers from large
      intra- and interindividual variability 5,6. Therefore, in the lower cervical spine, Boselie
      et al have recently described a consistent sequence of segmental contribution in sagittal
      rotation during flexion and extension in 80-90% of 20 healthy participants7,8. The normal
      sequence of segmental contributions in the lower cervical spine during the second half of
      extension was C4-C5 followed by C5-C6, and then C6-C7.

      Moreover, Boselie et al performed a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to compare the presence
      of this physiological motion pattern and clinical outcomes for ACDA (n=12) and ACD (n=12)
      patients. Before the randomization 3 patients were operated in a pilot group (all with ACDA),
      so in total 27 patients with CDDD and radiculopathy were operated. In both groups 10 patients
      were available for follow-up at one year and fusion rate was 0% in the ACDA group and 70% in
      the ACD group. The majority of patients in the ACDA group (80%) showed a normal sequence of
      segmental contribution, which was not the case in the ACD group. This is the first method
      described which can reliably differentiate between normal or abnormal movement of the
      cervical spine in an individual subject. There were no differences in patient reported
      outcome measures, however the study population was small. These data have been submitted but
      not been published yet since follow-up duration is considered too short for most journals.
      The primary goal when performing the study was to analyze the sequence of segmental
      contribution of motion for which a follow-up duration of one year seemed appropriate.
      However, the expected advantage of the ACDA lies in the long-term, since it should lead to
      less ASDis by preserving physiological motion in the operated segment. Therefore, longer
      follow-up is needed to be able to determine if this physiological motion pattern remains
      present in the ACDA group at the long term. In the RCT performed by Boselie et al, the first
      patient was operated in December 2007 and the last patient in September 2014. At this moment
      the follow-up duration is therefore 6 to almost 13 years. By using the same method for
      analyzing the sequence of segmental contribution of motion in the cervical spine 8, the
      investigators want to analyze these 27 patients again in the long-term (at an average follow
      up of 9 years).

      The investigators hypothesize that normal motion of the cervical spine will also be preserved
      by ACDA at the long-term, whereas ACD shows a decline in motion due to the induced fusion at
      the operated segment. As a consequence, the investigators expect ACDA to induce a lower risk
      on developing ASDis and thus re-operations.
    
  