
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To complete development of a self-care program focusing on lymphedema and fibrosis (LEF)
      in head and neck cancer (HNC) survivors (LEF-self-care program [SCP]) with the goal of
      improving LEF associated outcomes when compared to usual care alone. (Stage I)

      II. To determine the feasibility of a program of LEF-SCP with or without follow-up to usual
      care for HNC survivors with LEF, specifically to: 1) obtain recruitment estimates and
      determine barriers to recruitment; 2) identify barriers to implementation; 3) assess safety;
      and 4) evaluate patient satisfaction. (Stage II)

      III. To determine if the LEF-SCP with or without follow-up enhances self-efficacy and
      adherence compared to usual care in HNC survivors with LEF. (Stage II)

      IV. To determine the preliminary efficacy of the LEF-SCP with or without follow-up as
      compared to usual care for the following outcomes: 1) LEF progression; 2) symptom burden; and
      3) functional status. (Stage II)

      OUTLINE:

      STAGE I: Patients undergo a training session with the study lymphedema therapist and review
      the educational manual and videos for the development of all three components of the LEF
      self-care program.

      STAGE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive monthly automated system telephone call for 12 month.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo LEF-SCP training comprising of motivational interview (MI) session
      over 1 hour and LEF self-care training session over 1 hour weekly for 3 weeks. Patients
      receive monthly automated system telephone call for 12 months. Patients also review LEF
      self-care educational manual and watch self-care videos monthly or more frequently as needed.

      GROUP III: Patients undergo LEF-SCP training comprising of MI session over 1 hour and LEF
      self-care training session over 1 hour weekly for 3 weeks. Patients receive monthly automated
      system telephone call for 12 months. Patients review LEF self-care educational manual and
      watch self-care videos monthly or more frequently as needed. Patients also meet with the
      study lymphedema therapist over 1 hour at 3, 6, and 9 months.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.
    
  