
    
      Bladder cancer is the 9th most commonly diagnosed cancer in men worldwide, with a
      standardized incidence rate of 9.0 per 100,000 person-years for men and 2.2 per 100,000
      person-years for women. In Hong Kong, more than 400 new cases of bladder cancer are diagnosed
      every year. It is a common and important disease which carries a significant burden to the
      health medical system.

      For patients who are diagnosed to have bladder tumours upon flexible cystoscopy,
      transurethral resection of bladder tumour (TURBT) should be offered. Being a minimally
      invasive procedure, it has become the standard for the initial management of bladder cancer.
      This operation aims to ascertain the diagnosis, to correctly stage the tumour (T-stage) and
      to cure the disease in the case of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). However, in a
      combined analysis of 2,596 patents from 7 randomised controlled trials in patients with
      NMIBC, it was shown that 1-year recurrence rate ranged from 15-61%, and 5-year recurrence
      rate ranged from 31-78%. Despite possible complete tumour resection during TURBT, the
      oncological control of NMIBC is far from satisfactory.

      There are two main problems with the conventional standard resection (SR) procedure. First,
      the bladder tumour is resected in a piecemeal manner. This results in tumour fragmentation
      and floating tumour cells inside the bladder. The tumour cells may re-implant on to the
      bladder wall and lead to early disease recurrence. Second, 'complete tumour resection' is
      often determined by endoscopic vision only. Due to the inherited nature of piecemeal
      resection, it is not possible to assess the resection margin by histological means. The
      charring effect to the resection bed may also hinder the judgement of a 'complete tumour
      resection'. Routine second-look TURBT has been advocated for selected patients (Any presence
      of T1 disease, G3 disease, or any absence of detrusor muscle in the first TURBT specimen)
      even after a 'complete tumour resection' during the first TURBT. Second-look TURBT has been
      shown to detect residual disease in 33-55% of the patients and upstaging of disease in 4-45%
      of the patients. These results highlighted the limitations of TURBT in ascertaining complete
      tumour resection.

      Transurethral en bloc resection (EBR) has been described as an alternate surgical technique
      in bladder tumour resection. By preventing tumour fragmentation and ascertaining complete
      tumour resection by histological assessment of the EBR specimen, we hypothesized that EBR
      could reduce disease recurrence as compared to SR.
    
  