
    
      Acute coronary syndrome（ACS）mainly includes unstable angina, non-ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction, and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, which is the leading
      cause of death around the world. The main pathophysiological feature of ACS is the rupture of
      vulnerable plaque, which can be recognized by coronary artery angiography (CAG),
      intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Compared with CAG and
      IVUS, OCT is the best intravascular imaging technique so far. But all these examinations are
      invasive and expensive. Recently, coronary CT angiography derived adverse plaque
      characteristics (APC) and hemodynamic forces defined by computational fluid dynamics (CFD)
      can reflect plaque vulnerability and hemodynamic forces acting on the plaque, which are
      important factors in the progress of the rupture of vulnerable plaque. So, we want to explore
      predictive value of coronary CT angiography (CTA)and computational fluid dynamics for
      vulnerable plaque in ACS.

      The PVCFD trial is a prospective and single center study, patients with ACS will be arranged
      to complete coronary CTA before CAG. OCT will be used to detect the characteristics of
      coronary atherosclerotic plaques confirmed by CAG. Lipid plaques with fibrous cap thickness
      less than 65um, erosion and coronary artery dissection are defined as vulnerable plaque.
      Patients will be divided into vulnerable plaque group and stable plaque group according to
      this. The coronary CTA images will be screened for APC and CFD analyses at core laboratories
      of Shanghai tenth's hospital. Lesions with diameter stenosis (DS) >30% based on coronary CTA
      evaluation were included for subsequent APC (low-attenuation plaque, positive remodeling,
      napkin-ring sign, and spotty calcification) analysis and hemodynamic forces (FFRCT,ΔFFRCT,
      WSS and PWS) defined by CFD. Three prediction models (Model 1: percent diameter stenosis +
      lesion length, Model 2: Model 1 + APC, Model 3: Model 2 + hemodynamic force) will be
      constructed to identify vulnerable plaque confirmed by OCT.
    
  