
    
      The pilot study examines the feasibility of a cluster randomized controlled trial to measure
      the effectiveness of Invest in My Recovery Bank (IMRB) compared to usual care (UC). IMRB is a
      peer-led, manualized intervention to support youth and young adults receiving treatment for
      early psychosis with reducing or stopping problematic substance use. Peer providers, who
      represent clusters of service participants, will participate in a multi-day IMRB training.
      Training will include exploring the theoretical basis for the intervention approach and logic
      model, impact of service participant and peer provider on intervention design, the
      intervention strategies, and opportunities to build skill in each intervention component
      (e.g., role play with feedback). Peer providers will also receive twice monthly supervision
      to support intervention fidelity and resolve questions.

      The proposed pilot study aims to: (a) determine if peer providers can implement IMRB with
      adequate fidelity; (b) determine if youth and young adults engage in the intervention with
      peer providers and find it acceptable; (c) estimate the rates of drop-out for each of the two
      study arms; (d) estimate both between-participant (within-provider team) and between-team
      variability (e.g., standard deviation, interquartile range) on key outcome measures for a
      future comparative cluster randomized trial of the intervention; and (e) identify any changes
      needed to the intervention approach, manual, or training materials.

      Nineteen teams across 16 sites will be randomly assigned to IMRB or UC, ensuring that the
      three sites with more than one team have at least one team randomized to each arm. All youth
      meeting eligibility criteria will be enrolled in the study and will receive either IMRB or
      UC, based on the assignment status of their provider team. Intervention integrity will be
      measured through a peer-completed fidelity checklist. Participant outcomes will be measured
      through existing data collection at each participating organization. All participant outcome
      and service data is reported through the EPINET-TX platform, which allows for
      measurement-based care at participating sites and research using de-identified data.
    
  