
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) persistence after liver transplantation for HCV end-stage liver
      disease is universal and in this clinical setting, HCV mediated liver injury has been
      reported to follow a more progressive course compared to the non-immunosuppressed patient.
      Additionally, patients with recurrent chronic hepatitis C develop higher viral load compared
      to pre-transplant levels. Such persistently high viral burden post transplant may contribute
      to allograft damage. The choice of calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) does not effect recurrence
      rates of HCV hepatitis. HCV is also associated with renal dysfunction so that reduction in
      exposure to calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) is desirable. Unfortunately steroids are associated
      with a marked increase in HCV replication and cannot be used to reduce CNI doses.
      Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) increases HCV viral load. A recent increase in the severity of
      recurrent hepatitis in patients with HCV receiving liver transplants has been attributed to
      MMF and interleukin-2 receptor blockers. Increased fibrosis of the liver occurs during
      antiviral anti HCV treatment in patients taking mycophenolate but patients on azathioprine
      develop cirrhosis faster, possibly because of rejection.

      A large industry sponsored phase III clinical trial has been underway for several years where
      patients have substituted sirolimus (SRL) for calcineurin inhibitors after liver
      transplantation. The object of that study is to determine impact of conversion on renal
      function. No detrimental effect (thrombosis, rejection or recurrent viral infection) was
      apparent to the safety board after two reviews. No study has compared SRL to MMF after liver
      transplantation.

      SRL, an immunosuppressive drug that inhibits the activation and proliferation of
      T-lymphocytes, is associated with reduction of Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) post-transplantation
      viral load in children. Experimentally it inhibits the growth of EBV B-cell lymphoma. A pilot
      study of tacrolimus with SRL showed a powerful anti-rejection effect but a subsequent trial
      was halted early because of an increase in hepatic artery thrombosis even though the rates of
      thrombosis in either arm of the study was below that expected. A recent large series in
      patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (most of whom had HCV) who received large doses of SRL
      showed a beneficial anti-cancer effect without thrombosis. The randomised trials and the
      reported series all had large numbers of patients with HCV. The absence of obvious recurrent
      HCV hepatitis and the low rates of cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease coupled with the known
      inhibition of EBV replication gives hope that SRL has anti-viral properties at
      immunosuppressive doses. Early reports confirm that hope: 1) successful liver transplantation
      in patients with HIV and HCV. "Significantly better control of HIV and HCV replication was
      found among patients taking RAPA monotherapy (P=0.0001 and 0.03, respectively)"; 2) switching
      to sirolimus in renal transplant recipients with hepatitis C virus: HCV replication reduced
      by switch to sirolimus; 3) sustained, spontaneous disappearance of serum HCV-RNA under
      immunosuppression after liver transplantation for HCV cirrhosis: two liver recipients who
      spontaneously cleared HCV after switch to sirolimus.

      SRL (2 mg/day) and MMF (2g/day) are licensed as adjuvant immunosuppressive agents to be used
      in kidney transplantation with cyclosporine so that immunosuppressive equivalent doses are
      1mg SRL = 1g MMF.
    
  