
    
      The use of antiretroviral medications to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV infection
      (Pre-exposure Prophylaxis, PrEP) is an efficacious and promising new prevention strategy. In
      published studies, failure of PrEP was associated with poor adherence and low plasma drug
      levels. This indicates that optimal PrEP treatment will require behavioral interventions to
      promote adherence. Averting increases in risk behavior will also be essential for maintaining
      PrEP's protective effects. Interventions will need to address on-going HIV risk behavior and
      be relevant for persons using PrEP (e.g. young adult MSM). Borrowing from recent literature
      in HIV prevention and treatment adherence, interventions that utilize intuitive easy to use
      technologies with motivational components show promise for behavior change and dissemination.

      This study will examine an interactive smartphone based app/game that is immersive and
      appealing. This novel, but intuitive multi-level technology will measure PrEP adherence,
      promote engagement in treatment and safe sexual behavior. The smartphone app/game will be
      developed to include content consistent with the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills
      (IMB) Model. While gaming, participants will experience absorbing action-oriented adventures
      that increase information about their health (e.g. knowledge about PrEP treatment and HIV),
      improve motivation (e.g. action-figures experience health benefits of adherence), and build
      skills (e.g. utilize clinicians as partners, condom self efficacy). In-depth interviews with
      young adults on PrEP and an open trial of the intervention will inform the development of the
      intervention and procedures. A small randomized controlled pilot study among 50 participants
      on PrEP will examine the preliminary efficacy of the intervention (IMB informed app/game). It
      is hypothesized that, compared to subjects in the control group, participants in the IMB
      Gaming Intervention will show: improved adherence to PrEP, higher blood ARV levels, decreased
      HIV risk behaviors, and improved self efficacy and attitudes for PrEP treatment adherence.

      The specific aims are:

        1. To create an engaging and absorbing smartphone based app/game with content consistent
           with the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) model to measure and improve
           PrEP treatment adherence and safer sex behaviors, and to receive feedback on the game's
           utility and acceptability from in-depth interviews with MSM (estimated mean age 27).

        2. To conduct an open trial of the IMB Gaming Intervention with MSM to obtain further
           qualitative and quantitative information on its acceptability, and feasibility. These
           data will be used to modify the approach and technology as needed.

        3. To evaluate, in a 24 week randomized controlled pilot study (n=50), the preliminary
           efficacy of the IMB Gaming Intervention compared to a time, attention, and technology
           matched group. Investigators will examine the impact of the IMB Gaming Intervention in
           improving treatment adherence (measured by clinic visits attended, self-report) and
           biological measures (ARV levels). Investigators will also examine the impact on HIV risk
           behaviors.
    
  