
    
      Progression of chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) is associated with abnormal secretion
      of several hormones including glucocorticoids and testosterone.

      A single study of patients with chronic heart failure has demonstrated that higher serum
      levels of cortisol are independent predictors of increased mortality risk. However, this
      study included patients with heart failure who were admitted to the hospital due to other
      causes and it might be speculated that the single serum cortisol measurement taken may have
      been influenced by the acute illness or by the emotional stress associated with the admission
      itself.

      Currently, there are several modalities for measuring cortisol levels including serum,
      urinary and salivary techniques. However, all these methods represent indicators of acute
      cortisol secretion and do not reflect accumulation of the hormone over time. Recently there
      has been a growing interest in measuring hair cortisol level. Hair grows approximately 1
      centimeter per month and therefore hair analysis accurately reflects long-term endogenous
      production of cortisol. This provides for the first time a reliable mode for the measurement
      of the accumulation of cortisol over time. We have recently demonstrated higher hair cortisol
      levels in patients with acute myocardial infarction compared with controls (the manuscript
      has been submitted for publication). Regarding testosterone, several studies have recently
      demonstrated lower free serum testosterone levels in patients with heart failure compared
      with controls. Furthermore, Serum testosterone levels were inversely correlated with heart
      failure status.

      The longitudinal assessment of cortisol and testosterone levels over time using the hair
      technique may be superior to a single random serum sample for the assessment of chronic heart
      failure status and prognosis.

      If indeed, hair cortisol and testosterone levels would correlate with heart failure status,
      they may be used as a quantitative mode for clinical follow-up of CHF patients (similar to
      the role of HbA1C in the follow-up of diabetic patients). However this hypothesis has not yet
      been evaluated
    
  