
    
      There is no control group for this study. Participants from both treatment groups:

        -  Early treatment group = 10 days to 6 months post tSCI and

        -  Late treatment group = 6 months plus one day post tSCI

      will receive one session (60 minutes) of MyndMove therapy, 3 to 5 times per week (only once
      per day), to gain 20 hours of intervention (total treatment duration will be 4 to 7 weeks).

      Each 1 hour session includes therapy for single-arm or bilateral (left and right upper
      extremities) as clinically indicated for each study participant. Over the course of 20 one
      hour sessions, participants will progress through the various movement sequences aimed at
      regaining natural, unassisted voluntary movement in the affected limb(s). The MyndMove
      therapy will be in addition to the conventional upper limb rehabilitation therapy the
      participant will be prescribed to undertake at their local institution.

      From previous experience, the first signs of function recovery may be expected to emerge two
      to four weeks after the onset of the MyndMove therapy program. As soon as the participant
      shows signs of recovery of either the voluntary extension or flexion in a stimulated muscle
      group, s/he will be encouraged to make an effort to voluntarily produce the movement that was
      previously facilitated by FES. As the participant demonstrates improved strength and range of
      motion, the FES for that muscle group will be phased out, and moved to another muscle group
      that is still paralyzed and needs to be "reactivated". The order in which muscle groups will
      be sequentially "reactivated" will be patient dependent.

      Muscle reactivation milestones will be monitored and recorded during MyndMove therapy. The
      number of MyndMove treatments required to reach each milestone will be recorded. In addition,
      the overall time required to reach each milestone will be recorded.

      Total duration of study participation, including a follow-up assessment, will be
      approximately 4 to 5 months.
    
  