
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac rhythm disorder worldwide, and is gaining
      in prevalence. Currently, the treatment for atrial fibrillation is concentrated on patients
      with existing atrial fibrillation, and the reduction in risks of complications of stroke with
      anticoagulation. Furthermore, mechanical interventions such as atrial ablation procedures are
      fraught with inconsistent results. The availability of serum based biomarkers that can
      predict the early onset of atrial fibrillation, and also the ability to prognosticate risk,
      may help in the identification of patients at risk for AF complications early. This would
      also allow the identification of the patient population most suitable for the evaluation of
      possible future intervention strategies to prevent the onset of atrial fibrillation, and
      alter its natural history and complications.

      Currently the best biomarkers in predicting atrial fibrillation risk are in fact markers for
      heart failure - NTproBNP and high sensitivity troponin. These markers are independent from
      CHA2DS2-VASc score. While this is very helpful, these markers will not be able to distinguish
      these 2 conditions because heart failure and atrial fibrillation often co-exist. The
      investigator's Cardiovascular Biomarker Discovery and Translation team has been using deep
      proteomic analysis of both human tissues and reprogrammed human stem cells to identify novel
      candidate biomarkers. This has been very successfully applied to diastolic heart failure, and
      there are now several new markers for this condition that have been validated across 3
      populations. The investigators have several potential candidates for atrial fibrillation, but
      validation in the appropriate cohort, particularly those at the earliest risks of atrial
      fibrillation, will be most important.

      The ARTESiA study is an ideal study setting to perform the biomarker validation, as the
      parent trial will recruit patients with silent atrial fibrillation detected only by
      dual-chamber pacemakers, defibrillators or insertable cardiac monitors. This would constitute
      a potentially earlier stage atrial fibrillation patient cohort, with known subsequent risks
      in a prospective fashion. The prospective evaluation of approved medications of aspirin and
      apixaban will also be helpful to determine if the prospective biomarker will be informative
      of the potential efficacy of treatment, or be unchanged by the treatment modalities.
    
  