
    
      Migrants from Sub-Saharan Africa are the second group most affected by HIV epidemic in
      France. Previous study established that part of HIV infections among Sub-Saharan migrants
      occurred after arrival in France, and that the exposure to sexual risks was linked both to
      social hardships and structural difficulties experienced during the settlement period in
      France. Many actors strive for an easier access to healthcare services for migrants, however
      the mere supply of knowledge and medicalised solutions is not enough to make persons adopt
      protection or healthcare practices. It seems necessary to work for the individual and
      community empowerment in order to bring resources to individuals and communities so they can
      more easily take action in the new and complex context of a host country.

      To improve the prevention of sexual risks in this population coming from Sub-Saharan Africa,
      local charities and researchers join forces in order to propose an interventional research
      which aims at enabling Sub-Saharan migrants to appropriate prevention and healthcare means,
      especially in the area of sexual health, to reinforce their autonomy, their capacity and
      power to take action and to protect their health against the disruption caused by migration
      and the difficulty in accessing rights and fundamental needs.

      The pilot phase of this research has made it possible to build an empowerment intervention
      which consists of a single individual interview based on the principles of motivational
      maintenance, articulated with an active orientation towards adequate social or health
      services, possibly accompanied when necessary. Our hypothesis is that this intervention will
      strengthen four dimensions of empowerment in sexual health among immigrants:

        -  Ability to express needs: Ability to talk about sexuality or sexual health to peers or
           professionals

        -  sexual health skills: know the different tools of combined prevention, know where to go
           for screening, gynaecology or sexual health consultation

        -  self-esteem: knowing your rights, having the material means (housing, administrative
           situation, financial resources) to refuse a situation of sexual constraint and avoid
           being exposed to violence, feeling that you can act on your own situation (sense of
           personal effectiveness)

        -  awareness of HIV exposure and its determinants: being informed about the epidemiology of
           HIV, the fact that it is possible to be infected in France, and risk factors

      Objectives

      To strengthen the sexual health empowerment of immigrants from sub-Saharan Africa and the
      Caribbean, we propose to act on the four dimensions of sexual empowerment with the following
      specific objectives:

      Ability to express needs:

        -  Speaking up

        -  Reduce social isolation

      Sexual Health Skills:

        -  Improve knowledge of health and social resources

        -  Improve access to screening

        -  Improve access to sexual health services (Contraception, condoms, Prep)

        -  Improve ownership of combined prevention

      Self-esteem:

        -  Improve people's autonomy in social processes (housing, paper)

        -  Improving Mental Health: Reducing Psychological Distress and Suffering

        -  Improve personal efficiency

      Awareness of HIV and STI exposure

      • Improve perception of HIV and STI exposure, effectiveness of antiretroviral treatment and
      preventive strategies.

      The research aims to measure the effectiveness of the intervention against all of these
      indicators, as well as to conduct an evaluation of the processes and efficiency
      (cost-effectiveness).

      Methods:

      The intervention is part of the action already carried out by the mobile team of Afrique
      Avenir, which offers in strategic places of passage (markets, squares, RER stations, etc.) an
      awareness of sexual health through cultural mediation and a TROD offer. The MAKASI
      intervention involves identifying immigrants in precarious situations and exposed to HIV in
      these awareness-raising places, offering them a personalized interview with a health mediator
      to help them prioritize their needs, and guide them through the health and welfare system.

      To assess this complex intervention, we will use an integrated mixed-method approach. A
      quantitative impact assessment and a qualitative assessment of the processes will be
      conducted in parallel to establish, by integrating these data, the causal attribution of the
      effects of the intervention.

      Quantitative assessment of impact:

      To measure the impact of the intervention, we propose a two-arm diagram: an intervention arm
      and a control arm. However, for ethical reasons, in order to offer help to all identified
      people with social or health needs, we will compare an arm where the intervention is
      immediate, and an arm where it is delayed by 3 months (control arm). The comparison of what
      happens in the first three months will measure the short-term effect of the intervention, and
      establish a causal link between the intervention and the observed changes. All people, in
      both arms, will be followed six months to observe the evolution of the indicators in the
      medium term. The impact assessment of the intervention will be made possible both by
      comparison between the immediate intervention arm and the control arms in the first three
      months, and by comparison before/after the intervention in both arms). Individuals will be
      randomly allocated to the immediate or delayed intervention arm after an initial interview to
      identify social and health needs. The goal is to include 1200 people (600 in each arm).

      Qualitative assessment of processes and effects:

      The qualitative analysis of the processes aims to highlight and analyse the successes,
      failures and limitations of the intervention, with particular regard to the implementation
      and its effects. It will also be necessary to produce knowledge on the conditions of
      reproduction or the extension of the intervention. This analysis will be based on an
      ethnographic approach to the intervention and the participants' journey, with a work of
      observation of the different stages and in-depth and repeated semi-directive interviews.

      Cost collection will measure the efficiency of the response.

      Expected results :

      This project will demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of an innovative intervention
      to reduce exposure to sexual health risks among immigrants from sub-Saharan Africa and the
      Caribbean, and will highlight the conditions of its reproduction or extension. It is closely
      linked to the initiative towards Paris without AIDS, which develops the collective dimensions
      of empowerment through different approaches in the communities concerned.
    
  