
    
      The purpose of this study is to find out if it is possible to study relaxation and
      visualization therapy (RVT) with individuals that have breast cancer. We will also look at
      what effects, the good and bad, RVT has when used with radiation therapy. We are interested
      in how RVT may relate to energy, quality of life, stress, and the immune system. Relaxation
      is a state in which the body slows down, like in sleep or rest. Heart rate decreases,
      breathing slows and digestion increases. Visualization is an interactive mental process. The
      participant imagines herself doing a physical activity. This imagination stimulates a
      measurable physical response. Relaxation and Visualization therapy will lead participants
      through a practice of physical relaxation and then a step by step visualization. RVT can be
      performed by an individual alone, or it can be led by a health practitioner. In this study,
      participants will be led through an RVT exercise, providing an interactive process. In
      addition, women will perform solitary RVT exercises at home on weekends. Participants for
      this study will be drawn from two OHSU physicians' regular patient base. Newly diagnosed
      patients will be offered the opportunity to participate in our Relaxation and Visualization
      Therapy Study. We want to make sure that the results we see are not due to any other factors.
      To be sure that we are testing the effects of RVT alone, we will use three groups. The three
      groups will be RVT, education, and a control. The RVT group will receive RVT with radiation,
      and the education group will receive breast cancer related health education with radiation.
      Both test groups will last approximately one hour. The third group will receive no treatment
      beyond radiation. This third group is called the control. The entire study will last for
      approximately twelve weeks. For the first 6 weeks, each participant will be receiving
      radiation therapy. The second 6 weeks will be done mostly at home. We will be particularly
      interested in the effects that RVT may have on energy, quality of life, stress, and the
      immune system. To examine this, participants will complete surveys about stress and
      psychological changes. A dietary assessment will be conducted via interviews. Participants
      will be asked to recall what foods commonly eaten. A heart monitor will be worn during the
      educational and visualization activities to monitor any changes in heart rate. Additionally,
      5 blood draws will occur during the study, and the total amount of blood drawn will be about
      4 tablespoons of blood. No experimental drug or device will be used during the study.
    
  