
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the nature, intensity, and time course of health-related quality of life
           changes in patients with locally recurrent prostate adenocarcinoma treated with androgen
           suppression and transperineal ultrasound-guided brachytherapy after external beam
           radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the morbidity of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the overall survival, disease-free survival, and disease-specific survival of
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the clinical patterns of tumor recurrence (i.e., time to local tumor
           progression or distant failure) and time to biochemical failure of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the post-brachytherapy dosimetric coverage of patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive androgen suppression comprising goserelin subcutaneously (as either 4
      one-month depot injections or 1 one-month depot injection and 1 three-month depot injection)
      OR leuprolide intramuscularly (as 4 one-month depot injections or 1 one-month depot injection
      and 1 three-month depot injection or 1 four-month depot injection) AND oral flutamide 3 times
      daily for 112 days OR oral bicalutamide once daily for 112 days.

      Within 4 weeks after completion of androgen suppression, patients are sequentially enrolled
      to 2 different cohorts of brachytherapy.

        -  Cohort 1: Patients undergo initial-dose transperineal interstitial permanent prostate
           brachytherapy with iodine I 125 or palladium Pd 103.

        -  Cohort 2: After a minimum of 1-year follow-up for all patients in cohort 1, if tolerance
           is acceptable, additional patients undergo higher-dose transperineal interstitial
           permanent prostate brachytherapy with iodine I 125 or palladium Pd 103.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, within 2 weeks prior to brachytherapy, every 3
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 83-166 patients (83 per cohort) will be accrued for this study
      within 1.5-3 years.
    
  