
    
      Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) is an inhibitory receptor that prevents immune activation.
      PD-1 blockade can mediate reactivation of immune mediated tumor killing leading to tumor
      regression . Another mechanism of tumor associated immune inactivation is elevation of rates
      of T regulatory cells. This process may be prevented by treatment with low dose
      cyclophosphamide.

      Objective:

      This study will evaluate safety and tolerability of the anti PD1 antibody Nivolumab combined
      with other immunomodulating treatments, in pediatric patients with relapsed/progressive solid
      tumors

      Method:

      Patients will be treated with IV Nivolumab 3mg/kg over 60 minutes on day 1 and 15 of each
      cycle of 28 days.

        1. Dose finding phase:

             1. Six patients will be accrued for the first cohort and treated for 1 month

             2. If an adverse event >grade 2 will occur in>2 patients, study medication dose will
                be reduced by 25% and another cohort of 6 patients will be accrued on the reduced
                dose.

             3. Dose finding cohorts will be accrued until determination of a dose with allowed DLT

        2. Expansion phase

             1. Following dose determination patients will be accrued, to the final number of 30
                patients

             2. Cyclophosphamide at the dose of 50 mg/dayx7days every 14 days (one week on one week
                off ) will be started . immunophenotype will be done every 28 days and dose of
                cyclophosphamide will be elevated by 25mg /day every month until highest ratio of
                CD8/CD25FOXP3 cells will be reached for every child

             3. All patients will be treated for 1 year or until imaging proven disease
                progression.

        3. Required follow up

             1. All patients will undergo tumor bed imaging (CT/MRI-based on tumor location) with
                metastatic evaluation (according to standar follow up) every 4 months

             2. Tumor response will be measured based on RECIST criteria

             3. Toxicity assessment will be done according to the CTCAE v. 4.03

      c. Collateral studies:

        1. Immunohistochemical analysis for PD1 and PDL1 will be done on pretreatment paraffin
           embedded tissue to estimate it's ability to predict response.

        2. Immune profile of peripheral blood lymphocytes including CD3+, CD4+, CD8+ FOX P3+ cells
           and it's correlation to objective response to therapy.

        3. Exome sequencing of the tumor and peripheral blood will be done for every patient.

      Exome will be evaluated for driver mutations and immunologic genomic signature.
    
  