
    
      CIRCULATE is an investigator-initiated, multicentre, prospective, randomised, controlled
      trial.

      Screening phase:

      Patients with colon cancer (or rectal cancer, if a radiation is not indicated i.e. due to the
      tumour localisation) are postoperatively screened for this trial.

      For this purpose, they sign an informed consent for screening. The formalin fixed paraffin
      embedded (FFPE) tumour block is shipped to one of the central pathological laboratories and
      is analysed for microsatellite instability and by panel analysis for frequent mutations in
      the colorectal cancer. A plasma sample is sent in parallel to the central laboratory for
      ctDNA. The screening is preferably performed before the patient is discharged from the
      surgical department and at the latest 5 weeks after resection to allow sufficient time for
      the analysis.

      The patient- specific tumour mutations known from the panel analysis are measure in the
      patients plasma by ultra deep sequencing. The results of the analysis - positive for
      circulating tumour DNA (ctDNApos) or negative for circulating tumour DNA (ctDNAneg) - is not
      communicated to the patient or the investigator.

      Randomised phase:

      Four to eight weeks after resection, the patient presents at an investigator that is
      experienced with chemotherapy (i.e. Medical Oncologist) and consent for the randomised part
      of the study with a second informed consent form. If this baseline visit confirms that there
      are not contraindications to chemotherapy and if no other exclusion criteria exist, the
      patient is randomised:

        -  ctDNApos patients are randomised (2:1) in "chemotherapy" (with capecitabine) or
           "follow-up",

        -  ctDNAneg patients are randomised (1:4) in "follow-up" or "off study" which means that
           the follow-up will be organised within the routine clinical practice.

      The result of the ctDNA will not be communicated to the patients and investigators, so that
      patients in the arm "follow-up" remain blinded to the ctDNA result. Due to the randomisation
      ratio, the prognosis of these patients is similar to those in stage II without any ctDNA
      analysis and differs only slightly from patients not enrolled into a clinical trial.

      Patients in the arm "chemotherapy" receive adjuvant therapy with 6 months capecitabine. The
      investigator can decide to add oxaliplatin and to shorten the adjuvant chemotherapy to 3
      months if oxaliplatin is added.

      Patients in the arms "chemotherapy" and "follow-up" are followed with the same methods and
      time point within the study.

      Patients in the arm "off study" are recommended to be follow up according to the guidelines
      for stage II in the routine practice.
    
  