
    
      Background and aim:

      Pancreatic cancer is one of the most lethal malignancies and fourth leading cause of cancer
      death in both genders in US, where the mortality and incidence increase over the past decade
      with a lowest 5-year survival rate of 9% among all cancers. Although surgical resection is
      deemed to provide long-term disease control, only 20% patients were candidates for upfront
      surgery and unfortunately, even when adjuvant chemotherapy is prescribed, about 50% of
      patients will suffer local recurrence. Despite of emergence of immunotherapy as a new
      treatment paradigm, little improvement of outcomes has been found in pancreatic cancer. This
      may be ascribed to its inherent genetic mutations and immunosuppressive microenvironment. It
      has been demonstrated that radiotherapy could enhance the release and uptake of
      tumor-associated antigens, thus promoting antitumor T cell priming, and enhancing access to
      tumors due to effects both on the tumor vasculature and the chemokine milieu.

      Despite of emergence of immune checkpoint inhibitors as a novel treatment paradigm for
      cancers, the results of investigations about the efficacy of immunotherapy alone for
      pancreatic cancer was disappointing. Due to enhanced immunogenicity of tumor irradiation, the
      underlying rationale of combination of radiotherapy and immunotherapy is that radiation can
      noninvasively prime the immune system against tumor cells, where antigen presentation and
      co-stimulation are facilitated, thus creating immune responses against previously hidden
      epitopes that are shared among distant metastases, while immune checkpoint inhibitors can
      reverse the immunosuppressive effects of the tumor microenvironment, thus facilitating
      antitumor immunity.

      Although oncogenic mutations in KRAS are frequent in pancreatic cancer, KRAS proteins are
      difficult to be targeted due to high affinity for GTP and/or GDP. Therefore, efforts have
      been made to develop therapies targeting the major downstream effector pathways, which
      include the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK and PI3K-PDPK1-AKT signaling pathways. MEK inhibitor trametinib
      alone or in combinations with chemotherapy or autophagy inhibitor hydroxychloroquine may
      probably have positive effects on tumor regression.

      Regarding local recurrence after surgery, it was recommended that chemotherapy with optional
      radiotherapy may be the first-line treatment without addition of targeted therapy or
      immunotherapy owing to that no studies have investigated the efficacy of this regimen.
      Therefore, the aim of our study was to compare the outcomes between stereotactic body
      radiation therapy (SBRT) with pembrolizumab and trametinib and SBRT with gemcitabine for
      locally recurrent pancreatic cancer after surgical resection.

      Study procedure:

        1. All surgical specimens underwent immunohistochemical staining of PD-L1, classified as
           TC3 ≥ 50% or TC2 ≥ 5% but < 50% or TC1 ≥ 1% but <5% and IC3 ≥ 10% or IC2 ≥ 5% but < 10%
           or IC1 ≥ 1% but <5%.

        2. KRAS mutations were analyzed by PCR amplification and direct sequencing of exon 2.
           Restriction Length Fragment Polymorphism method was used for further confirmation.

        3. In the SBRT plus pembrolizumab and trametinib group, 200mg pembrolizumab was
           administered intravenously every 3 weeks and 2mg trametinib was given orally once daily.

        4. In the SBRT plus gemcitabine group, patients received intravenous gemcitabine
           (1000mg/m2) on day 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle for eight cycles in the absence of
           disease progression.

        5. The prescribed dose of SBRT varies from 35-40Gy/5f with a single dose of 7-8Gy.
    
  