
    
      Project background: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a prevalent condition that is most
      frequently treated with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy. Non-adherence to
      such therapy, however, afflicts a high proportion of adults with sleep apnea (46-83%).
      Moreover, such non-adherence to CPAP is associated with increased risk for fatal and
      non-fatal cardiovascular events. There remains a paucity of reliable and cost-effective
      interventions that could promote CPAP adherence. Promoting adherence to therapy through
      peer-driven intervention is cheap and has met with modest success in other chronic conditions
      such as HIV, heart failure and diabetes mellitus. Whether such a peer-driven ("buddy") system
      can improve adherence to CPAP therapy is unknown.

      Project Objectives: Our overall aim is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of a CPAP
      adherence program driven by trained "peer-buddies" with sleep apnea. Specific Objective #1:
      To evaluate patient ratings of the acceptability of the peer buddy system (PBS) in veterans
      receiving CPAP therapy for OSA. Specific Objective #2: To obtain preliminary data on the
      effectiveness of PBS on sleep-specific HR-QOL (Functional outcomes in sleep questionnaire
      [FOSQ]) in veterans receiving CPAP therapy for OSA. Specific Objective #3: To obtain
      preliminary data on the effect of PBS on CPAP adherence, vigilance, patient activation, and
      self-efficacy in veterans receiving CPAP therapy for OSA.

      Project Methods: In order to address these aims, we will recruit recently diagnosed patients
      with OSA who have not been initiated on CPAP therapy and randomly assign them to the
      peer-buddy system to promote adherence to CPAP therapy (intervention group) or be assigned to
      usual care (control group). In the PBS intervention group, trained peers with sleep apnea
      will be paired with the newly diagnosed patients over a 3- month period. During this time the
      trained peers will share experiences on coping strategies with CPAP device and equipment
      (promote self efficacy), share their positive experiences (motivational effects and outcome
      expectancies), share their knowledge of perceived vulnerabilities due to untreated sleep
      apnea (promote risk perception), share methods for improving efficacy of CPAP equipment and
      interface (patient education) and prepare their subjects for upcoming physician or
      respiratory therapist appointments (patient activation). The interaction will occur during
      supervised "in-person" sessions and during telephonic conversations over the 3-month period.
      Subjects from both groups will be reassessed at the end of 3 months in order to determine
      objective measures of CPAP adherence, sleep-specific HRQOL Functional outcomes of sleep
      questionnaire [FOSQ]), vigilance (psychomotor vigilance testing), measures of self-efficacy
      (outcome expectancy, treatment self-efficacy, and risk perception [SEMSA questionnaire]) and
      patient activation (Patient Activation Measure [PAM]).
    
  