
    
      Dually diagnosed Veterans (N = 178) will be recruited from the Charleston, SC VAMC Outpatient
      Substance Abuse Treatment Center (SATC) and block randomized to TAU, GMI, or IHMD. Patients
      with alcohol dependence or abuse (including drug abuse) and a nonsubstance-related major Axis
      I disorder (e.g., bipolar disorder, depression, psychotic disorder) will be eligible for the
      study. Participants, who were referred to the study at time of triage or during the
      orientation phase of SATC, will be evaluated at baseline and approximately at a 1 and 3-month
      follow-up. Primary outcome measures will be alcohol use and treatment utilization as measured
      by number of days of alcohol use, number of binge alcohol drinking days, and quantity of
      alcohol consumed (in standard drinks, or SECs), and treatment attendance sessions based on
      objective CPRS patient medical records (i.e., number of all substance abuse outpatient, other
      mental health [e.g., PTSD, depression], and other substance abuse treatment sessions), and
      self-reported 12-step (number of self-help AA/NA) sessions, including days consulting with a
      12-step or mutual self-help sponsor. Exploratory outcomes measures include number of illicit
      drug use days (e.g., cocaine, crack, marijuana, opiates, and sedatives).

      Primary questions:

      A. Does GMI lead to a significantly greater reduction in alcohol use and an increase in
      treatment engagement outcomes in the 3-month follow-up period compared to participants
      assigned to TCC?

      Hypothesis: Participants who receive GMI will consume less alcohol and will be engaged in and
      attend more continuous treatment than participants in TCC in the 3-month follow-up period.

      B. Does IHMD lead to a significantly greater reduction in alcohol use and an increase in
      treatment engagement outcomes in the 3-month follow-up period compared to participants
      assigned to TCC?

      Hypothesis: Participants who receive IHMD will consume less alcohol and will be engaged in
      and attend more continuous treatment than participants in TCC in the 3-month follow-up
      period.

      Exploratory question:

      Compared to TCC, will GMI and IHMD lead to significantly fewer days of illicit drug use by
      3-month follow-up?

      Hypothesis: Compared to TCC, GMI and IHMD will result in a significant reduction in days of
      illicit drug use by 3-month follow-up.
    
  