
    
      BACKGROUND:

      With recent advances in diabetes treatment, especially the evidence that tight control of
      glycemia, diminishes glycemia related complications it is becoming apparent that the main
      barriers to further increases in the longevity of patients with insulin-dependent (type 1)
      diabetes mellitus are the long-term cardiovascular complications of this condition. However,
      development of effective strategies to prevent cardiovascular complications of diabetes have
      been impeded by uncertainty as to the relative importance in their pathogenesis of
      hyperglycemia, early renal dysfunction or excess levels of conventional risk factors. In this
      context, research to elucidate the predictors of cardiovascular complications of diabetes in
      well-characterized populations followed long term has the potential to be of considerable
      clinical and public health importance.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was a population-based, longitudinal, cohort study to determine the prevalence and
      incidence rates of cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality in people with Type 1
      diabetes of long duration. The mean age of the cohort and the long duration of diabetes
      provided an opportunity to document the prevalence and incidence of coronary heart disease,
      myocardial infarction, angina, congestive heart failure, stroke, transient ischemic attacks,
      peripheral vascular disease and cardiovascular disease mortality in a large population-base
      group of persons with Type 1 diabetes. Standardized protocols for exams and interviews were
      used during the baseline, 4-, 10-, and 14-year follow-up exams. Retinal photographs of each
      study participant were taken at the baseline examination. This permitted the investigators to
      test the predictive ability of focal and generalized retinal arteriolar narrowing and
      arteriovenous crossing changes (i.e., A/V nicking) for subsequent macrovascular events
      controlling for other risk factors. These factors included blood pressure, cigarette smoking,
      serum lipids, body mass index, duration of diabetes, and glycemia.

      The cohort was re-examined to obtain ECGs, blood lipid fractions not previously measured, and
      fibrinogen, as well as upper and lower extremity blood pressures, urine specimens, and
      medical records. This provided information about silent infarctions and other cardiographic
      abnormalities as well as previously doctor-diagnosed macrovascular events in long-term
      survivors of Type 1 diabetes. Study examinations were performed in a mobile van. Participants
      provided two urine specimens for determination of urinary albumin excretion. Fasting blood
      was obtained for determination of glycosylated hemoglobin A1c, blood sugar, serum
      cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, VLDL-cholesterol, LDL particle
      size, serum creatinine, and fibrinogen. Additional study procedures included measurements of
      weight and height, waist and hip girth, and brachial and ankle blood pressures.
      Electrocardiography was also performed. A questionnaire was administered. Participants were
      subsequently interviewed yearly and clinical and hospital records and death certificates were
      collected to document new cardiovascular disease events.
    
  