
    
      Purpose:

      The aim of this research is to determine an effective regimen for definitive surgical therapy
      of bilateral kidney stones. It is unknown whether patients who undergo simultaneous bilateral
      percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) experience improved post-operative outcomes compared to
      patients who have staged unilateral procedures.

      Hypothesis and Justification The gold standard for surgical management of large kidney stones
      is percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL). A large renal stone burden has been defined as >20mm.
      In addition, PCNL has improved stone-free rates for lower pole calculi >10mm compared to
      alternative treatments. Guidelines encourage removal of staghorn calculi for surgical
      candidates (Assimos et al., 2016). Patients with bilateral large stone burdens have been
      managed with one of two general options: (i) a single procedure in which both kidneys are
      operated upon or (ii) two separate procedures in which only one kidney is addressed per
      procedure. However, there are no prospectively performed peer-reviewed studies directly
      comparing the two practices. The investigators seek to determine whether there is a
      significant difference in patient outcomes based on the surgical regimen chosen.

      The investigators hypothesize that in comparison to unilateral PCNL (U-PCNL), simultaneous
      bilateral PCNL (SB-PCNL) under one anesthetic results in comparable

        1. stone free rates

        2. re-intervention rates for residual stones and

        3. perioperative complication rates

      Objectives

      The objectives are:

        1. To provide clinical data on outcomes following simultaneous bilateral and staged
           percutaneous nephrolithotomy for renal and ureteral calculi

        2. To determine patient preference with respect to simultaneous versus staged PCNL

      Research Design This study will be a prospective, non-randomized, multi-centre, non-blinded
      trial. Participants will be accrued through the Vancouver General Hospital Stone Center who
      have been referred for bilateral stones or have been seen in consultation for bilateral
      stones at the Department of Urologic Sciences and are scheduled for a percutaneous
      nephrolithotomy (PCNL). Consent forms and Letters of Introduction outlining the study will be
      given to patients by a research coordinator once the decision is made to book surgery.
      Patients will have at least 24 hours to decide to participate. Patients will receive surgical
      management for their stones in the form of PCNL. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the
      kidneys will be performed post-operatively by week 6 to determine if any residual stone
      fragments are present. Patients will be seen in follow up at 3 months in clinic after
      undergoing a follow up CT KUB, renal ultrasound, or KUB as necessary to evaluate stone
      clearance.
    
  