
    
      Laryngoscopy is a common medical procedure used during elective and emergency intubations.
      The procedure is performed with either a direct or video laryngoscope with the device
      selected dependent on tool availability, provider (i.e. anesthesiologist, emergency
      physician, ENT physician, paramedic, etc.) preference, patient characteristics, and
      intubation difficulty. The direct laryngoscope technique involves a line-of-sight view from
      the patient's mouth to vocal cords along the blade of the scope. The direct laryngoscopy
      technique is the oldest technique associated with intubation. However, despite continuous
      improvements to direct laryngoscope size and shape since its inception in the late 19th
      century, no improvement yet addresses one major problem with airway visualization: the
      provider will experience a difficult intubation if liquids (i.e. gastric content, blood,
      mucus, etc.) obstruct the view.

      The Sun-Med GreenLine®/D™ Macintosh is a line of disposable direct Macintosh laryngoscopes.
      It features a stainless steel blade and polycarbonate light-pipe to direct light into the
      airway. The handle, with integrated batteries and LED light, and blade are separately
      packaged prior to use. The GreenLine®/D™ Macintosh line is available in the standard sizes
      (0, 1, 2, 3, 4) and a new size built to improve blade sizing for many adults 3.5 when a Mac 3
      is too short, but a Mac 4 is too large. The GreenLine®/D™ Macintosh does not feature
      integrated suction.

      The Inscope Direct Laryngoscope (developed by Inscope Medical Solutions) is a new disposable
      direct laryngoscope with two integrated and controllable (flow on/off) suction pathways. By
      integrating controllable suction with two independent pathways into the laryngoscope, the
      provider is able to select the primary (blade tip) suction pathway to clear secretions ahead
      of the laryngoscope and the secondary (at blade mid-length, below blade) to prevent and clear
      fluids that may re-accumulate during the procedure. Integrating the suction into the device
      prevents the common current practice of "juggling" the current suction catheter and
      endotracheal (breathing) tube in one hand while holding the patient's airway open with the
      other hand. While the incidence of aspiration of fluids into the lungs as a result of poor
      airway fluid management is low, the outcomes associated with this complication are very poor.

      The Inscope Direct Laryngoscope has been developed as a Macintosh 3.5 sized blade to meet the
      size requirements of the majority of patients. This assumption is backed up by a trend among
      disposable direct laryngoscope manufacturers toward the 3.5 blade size, with at least 5
      creating a 3.5 blade, including Teleflex, Sun-Med, Flexicare, Mercury Medical, and Curaplex.

      This study will compare the Inscope Direct Laryngoscope (blade size 3.5) with the currently
      used standard single-use Sun-Med Greenline/D Macintosh laryngoscopes DL-blade mac size and
      Sun-Med Greenline/D-blade size 3.5.

      All Direct Laryngoscopes are considered a Class I exempt device by the FDA. Because the risks
      associated with laryngoscopes are well known and documented, they are considered a
      non-significant risk device for studies involving humans.
    
  