
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effect of oltipraz on the level of BP-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) DNA
           adducts in the lung lining cells (macrophages and bronchial epithelial cells) of
           smokers.

        -  Determine the tolerability and toxicity of this treatment regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on the level of macromolecule adducts in
           the blood (e.g., BPDE DNA, BPDE hemoglobin, and 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanine), oral lining
           cells (BPDE DNA), bladder lining cells (4-aminobiphenyl DNA), and lung macrophages
           (8-hydroxy-deoxyguanine) in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on the change (decrease) in activation of
           NNK as measured by change (increase) in urinary NNAL plus NNAL glucuronide in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this treatment regimen on the oxidative state,
           glutathione-S-transferase activity, and superoxide dismutase 3 and phase II enzymes in
           the lungs and blood of these patients.

        -  Compare the changes in oxidative state and phase II enzymes with changes in adduct
           levels in the lungs and blood of these patients.

        -  Determine the correlation between oltipraz-induced changes in phase II enzymes and
           adduct formation with genotypic variation in glutathione-S-transferase isozymes in these
           patients.

        -  Compare the response to this treatment regimen in terms of oxidative state, phase II
           enzymes, and adduct formation in the lungs vs the blood in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center. Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive an oral placebo weekly.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive low-dose oral oltipraz weekly.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive high-dose oral oltipraz weekly. Treatment continues for 12
           weeks in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients (22 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 21 months.
    
  