
    
      Background: Insulin degludec is a novel insulin analogue that may reduce the risk of mild
      nocturnal hypoglycaemia in type 1 diabetes. Patients with type 1 diabetes and recurrent
      severe hypoglycaemia (high risk patients) are also burdened by nocturnal hyoglycaemia (mild
      and silent). These episodes may contribute to the developement of hormonal counterregulatory
      failure and hypoglycaemia unawareness, which in turn increases the risk of further
      hypoglycaemic episodes, especially epiosdes of severe hypoglycaemia.The effect of insulin
      degludec on risk of mild nocturnal hypoglycaemia in subjects with type 1 diabetes and high
      risk of severe hypoglycaemia compared to insulin glargine is to be investigated.

      Study design and intervention: A controlled, cross-over multi-centre study in a Prospective,
      Randomised, Open, Blinded Endpoint (PROBE) design. Each treatment period last for 12 months.
      Patients will be randomised to treatment with basal-bolus therapy with insulin
      aspart/degludec or insulin aspart/glargine in random order. Endpoints will be assessed during
      the last 9 months of each treatment arm.

      Subjects: 175 type 1 diabetic patients with a history of one or more episodes of nocturnal
      severe hypoglycaemia during the proceeding two years.

      Method: Patients will record all events of symptomatic (mild), asymptomatic (silent) and
      severe hypoglycaemia in a diary. All events of symptomatic nocturnal and severe hypoglycaemia
      must also be reported by telephone within 24 hours. Patients will be instructed to do and
      record self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) i.e. 4-point profiles twice per week (blood
      glucose before breakfast, before lunch, before dinner and before bedtime).

      Outcomes: See "Outcome Measures". Concerning the primary endpoint all possible symptomatic
      nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes will be adjudicated by an independent endpoint committee
      consisting of diabetes specialists blinded to the individual patient insulin regimen.

      Safety: Adverse reactions
    
  