
    
      Approvals (Ethics Board and Health Canada) have already been obtained for the currently
      proposed prospective randomized, single-blinded, controlled clinical trial. The overall
      objective of the current investigation is to determine whether myofascial pain-specific
      therapy (which includes trigger-point injections and myofascial-specific physiotherapy)
      provides better pain relief and improves knee function compared to the standard-of-care
      physiotherapy in patients who are referred to orthopedics as potential surgical candidates.
      Specifically, the investigators hypotheses are that: Patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA)
      and who may be candidates for total knee arthroplasty 1) will have significantly reduced pain
      (compared to those who receive standard of care physiotherapy) and improved function
      (compared to baseline) with myofascial pain therapy and 2) those receiving myofascial therapy
      will have a delayed and/or reduced need for TKA compared to the standard-of-care
      physiotherapy group.

      Patients with chronic knee pain attributed to osteoarthritis and referred to orthopedics as
      potential candidates for a knee replacement will receive standard physiotherapy or
      myofascial-specific therapy over 8 weeks.

      The Primary outcome will be pain scores (10 point visual analogue scale (VAS)) in
      participants following standard-of-care physiotherapy versus myofascial pain-specific therapy
      for 8 weeks.

      The Secondary outcomes will include:

      (Comparisons between and/or within groups where appropriate):

        -  Pain score biweekly up to 8 weeks, at 3 months and 6 months

        -  Decision to proceed with surgery (yes/no)-to assess the alteration in the need for TKA

        -  Decision to continue treatment-(yes/no) is treatment beneficial?

        -  Function -Biodex, 6 min.walk test, Timed up and go- Measured at baseline and 3 months
           following last therapy session for standard vs. myofascial -is myofascial therapy better
           for function?

        -  Brief Pain Interference (BPI) short form- Baseline, 2 weeks and 8 weeks- to assess pain
           interference

        -  Oxford knee scores-Baseline, 2 and 8 weeks- reported functional disability (compare
           groups and to objective measures)

        -  McGill SF pain questionnaire at Baseline, 2 weeks and 8 weeks-to assess pain quality

        -  SF-12 at Baseline, 2 weeks and 8 weeks-to assess quality of life

        -  Analgesics consumed at Baseline, 2 weeks, 8 weeks, 6 months-to assess pain levels

        -  Compare the X-ray osteoarthritis (OA) grade with initial assessment of MTPs-Does
           presence of myofascial trigger points (MTPs) explain discordance between OA grade and
           pain?

        -  Pain scores on a 10 cm visual analogue scale at Baseline, 2 weeks, 6 months- assess
           change in pain intensity

        -  Surgery by 6 month follow-up? Yes/No, If so, when? - postponed or eliminated need for
           TKA?
    
  