
    
      Patients undergoing flexible bronchoscopy (FB) experience procedure-related symptoms. Current
      guidelines of FB recommend sedation to all patients undergoing FB, except when there are
      contraindications. Propofol plus an opioid is the common combination used to improve patient
      tolerance and satisfaction during FB. However, controversy about combining propofol and
      opioids persists because of the risk of over-sedation and cardiopulmonary depression,
      especially for the time-consuming endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS)-guided transbronchial
      needle aspiration (TBNA). Similar with other published data, around 40% of hypoxemia event
      was observed during FB sedation in the investigators' hospital. Dexmedetomidine, is a
      sedative agents via α2 adrenergic agonist, with little respiratory suppression. It has been
      applied in patients with mechanical ventilation, undergoing gastroendoscopy and extracorporal
      shockwave lithotripsy. Little evidences are available for Dexmedetomidine in sedation for
      EBUS-TBNA.

      In this study, the investigators will evaluate the safety and feasibility of Dexmedetomidine
      for sedation of EBUS-TBNA comparing to Propofol for sedation of EBUS-TBNA. Generally, the FB
      sedation can divided into three parts: the induction (from starting sedative administration
      to insertion of bronchoscope); the maintenance ( from insertion of bronchoscope to its
      removal) and the recovery (from bronchoscope removal to patients gain consciousness). The
      primary endpoint is the proportion of patients with hypoxemia during maintenance of sedation.
      the investigators will also observe the other sedative outcomes, e.g. blood pressure,
      sedative drug dosing and patient tolerance and cooperation. The present study will also
      observe the association between brain perfusion and sedative outcomes via non-invasive
      monitor. Based on the unique pharmacokinetic property of Dexmedetomidine and the real-time
      brain perfusion monitor, Dexmedetomidine-based sedation may provide better safety profile for
      EBUS-TBNA than propofol and discover novel connection between sedative outcomes and brain
      perfusion.
    
  