
    
      Bacterial infection in preterm neonates is a significant clinical problem. Neutrophils play a
      critical role in the bactericidal process, which is immature in newborns though their
      peripheral blood neutrophil counts are similar to or higher than that of older children and
      adults. The use of steroids to enhance lung maturation in premature infants complicates this
      problem. Many studies have shown different biological activities between lipopolysaccharide
      (LPS) activated neonatal cord blood neutrophils and adult peripheral blood neutrophils. In
      spite of a number of previous studies, the genetic basis of this differential response to
      LPS-activation remains unknown. In this study, we will identify the differential gene
      expression profiles of LPS-activated adult peripheral blood versus cord blood neutrophils
      from both term and preterm infants by whole genome ligonucleotide microarray. We will
      investigate the priming effect of histologic chorioamnionitis (HCA), a severe
      infection/inflammation implicated in many neonatal diseases, on the immune response in
      neutrophils in terms of gene expression. The effect of prenatal administration of steroids on
      the immune response in preterm neutrophils is another question we will address in the
      proposed study. This study will provide insight into the molecular basis for genetic
      regulation of neutrophil development. We expect to identify novel genes with differential
      expressions in LPS-activated cord blood neutrophils when compared to those of LPS-activated
      adult cells. Aberrant transcripts due to the priming effect of HCA to the immune response in
      term neutrophils will also provide insight on the defense mechanism of subsequent exposures
      to bacterial infection.

      This is a collaborative study. All samples will be collected by our Collaborators at the
      Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. We will perform expression profiling in the
      Laboratory of Clinical Genomics at NICHD. This protocol has been approved by the Joint
      Clinical Research Ethics Committee of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and Hospital
      Authority of Hong Kong.
    
  