
    
      Background There is increasing evidence that clinical guidelines can lead to improvements in
      both the process and outcome of care[1]. They figure prominently within the UK, particularly
      since the inception of the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) and the
      National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). However, clinical guidelines
      are not self-implementing and there is a growing body of research that demonstrates the
      effectiveness of various implementation strategies[1]. This has suggested that while the
      commonly used strategy of the postal distribution of educational materials alone may change
      clinician's behaviour it is unlikely to lead to large changes in practice. Educational
      outreach visits, using a trained person to meet face-to-face with a health care professional
      to provide information, may improve practice, especially prescribing behaviour[1,2]. Previous
      studies of the effectiveness of outreach visiting in the UK NHS have used local pharmacists
      as the visitors[3,4]. All Primary Care Trusts (PCTs) in England employ Pharmaceutical
      Advisers who are pharmacists whose role is to provide, from a wide clinical and health
      service management perspective, advice on prescribing and related areas to general
      practitioners (GPs). Pharmaceutical Advisers routinely visit general practices and are seen
      as change agents; however, the formal delivery of educational outreach by them has not been
      evaluated.

      In 1996, the then Newcastle and North Tyneside Health Authority established a Clinical
      Effectiveness Unit. The remit of the Unit was to provide support to local health care teams
      in primary and secondary care, with the aim of promoting clinical effectiveness and
      encouraging the use of best evidence in daily practice through systematic, evidence-based
      approaches to guideline implementation. The strategy adopted by the Clinical Effectiveness
      Unit was to concentrate on five clinical areas. These were selected by a multi-disciplinary
      steering group using explicit criteria (evidence of inappropriate variation in practice; a
      good evidence base for what should be done; the clinical area should be a source of
      significant morbidity or mortality; large cost implications in the management of the topic).
      Depression was one of the clinical areas chosen.

      The aim of this study was, for the choice of antidepressants for the management of
      depression, to evaluate, within a pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial, the
      effectiveness of outreach visiting by existing Pharmaceutical Advisers in addition to the
      postal distribution of educational materials.

      Methods Within a pragmatic randomized controlled trial, involving all general practices in
      two PCTs, routine methods were used to distribute guidelines for the choice of
      antidepressants for the management of depression. Intervention practices were offered two
      visits (most accepted only one) by their PCT Pharmaceutical Adviser who had been trained in
      the techniques of outreach visiting. The intervention was evaluated using level three
      Prescribing Analysis and Cost (PACT) data for antidepressant drugs for the six months during
      which the intervention was delivered and the subsequent 12 months
    
  