
    
      Low back pain is a global public health problem, one of the main causes of disability of the
      population, as well as enormous economic costs in the health system. This claim specifically
      relates to chronic low back pain. The clinical picture of chronic low back pain in addition
      to pain, muscle spasm and functional disability dominate psychological problems, which
      significantly affects the outcome of treatment. The multidisciplinary approach to treatment
      of chronic low back pain has proven to be the most effective, bad economically unacceptable
      and unavailable in many countries. Therefore, it is necessary to find the most effective and
      economically most acceptable approach to treatment of chronic low back pain. Physiotherapy is
      an unavoidable method of treating this painful condition, and changes in treatment approach
      are most evident in this medical profession. Recently, physiotherapy includes two models in
      the treatment chronic low back pain. Biomedical model consisting of well-known physiotherapy
      methods and a Biopsychosocial model that, in addition to known physiotherapy methods,
      includes a part of cognitive-behavioral therapy associated with motion and behavior,
      operative conditioning. Therapeutic exercise as a effective method indispensable part in both
      models of physiotherapy.

      The reason of changes in physiotherapy is a varied clinical picture of chronic low back pain.
      The proven effect of therapeutic exercises has been determined to reduce the body's symptoms,
      pain and functional disabilities. The effect of reducing psychological symptoms has been
      poorly investigated. Also, the use of therapeutic exercises in the practice creates a number
      of concerns related to the intensity of exercise, mode and time-frame of their application,
      and the type or method of exercise.

      Because it's already a known effect operant conditioning through a multidisciplinary approach
      to reducing the psychological symptoms of chronic low back pain, it is suggested that this
      part of cognitive behavioral therapy be implemented in physiotherapy, namely therapeutic
      exercise. Research to determine the effect of biopsychosocial physiotherapy models is scarce
      and insufficiently clear.

      The aims of this research are:

        1. Determine the efficacy of a biomedical model of physiotherapy in the treatment of
           chronic nonspecific low back pain,

        2. Determine the effectiveness of the biopsychosocial model of physiotherapy in the
           treatment of chronic nonspecific low back pain, and

        3. Compare the effectiveness of these interventions.
    
  