
    
      The project will aim to create the infrastructure to collect clinical data and participants
      reported biometric measures (ePReBMs) from wearable devices in a database, and to run a pilot
      phase with a limited number of participants. During this phase, the feasibility of a
      long-term (6 months) home monitoring of respiratory parameters with the wearable device
      ADAMM-RSM (Health Care Originals, Rochester, NY, USA) will be tested, in parallel with the
      standard of care, in a limited number of participants with progressive fibrosing interstitial
      disease (PF-ILD) including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), lung transplant, cystic
      fibrosis (CF) and bronchiectasis, and tuberculosis (TB). The study design will test the
      possibility to collect data from ADAMM-RSM: ideally, the participants should wear the
      ADAMM-RSM every day, for at least 8 hours. For the purpose of this study, the investigators
      will aim to collect data from the device for every participant at least 3 days per week, at
      least 8 hours per day, for a period of 6 months.

      The duration of this study is estimated in 2 years, including the data analysis. The
      participants will be provided the due information about the study and they will sign a
      written consent before enrolment (a copy is attached to the application to the Research
      Ethics Office of the University of Alberta).

      Every participant enrolled in the study will be asked to wear the ADAMM-RSM (Health Care
      Originals, Rochester, NY, USA) device every day for 6 months.

      The wearable device includes a non-invasive biosensor and processor that is attached to the
      surface of the skin using an adhesive sticker. It is designed to measure physical activity,
      heart rate, respiration, skin temperature, and cough metrics using embedded audio
      transducers, thermistor, accelerometer, gyroscope, and magnetometer. It can be applied
      anywhere on the chest, with a single-use, changeable sticker. As such, the device is able to
      collect heart and respiratory rate, temperature and cough, and to correlate these parameters
      to rest, activity and intensity of activity for the duration of the battery (18 hours). After
      signing the informed consent, the participants will be instructed on how to apply and to
      remove the device on/from the chest, to use the device during the day, and to recharge it at
      night using its dedicated charger.

      Every device is supplied with a unique anonymous identifier, and will transmit the data via
      Wi-Fi to a cloud secured database provided by Health Care Originals (Health Care Originals,
      Rochester, NY, USA). This database will be physically located in a server within the Canadian
      borders. The database will be moved to a secured server at the University of Alberta at the
      end of the study.

      Potential registrations of speech during cough episodes are prevented by an integrated
      algorithm in the device, cleaning automatically any sound other than cough before
      transferring the data to the cloud server.

      Local research coordinators will use a web-based portal to check the usage of the devices and
      that the devices are working properly. This portal does not include personal data of the
      participants but only the device identifier so matching back of actual patient to data stream
      will not occur on any of Healthcare Originals infrastructure.

      A unique progressive study ID will be assigned to every participant entering the study. This
      ID will be coupled to the ADAMM-RSM identifier and it will be used in a separate database to
      collect clinical and follow-up data. The ID will be coupled to participants identifiers only
      in a third excel file, encrypted and protected with a password that will be accessible only
      to the study investigators.

      The participants will be requested to fill 3 quality of life questionnaires (the King's Brief
      Interstitial Lung Disease questionnaire for PF-ILD or Saint George Respiratory Questionnaire
      for the other diagnoses, the Leicester Cough Questionnaire and the MRC dyspnea questionnaire
      for all the enrolled patients) at the time of enrolment, and after 3 and 6 months. The
      questionnaires will be used to compare responses at 3 and 6 months to the data generated from
      the device. Participants will be asked to return the device to the study site at the 6-month
      timepoint. Clinical data will be collected from the participant's chart if available at the
      baseline, 3, and 6 month timepoints as per the CRF's.
    
  