
    
      Hypothalamic obesity (HO) is defined as a rare obesity secondary to impaired functioning of
      the hypothalamus nuclei, the central organ of energy and weight homeostasis. Among the causes
      of HO, there are those related to a hypothalamic lesion (lesional) such as craniopharyngioma
      (CP) or inflammatory (sarcoidosis, tuberculosis etc ..) and those called genetic, with
      variations in gene involved in the central regulation of energy homeostasis. The genetic
      causes of obesity can be either "monogenic" by mutation of genes involved in the leptin /
      melanocortin pathway, or "syndromic", defined by the association of obesity and other
      clinical signs (syndrome), especially neuropsychological traits, such as Prader-Willi
      syndrome (PWS) or Bardet-Biedl syndrome. PWS, which has a frequency of 1/15000 births, is one
      of the most well-known obesity-related syndromes. PWS is characterized by muscle hypotonia at
      birth, severe hyperphagia and food impulsivity, dysmorphic features, and intellectual
      disability with cognitive-behavioral abnormalities. Monogenic obesity involves rare clinical
      situations with variants in one of the genes in the MC4R pathway, which plays a pivotal role
      in the hypothalamic control of food intake and energy expenditure. To date, at least 10 genes
      directly involved in or regulating the leptin/melanocortin pathway are known: leptin (LEP),
      leptin receptor (LEPR), pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), prohormone convertase 1 (PCSK1),
      melanocortin receptor type 4 (MC4R) and its regulator Melanocortin Receptor Accessory Protein
      2 (MRAP2), single -minded homolog 1 (SIM1), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF),
      neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor type 2 (NTRK2) and more recently, adenylate cyclase 3
      (ADCY3). It is of interest to mention that some genes involved in syndromic obesity, such as
      PWS and BBS, are also involved in the MC4R pathway.

      Although HO has various pathophysiological origins, there are common linked phenotypes with
      the presence of severe obesity and abnormal food intake behovior, having a heavy impact on
      the morbidity and mortality. Obesity is multifactorial, associated with an increase in energy
      intake, a decrease in energy expenditure and an alteration of peripheral metabolism with
      abnormal organ cross-talks. People with HO have often cognitive deficits, learning
      difficulties and social skills disorders. These factors alter patients' quality of life. At
      present, there is no specific treatment of HO. Drug treatments have been proposed such as
      melatonin, somatostatin analogue or sympathomimetics but with limited effects on weight and
      feeding behavior, resulting in no prescribing recommendations given the lack of randomized
      studies with sufficient patient samples. Sibutramine tested in patients with lesional or
      genetic HO was withdrawed from the market in France since 2010 for potentially deleterious
      effects on the cardiovascular system. GLP 1 analogues are an interesting therapeutic approach
      in patients with craniopharyngioma with some efficacy on weight, but are currently dedicated
      for diabetic patients in France. Regarding bariatric surgery in rare and secondary obesities,
      the French Haute Autorité de Santé recommends that "the indication must be exceptional and
      discussed on a case by case basis".

      So current management is essentially behavioral, based on daily support of eating behavior
      and physical activity. Food management requires from a very young age and during the whole
      life, a permanent food control, to fight against primary impulsivity of central origin, can
      be a cause of frustration and behavioral disorders. Indeed, the hypothalamic impairment is
      characterized by intense and permanent hunger, a lack of satiety and an obsession for food.
      The affected patients are completely overwhelmed by this addictive behavior. It is extremely
      difficult or impossible for the child as for the adult with this syndrome to control his
      dietary intake. The caregivers and relateds must therefore control access to food at home and
      abroad. This requires constant supervision. An early education of food in the family is
      essential because today it there is no possible and sustainable autonomy regarding diet for
      these patients.

      So, if the global, specialized and multidisciplinary care is to be implemented as early as
      possible, from early childhood, the development of new therapeutic strategies is essential
      due to the severe and early obesity. In recent years, research in therapeutic innovation has
      developed in an interesting way in genetic obesity, in particular by targeting the
      melanocortin pathway. HO have various origins but have a common phenotype, that is the
      presence of eating disorders with hyperphagia and food impulsivity. This is responsible for
      weight gain which can lead to obesity, having a significant impact on the morbidity and
      mortality. However, no precise data are available currently on the specific phenotype of each
      origin, the genotype/phenotype correlation, and national medical history of OH throughout
      life, from birth to adulthood, as well as the associated phenotypes, are still to be
      precisely described.
    
  