
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      A number of pressures make it challenging to learn robotic suturing in the operating room
      including budgetary constraints necessitating near maximum operating room efficiency,
      concerns about patient safety, and decreased trainee working hours. Robotic surgery is a
      novel surgical technique which has significantly decreased surgical morbidity compared to
      open surgery.

      Robotic simulation is a technique that enables skill acquisition in robotic surgery without
      the constraints of the operating room. The Mimic® dv-Trainer TM is a novel virtual reality
      robotic surgery simulator which first became available in 2007. Further refinements and
      developments led to incorporation of the Mimic software into the da Vinci® Skills Simulator.
      This simulator has been shown to have face validity (appears realistic to experienced
      surgeons) and construct validity (surgeons with more experience in robotic surgery score
      higher than less experienced surgeons when performing the simulation exercises). The impact
      of training using the da Vinci® Skills Simulator on performance using the actual surgical
      robot (da Vinci® Surgical System) has started to be studied. One study assessed the impact of
      training using the da Vinci® Skills Simulator on performance of three animal tissue based
      tasks using the da Vinci® Si HD TM Surgical System (Hung, A.J., et al., Concurrent and
      predictive validation of a novel robotic surgery simulator: a prospective, randomized study.
      Journal of Urology, 2012. 187(2): p. 630-7). One of three tasks assessed was suturing closed
      a hole in an injured animal bladder. This study showed statistically significant improvement
      in the animal tissue exercises for the subgroup of participants who started with scores in
      the lower 50th percent for those exercises.

      Our study will differ from this study in several ways. First, we will be focusing on a more
      select group of simulation exercises focusing on robotic suturing (six exercises rather than
      seventeen). Second, we will be developing a proficiency curriculum rather than one based on
      time spent training. Third, our primary outcome will be performance of suturing, using the
      actual surgical robot (da Vinci® Surgical System), of a vaginal cuff model made out of
      inanimate materials rather than an animal tissue model. Due to logistic reasons, the suturing
      of the inanimate model will be performed with the da Vinci® S Surgical System at the March
      23rd testing date (pretest for group 1) and with the da Vinci® Si Surgical System at the
      April 27 testing date (pretest for group 2 and post-test 1 for group 1) and at the June 1
      testing date (post-test for group 2 and post-test 2 for group 1 controls who then cross over
      to training in May). Our study will be open to trainees and surgeons from obstetrics and
      gynecology, general surgery, urology, and cardiac surgery rather than just urology.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATIONS

      Our sample size calculations suggest the need for 38 participants, 19 in each group. This was
      calculated using PASS 11. The plan is to compare the following: (a) control group scores at
      final evaluation minus control group scores at initial evaluation versus (b) training group
      scores at final evaluation minus training group scores at initial evaluation. Thus, we assume
      two independent groups (because the differences in the control group should be independent of
      the differences in the training group). For our sample size calculation, we select the
      Mann-Whitney test and assume a mean difference between the improvement in scores in the
      training group versus the improvement of scores in the control group of 7 (in the context of
      a maximum possible score of 70 on any possible evaluation). We will also assume a standard
      deviation of the differences of 7, an alpha of 0.05, and a power 0.8. The non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney test (equivalent to the Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test) for comparing the ranks of
      independent groups forms the basis for the estimates.

      If we look at a sample size calculation for paired means (for example training group at
      initial assessment versus post-training), we calculate the need for a sample size of 16 in
      the training group (32 total with controls). The same assumptions for difference in means,
      standard deviation, alpha and beta error are made as above. The Wilcoxon (signed rank) test
      for comparing ranks of two paired groups forms the basis of the estimate.

      RANDOMIZATION AND ALLOCATION CONCEALMENT

      Randomization was achieved with an online random number generator (www.randomization.com) to
      create a random sequence of train versus control for 40 participants using randomly permuted
      blocks of 4 or 6 with a ratio of participants of 1:1 train:control in each block. The
      randomization sequence was generated by an associate not otherwise involved with the study.
      The group assignment (train or control) was written by this associate on an index card and
      then a piece of carbon paper was stapled onto the front of the index card and it was placed
      in an opaque, sequentially numbered, sealed envelope for opening by the participants in the
      order of arrival on the pre-test day. Participants write their name on the front of the
      envelope before opening so that this is transmitted by the carbon paper to the index card.
      Two participants initially gave consent to participate on the condition that they would train
      in a given 5 week period but then changed their mind on the day of the pre-test and agreed to
      be randomized.

      DESIGN AND DESCRIPTION OF METHODOLOGY

      After obtaining informed consent, participants will undergo baseline testing on two domains:
      (1) virtual reality robotic simulation using a da Vinci® Skills Simulator and (2) robotic
      suturing of an inanimate model using the da Vinci® Surgical System. For testing using the da
      Vinci® Skills Simulator, participants will perform the following task: Suture sponge 1.
      Scoring will be done automatically by the built-in algorithm of the da Vinci® Skills
      Simulator. Baseline scores for the other da Vinci® Skills Simulator tasks will be obtained
      during the first training session. It is due to time constraints on the testing days that we
      limit assessment with the da Vinci® Skills Simulator to the Suture Sponge 1 task alone.

      For baseline physical (as opposed to virtual reality) robotic simulation testing,
      participants will suture a vaginal cuff model using the actual surgical robot, the da Vinci®
      Surgical System. Due to logistic reasons, the da Vinci® S Surgical System will be used for
      the testing on March 23 (pre-test for group 1) and the da Vinci® Si Surgical System will be
      used for the testing on April 27 (post-test 1 for group 1 and pre-test for group 2) and June
      1 (post-test 2 for group 1 controls who do cross-over training in the period April 27 to May
      31 and post-test for group 2). The vaginal cuff model is built from inexpensive inanimate
      materials based on a prototype from the Journal of Robotic Surgery[Finan MA, C.M., Rocconi, A
      novel method for training residents in robotic hysterectomy. Journal of Robotic Surgery,
      2010. 4(1): p. 33-39.]. Their performance of this task will be recorded using the built-in
      video camera of the da Vinci® Surgical System. Participants will be given a ten minute time
      limit to try to suture as many figure of 8 knots in the model of the vaginal cuff as
      possible. They are instructed to place a double throw and then three single throws for each
      knot. At study conclusion, one expert robotic surgeon and one gynecologic oncology fellow,
      blinded to participant identity and group randomization status, will grade the performance of
      this task. In order to ensure blinding, the videorecordings will be arranged in random order
      by a member of the study team (who is not involved in grading performance) in such a way that
      no content is lost but so that the sequence of participants suturing and whether this was a
      pre- or post-intervention recording is randomly arranged using a random number generator. The
      original study codes will also be removed from this random sequence of videos and a new study
      code will be attached to each video. A master sheet will be kept to re-assign the original
      codes but will not be available to the evaluators until after grading is completed. To score
      the videotaped performance, grading will performed using the GOALS score for laparoscopy
      [Vassiliou, M.C., et al., A global assessment tool for evaluation of intraoperative
      laparoscopic skills. American Journal of Surgery, 2005. 190(1): p. 107-13.] plus two
      additional metrics described by AJ Hung [Hung, A.J., et al., Concurrent and predictive
      validation of a novel robotic surgery simulator: a prospective, randomized study. Journal of
      Urology, 2012. 187(2): p. 630-7.] specifically for robotics: 1) precision and 2) instrument
      and camera awareness.

      Following initial testing, participants will be randomized to two groups: 1)participation in
      the da Vinci® Skills Simulator-based robotic suturing simulation proficiency curriculum in
      addition to usual clinical/residency practice or 2) usual clinical/residency practice alone.
      The robotic suturing simulation curriculum is a "proficiency" curriculum in that it is
      focused on the goal of achieving proficiency targets for five of the six tasks included in
      the curriculum. Those five tasks are : Camera targeting 1, Camera targeting 2, Suture sponge
      1, Suture sponge 2, and Suture sponge 3. For these five exercises, we will use the latest
      version of the MScore TM assessment. MScore TM is part of the software accompanying the da
      Vinci® Skills Simulator which provides scoring of task performance. We will ask participants
      in the training group to aim to complete these exercises to the target score (overall score
      green checkmark, equivalent to a "completed score") on two nonconsecutive attempts. For the
      "Suturing skills (Symbionix TM): Horizontal suturing defect" task, the scoring is different
      and adjusts to the participant's prior attempts, indicating whether improvement has been
      made. Thus, we have elected to ask participants to aim to complete this task ten times,
      rather than aiming for a particular score. The curriculum is designated "proficiency-based"
      (with the exception of the Horizontal suturing defect task) in that the goal is to achieve
      the target scores rather than to complete a set amount of time training or a set number of
      repetitions. However, to provide some structure, we will recommend at least five hours total
      of training sessions over the five week study period. We will also facilitate the
      organization and scheduling of additional training time during the study period, if desired
      by individual participants in the training group. In terms of simulator access, participants
      in the training group will be using a da Vinci® Skills Simulator attached to the mentoring
      console of a da Vinci Si robot. This da Vinci® Si robot is used for actual surgery during
      regular working hours. In general this is Monday-Friday during the regular, elective surgery
      schedule. Thus, the da Vinci® Skills Simulator will, in general (unless elective robotic
      cases are cancelled or not scheduled that day), be available to participants only after the
      elective robotic surgeries of the day are completed on week days. On Saturday and Sunday, the
      da Vinci® Skills Simulator will generally be available to participants all day.

      The control group will carry on with regular clinical work or residency training. After the
      intervention period, we will then re-evaluate all participants in the same da Vinci® Skills
      Simulator task (Suture Sponge 1) and in the task of suturing the vaginal cuff model using the
      da Vinci® S Surgical System. Testing of the task of suturing the vaginal cuff model using the
      da Vinci® Surgical System will be graded in the same manner as the pretesting: one expert
      robotic surgeon, one surgeon with intermediate robotic experience, and one gynecologic
      oncology fellow (blinded to participant group and to whether the task was performed pre- or
      post-intervention) will review the videotaped recordings. {*Note that we initially planned to
      have the videos graded by one expert robotic surgeon and one gynecologic fellow. We decided
      to add grading by one surgeon with intermediate robotic experience. This decision was made to
      ensure at least two sets of grading were completed by our group's deadline of Sept 11th, to
      strengthen the validity of our results, and to allow better assessment of inter-observer
      agreement. The decision to add a third rater was made when only the first set of data was in
      (expert robotic surgeon) and before data was decoded or analyzed (such that it was not known
      whether any score applied to a participant in the pre- or post- or in the training or control
      group). The first complete set of video grades was received on Aug 4 (expert robotic
      surgeon), the second set on Sept 8 (gynecologic oncology fellow), and the third set on Sept
      10 (surgeon with intermediate robotic experience). On Sept 11, the process of decoding the
      randomized order of the data began so that the link between scores and whether the
      participant was pre- or post-intervention and in the control group or training group was
      revealed in order to begin analysis.} Following this, the control group that started March
      23rd will be allowed to crossover and perform the proficiency-based curriculum. Finally, this
      group (originally controls, then crossed over to training) will be tested one last time in
      the simulation task "Suture Sponge 1" using the da Vinci® Skills Simulator and in the task of
      robotic suturing of the vaginal cuff model using the da Vinci® Surgical System. The robotic
      suturing of the vaginal cuff model will again be assessed by review of videotapes by blinded
      experts. In order to organize the training sessions participants will be given the
      investigator's contact information (DK). Access to the da Vinci® Skills Simulator will be
      organized by a proctor familiar with the da Vinci® Skills Simulator (DK), who will be present
      to facilitate access to the simulator (given that it is located in the operating room) and to
      supervise.

      There are two separate dates on which participants can enter the study and be randomized.
      They are: March 23 or April 27, 2013. Participants entering the study March 23 will have
      pretesting that day and be randomized to training March 24 to April 26 or April 28 - May 31,
      2013. All participants entering the study March 23 will be asked to participate in a posttest
      on April 27, 2013. Those participants randomized to training April 29 to May 31 (that is, the
      initial control group participants which elect to crossover to training in the next period)
      will be asked to participate in a second post-test on June 1, 2013.

      Participants who enter the study on April 27, 2013 will have a pretest that day and then be
      randomized to training April 29 to May 31 or control with optional training June 2 to June
      28. All participants entering the study April 27 will be asked to participate in a post-test
      on June 1, 2013. Those participants entering the study on April 27 and randomized to the
      control group April 28 to May 31 will have the option to crossover and complete training June
      2-28. However, at present, no post-test is planned for after this training period (June 2 -
      28) due to logistic reasons.

      DATA ANALYSIS PLAN

      There are three time periods for each of the two entry points (March 23 and April 27) in this
      study: time 0 = initial testing; time 1 = post-intervention period; time 2 = post-cross-over
      intervention period. To clarify, time 1 will occur at the time of retesting following the
      initial study period of training or no training. Time 2 will occur after the control group
      crosses over, completes training, and is then retested. A subgroup analysis of the
      participants starting with pretest scores in the lower 50% is planned.

      Independent group comparisons will also be conducted using the Wilcoxon rank sum test.
      Independent group comparisons include (a) the differences from time 0 to time 1 for training
      group versus (b) the differences from time 0 to time 1 for the control group. Paired group
      comparisons will be conducted with the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Paired group comparisons
      include: training group at time 0 versus at time 1 and control group with cross-over training
      at time 2 versus at time 1 and at time 1 versus time 0.
    
  