
    
      The dose of 2-OHOA each patient will receive will depend on the dose cohort into which they
      are enrolled.

      Once a patient is allocated a dose of 2-OHOA (either in the dose escalation phase or the
      expanded safety cohort), it is planned that they will continue to receive the same dose on a
      daily basis in treatment cycles of 21 days (3 weeks), which may be repeated continuously
      without therapy interruption, until any criterion for discontinuation is met (clinical or
      radiological progression of disease, clinically unacceptable toxicity, or another "general"
      discontinuation criterion is met as defined in Section 5.5). In the event of significant
      gastrointestinal toxicity, the treatment schedule may be modified from continuous dosing to
      an intermittent regime (e.g. 1 week of dosing followed by 1 week not dosing), except during
      Cycle 1 of the dose escalation phase.

      In the case of toxicity, the dose of 2-OHOA may be reduced or delayed by no more than 14 days
      at the discretion of the Investigator. Treatment "holidays" of no more than 14 days are also
      permitted for reasons other than toxicity, except during Cycle 1 of the dose escalation
      phase.

      Intra-patient dose escalation may be permitted in certain specific circumstances (and only if
      ≤ Grade 2 toxicity was observed during previous treatment cycles), but toxicity will not be
      considered for definition of DLT.

      It is expected that most patients will receive between one and 6 cycles of 2-OHOA for a
      treatment period of 3 to 18 weeks. The treatment period may be extended provided that no DLT
      has been observed and if in the opinion of the Investigator the patient is showing benefit
      from treatment with 2-OHOA.

      Patients demonstrating clinical benefit from 2-OHOA will have the option of continuing
      treatment under compassionate use once the study has concluded.
    
  