
    
      Infertility is a real public health problem. In recent years, there has been a clear decline
      in male fertility in industrialized countries, particularly sperm quality. In the general
      population, 70% of desired pregnancies are obtained after 6 months and 90% after one year of
      unprotected intercourse. A couple is considered infertile in the absence of pregnancy after
      one year of unprotected sex. Currently about 15% of couples of childbearing age is 1 in 7
      couples consult for infertility. A French team evaluated the infertility etiologies. Among
      1686 couples, infertility was female in 33% of cases, male in 20% of cases and mixed in 39%
      of cases. Infertility was said to be unexplained in 8% of the couples evaluated.

      Male partners of infertile couples experience significantly higher stress and sexual
      dysfunction during the fertile period compared to the non-fertile period. The high stress
      levels are probably due to the psychological pressure associated with efforts to conceive but
      certainly also with the forced moment of sexual intercourse around the ovulatory cycle of the
      partner. Sexuality can therefore be deprived of its recreational and erotic value and
      subordinated to the purpose of pregnancy. The man and the woman become "spawners" and the
      love relationship is organized towards a procreative goal, affecting the spontaneity of the
      relationship of the couple. Sexual intercourse then proceeds less and less from erotic desire
      and more and more desire for pregnancy. The man who doubts his fertility is ready to adjust
      his sexuality for greater efficiency in order to obtain the child, which represents his
      personal reassurance and the social proof of his sexual power. Sexual desire disorders are
      therefore the most frequent sexual disorder in infertile couples. Treatments and medical
      requirements to treat infertility may be responsible for inhibiting sexual desire. Indeed,
      sex becomes impersonal and driven by medical procedures. Medical assistance with procreation
      (MAP) is becoming increasingly important in our society. In 2011 according to the figures of
      the agency of biomedicine, 23 127 children were born thanks to the attempts of MPAs made, or
      2.8% of children born in the general population that same year. However, MAP techniques do
      not always lead to pregnancy, according to the figures of the weekly epidemiological bulletin
      on 100 couples who start IVF:

        -  41 will have a child thanks to IVF

        -  59 will not have them in the context of IVF:

             -  7 will have a child with another treatment

             -  11 will have a child naturally

             -  11 will adopt a child

             -  30 couples will not have children

      Infertile men may feel stigmatized because they are perceived to be deficient in a specific
      component of their masculinity. When men discover their infertility, men usually go through a
      crisis. This crisis represents a manifestation of long-standing anxiety about the nature of
      man, his role and function. The confusion of fertility, power and masculinity has
      consequences for infertile men. Male infertility can be perceived as a loss of masculinity.
      Men will be more reluctant to talk about their fertility problem than women. The literature
      suggests that the exams and the vocabulary of consultation also contribute to the anxiety of
      loss of male sexual identity, of self-deprecation in men. The diagnosis announcement is an
      important moment of care. This announcement should be cautious and the words cleverly chosen
      because the narcissistic injury can be profound. The team of Marci et al evaluated the impact
      of the diagnosis of infertility on sexuality. It could be shown that men newly diagnosed as
      infertile presented lower scores compared to fertile controls. This team showed that during
      the early stages of the diagnosis of infertility, the sexual life of couples was reached. An
      observational study also showed that 11% of the men had failed in the second collection
      because of a diagnosis of infertility. Patients in the fertile group had inferior spermatic
      characteristics compared with patients in the fertile group without significant difference.
      In the literature, a higher prevalence of erectile dysfunction in infertile men is reported
      compared to the general male population. The team of Khademi in 2008 show that 61.8% of
      patients have sexual dysfunction including 2% with severe erectile dysfunction. An
      observational study evaluated a total of 1,468 infertile men and 942 fertile men. The
      incidences of premature ejaculation (PE) and erectile dysfunction (ED) in the infertile group
      were significantly higher than those in the fertile group (PE: 19.01% vs. 10.93%, P <0.001;
      ED: 18.05% vs. 8.28%, P <0.001). In addition, anxiety and depression were more prevalent
      among infertile men compared to fertile men (anxiety: 38.01% vs 26.65%, p <0.001, depression:
      15.74% vs. 10.08% P <0.001). Some authors reported that sexual arousal was maintained during
      the management of infertility. Other results have reported a decrease in sexual arousal.
      Despite the difficult stages they are going through, the 2 partners treated for infertility
      maintain a good understanding within their couple and support each other. The studies
      published so far have focused on infertile men without any specification on the type or stage
      of management of MPA. Similarly, the type of infertility encountered is rarely mentioned.
      Only one study assessed concordance between sperm characteristics and sexual dysfunction.

      The main objective of our study is therefore to evaluate the perceived sexual quality by the
      man whose couple is cared for in MAP. It is an exploratory study of the control case type.
      This work will make it possible to evaluate the impact of the type of treatment in MAP on the
      sexuality of the man. Does the techniques used in MAP (Intra uterine insemination, in vitro
      fertilization or intra cytoplasmic sperm injection) have an impact on male sexuality? In
      order to be able to quantify sexual dysfunction in this study, the IIEF: the international
      index of erectile function questionnaire will be given to the included patients. The IIEF is
      an internationally validated test and translated in several languages. This questionnaire has
      been the subject of several publications especially in the field of infertility (Bechoua et
      al., 2016). It allows to assign a score of erectile dysfunction (severe score 1 to 10,
      moderate score 11 to 16, low to moderate score 17 to 21, low score 22 at 25, no erectile
      dysfunction score 26 to 30). This test also classifies sexual dysfunction under several
      domains.

      Erectile function: item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 15 (score 1 to 30) Orgasmic function: item 9 and 10
      (score 0 to 10) Desire: item 11 and 12 (score 2 to 10) Sexual satisfaction: items 6, 7 and 8
      (score 0 to 15) Overall satisfaction: item 13 and 14 (score 2 to 10)

      Men are often left behind and may be disinvested from MAP protocols. Depending on the
      results, patients who have a significant impact on their sexuality of their care in MAP can
      be diagnosed and supported with the establishment of a sexology consultation in the service.
      Conducting a study of this type in the MAP service from CHU Estaing in Clermont-Ferrand will
      open a space of expression complementary.
    
  