
    
      This is a multicenter, controlled study utilizing a randomized switching design for cigarette
      smoking and C-F NDS use. The study will take place in one site in each of five countries.
      Three countries have so far agreed to participate: UK, Italy, Poland. An amendment will be
      submitted to the REC once the final two countries are signed up.

      A volunteer population of adult smokers with T2DM will be recruited. Smokers will be
      randomized (1:2 ratio) to either continue to smoke their own cigarette brand (Study Arm A) or
      use C-F NDS (Study Arm B). The intended minimum number of participants in each arm by the end
      of the study is 147.

      Before randomization, all smokers will be reminded of the risks associated with smoking and
      will be offered a free smoking cessation program according to standard local guidelines and
      depending on the local availability of antismoking services. Those who decline the invitation
      will be eligible for recruitment into the RCT.

      Smokers are free to voluntarily quit smoking/C-F NDS and/or withdraw from the study at any
      time.

      Duration:

      This will be a prospective 2-year study conducted in the ambulatory setting. Participants
      will attend a total of 5 clinic visits at Screening, Day 1 (Visit 1), Day 90 (+/-5 days)
      (Visit 2), Day 180 (+/-7 days) (Visit 3), Day 360 (+/-7 days) (Visit 4), and Day 720 (+/-7
      days) (Visit 5).

      Participants will undergo screening within 28 days prior to Day 1. Eligible participants will
      be enrolled and randomized on Day 1.

      Study Arms and Randomization Plan Participants who were eligible and consent to take part
      will be randomized to either continuing smoking their own cigarette brand (Arm A) or
      switching to using C-F NDS (Arm B).

      The randomization sequence will be computer generated, with an allocation ratio of 1:2 (Arm
      A: Arm B) to compensate for an estimated 50% success rate (defined as combined smoking
      abstinence rate + >80% smoking reduction rate) in the long term (more details in the section
      about Sample Size Calculation). The randomization scheme will be provided to clinical sites
      via a web-based application set up by the CRO. The staff randomizing the participant will
      access the web-based application when the participant is with them, entering their
      participant identification number, date of birth and initials into the program. The
      allocation will be immediately provided by the program/software.

      Product Use Smokers will continue to smoke their usual brand of cigarette until randomization
      on Day 1. After randomization, participants in Arms A and B will be asked to use only their
      assigned products ad libitum for the whole duration of the study (for more info/details - see
      below).

      Participants in Arm A will continue smoking their own cigarette brand as usual. Participants
      in Arm B will trial and familiarize with their allocated products to select the C-F NDS of
      their preference. They will be trained and counseled on the chosen C-F NDS; participants will
      also have the option to try and choose among a selection of either 3 e-liquids or 3 tobacco
      sticks (depending on the C-F NDS they have chosen). Participants wishing to use a heated
      tobacco device will receive one kit and a full 1 week supply of tobacco sticks of their
      choice (they will receive a number of tobacco sticks/day corresponding to the number of
      cigarettes smoked at baseline); those wishing to use a vaping product will receive one vaping
      kit and a full 1 week supply of e-liquids of their choice (they will receive 4, 10 ml refill
      containers). Free products will be supplied at each subsequent visit throughout the whole
      duration of the study

      Product Monitoring and Compliance A prospective evaluation of cigarette consumption will be
      carried out throughout the study (see below). Cigarette use will be self-reported and
      recorded in the eCRF/ automated eDiary-SMS system (+ APP tracker).

      Participants in Arm B will be instructed on the importance of using exclusively their C-F NDS
      and to abstain from smoking. Participants will be asked to report any non-compliance via the
      automated eDiary-SMS system (+ APP tracker), and will be informed that compliance assessments
      will be conducted throughout the study. Non-compliance will be documented.

      Justification for Study Design

      Participants in this study will be a minimum of 23 years of age. This is based on:

        -  The legal age to obtain tobacco products is 18 years

        -  Participants will be required to have a smoking history of at least 5 years To
           investigate the effects of abstaining from smoking by switching in smokers with T2DM, a
           population of patients who are intending to make the switch to N-C NDS will be
           recruited. By the end of the study, it is estimated that a high proportion (approx. 50%)
           of patients randomized in the Arm B of the study will not be able to achieve success
           (defined as either complete smoking abstinence or as at least 80% smoking reduction). To
           account for this, the C-F NDS population will be oversampled and a 1:2 randomization
           ratio scheme (i.e. for every patient randomized in the continue-to-smoke population, two
           will be randomized in the C-F NDS population) will be adopted.

      Treatment blinding This is an unblinded study. It will not be possible to blind participants
      to the intervention they will be receiving. It will not be possible to blind trial staff when
      providing the interventions and collecting data.

      Unblinded data will be seen and analysed by the Trial Statistician for the purposes of the
      Data Monitoring and Ethics Committee (DMEC) meetings. All other trial staff who has access to
      outcome data will remain blinded until prespecified data analyses will be completed.
      Prespecified data analyses will be conducted blind to treatment allocation.
    
  