
    
      Thirteen transgender men (TGM) and 13 cisgender female (CGF) control subjects with congruent
      female gender identity and sex will be enrolled in the following studies.

      i. Ovarian follicle responses to FSH stimulation All subjects in each study group will
      undergo assessment of follicle responsiveness to intravenous (i.v.) recombinant FSH (r-FSH)
      stimulation 150 IU based on our previously published studies. Prior to testosterone treatment
      in TGM, r-FSH stimulation will be performed in the early follicular phase (EFP) of the cycle
      to approximate basal serum estradiol levels observed in the testosterone-treated TGM. Blood
      samples will be obtained before, and at 12 and 24 hours following each i.v. r-FSH injection
      for measurements of gonadotropins and sex steroid hormones. Subsequent r-FSH stimulation will
      be conducted on a random day at three- and six- months after testosterone treatment as we
      expect testosterone-treated TGM to be anovulatory. Blood samples will be obtained before, and
      at 12 and 24 hours following each i.v. r-FSH injection for measurements of sex steroid
      hormones.

      ii. Gonadotropin responses to steroid hormone feedback On the morning of study day 1 (t=0) of
      study each subject will have a blood sample drawn in the morning for baseline hormone
      determinations. Subsequently, an intramuscular (i.m.) injection of estradiol valerate, 5 mg,
      will be administered. On study day 2 (t=48 hr), each subject will be administered an i.m.
      injection of progesterone in oil, 50 mg. Blood samples will be obtained t=0, +24, +48, +60,
      and +72 hr for the assessment of gonadotropin and steroid hormone levels. Serum FSH and LH
      levels following steroid administration in TGM will be compared to those observed in
      untreated TGM and CGF.

      All subjects in each study group will undergo the same intervention as described above. TGM
      subjects will be studied during the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle before and
      after three and six months of testosterone therapy. Should amenorrhea occur during T50
      therapy, then study will be performed on a random day within one week of the three- and six-
      month time points. Untreated CGF controls will be studied once during the early follicular
      phase of the menstrual cycle.
    
  