
    
      Background: Asthma is a chronic condition that is responsible for substantial morbidity.
      Direct costs for physicians, hospital care and medications in Canada are conservatively
      estimated at $306 million per year for persons with asthma. Existing evidence suggests that
      considerable reductions in morbidity could be achieved by early prevention and timely
      treatment. Much of the costs of asthma care are related to poor disease control due to
      under-use of effective prophylactic therapies, inadequate monitoring of disease severity, and
      insufficient patient education. A recent Canadian survey found that only 64% of patients with
      poor asthma control had been prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid, and of these only 52% made
      use of the medication on a daily basis. Further, although asthma self-management has been
      shown to reduce the relative risk of hospitalization for asthma by 39%, only 21% of asthma
      patients are provided with an action plan to institute for disease exacerbation and only 22%
      of primary care physicians provide action plans for their asthma patients on a regular basis.
      Computerized decision-support systems have provided a new set of tools for enabling
      integrated evidence-based care, by providing physicians with patient-specific reminders and
      alerts for needed preventive care and management, and timely feedback from patients. However,
      there has been limited use of computer-enabled decision-support in primary care, and only one
      reported study in chronic disease management. A key barrier to success has been the challenge
      of providing primary care physicians with a computerized solution that will produce
      value-added benefits and can be integrated easily into their routine workflow. Our prior
      research has shown that an integrated electronic prescribing and drug management system can
      provide value-added benefits for physicians because it is linked to information on dispensed
      medications, and alerts for prescribing problems. Early uptake and utilization of this
      computerized drug management system by primary care physicians provides an opportunity to
      develop and evaluate the effectiveness of an integrated asthma management decision-support
      system to enhance the use of prophylactic therapies and timely monitoring of asthma severity
      in primary care.

      Objective: To determine if computerized decision-support and home-monitoring systems for
      asthma that is integrated into an electronic prescription and drug management system can: a)
      increase quality of disease management, b) improve treatment outcomes for patients with
      asthma.

      Research Plan: A cluster-randomized trial with 33 months of follow-up will be conducted in a
      population of approximately 100 primary care physicians in full-time private fee-for-service
      practice in approximately 40 clinics in Quebec, and an estimated 2,880 - 4500 participating
      asthma patients within their practices. Enrolled physicians will receive the MOXXI electronic
      prescription and drug management software, equipped with wireless modem to access the central
      databases and application server, and wireless printer. This system allows physicians to
      write and send prescriptions electronically, provides alerts for potential prescribing
      errors, a profile of current and past medications through automated links with the provincial
      drug insurance plan and community-based pharmacies, a medication compliance calculator based
      on dispensed prescriptions, and automated problem list creation based on treatment indication
      and verification of diagnostic codes on medical services claims files. Clinics will be
      randomized to receive a) computerized decision-support and home-monitoring for asthma
      integrated with the MOXXI system or b) the MOXXI system alone. The asthma management decision
      support system uses data from the patient problem and medication list to provide
      patient-specific management recommendations based on Canadian Consensus guidelines for asthma
      management. Web-enabled technology for asthma education nurses is used to collect
      home-monitoring information from patients between visits and feedback to primary care
      physicians in accordance with options selected by the physician for each patient.

      The primary outcome, measured in each 3 month period of follow-up will be poor asthma
      control, defined as an ER visit or hospitalization for asthma in each 3 month period of
      follow-up or the dispensing of > 250 doses of fast-acting beta2-agonists. Secondary outcomes
      will include one evidence-based quality of care indicator (inhaled corticosteroid to
      beta2-agonist ratio, prescription of an action plan). Primary and secondary outcomes will be
      measured using data from the medical chart, records of prescribed and dispensed drugs, and
      Ministry of Health beneficiary, medical services and hospitalization databases. Effectiveness
      of computer-based decision support will be assessed by multivariate hierarchical modeling to
      take into account multiple measurements for the same patient, clustered within physician and
      clinic, and to adjust for baseline differences in patient characteristics. Also, we will
      examine whether the effectiveness of the intervention was modified by asthma control status
      and physicians' use of the MOXXI application by stratified analyses.
    
  