
    
      This proposal is a collaborative effort of MedShape Inc. It is a prospective investigation to
      assess the clinical outcomes of patients with a tibiotalocalcaneal arthrodesis with the
      Dynamic Compression Intramedullary Nail (DynaNail). We are planning to enroll 30 patients.
      The assignment of the device is at the discretion of the standard of care provider, not the
      study investigator.

      Patients with end-stage tibiotalar (ankle) and talocalcaneal (subtalar) joint arthritis from
      any etiology will be asked to enroll in the study. After informed consent, the patients will
      be asked to complete the following patient reported outcomes questionnaires (standard of care
      for all patients in the Foot and Ankle section): 100mm VAS for pain, Short form-36 (SF-36),
      and the Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM). After informed consent, they will then be
      scheduled for surgery in a routine fashion. REDCap database will be used to allow on-line
      data entry.

      The following surgical procedure steps and follow-ups are standard of care at the University
      of Alabama at Birmingham. The surgical procedure will involve both tibiotalar and
      talocalcaneal joint preparation through any approach (lateral, posterior, anterior with sinus
      tarsi). The use of supplemental bone graft is at the discretion of the treating surgeon but
      must be documented. The MedShape DynaNail will then be inserted according to the
      manufacturer's technique. The patient will be placed in a short leg splint and kept
      non-weight bearing. The patient will be discharged from the hospital when medically ready and
      follow-up in two weeks.

      At two weeks, the patient will return to clinic for a standard of care visit and their splint
      will be removed. A non-weight bearing lateral radiograph of the hind foot will be taken to
      assess the amount of travel of the compressive element. This radiograph is not standard of
      care. The patient will be placed in a non-weight bearing cast. The patient will then be asked
      to return in two weeks (4 weeks post-operatively). This visit is not standard of care. At
      this time another non-weight bearing lateral radiograph will be taken to assess the amount of
      travel of the compressive element. The patient will be asked to return at 6 weeks, 3 months,
      6 months, 12 months, and 24 months after surgery as is standard of care for this surgery. At
      each of these time-points, the same patient specific outcome questionnaires will be
      administered. For any non- standard of care radiographs patients will be asked to take a
      urine pregnancy test prior to any radiographs being taken.

      Patients will be identified in the clinic by an attending orthopaedic foot and ankle surgeon,
      his clinical fellow, or his physician assistant based on clinical exam and radiographic
      findings. Inclusion criteria include anyone over age 18 who has ankle and subtalar arthritis
      and has failed nonoperative management. Typically, these patients have multiple medical
      comorbidities and therefore the only exclusion criteria will be patients who are not healthy
      enough to undergo surgery. Patients of all racial, religious, and cultural backgrounds will
      be included in this study.
    
  