
    
      This study has two phases. In phase one (UG3), the investigators propose to use FMRI to
      quantify changes in brain function and EEG to examine oscillatory brain changes as well as
      self-reported craving before and after administration of five sessions of tDCS+Cognitive
      Control Network (CCN) priming stimulation vs. sham tDCS+CCN priming (randomized control
      trial) in 60 opioid dependent participants who recently initiated buprenorphine. Participants
      in the first month of prescribed buprenorphine will be assessed using FMRI and EEG, once
      prior to tDCS and again one week later after completion of 5 sessions of tDCS+CCN priming.
      With a focus on the craving outcome, the investigators will use two task-based FMRI paradigms
      that challenge networks associated with craving (CR) and cognitive control (CCN), and will
      examine these and the salience network using resting state functional connectivity. In Phase
      1, FMRI and EEG will be expected to provide 1) validation of expected network and oscillatory
      changes from tDCS-targeting and 2) an effect size for DLPFC vs sham stimulation. Go/no go
      criteria for the UG3 phase will be demonstration of greater FMRI change in any node of the CR
      or CCN networks or enhanced frontal theta power during a WM task AND greater change (at least
      10% difference between conditions, controlling for baseline craving) in subjective craving
      measured during a cue reactivity task or outside the FMRI following the tDCS+CCN priming
      intervention compared to sham tDCS+CCN priming.

      In phase 2, the investigators will perform a larger RCT using the same treatment protocol in
      100 opioid dependent participants who recently initiated buprenorphine. Participants will be
      randomized to receive five sessions of tDCS+CCN priming stimulation vs. sham tDCS+CCN
      priming. Phase two will address long-term (3-month) neurobehavioral outcomes, including
      opioid relapse, craving, and sustained fMRI changes during a paradigm that challenges
      networks associated with craving (CR) and cognitive control (CCN). During the 12 weeks of
      buprenorphine maintenance treatment, the investigators will examine our primary clinical
      outcome, relapse (opioid use on >4 days per month and having an opioid positive urine
      screen), as well as days of opioid use.
    
  