
    
      Objectives and aims The objective of the project is to identify measurable features of
      atherosclerotic plaque in carotids associated with plaque progression and increased
      stroke/TIA risk using duplex sonography and digital B-mode image analysis.

      The project aims

        1. to identify characteristics of carotic atherosclerotic plaque in ultrasound B-mode
           associated with a risk of progression or stroke/TIA onset - the "vulnerable"
           atherosclerotic plaque using

             1. visual assessment

             2. digital image analysis using a computer program

        2. to determine the correlation of the ultrasound finding of carotic atherosclerotic plaque
           in a B-mode in vivo (before endarterectomy) and subsequently in vitro (after
           endarterectomy) in patients indicated to carotid endarterectomy using

             1. visual assessment

             2. digital image analysis using a computer program

        3. to assess a correlation between histological evaluation of composition of
           atherosclerotic plaque obtained during carotid endarterectomy and ultrasound image of
           atherosclerotic plaque in a B-mode in vitro using

             1. visual assessment

             2. digital image analysis using a computer program

        4. to compare histological and ultrasound findings in vitro and in vivo between
           asymptomatic and symptomatic atherosclerotic plaques in the carotid bifurcation using

             1. visual assessment

             2. digital image analysis using a computer program

        5. to compare the features of asymptomatic and symptomatic atherosclerotic plaque in the
           carotid bifurcation using

             1. sonographic perfusion examination of plaque in vivo (after application of
                echocontrast agent)

             2. elastography

      The grant project is in concordance with the scope, expected benefits, key objective of the
      Programme "Ensuring internationally comparable levels of healthcare research and use the
      results to improve the health of Czech population and to secure the current needs of the
      health sector in the Czech Republic" and the sub-objective 1.2.2. "The development of early
      diagnosis of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease and finding treatment modalities and
      procedures in the treatment of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease with greater
      therapeutic efficiency and greater parsimony for the patient."

      Project design

        1. Patients The project period will take 54 months. Total of 413 patients with
           atherosclerotic plaques in the carotid bifurcation and internal carotid artery causing
           arterial stenosis ≥ 30% detected by duplex sonography will be included to the study -
           152 patients indicated for carotid endarterectomy according to the currently valid
           guidelines (American Heart Association/American Stroke Association [AHA], European
           Stroke Organisation [ESO]) and 261 patients indicated for conservative treatment.
           Patients will be screened and enrolled in sonographic laboratories of the Military
           University Hospital in Prague and University Hospital Ostrava.

           Inclusion criteria: 1/ age 30 - 90 years, 2/ sufficient image quality of atherosclerotic
           plaque in the carotid bifurcation and ICA using ultrasound, 3/ independency of the
           patient (0 - 2 points in the modified Rankin scale), 4/ signed informed consent.

           Exclusion criteria: 1/ serious disease with a low probability of survival of at least 3
           years, 2/ other objective obstacles preventing regular 6-month ultrasound scan.

           Clinical examination: Physical and neurological examinations and examinations of carotid
           arteries by duplex sonography will be performed in all patients at baseline and every 6
           months for 3 years.

        2. Sample size calculation The sample size for prospective follow-up of atherosclerotic
           plaques was based on an expected 20% difference in echogenicity index (digital image
           analysis) between patients with a new stroke/TIA (expected 2% annual risk) and patients
           without new stroke/ TIA. Pre-study calculations showed that a minimum of 261 patients
           were needed to reach a significant difference with an alpha value of 0.05 (two-tailed)
           and a beta value of 0.8 assuming that 20 % of subjects will lost to follow-up.

           The sample size for patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy with subsequent in vitro
           sonographic and histological evaluation of atherosclerotic plaques was based on an
           expected Spearman's correlation coefficient ≥ 0.3 between histological and sonographic
           evaluation of atherosclerotic plaque (visual and digital image analysis). Pre-study
           calculations showed that a minimum of 152 patients were needed to reach a significant
           difference with an alpha value of 0.01 (after Bonferroni correction for 5 evaluated
           factors) and a beta value of 0.8 assuming that 20 % of plaques will not be suitable for
           evaluation.

        3. Duplex sonographic examination of carotid arteries Standard duplex sonography of
           cervical vessels focusing on the carotid bifurcation and proximal part of the ICA with
           measurement of the maximum width of atherosclerotic plaque and transcranial duplex
           color-coded sonography will be performed in all all patients at baseline and thereafter
           in 6-month period for 3 years (totally 7 examinations). Examinations will be performed
           using high-end duplex ultrasound system ESAOTE MyLab Twice (ESAOTE, Genova, Italy) with
           linear probe LA435 (10 - 18 MHz), vascular preset, scanning depth 4.0 cm, 2 focuses in
           2.0 and 3.0 cm; for transcranial duplex sonography, a phase array PA 240 (2 - 4 MHz)
           will be used. Free hand sonographic scanning will be performed in B-mode in longitudinal
           and transversal planes (continuous hand moving without changes of probe angle). Video
           sequences from both longitudinal and transversal scanning and images of cross-section of
           the plaque in subsequent distance of 0.5 mm will be saved and encoded. Visual
           characteristics of the plaque (echogenicity, homogeneity, surface, etc.) and digital
           image analysis using B-mode Assist System will be performed from each video sequence and
           each cross-section of the plaque. Sonographic examination of plaque perfusion in vivo
           after application of echocontrast agent (SonoVue, Bracco, Italy) and elastography will
           be performed in at least 25 patients.

        4. Carotid endarterectomy Surgery will be undertaken according to standard protocols using
           general anesthesia in all patients at both centers (with > 400 carotid endarterectomies
           carried out during the last 5 years). All patients will be on uninterrupted long-term
           acetylsalicylic acid therapy (100 mg/day) or dual antiplatelat therapy during the
           perioperative period. A dose of 100 IU per 1 kg of body weight of unfractionated heparin
           (Heparin Léčiva, Zentiva, k.s., Prague, Czech Republic) will be administered routinely
           at least 3 - 5 min before flow arrest in carotid artery. The plaque in carotid
           bifurcation and proximal part of the ICA will be removed as a 1 block from the artery.
           Protamin (Protamin Meda-Ampullen, Legacy Pharmaceuticals Switzerland GmbH, Birsfelden,
           Switzerland) in a dose of 1 mL per 2,000 IU of unfractionated heparin will be
           administered 5 min after flow restoration in the ICA when needed. Clopidogrel (Trombex
           75 mg, Zentiva, k.s., Prague, Czech Republic) will be administered 5 days after surgery
           (75 mg/day) when indicated.

        5. Sonographic examination of atherosclerotic plaque in vitro All atherosclerotic plaques
           obtained during endarterectomy as a 1 block will be examined sonographically in vitro.
           Examination will be performed using the high-end duplex ultrasound system ESAOTE MyLab
           Twice (ESAOTE, Genova, Italy) with linear probe LA435 (10-18 MHz), vascular preset,
           scanning depth 2.0 cm, 2 focuses in 1.0 and 2.0 cm. Atherosclerotic plaques extracted
           from carotid arteries will be transported in a box with formaldehyde. Each plaque will
           be inserted to the open plastic box filled by HAES 130/04 Voluven solution (colloid
           plasma expander). Free hand sonographic scanning will be performed in B-mode in
           longitudinal and transversal planes (continuous hand moving without changes of probe
           angle). Video sequences from both longitudinal and transversal scanning and images of
           cross-section of the plaque in subsequent distance of 0.5 mm will be saved and encoded.
           Visual characteristics of the plaque (echogenicity, homogeneity, surface, etc.) and
           digital image analysis using B-mode Assist System will be performed from each video
           sequence and each cross-section of the plaque.

        6. Histological processing and analysis of atherosclerotic plaque All atherosclerotic
           plaques obtained during endarterectomy as a 1 block will be processed and analysed
           histologically after sonographic examination. Visual characteristics of the plaque and
           digital image analysis using B-mode Assist System will be performed from each
           cross-section of the plaque.
    
  