
    
      More than 30,000 adolescents in the United States die annually from the effects of chronic
      illnesses. The anxiety from facing a terminal illness often hinders adolescents in making
      decisions about their own end-of-life (EOL) care. Although minors' preferences are not
      legally binding, legislature, research, and professional guidelines all recommend that
      adolescent patients become involved in EOL decisions as part of routine intervention while
      they are stable. Family Centered Advance Care Planning (FCACP) is an intervention that
      facilitates EOL discussion among adolescents, their families, and their care providers. This
      pilot study will examine FCACP's effects on adaptive coping, psychological adjustment,
      quality of life, and plans and actions in HIV infected adolescents. The study will also
      provide feedback used for improving the FCACP Web site.

      This study will include HIV or AIDS infected adolescents ranging in age from 14 to 21 who
      will jointly enroll with a selected surrogate older than 21. The adolescent/surrogate pairs
      will be randomly assigned to receive either the FCACP intervention or a health education
      control intervention. Pairs not immediately ready to participate will form an observational
      group. Pairs in the FCACP group will meet with a trained facilitator weekly for a 60- to
      90-minute session for a total of 3 weeks. During the first session, participants will take
      the Lyon Advance Care Planning Survey. The second session will consist of the Respecting
      Choices Interview, where patients will discuss treatment preferences. The Family
      Problem-Solving session will be last, culminating with the patient's completion of an advance
      directive. The control groups will follow the same meeting schedule, but will receive health
      education sessions, not FCACP sessions. Standardized self-report measures will be
      administered upon entry, after completion of the sessions, and at a 3-month follow up. Usage
      data will also be analyzed regarding feasibility and acceptability of FCACP as a standard
      treatment.
    
  