
    
      This proposal describes a combined observational study (Phase I) and randomized controlled
      trial (Phase II). The primary aim of the observational study is to determine the disorders,
      in particular the types of depression, for which family physicians prescribe antidepressants.
      The primary aim of the randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to compare the effect of a brief
      psycho-educational intervention by pharmacists with usual care on antidepressant persistence.

      Subjects (n=621 phase 1, n=106 phase 2) will be patients presenting to a pharmacy in Edmonton
      with a prescription for an antidepressant from a family physician and meeting the following
      criteria: no antidepressants taken in the preceding six months; 18 years of age or older, and
      fluent in English. Subjects will be interviewed using modified versions of the depression,
      generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder sections of the Diagnostic Interview
      Schedule; the Beck Depression Inventory; the Beck Anxiety Inventory; and a question on recent
      stressful life events. For Phase 1 the proportion of subjects with the following DSM-IV
      diagnoses will be estimated: major depression, "minor depression," generalized anxiety
      disorder, panic disorder; minor depression will be categorized into "adjustment disorder with
      depressed mood" and "adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood". The family
      doctor will be contacted and asked for the diagnosis that prompted the antidepressant
      prescription.

      Subjects with DSM IV depression will be invited to participate in Phase 2. Individuals will
      be randomized to a pharmacist intervention with the Health PACT, or to usual care. Using the
      newly-developed Antidepressant Compliance Questionnaire, information on predictors of
      adherence will be collected at the baseline interview. At weeks 4, 8, 16 and 26, subjects
      will be contacted by phone and questioned on antidepressant adherence and persistence. At
      week 8 (or the exit interview if a subject leaves the study early), we will administer the
      Beck Depression Inventory and the Beck Anxiety Inventory. The primary outcome is treatment
      persistence, defined as the time to stop antidepressant use. Adherence, defined by the
      medication possession ratio (MPR), will be also be measured.
    
  