
    
      Imatinib mesylate is designed to block certain proteins important in the growth of cancer.
      Docetaxel is designed to target and destroy cancer cells.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 4 imatinib mesylate
      tablets by mouth once a day with a meal and a large glass of water (about 8-10 ounces.) A
      treatment cycle on this study is 21 days. You should keep normal eating habits, however a
      low-fat breakfast is recommended (for example, a light continental breakfast of toast and
      juice). Foods and drinks containing caffeine or grapefruit should be avoided. You should wait
      at least 1 hour after taking the last tablet before going to bed. If vomiting occurs, do not
      take any extra study medication.

      You will be given a patient diary to record when you take your medication. You should bring
      the diary to each clinic visit, and the study nurse will review it each time.

      Docetaxel will be given through a vein in your arm on the first day of each 21-day treatment
      cycle for a total of 6 cycles. The infusion will take 1 hour.

      You will need to take steroids (dexamethasone) before receiving docetaxel to try to prevent
      fluid accumulation and allergic reactions. You will take dexamethasone by mouth twice a day
      on the day before the docetaxel infusion, the day of the infusion, and the day after
      infusion. You will receive an extra dose of dexamethasone (either through a needle in a vein
      or by mouth) on the day of infusion of the chemotherapy either through a needle in a vein or
      by mouth.

      Every 3 weeks while on this study, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of
      your vital signs and weight, and a performance status evaluation. During the first 4 weeks,
      blood (about 3 teaspoons each time) will be drawn once a week for routine tests. After that,
      blood (about 3 teaspoons each time) will be drawn once at Week 5, once at Week 7, and then
      every 3 weeks after that. In addition, your tumor will be measured by a computed tomography
      (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan every 6 weeks (at Weeks 7, 13, and 19).

      If you develop any intolerable symptoms or certain changes in your blood tests, your
      treatment may be delayed and/or the dose may be decreased until the symptoms are gone. It may
      even be necessary to stop your treatment. You will be informed of any changes in your dosing
      schedule or in the doses of your medication after your doctor evaluates you in the clinic.

      You may receive up to 6 cycles of the study treatment. Your continued participation in this
      study depends on how the cancer responds to the study drugs. Your doctor may decide to take
      you off this study if you experience intolerable side effects or the medical condition gets
      worse.

      After you have completed all of your treatment, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this
      visit you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.
      You will have a performance status evaluation. You will have blood (about 3-4 teaspoons)
      drawn for routine tests. Your tumor will be measured by a CT or MRI scan.

      This is an investigational study. Imatinib mesylate is FDA approved and docetaxel are FDA
      approved for other types of cancer however their use together in this study is
      investigational. Dexamethasone is required to be given with docetaxel. All three drugs are
      commercially available. Up to 58 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  