
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation currently
      represents the dominant treatment strategy in patients undergoing catheter intervention.
      However effective neointimal suppression occurs at the cost of a systematic delay in arterial
      healing in comparison with after bare metal stenting. This underlies a small but significant
      increased risk of stent thrombosis after DES implantation in comparison with bare metal stent
      implantation as well as a possible excess of in-stent neoatheroma formation.

      Bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BVS) represent an innovative technology providing
      short-term vessel scaffolding and drug delivery without the long-term limitations of metallic
      DES and durable polymer coatings. Potential benefits include restoration of normal vasomotor
      reactivity, facilitation of positive vessel wall remodelling and facilitation of subsequent
      bypass grafting of the stented arterial segment. In addition preliminary reports suggest that
      the process of scaffold biodegradation may promote formation of a cohesive tissue layer
      covering and stabilizing the underlying atherosclerotic plaque - a so-called plaque-sealing
      effect. Although initial results with BVS are encouraging, there is a lack of randomized
      clinical trial data and no data exists for outcomes after BVS implantation in patients
      undergoing coronary stenting in the setting of acute myocardial infarction (MI).

      The aim of the current study is to test the clinical performance of the everolimus-eluting
      BVS compared with that of the durable polymer everolimus-eluting stent (EES) in patients
      undergoing PCI in the setting of acute MI. The primary endpoint will be percentage diameter
      stenosis at protocol-mandated 6-8 month angiographic follow-up. Sample size calculation is
      based on a non-inferiority assumption in relation to the BVS versus EES. It is planned to
      enrol a total of 260 patients. Subsequent clinical follow-up will be undertaken out to 2
      years.
    
  