
    
      While our previous work has provided some evidence that cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)
      for anxiety sensitivity(AS) reduces mental health symptoms, the current study aims to
      determine whether this treatment works as well as traditional disorder-specific CBT (which
      aims to treat the specific disorder a person presents with, such as CBT for panic disorder
      for someone with panic disorder) in treating anxiety and depression. This will be the first
      study to have looked at this question.

      Our objectives are to determine:

        1. if there is a difference in the extent to which CBT for AS vs. disorder-specific CBT
           reduces, in the short- and long-term, a) AS, b) symptoms of a person's primary and
           secondary mental health problems, and c) functional disability (i.e., a person's ability
           to function in day-to-day life);

        2. if the two treatments lead to differences in the number of participants who no longer
           meet the requirements for a diagnosis (of their primary or secondary mental health
           problems) in the short- and long-term; and

        3. if the treatments are seen as similarly satisfactory by participants.

      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned (via online random number generator) to
      either transdiagnostic CBT for AS or disorder-specific CBT for their primary mental health
      problem. Both CBT interventions are evidence-based, guided by treatment manuals/workbooks
      (provided to participants), and involve 12 weekly therapy sessions. The AS intervention will
      also involve a physical exercise component (i.e., running/brisk walking 3x/week starting on
      week 5) and participants will be provided with a wearable fitness device designed to provide
      physiological indices of arousal and track physical activity. The study outcomes - AS,
      anxiety, mood, and substance use symptoms, and functional impairment - will be assessed at
      pre-and post-treatment and 6 and 12 months post-treatment via standardized self-report
      measures completed by participants and a standardized diagnostic interview.
    
  