
    
      OVERALL AIM: In human and animal models, to investigate imbalances in the distribution of
      long chain omega-3 fatty acids (LC-omega-3) in plasma lipids and lipoproteins brought about
      by age and APOE4 genotype and to evaluate whether these imbalances are linked with cognitive
      functions. BACKGROUND: Risk of cognitive decline increases with age. Epidemiological studies
      strongly support a link between lower risk of cognitive decline and higher intake of fatty
      fish containing LC-omega-3. However, our clinical studies show that there are imbalances in
      the distribution of LC-omega-3 in plasma lipids that occur during aging and in the carriers
      of apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE4) genotype, the most important genetic risk for cognitive
      decline. As a consequence, these imbalances appear to contribute to dysregulation of
      LC-omega-3 metabolism and to higher risk of cognitive decline. Our preliminary results in
      elderly humans show that visuospatial, verbal fluency and working memory scores are improved
      after 4 months supplementation with 3 g/d LC-omega-3, supporting a beneficial role of
      LC-omega-3 in cognition in the elderly. How this beneficial effect occurs is unknown but is
      potentially because the supplementation reverses or overrides imbalances in brain LC-omega-3
      uptake and tissue content occurring during aging and in APOE4 carriers. Molecular mechanisms
      will be evaluated in 4-month and 15-month old transgenic mice expressing human APOE4. OVERALL
      HYPOTHESIS: Higher LC-omega-3 levels in lipoproteins are associated with higher LC-omega-3
      brain uptake and membrane levels in APOE4 carriers leading to better cognitive scores on
      visuospatial, verbal fluency and working memory tests.

      RESEARCH PLAN: Specific questions to be addressed are:

      1) What is the role of APOE4 and blood lipoproteins on the causal relationship between a
      LC-omega-3-enriched diet and cognition? Three hundred participants aged between 20-80 y old
      will be recruited and randomized into a placebo (corn oil) or 3 g/d omega-3 fatty acid
      supplement for 6 months (150 subjects/group). LC-omega-3 use mostly VLDL and LDL to travel in
      the blood. Hence, we will collect blood samples once monthly for quantification of LC-omega-3
      levels into VLDL, LDL and HDL, with longitudinal follow-up of LC-omega-3 throughout the
      supplementation period. This will provide key information regarding differences lipoprotein
      content of LC-omega-3 over the supplementation. We will perform cognitive tests with a focus
      on visuospatial, verbal fluency and working memory in the placebo and in the LC-omega-3
      treated groups before and after the supplement. Age, sex and APOE4 genotype will be the
      interaction variables of interest. Statistical association test between cognitive scores and
      LC-omega-3 distribution in lipoproteins will also be performed to find the best LC-omega-3
      marker associated with cognition.
    
  