
    
      Rotavirus immunization will be provided as part of the routine, publicly provided
      immunization program in PEI through Public Health Clinics and in Nova Scotia District Health
      Authority (DHA) 9 through physicians' offices. Saint John, New Brunswick will act as the
      control site where no publicly funded immunizations with Rotarix are provided. There are four
      components to the demonstration project which will take place at each of the three sites:
      retrospective surveillance, prospective surveillance, a prospective Emergency Department
      study, and an overall evaluation of the program and its acceptability. Actual provision of
      the vaccine through a universal immunization program will be undertaken by public health in
      PEI and in NS DHA 9. The objectives of the rotavirus surveillance (retrospective/prospective)
      and prospective ED study are:

        1. To evaluate vaccine efficacy against rotavirus gastroenteritis of any severity in
           children under one year of age following 2 oral doses of Rotarix

        2. To evaluate the burden of illness (hospitalization) associated with rotavirus infection
           in children less than 12 months of age.

        3. To monitor the incidence of severe side effects associated with uptake of Rotarix
           vaccine in program participants.

        4. To provide data that is required to estimate costs associated with managing rotavirus in
           a hospital setting and at home.

      The objectives for the universal rotavirus immunization program evaluation are:

        1. To examine and compare the effectiveness of two program delivery systems (physician
           administered and public health administered) in providing the rotavirus vaccination to
           infants.

        2. To evaluate the logistics of program implementation using the Rotarix vaccine in a
           cohort of infants.

        3. To evaluate the acceptability of a universal rotavirus vaccination program by parents,
           physicians and nurses by measuring parent, nurse, and physician Knowledge Attitudes and
           Beliefs about rotavirus gastroenteritis.
    
  