
    
      Patients will be scheduled 1-2 weeks prior to planned implantation of the SNM wire electrode
      (Stage 1). Patients that do not have a 50% improvement in their symptoms in Stage 1 will not
      go on to Stage II procedures and will not undergo further CPT testing.

      After enrollment, the subjects will complete a short medical history questionnaire confirming
      that they meet inclusion criteria and do not fall under exclusion criteria. This will include
      review of recent urinalysis and/or urine culture confirming the absence of a recent urinary
      tract infection. Participants will be given information on the relevant CPT testing including
      the need for bladder/urethra catheterization as part of that testing pre and post SNM
      therapy.

      At the baseline testing visit, subjects will undergo CPT testing using transcutaneous
      stimulation in the distribution of the pudendal nerve on the perineum. Subjects will undergo
      bladder/urethral catheterization in using standard sterile technique. Once the
      bladder/urethral catheter is in place CPT testing will be conducted at various frequencies of
      to identify the current perception thresholds of each nerve fiber.

      At the conclusion of the testing the catheter will be removed and the subjects will be given
      a single dose of an oral antibiotic to minimize infection. This meeting and testing will
      require approximately 60 minutes.

      Patients will undergo Stage I of the SNM procedure with their own physician at a subsequent
      appointment.

      If subjects have a 50% improvement in their symptoms after 2 weeks with Stage 1 SNM, they
      will under go Stage II of the SNM procedure.

      The subjects will have an appointment scheduled for their follow-up CPT testing at the
      clinical research office 4 to 6 weeks after the Stage II procedure. The subject will be given
      a urinalysis and urine culture lab slip, and will be instructed to drop a urine sample off at
      the lab 3 days before their scheduled appointment for testing. If their urine culture is
      positive, they will be given a prescription for an antibiotic and excluded from this testing.
      They may however be tested once their urine culture is negative, as long as it is within 2
      weeks of their original post-stage 2 CPT test appointment

      Subjects will undergo repeat CPT testing using transcutaneous stimulation in the distribution
      of the pudendal nerve on the perineum. Subjects will then undergo bladder/urethral
      catheterization using standard sterile technique. Once the bladder/urethral catheter is in
      place CPT testing will then be conducted at various frequencies to identify the current
      perception thresholds of each nerve fiber.

      At the conclusion of the testing the catheter will be removed and the patients will be given
      a single dose of an oral antibiotic to minimize infection. This evaluation will require
      approximately 60 minutes.
    
  