
    
      Background and Significance: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has been shown to decrease pain
      and to improve range of motion and some aspects of physical function. However, accumulating
      evidence shows that patients have persistent deficits in other critical outcomes following
      TKA. First, the majority of patients do not substantially increase physical activity beyond
      levels prior to TKA, remaining well below Department of Health and Human Services
      recommendations and levels of healthy individuals. This has serious negative implications for
      both joint health and overall health. Second, studies show that gait asymmetries are common
      following TKA, such that patients continue to load the non-surgical leg more heavily during
      walking, even when the post-surgical leg is pain free. This places the contralateral limb at
      risk for developing or worsening osteoarthritis. Other research shows there is large
      variability in post-TKA rehabilitation, along with sub-optimal exercise content.
      Collectively, these findings emphasize the critical need to improve the post-TKA
      rehabilitation process. However, there are currently no evidence-based approaches to improve
      overall physical activity and deficits in joint loading symmetry that have been identified
      following TKA.

      Study Aims: This research project will provide important preliminary information on the novel
      post-TKA PAS program through achieving the following specific aims: 1) Obtain preliminary
      data on the efficacy of the PAS program with respect to the change in objectively assessed
      physical activity, measured via accelerometers; 2) Obtain preliminary data on the efficacy of
      the PAS program with respect to change in peak load symmetry during walking, measured by a
      novel 3-sensor insole device; 3) Assess the feasibility and acceptability of the PAS program
      following TKA.

      Study Description: Investigators will conduct an exploratory randomized controlled study,
      with n=72 patients >=18 years receiving post-TKA physical therapy (PT) at a UNC Healthcare
      System clinic. Patients will be equally allocated to the PAS intervention or an attention
      (ATT) control group.
    
  