
    
      Background. The acronym ERAS (Enhanced Recovery After Surgery) refers to a patient-centered,
      evidence-based multi-disciplinary protocol designed to implement perioperative operation,
      reduce surgical trauma, and facilitate recovery of physiological functions aiming to an early
      hospital discharge.

      Usually ERAS protocols give a continuum of care starting at home (pre-hospital/pre-admission
      phase) to continue in followed by the pre-/ intra-/ and post-operative phases.

      ERAS includes a wide range of disciplines and specialists, which focus on the needs of the
      patient in order to improve support by facilitating his return home.

      The first author to introduce the fast-track term in rectal surgery was Prof. Henrik Kehlet
      in the mid-1990s, proposing a multi-modal rehabilitation program aimed to reduce
      post-surgical stress response, morbidity, mortality and postoperative hospitalization. Since
      then, a number of studies were conducted leading to the first ERAS protocol; since then,
      these protocols were reviewed on a regular basis, the last time in 2017 and included in the
      guidelines by the ERAS society (http://www.erassociety.org).

      Currently, it is widely demonstrated that, comparing to a traditional approach, ERAS is
      associated with a significant reduction in morbidity, days of hospitalization, mortality,
      implementing early postoperative recovery with a consequent reduction of the costs, without
      compromising patient safety.

      In particular, ERAS for colorectal surgery, includes 24 demonstrated multi-disciplinary.

      Aims. the investigators aim to evaluate the adherence to the individual items and the
      short-term outcomes (postoperative hospitalization, complication rates within 30 days of
      intervention, re-intervention) in a consecutive series of patients undergoing colorectal
      resection, in eight centers in the Lazio region, treated according to the ERAS protocol.

      Secondary aims are to investigate the correlation of the items adherence with surgical
      outcome and to establish a network of hospitals aiming to promote ERAS approach on a regional
      base.

      Design. This is a no-profit, spontaneous, observational, non-intervention Audit collecting
      data in eight surgical Departments based in Lazio region, since September 2014 to October
      2017. Each participating center will be depositary of its own data.

      Participating Centers.

        1. UOC General Surgery 1, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "A. Gemelli ", Rome
           (Coordinator) -

        2. Department of Surgery, S. Eugenio Hospital, Rome

        3. UOD Week-Day Surgery, St. Andrea Hospital, Rome

        4. UOC General Surgery, Polyclinic University Bio-Medical Campus, Rome

        5. UO General and Urgent Surgery, Policlinico Casilino Hospital, Rome

        6. UOC Surgery, San Paolo Hospital, Civitavechia (RM)

        7. UOC General Surgery, Cristo Re Hospital, Rome

        8. UOSD Robotic Surgery for General Surgery, San Giovanni-Addolorata Hospital, Rome

      Data Collection. Each center will collect the data in a homogeneous Database. The data will
      be collected in anonymous form and will be aimed at the definition of:

        1. Duration of postoperative stay

        2. Short-term morbidity rate (within 30 days) according to Clavien-Dindo classification

        3. Re-intervention rate (within 30 days)

        4. Hospital readmission (within 30 days)

      f. Adherence rate to items of the series All data will be treated sensibly; each patient will
      be recorded with a sequential center-specific code. For all new patients and for patients
      seen in follow-up visits, the specific informed consent of the study will be compiled.

      Statistical analysis. Categorical variables will be presented as rate and percentages, the
      continuous variables as mean, median, and standard deviation.

      A logistic regression will also be performed, computing items as co-variates, with the
      end-point of post-operative morbidity and hospital stay.

      Sample Size Calculation: 1000 patients, calculated on the basis of the annual case of each
      participating center.

      For the conduct and management of this observational study no additional cost will be charged
      on NHS funds.
    
  