
    
      Obstetric anal sphincter injuries (OASIS) is the most common cause of fecal incontinence (FI)
      in women. Obstetric-related FI may occur early after childbirth. Previous obstetric injury is
      also a major cause of FI in older women, and risk of FI increases with time and further
      childbirths. FI is involuntary loss of solid or liquid stool. Symptoms range from fecal
      urgency, soiling, to daily passive or urge fecal incontinence. FI is a stigmatizing
      condition. It can have a distressing impact and restriction on quality of life, including
      isolation and depression.

      Tears during delivery is classified (Sultan) as first degree tears including vaginal
      epithelium, second degree tears into the perineal muscle, third degree involving the anal
      sphincter complex and fourth degree including sphincter complex and anorectal epithelium.
      OASIS includes third and fourth degrees tears.

      First line of therapy of FI is conservative treatment including drug therapy and
      "biofeedback". If conservative treatment fails, surgery may be an option. Traditionally
      elective secondary sphincter repair has been performed at least once. Sphincter repair may
      improve symptoms in short time, but efficacy deteriorates with time.

      Other minimal invasive surgical alternatives includes sacral nerve modulation (SNM) and anal
      bulking injection. Sacral nerve modulation involves stimulating the sacral nerves, usually S3
      or S4. Step one is a trial period of temporary stimulation (PNE test). If the test is
      successful, the patient can have an implantable stimulator (step 2) to modulate sacral nerve
      function. SNM is also beneficial for treating FI after OASIS, and SNM is a alternative to
      secondary sphincter repair. SNM should possibly be preferred second line treatment also after
      sphincter tears related FI. Transanal submucosal bulking injection of collagen is also a
      possible treatment option and can be an effective treatment for both anal and fecal
      incontinence.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of sacral nerve modulation to anal
      bulking injections in women with fecal incontinence after OASIS through a Scandinavian
      multicenter single-blinded, randomized controlled trial.

      To answer the research question, we will include 66-86 women with FI after OASIS. Sphincter
      defects are classified using three dimensional endoanal ultrasonography. Pelvic floor
      function including FI is registered using validated questionnaires. All women eligible for
      inclusion is PNE-tested for three weeks. The purpose of this cohort analysis, is to examine
      the possible effect of SNM in women with sphincter defects, and the hypothesis is that there
      is no relation between sphincter defect classified using tree dimensional ultrasound and
      efficacy of SNM.

      Women with more than 50 % symptom reduction during PNE test (positive PNE test), is further
      randomized and allocated 1:1 into one of two arms with 28 participants. One group is
      allocated to implantation of permanent impulse generator, Interstim II-3058 and the other
      group is allocated to anal sub mucosal bulking injection of collagen, Permacol. The purpose
      of this study is to compare the efficacy of SNM to anal bulking injection. The hypothesis is
      that SNM provides a mean change in improvement in St Marks Incontinence score of more than 4
      compared to the anal bulking group. This study is designed as a multicenter single-blinded,
      randomized controlled trial.

      Women with less than 50 % symptom reduction (15-28, negative PNE test), is treated in a third
      arm with anal bulking injection. The purpose of this cohort study, is to examine the efficacy
      of anal bulking injection in women suffering from FI after sphincter tears, excluded from
      further treatment with SNM.
    
  