
    
      Pregnancy has an interesting and different impact on inflammatory conditions that have much
      in common immunologically. In inflammatory bowel disease 33% will deteriorate, 33% will
      remain stable and 33% will improve. In rheumatoid arthritis 75% of women will improve. Gut
      microbiota alters significantly in pregnancy as do predominant immunological pathways and
      relapse post-partum is swift. Research on intestinal microbiota in women with inflammatory
      conditions is scant. The high remission rate in pregnancy gives us a unique opportunity to
      study the microbiota for changing patterns that could be identified in the future as
      potential therapeutic targets.

      The study aims to identify any bacterial changes from pre-conception through pregnancy to
      post-partum and comparing women who relapse with rheumatoid arthritis to those who remain in
      remission.

      Clinical condition will be assessed and stool and serum samples will be obtained from women
      during each trimester during pregnancy for analysis of serum and fecal biomarkers and for
      microbiota 16S rRNA (ribosomal ribonucleic acid) techniques. Group-specific 16S rRNA-targeted
      oligonucleotide probes labeled with the fluorescent dye Cy3 will be used for enumerating
      bacteria. The probes used will determine bifidobacteria, bacteroides, clostridia (Clostridium
      perfringens/histolyticum sub. Grp.), eubacterium recale-C histolyticum sub gp., agrobacterium
      rimae - Collinsella-Eggerthella lenta sub. Gp., Lactobacillus/Enterococcus spp.,
      desulfovibrio spp., Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Escherichia coli, interferon-gamma and
      Interleukin 10 (IL-10). Total bacteria will be enumerated using flow cytometry techniques.

      The outcomes of this project would help identify microbiota patterns and bacteria species
      that are beneficial in rheumatoid arthritis and could be targets for potential gut
      immunomodulation therapy in the future to prolong periods of remissions.
    
  