
    
      The objectives of this work purely descriptive, are:

        -  Evaluate the expression by tumor cells of the neurotensin receptor on a retrospective
           series of patients:

        -  Consecutively treated between 2010 and 2015 at St. Joseph hospital (about a hundred
           patients) and the Saint-Antoine hospital (three hundred patients), holders of a
           metastatic and primary lung adenocarcinoma having received all even first-line
           chemotherapy with a platinum agent (cisplatin or carboplatin) and pemetrexed (Alimta °)

        -  If possible, the records of patients treated at St. Joseph Hospital and Saint-Antoine
           Hospital between 2005 and 2010 as part of clinical trials evaluating the value of
           erlotinib will also be sought,

        -  Develop a score expression NTSR1 taking into account the percentage of tumor cells
           expressing the receptor and the intensity of the marking,

        -  Correlate labeling cells by NTSR1 with the clinical course of patients to see if
           expression NTSR1 is a factor of poor prognosis in metastatic patients.

      Teams involved:

      Services:

        -  Pharmacy that will establish the list of patients have been treated with the same
           chemotherapy,

        -  Pathological anatomy-to group blades and ensure immunohistochemical staining and
           reading,

        -  Pneumology and Thoracic Oncology to resume the clinical history of patients.

      The scientific coordination of the study will be conducted by INSERM UMR-S 1007, cellular
      homeostasis and cancer - Reprogramming of biological and alternative therapies responses
      (University Center of the Holy Fathers, 45 rue des Saints Pères, 75006 Paris), one team under
      the direction of Dr. Patricia Forge, working on the couple NTS / NTSR1.

      expected benefits

      Beyond two or three conventional chemotherapy line, which will no doubt add - for a
      proportion of patients still to be determined - the new immunotherapy drugs, there is no
      longer any recommendations for treatment of patients lung cancer metastatic non-small cells.
      Erlotinib is an option since there is no limitation in its approval of prescription ond line.
      However, in the absence of EGFR mutation, the therapeutic value of the drug appears to be
      very low. Preclinical data that investigators obtained in the laboratory are hypothesize that
      tumors expressing NTSR1 could meet the same TKI EGFR in the absence of mutation in the
      receptor. The planned study will assess the percentage of patients in this situation in order
      to prepare the organization of a Phase II study to evaluate the clinical relevance of a TKI
      EGFR in this selected population of patients carrying of a non-mutated tumor.

      Nature of the data collected

      A file will be drawn from the clinical data found in files: all patients are carriers of
      metastatic primary lung adenocarcinoma and having all received the same chemotherapy.

      The data obtained will be: age, sex, smoking status, number of courses of chemotherapy
      received and the response to treatment, the usual chronological parameters for the
      establishment of the survival curves. Histological samples will be processed locally in each
      of the two hospitals, according to a specific procedure to be determined between laboratories
      and INSERM Unit.

      Identification of subjects and circulation and processing of data

      In this study, the inclusions are carried out within the hospital group Paris Saint-Joseph
      and Saint-Antoine hospital. Histological samples will be processed locally in each of the two
      hospitals, according to a specific procedure to be determined between pathological anatomy
      and INSERM Unit Laboratories.

      These histological samples will be stored at the Pathological Anatomy Laboratory Groupe
      Hospitalier Paris Sani Joseph.

      Each study participant will be identified by a code of inclusion (first name and surname -
      year of birth). The concordance table to link the assigned code and the participant's name
      will be kept in each of the participating centers, in a file protected by a password specific
      to the principal investigator of each center. Data collected from different centers on
      anonymous paper media (only the code for inclusion of each patient are included) will be
      centralized within the GHPSJ and entered in a database which anonymous access is protected by
      the PIN each in the study of GHPSJ. Data processing and statistical analysis will be
      performed on the GHPSJ site in collaboration with the Clinical Research Unit of the European
      Hospital Georges Pompidou.
    
  