
    
      Patients diagnosed with (i) stage IIIB~IV non-small cell lung cancer, (ii) tumor harbors
      activating mutation at EGFR, (iii) radiological confirmation of progressive disease with one
      or more lines of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors but have not yet been exposed to palliative
      chemotherapy, will be eligible for screening procedure. The lung cancer stage will be
      determined according to the 8th edition of the International Association for the Study of
      Lung Cancer (IASLC) Tumor, Node, Metastasis (TNM) staging system for lung cancer.

      In addition to screening of baseline bone marrow function, organ functions, and CT assessment
      of measurable target lesion(s), patients after TKI treatment failure must receive tumor EGFR
      genotyping by testing tumor DNA in re-biopsied tumor samples. Testing report from local
      laboratories will be accepted.

      Enrollment of patients into the study will depend on EGFR testing results in re-biopsied
      tumor samples.

      Duration induction phase, four cycles of atezolizumab 1200 mg will be administered over 60
      min (1st cycle) and 30 min (2nd cycle onwards); bevacizumab 7.5mg/kg over 90 min in 1st
      cycle, 60 min in 2nd cycle and 30 min in 3rd cycle onward; pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 over 10 min;
      and cisplatin 75mg/m2 or carboplatin (CCr < 60) area under curve 5 mg/mL per min over 15-60
      min intravenously every 3 weeks in the order listed.

      Following the induction phase, patients will continue atezolizumab, bevacizumab and
      pemetrexed as maintenance therapy. Patients will continue treatment with bevacizumab and
      pemetrexed until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, or death. Patients may continue
      treatment with atezolizumab beyond radiographic progression by RECIST v1.1, provided they are
      experiencing clinical benefit as assessed by investigator (i.e., in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or symptomatic deterioration attributed to disease progression as
      determined by the investigator after an integrated assessment of radiographic data, biopsy
      results [if available], and clinical status.

      Atezolizumab and bevacizumab dose reduction will not be allowed. Modification of carboplatin
      or cisplatin, and pemetrexed doses will be done according to the local guidelines of National
      Taiwan University Hospital
    
  