
    
      This is a phase IV (post-authorization study), open, single-arm trial of 9-valent human
      papillomavirus (9-HPV) vaccine in HIV-positive women. The recruitment and follow-up period
      will be 6 and 30 months, respectively.

      At the initial clinical visit (V0), the conditions and objectives of the study were
      explained. The details were summarised in a document, which was presented to the patient who
      then signed the informed consent form. 2 mucosa samples were taken from the anal canal for
      the detection and genotyping of the HPV and for anal cytology; and high resolution anoscopy
      will be carried out. The patients will send to gynaecologist for exploration. Finally, full
      blood haemogram and blood chemistry analysis were measured, together with cluster of
      differentiation 4 (CD4), cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) lymphocytes counts, HIV viral
      load (VL) and antibodies against 9 genotypes of the 9-HPV vaccine. 9-HPV vaccine will be
      administered at day 1 (V1), month 2 (V2) and month 6 (V3). Flow of subjects through the study
      in graphic 1.

      Settings and locations: The patients who enrolled were HIV-positive women that were attending
      the Infectious Diseases Service of the "University Hospital Virgen de las Nieves", Granada
      (Spain), "Hospitalary Complex Ciudad de Jaén" (Spain) and "University hospital San Cecilio",
      Granada (Spain).

      The purposes of the study were explained to the potential participants who then underwent
      screening, and enrolled if they met the inclusion criteria for the trial. They were asked to
      sign the fully informed consent form. The study will be conducted in compliance with ethical
      and moral principles stated in the Declaration of Helsinki as well as the current Spanish
      Laws on Biomedical Research(LEY 14/2007, de 3 de julio). Data were coded to ensure anonymity.

      SAMPLE SIZE CONSIDERATIONS:

      Currently, the rate of infections in unvaccinated women in the participating centers is 46.4%
      (12). The efficacy rate of the tetravalent vaccine in the prevention of cervical cancer is
      close to 100% and in the appearance of external anal lesions in men, around 85% (21).
      Considering that in our study population, the effectiveness is at least 75%, to achieve an
      accuracy of 5% in the estimation of a proportion through a normal 95% asymptotic confidence
      interval, assuming that the proportion is 11, 6% (25% of 46.4%), it will be necessary to
      include 158 women in the study. To this sample size will be added 10% in anticipation of
      possible losses in the follow-up or dropouts.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      All data were collected and coded to ensure anonymity according to the current legal
      requirements in Spain and European Union (EU) (GDPR Regulation (EU) 2016/679). At the initial
      clinical visit (V0), the conditions and objectives of the study were explained to subjects.
      The details were summarised in a document, which was presented to the patient who then signed
      the informed consent form.
    
  