
    
      Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare neurodegenerative disease (6/100 000
      inhabitants) characterized by the association of Parkinson's syndrome, a paralysis of the
      verticality of the gaze and an alteration early balance and walking with the onset of falls
      during the first year of evolution of the disease. From a neuropathological point of view, it
      is characterized by a tauopathy with neurodegeneration within the basal ganglia, cerebellum,
      and midbrain (which includes the mesencephalic locomotor region-MLR).

      In the Caribs this pathology is abnormally frequent (incidence over 3 times higher than
      expected), and represents 1/3 of the total Parkinsonian syndromes. In these patients,
      cortical pathology predominates leading to different cognitive deficit relative to patients
      with the classical form of PSP. Conversely, in PSP patients, imaging data suggest a
      preferential midbrain-thalamocortical pathway dysfunction. Pathophysiological mechanisms
      causing gait disturbances and postural control presented by these patients remains however
      not fully elucidated . In patients with Caribbean PSP, of which the clinical features are
      specific, gait disorders and falls appear later in the course of the disease (2.5 years on
      average) suggesting perhaps a different physiopathological mechanism. Consequently weak
      knowledge of the mechanisms involved, none specific treatment is currently available and the
      taking in therapeutic charge of these disorders rests essentially on a re-educative approach
      that remains poorly codified.

      In this study, gait and balance disorders will be recorded using a force platform, coupled
      with kinematic study and EMG in patients with classical form of PSP and Caribbean one, and in
      controls. The functional and anatomy of brain will be examined using a multimodal brain
      imaging approach (with DTI. Performance in neuropsychological tests and oculomotor movements
      will also be measured. A comparative and correlation analyses will be performed to assess the
      link between gait, balance, oculomotor and cognitive performances and brain anatomy, and the
      differences between subjects groups. Caribbean PSP patients are recruited from Neurology and
      Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of University Hospital of Pointe-à-Pitre and Fort de
      France, Classical PSP patients are be recruited from the Centre d'Investigation Clinique
      (CIC) of the Pitié-Salpêtrière hospital, and healthy volunteers from both centers.
    
  