
    
      Purpose: To determine whether use of an Internet-based glucose monitoring system improves A1C
      levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Hypothesis:We propose that the standardized encounters between the patient and the health
      care profession using the Internet will improve the outcome of treatment for patients with
      type 2 DM.

      Justification:The standard treatment will involve glucose monitoring by testing blood glucose
      3 times daily, performing a laboratory test of blood hemoglobin every three months, and
      visiting the doctor every three months for standard care. All of the subjects will be under
      standard care; however, half will also use the Internet system to report glucose readings
      which will allow the health care professional to view the results and to provide feedback.

      Research Method: Type 2 diabetes patients who satisfy the inclusion criteria will be
      recruited from St. Paul's Diabetes Teaching and Training Centre. They will be randomized into
      2 groups (Intervention and Control). There is an equal chance, a 50/50 chance, of being
      placed in either group. The control subject group will receive standard care and will be
      asked to perform self-blood glucose monitoring 3 times daily for 6 months. The control
      subject group will also make visits to the endocrinologist every 3 months with laboratory
      test of A1c and serum creatinine measurements at 3-month intervals for 6 months.

      The Intervention group will also receive standard care and will be asked to perform
      self-blood glucose monitoring 3 times daily for 6 months. However, the Intervention group
      will also be asked to report their blood glucose reading every 2 weeks through an Internet
      based glucose monitoring system. The Intervention group will also make visits to the
      endocrinologist every 3 months with A1c and serum creatinine measurements at 3-month
      intervals for 6 months. The laboratory measurements of both groups will be recorded and used
      for data analysis.

      Statistical Analysis: The primary endpoint is the A1c level or the change in A1c level. The
      secondary endpoints include severe hypoglycemia defined as requiring external aid, hospital
      admissions for any CVD related intervention, and adverse events such as unplanned
      hospitalizations for any cause that last more than 24 hours. Patients who do not have the
      required number of SBGM tests performed or patients requiring new laser therapy will be asked
      to discontinue the study.

      For each group, A1C levels before the start of study will be compared to A1C levels 3 and 6
      months after the start of the study. Paired t-tests and random effects models (longitudinal
      analyses) will examine differences in A1C values before and after the study duration.
      Unpaired, independent t-tests will be done to examine the difference in A1C values between
      the two groups before and after the interventions. The planned sample size is 50.
    
  