
    
      Our clinical experience has found that attempts to induce patients receiving ICDs at implant
      using the nominal Medtronic T-shock settings are not always effective at inducing ventricular
      fibrillation. When this results, a change to the parameters for T-shock is made before
      reattempting to induce ventricular fibrillation in patients undergoing ICD implantation.

      Another available induction method is 50 Hz Burst. "The 50 Hz Burst induction is designed to
      induce VF by delivering a rapid burst of pacing pulses. The amplitude and pulse width of
      these pulses are selectable, but the pacing interval is fixed at 20 ms."2 If multiple
      attempts using the T-shock method are unsuccessful, 50 Hz Burst provides an additional method
      for inducing ventricular fibrillation. It is a less desirable method since it can result in
      very fine VF that is difficult to identify the initiation of possibly resulting in longer
      times in VF causing higher defibrillation threshold or in undersensing due to the fine nature
      of the rhythm.

      T-shock has been found to be a fast and reliable method for inducing ventricular fibrillation
      in ICD implants. Greater success of inducing ventricular fibrillation using the T-shock
      method has been found when the energy of the T-shock was higher and the coupling interval was
      shorter. In addition, increasing the shock strength increases the window of vulnerability.
      For the T-shock method to be most efficient, initial success at inducing ventricular
      fibrillation, and therefore a reduced number of attempts, is important. This requires a
      better understanding of the optimal programmed settings for the initial T-shock induction
      attempt.

      Moreover, in recent years, ICD indications have grown to include primary prevention patients.
      These patients may have different vulnerable periods than patients previously evaluated to
      develop Medtronic nominal settings.

      Our clinical experience has found that the nominal T-shock settings are only effective at
      inducing ventricular fibrillation approximately seventy-five percent of the time. However, a
      detailed collection of success rates has not been performed.
    
  