
    
      Three decades of research on end-of-life care in the United States indicate that people who
      are dying often spend their final days receiving care they would not choose. The intensive
      care unit (ICU) is an important focus for efforts to improve end-of-life care both because
      death is common in this setting - approximately 20% of Americans die in or shortly after a
      stay in the ICU - and also because care is highly technologic and, thus, expensive. As a
      result of our prior work we have developed a wealth of knowledge about how to improve
      communication and decision-making concerning end-of-life care in the ICU. One of the
      important insights from this knowledge was the need for and development of a
      facilitator-assisted interdisciplinary communication intervention. This intervention,
      designed to improve communication and decision-making about end-of-life care in the ICU,
      offers significant potential benefits for improving patient- and family-centered care for
      five reasons: 1) communication is an integral component of clinician skill that affects all
      other aspects of end-of-life care; 2) physicians and nurses in practice do not demonstrate
      adequate skills for communicating about end-of-life care, especially in the ICU or acute care
      setting; 3) interventions that have focused on improving communication within the ICU team
      and between the team and the family have been shown to reduce the "prolongation of dying"
      common in the ICU, but it remains unclear how to generalize these successes to other
      hospitals; 4) a recent randomized trial in France used an intervention based on our prior
      research and showed dramatic reductions in symptoms of anxiety, depression, and
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among family members after the patient's death, but it
      is unclear how to translate these findings to hospitals in the U.S.; and 5) sustainable,
      generalizable, and widely available interventions that improve communication about
      end-of-life care are not available.

      The long-term objectives are: 1) to demonstrate the efficacy of a generalizable
      facilitator-assisted interdisciplinary communication intervention in the ICU to improve
      family and patient outcomes; and 2) to demonstrate the feasibility of making this
      intervention a routine part of clinical practice in the ICU setting.

      The study will advance Nursing science by addressing an important area of emphasis within
      Nursing science and a key component of the National Institute of Nursing Research's strategic
      plan. One fifth of deaths in America occur in intensive care units and nurses provide a key
      component of the care in this setting. With the aging population and coincident advances in
      medical technology, more patients are likely to die after an unsuccessful trial of intensive
      care. Prior research suggests that interventions to improve communication about end-of-life
      care in the ICU may reduce the prolongation of dying that is common in the ICU setting while
      at the same time improving the quality of care for patients and family members.
      Unfortunately, this prior research does not provide a clear generalizable intervention that
      can be easily implemented in academic and community hospitals. The proposed randomized trial
      will test a feasible and generalizable intervention to improve communication about
      end-of-life care and improve patient and family outcomes.

      The consent forms used for this study address the purpose, procedures, risks, alternatives,
      benefits, and other information -- including emphasis on the voluntary nature of this
      research and assurances of confidentiality.

      The conceptual model for the intervention addresses three components of self-efficacy theory:
      1) knowledge, based on this team's prior research identifying components of communication
      during ICU family conferences that are associated with improved patient and family outcomes;
      2) attitudes, informed by attachment theory as applied to clinician-patient relationships and
      communication; and 3) communication behaviors informed by principles of mediation based on
      identifying and resolving conflict in the healthcare setting.

      The intervention includes the following steps: 1) in-person interviews by the facilitator
      with the family prior to the family conference in order to discuss the family's concerns,
      questions, needs and unique communication characteristics that will be addressed in the
      family conference; 2) a pre-conference meeting with the facilitator, physician(s), nurse(s),
      and other clinicians in which a brief summary describing the family's concerns, questions,
      needs, and unique communication characteristics is presented and discussed; 3) facilitator
      participation in the family conference; and 4) facilitator follow up with the family
      throughout the ICU stay. Prior to the facilitator's involvement, both the intervention and
      control group will meet with the research coordinator who will obtain consent from the family
      and distribute baseline questionnaires; the research coordinator will also contact both the
      intervention and control group families at the time of the follow-up questionnaires (3 and 6
      months after discharge or death) to notify them that questionnaires are being sent to them
      and ask if they have any questions. The contacts through the research coordinator are
      expected to enhance response rates for both groups. For the control group, these contacts
      with the research coordinator will provide an "attention control." The research coordinator
      will not provide any of the other intervention components provided by the facilitator (i.e.,
      discussion of concerns or questions prior to the family conference; brief summary to
      clinicians; participation in the family conference; follow-up contact after the family
      conference for duration of the ICU stay). A component of the facilitator's role will also
      include helping to identify the need for a family conference and scheduling these
      conferences. Therefore, as part of the multi-faceted intervention, we anticipate that family
      conferences will occur earlier and more frequently in the intervention arm. After the initial
      family conference, there may be additional family conferences and the facilitator will
      participate in these conferences for the intervention group.
    
  