
    
      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Preterm birth is a significant problem in the United States and worldwide. Approximately
      twelve percent of births in the US occur before 37 weeks and are considered preterm. Of
      these, 80% are considered "spontaneous preterm deliveries" (as opposed to iatrogenic) and are
      related to preterm labor or preterm rupture of membranes (Arias, 2003). Certain pregnancy
      characteristics have been identified to determine those patients at risk for preterm
      delivery. These include a history of preterm birth (Esplin, 2008), uterine anomalies,
      multiple gestation, among other things, both modifiable and not (Gardosi, 2000; Ananth,
      2006). However, an important risk factor that can be identified is the presence of specific
      changes in the cervix, such as cervical shortening, and in fact, studies indicate that the
      risk of spontaneous preterm birth increases as cervical length decreases (Iams, 1996;
      Hibbard, 2000).

      Some authors now advocate the universal screening of all pregnant women for cervical
      shortening at the time of the ultrasound that is performed at 18-28 weeks in most women.
      However, the best approach to evaluate the cervix in low risk patients (those without an
      identifiable risk factor) remains controversial.

      PROTOCOL

        1. Patients will be identified in the Maternal Fetal Medicine office and consented for
           randomization at the time of presentation for previously scheduled mid-trimester
           ultrasound

        2. Patients will be given randomly generated treatment allocations within sealed opaque
           envelopes. Once a patient has consented to enter the trial, the envelope will be opened
           by the ultrasonographer to determine the assigned treatment regimen.

        3. Patients will be randomized into one of three groups:

             1. Standard US evaluation

             2. Sequential US evaluation

             3. Transvaginal cervical length screening

        4. Maternal demographics including maternal age, height, weight, parity, and gestational
           age will be collected from the patient as part of the patient questionnaire. Ultrasound
           exam data including measurements of the fetal biometry, presence of fetal anomalies,
           placental location and amniotic fluid volume will be collected from the official
           ultrasound report.

             1. Patients will be assigned a unique study ID number at the time of enrollment and
                all information including time of ultrasound procedures, clinical data and adequacy
                of cervical measurement will be linked by the ID number

             2. All data will be entered into an electronic data base in a de-identified fashion
                and kept in a secure, encrypted web-based database management program (RedCap).
    
  