
    
      Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness among
      elderly in the United States.1 Ranibizumab, an inhibitor of all forms of vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF), is the first FDA-approved treatment for AMD that significantly improves
      vision in a quarter to a third of patients and maintains or improves vision in greater than
      90% of patients. Ranibizumab decreases the vasopermeability as measured by decreased leakage
      and fluid on fluorescein (FA) and optical coherence tomography. However, the effect of
      ranibizumab on the structure and hemodynamics of the choroidal neovascularization (CNV) in
      AMD, as measured with high-speed indocyanine green angiography (HS-ICG), is not known. The
      effect or lack of effect on the physical structure of the CNV may help explain the
      variability of injection frequencies and visual responses among different patients. Since
      anti-VEGF therapy is designed to inhibit exudative CNV, it is clinically important to develop
      a standard reproducible method to assess HS-ICG.

      In this observational study, our primary objective is to assess whether induction/pro re nata
      (Induction/PRN) 0.5 mg intravitreal ranibizumab-based treatment for neovascular AMD decreases
      the size and pattern of the CNV as measured on HS-ICG, as opposed to simply decreasing
      leakage and fluid as seen on FA and OCT. Although combination therapy is likely the standard
      treatment for AMD in the future, participants will not be allowed to receive other AMD
      experimental agents (e.g., immunosuppressive drugs) for either the study or fellow eye while
      on this study. In consultation with various reading centers, we will attempt to develop a
      reproducible schema for evaluation of HS-ICG by reviewing pre-treatment and post-treatment
      HS-ICGs. The grading system development is a secondary objective to achieve a better
      understanding of anatomical and functional results and an important task for future research.
      In this study, the first 10 cases will be used to attempt to develop a reproducible grading
      system. The NEI retina group will review these ICGs and attempt to identify gradable aspects
      of the lesions that are consistently present on the ICGs. During this time we will continue
      to collect additional cases for evaluation. The grading system proposed from the first 10
      cases will be implemented in the next 10 cases. There will be two independent gradings for
      each ICG. The results of this dual grading will then be reviewed and problematic areas of
      grading will be identified. The grading system will be modified based on this experience and
      reproducibility of the modified grading system will be assessed by re-grading the images in a
      masked fashion. The modified grading system will be utilized in the next 10 cases. This
      iterative process will be continued until we have either developed a reproducible and useful
      grading system or completed the full participant analysis. Another important secondary
      objective is to examine whether an increased dose of 1 mg of intravitreal ranibizumab-based
      treatment (administered as 1 mg monthly or 0.5 mg bi-monthly) will decrease leakage and fluid
      as seen on FA and OCT and/or decrease the size and pattern of CNV on HS-ICG for participants
      not becoming fluid-free on the standard dose.
    
  