
    
      The Baylor Infant Twin Study will conduct data collection at four time points. Three visits
      will occur at the Children's Nutrition Research Center (CNRC) Metabolic Research Unit at 4
      months, 6 months and 12 months. At 4 and 6 months of age, a home visit will also be
      conducted. At 24 months of age, study related questionnaires will be sent by postal mail to
      be completed and returned to research study staff.

      Details of each visit:

      4 months: Mother and twin infants will be admitted to the Children's Nutrition Research
      Center (CNRC) Metabolic Research Unit (MRU) at four months corrected gestational age, written
      consent will be obtained. At the initial visit, procedures for each infant and mother will be
      completed. For each infant, the procedures to be completed at 4 months will be (1) an
      observation of the infant's feeding; for this procedure, while the mother is feeding a infant
      his/her formula or breast milk(bottle or by breast), a video camera will be recording the
      session. If needed, research staff will coordinate timing so that the infants are fed so that
      one follows the other. On the other hand, if the infants are usually fed together (tandem
      feeding of twin infants), the feeding bottles (or nursing at breast) will be given to each
      infant at the same time and mother will feed twin infants together during the feeding episode
      as she normally would do. (2) During the feeding episode, for infants who are being bottle
      fed, the mother will be asked to use an ordinary infant feeding bottle with an added special
      pressure sensor while infant sucks their regular feed from it. The device is a regular baby
      bottle that has a special pressure sensing chamber that measures the infant's sucking
      patterns, strength and consistency. The mother may decline using the bottle with sensors, or
      if tried with the infant but the infant refuses, the feeding will be resumed with the bottle
      brought by the mother. (3) Body composition of the infant will be measured using Dual-Energy
      X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA) using a Hologic Delphi-A densitometer. These procedures provide
      estimates of total body bone, fat, and lean mass. (4) Observations of infant's behavior will
      be observed and recorded for 20 minutes in these situations: being shown a black and white
      checkerboard, listening to a ringing bell, listening and viewing a shaken ball/rattle, and
      being presented a ball/rattle, that is later taken away, a puppet game, peek-a-boo game,
      playing in a jungle gym, and infant viewing pictures on a computer screen. (5) The physical
      activity of the infant will be measured for about 1.5 hours by using three ActiGraph GT3X+
      accelerometers (Pensacola, FL, USA), placed on each leg of the infant (below knee and above
      the ankle), another device on the infant's waist. (6) A microbiome sample from the infant
      will be obtained by study staff collecting fecal sample from diaper for the pattern of
      bacteria in infant's gut. (7) A urine sample will be obtained for epigenetic (methylation)
      analysis and will be collected by using a special bag that will be placed over the infant's
      genital area. (8) Finger nail samples will be obtained by gentle clipping for epigenetic
      (methylation) analysis. (9) A saliva sample for genetic DNA analysis will be collected. To
      collect the saliva sample, a staff member will gently rub a stick with a cotton end (similar
      to a Q-tip) against the infant's cheek for about 30 seconds.

      The mother will be asked to complete questionnaires for each infant: Infant Behavior
      Questionnaire - Very Short Version, Milestones Questionnaire, Infant Feeding History
      Questionnaire, and Infant Eating Behavior Questionnaire. The mother will be asked to complete
      procedures at the initial visit. First, a maternal microbiome sample; the mother will be
      instructed how to collect her fecal sample in the MRU or at her home. Second, a maternal
      buccal cell sample will be collected from the mother by gently rubbing a stick with a cotton
      end (similar to a Q-tip) against mother's cheek for about 30 seconds. The mother will be
      asked to collect her own saliva in a container provided to her.

      Home visit: Within a week a home visit will be scheduled to assess infants' behavior. The
      same process conducted in the laboratory will be conducted at home where infant's behavior
      will be observed and recorded for 20 minutes in these situations: being shown a black and
      white checkerboard, listening to a ringing bell, listening and viewing a shaken ball/rattle,
      and being presented a ball/rattle, that is later taken away, a puppet game, peek-a-boo game,
      playing in a jungle gym, and baby viewing pictures on a computer screen.

      6 months: Behavior observation, physical activity and body composition measurement outlined
      above will be conducted. The mother will complete Infant Behavior Questionnaire - Very Short
      Version, Milestones Questionnaire, Infant Feeding History Questionnaire, and Infant Eating
      Behavior Questionnaire.

      Home visit: Within a week a home visit will be scheduled to assess infants' behavior as
      outlined above.

      12 months: Behavior observation, physical activity, body composition measurement outlined
      above will be conducted. Additionally, a feeding observation to asses food neophobia in twins
      will be conducted. The mother will be asked to offer a new food (Quinoa or Couscous) to the
      infant. Infant's response to the new food will be video recorded for 3 minutes. The mother
      will complete Infant Behavior Questionnaire - Very Short Version and Child Eating Behavior
      Questionnaire (CEBQ).

      24 month: Mother will be sent (via mail) four Questionnaires for each child: Strength and
      Difficulty Questionnaire (SDQ), Milestone Questionnaire, Eating Behavior (Children's Eating
      Behavior Questionnaire (CEBQ)), Height And Weight Questionnaire. All questionnaires will be
      mailed and when completed the mother will return to research staff in a self-addressed
      envelope.
    
  