
    
      This is a non-blinded study in subjects who present to the UCSF Memory and Aging Clinic (MAC)
      with neurodegenerative disease and cognitive dysfunction. The primary objective of this
      non-significant risk study is signature development. The goal is to develop a signal
      algorithm using the Nautilus NeuroWaveTM for dementia. This is accomplished by analyzing and
      processing Nautilus NeuroWave recordings from a patient with confirmed dementia. All subjects
      will be enrolled until recordings are obtained from at least 10 of each of the following
      subject cohorts: Moderate or Severe Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTDL), Alzheimer's
      Disease, Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and Age Matched Normal Controls.

      As this study is a feasibility study intended to determine whether the Nautilus NeuroWave is
      able to generate distinctive signals correlated with dementia, statistical analysis will not
      be required. Similarly, the study has not been powered to attain any particular level of
      statistical significance. Subsequent studies will measure sensitivity and specificity of any
      resulting dementia signal pattern generated by this study. These future studies will be
      subject to statistical analysis.

      The Jan Medical Nautilus NeuroWaveTM (NNW) is a non-invasive device designed to evaluate
      brain oscillation patterns or the brain's pulse, generated by cardiac cycle induced
      intracranial blood flow. The objective of the evaluation is to determine whether the
      oscillation pattern is normal, whether it has been disrupted, and, if disrupted, what
      particular disruption pattern is evident. Various cerebral pathologies studied to date with
      the NNW demonstrate distinct disruption patterns. These pathologies include vasospasm,
      concussion and arterio-venous malformation (AVM). The objective of this study is to evaluate
      the brain oscillation patterns from subjects with MCI, Frontotemporal dementia, AD and from a
      small cohort of age matched normal controls and determine whether they exhibit pattern
      disruption and, if so, to quantify and categorize the distinct disruption patterns. How the
      Nautilus NeuroWave accomplishes this is explained later in the device description section of
      the protocol.
    
  