
    
      'Live Well, Viva Bien' (LWVB) is a cluster randomized controlled trial in 15 subsidized
      housing complexes designed to evaluate the efficacy of a multicomponent intervention that
      includes discount, mobile fresh F&V markets--'Fresh To You'(FTY) markets-in conjunction with
      a nutrition education intervention. The primary aims of this study are to: 1) Conduct
      formative research with residents living in subsidized housing projects to inform the
      multi-level intervention and; 2) Implement a group randomized trial to study the efficacy of
      the FTY markets combined with the educational/motivational interventions at increasing F&V
      access, availability, and consumption compared to a Comparison intervention (attention
      placebo). Secondary aims are: 1) To include extensive implementation process evaluation to
      determine costs, reach, fidelity and dose and the relationship of these variables with
      evaluation outcomes; and to 2) Use a mediating variable framework to examine relationships
      among important psychosocial factors/determinants with changes in F&V consumption.

      All study activities occurred at housing sites in Providence County, Rhode Island.
      Pre-intervention focus groups were conducted with housing complex residents (from non-study
      sites) to inform intervention development. A total of 15 subsidized housing complexes were
      recruited into the evaluation cohort. One smaller housing complex served as a pilot site for
      the intervention group and the remaining 14 demographically-matched sites were randomized
      into either the intervention or control group. Adult residents from each housing site were
      recruited for the evaluation cohort prior to randomization. The multicomponent intervention
      lasted one year and included baseline, 6 and 12 month follow-up surveys as well as extensive
      quantitative and qualitative process evaluation throughout the course of the study. All study
      protocols were approved by the Brown University Institutional Review Board.

      The intervention sites received regularly-scheduled, discount, fresh F&V markets for one
      year. These FTY markets were not farmer's markets, but rather mobile markets selling both
      local and non-local produce on a year-round basis at prices at or below local supermarket
      prices. Intervention sites, markets received markets the first two weeks of each month. In
      addition, these Housing sites also received a motivational/educational intervention
      components over the course of the year including two campaigns (Just Add 2 and Color Your
      Plate), three, 20-minute DVDs, a two-page, full-color monthly newsletter , 48 Recipe cards,
      and cooking demonstrations at the housing sites.

      The Comparison/Control Intervention sites received physical activity and stress reduction
      campaigns delivered by the Greater Providence YMCA.

      Extensive process evaluation was conducted. Outcome measures included three different
      measures of F&V intake. Data on potential mediators and moderators was also conducted.
    
  