
    
      L19IL2 is a recombinant fusion protein composed of a fully human recombinant monoclonal
      antibody (L19) and the human recombinant interleukin-2 (IL-2).

      IL2, is a potent stimulator of the immune response. It has a central role in the regulation
      of T cell responses and effects on other immune cells such as natural killer cells, B cells,
      monocyte/macrophages and neutrophils. IL2 can induce tumor regression through its ability to
      stimulate a potent cell-mediated immune response in vivo.

      L19TNF is a recombinant fusion protein composed of a fully human recombinant monoclonal
      antibody (L19) and the human tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a primary mediator of immune
      regulation and inflammation.

      As an anti-tumor agent, TNF exerts its major effects via a preferential toxicity for the
      endothelial cells of the tumor-associated vasculature and an increase of the antitumor immune
      response. Given at sufficient doses (e.g. intratumorally or in the ILP setting with
      melphalan), TNF causes significant tumor shrinkage in solid cancer subjects.

      This phase II signal generating study is designed to test the efficacy and safety of an
      intratumorally administered mixture of L19IL2 + L19TNF in patients suffering from metastatic
      melanoma. It is well documented that the intratumoral administration of IL-2 leads to a high
      response rate and unexpectedly favorable longtime outcome and several tumor responses have
      been observed in clinical trials of Philogen, both using intratumorally administered L19IL2
      and L19TNF in the ILP setting.

      Preclinical data produced within the Philogen group now suggest that the intratumoral
      administration of a mixture of L19IL2 and L19TNF could be even more effective. After only one
      intratumoral administration of a mixture of L19IL2 and L19TNF tumors disappeared completely
      while neither L19IL2 nor L19TNF monotherapy was nearly as effective.
    
  