
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Evidence has accumulated suggesting that essential hypertension begins early in life and is
      potentially preventable. One possible pathogenetic mechanism implicated is a sympathetic
      nervous system abnormality which is manifested by increased sympathetic drive to the heart.
      An elevated sympathetic nervous system tone and decreased vagal inhibition is responsible for
      the hyperkinetic circulation seen in a significant proportion of persons with borderline
      essential hypertension. Exaggerated blood pressure and heart rate responses to mental
      stressors have been documented in normotensive children of hypertensive parents. These
      changes appear to involve sympathetic over-responding to fight-flight stimuli.

      Increased blood pressure variability induced by stress might accelerate vascular and other
      changes leading to essential hypertension. Behavior and environment might chronically elevate
      sympathetic nervous system tone with damaging cardiovascular consequences. Stressful working
      conditions, defective anger management and poor interpersonal problem solving skills have
      been implicated in studies of stress-induced blood pressure increases. These influences may
      interact with diet and genetic risk to exacerbate pathophysiology. Essential hypertension
      risk might be reduced by modifying working and living environments and by training young
      persons at risk to cope with or avoid stressors that elicit defensive over-responding.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This longitudinal study tested two different models of sympathetic nervous system influence
      on the early pathophysiology of essential hypertension. The first neurogenic model was
      evaluated by determining whether an excessively variable or reactive blood pressure in year 1
      gave rise to excessive heart growth or left ventricular hypertrophy over a two year
      follow-up. The second neurogenic model was evaluated by determining if higher blood pressure
      exacerbated by personality, stress, and dietary sodium intake led to increased left
      ventricular hypertrophy at follow-up.

      All ninth-graders entering two large Baltimore high schools in year 1 and year 2 of the study
      were screened to yield the 240 subjects in the cohort. Initial screening included data on
      blood pressure, height, weight, health habits, personality, medical history, and health care
      utilization. Baseline exam included data on basal blood pressure, aerobic exercise stress,
      cognitive stress, interpersonal stress, ambulatory blood pressure, echocardiogram, physical
      activity, and Type A personality. The parents were also interviewed to assess family blood
      pressure status, health history, health care utilization and dietary habits including sodium
      intake. Students were re-examined at twelve and 24 months.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  