
    
      More than 500,000 new patients with squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (SCCHN) are
      diagnosed each year around the world. Patients who relapse after primary therapy for
      locoregional disease and those who present with distant metastases have limited prognosis.

      Drug therapy for cancer control and the palliation of patients with recurrent or metastatic
      SCCHN is currently suboptimal. In contemporary trials the most active cytotoxic drug
      combinations have response rates in the range of 30%, and are associated with frequent and
      severe toxicities and treatment-related mortality.

      Molecular targeting has been demonstrated in oncology as a relevant strategy in cancer
      therapeutics. In March 2006, the FDA announced the approval of a chimeric monoclonal antibody
      against the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), cetuximab, for use in combination with
      radiation therapy in patients with locally advanced SCCHN. Furthermore, the addition of
      cetuximab to cisplatin and 5FU as first-line therapy in patients with recurrent or metastatic
      SCCHN has significantly improved overall survival when compared to cisplatin and 5FU alone.
      Phase II data of cetuximab given as monotherapy in recurrent or metastatic SCCHN patients who
      have progressed on platinum-based therapy have demonstrated an overall response rate of 13%
      and a median survival of about 6 months. Small molecules tyrosine kinase inhibitors of EGFR,
      such as gefitinib and erlotinib, seem to be slightly less effective than cetuximab. Based on
      these results, FDA has also approved cetuximab monotherapy use for this indication in
      recurrent or metastatic SCCHN.

      However, despite high expression of EGFR in SCCHN, EGFR inhibitor monotherapy has only had
      modest activity. Potential mechanisms of resistance to EGFR-targeted therapies involve EGFR
      and K-Ras mutations, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and activation of alternative and
      downstream pathways. Strategies to optimize EGFR-targeted therapy in head and neck cancer
      involve the selection for patients most likely to benefit and the use of therapies to target
      the network of pathways involved in tumor growth, invasion, angiogenesis, and metastasis.

      Afatinib is an irreversible dual inhibitor of EGFR and HER2 tyrosine kinase. Preclinical data
      suggest that Afatinib might have a larger spectrum antitumor activity than EGFR tyrosine
      kinase inhibitors. In vivo and in vitro studies indeed showed that Afatinib displays
      antitumor activity in erlotinib/gefitinib-resistant lung models. Afatinib compared favourably
      to cetuximab in platinum-resistant metastatic SCCHN. In addition, Afatinib has shown
      promising antitumor activity in HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer after
      trastuzumab failure and in metastatic adenocarcinomas of the lung harbouring EGFR activating
      mutations.

      To date, predictive and pharmacodynamic biomarkers studies have mostly been performed in
      pre-treated metastatic patients. Erlotinib has been the most studied EGFR-targeted agent in
      terms of biomarkers identification in SCCHN. In the metastatic setting, sequential biopsies
      allowed correlating potential predictive and pharmacodynamic biomarkers with the outcome of
      patients treated with erlotinib. The decrease of p-EGFR in tumor tissue was associated with
      increased time-to-progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS) in one study. In another study,
      elevated pre-treatment levels of p27 and p-STAT3 in tumor tissue predicted for prolonged TTP
      and OS, while a decrease in p-EGFR, p-NFkB and p27 correlated with increased TTP, OS or both.
      However, the lack of control arm precluded to draw any definitive conclusion. One study
      evaluated erlotinib in the neoadjuvant setting in untreated patients with operable SCCHN.
      Baseline p21 expression in tumor tissue correlated with clinical response to treatment. But
      again, the absence of control arm in this later study precluded drawing definitive
      conclusions regarding the potential predictive and pharmacodynamic value of the biomarkers
      under evaluation.

      The main characteristics of our study are:

        1. the pre-operative setting in untreated patients with the advantage of having untreated
           patients for whom it is easy to get pre- and post-treatment tumor specimen, during
           initial panendoscopy and surgery, respectively

        2. the randomization versus no treatment which is the only way to be able to draw robust
           conclusions regarding the potential predictive and pharmacodynamic value of the
           biomarkers under evaluation. Single-arm phase II trials can only identify prognostic
           markers of activity, but not predictive biomarkers of activity.

      Importantly, surgery will not be delayed in any case by the study. However, it is required
      that planning of surgery will enable patients to receive between 21 and 28 days of treatment
      to participate into the study given the planned date of surgery.
    
  