
    
      Object and source:Patients meeting the inclusion criteria of AL amyloidosis are enrolled into
      the study. Screening failure rate ≤ 30%, follow-up dropout rate ≤ 10%.

      Sample size evaluation: The complete remission rate (CR) and the very good partial remission
      rate (VGPR) were used as statistical indexes for hematology remission rate estimation.
      Referring to the previous literature, the CR and VGPR of bortezomib-thalidomide-dexamethasone
      (BTD) is 83%, and CR and VGPR of bortezomib-cyclophosphamide-dexamethasone (BCD) is 43%. The
      boundary value is 0.1, according to the level of significance level α = 0.05, test efficacy 1
      - β = 0.8, using the method of effectiveness test, using pass11 software calculation to
      estimate the sample size to be included in the group, the expected dropout rate is 20%, the
      total sample size is 70, 35 in each group.

      Observation index:Before and after treatment, physical examination should be carried out
      every month. The following test should be required. Blood pressure

      , blood routine, liver function, electrolyte, 24h urine volume, 24h urine protein quantity,
      urine protein/creatinine ratio, blood uric acid, serum albumin, urea nitrogen, creatinine,
      eGFR(estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate), blood lipids, infection index, NT-proBNP (N
      terminal pro B type natriuretic peptide), TNT(Troponin-T), blood and urine free light chain
      should be detected respectively.

      Quality assurance plan:The study shall be conducted in accordance with the current approved
      protocol and the July 1996 ICH drug clinical study management code (CPMP/ICH / 135/95) (ICH
      GCP), the Helsinki declaration, regulations and standard operating procedures.

      Plan for missing data:(1)When the subject falls off, the researcher should contact the
      subject as soon as possible by means of visiting, making an appointment for follow-up, making
      phone calls, sending letters, etc., asking the reason, making record as much detail as
      possible.(2)All patients with abscission should be recorded for ITT analysis. There is no
      need for replacement for exfoliated patients. (3)If a patient withdraws from the study due to
      anaphylaxis, adverse reactions or ineffective treatment, the investigator shall take
      corresponding treatment measures according to the actual situation of the subject.

      Statistical analysis plan:The main evaluation indexes were hematology CR and VGPR, organ
      function CR and VGPR. The statistical index of treatment effect is the number of patients who
      meet the criteria of CR and VGPR. Conclusion: if P > 0.05, H0 hypothesis cannot be rejected
      according to the test level of single side α = 0.05, that is to say, it cannot be judged that
      the treatment of light amyloidosis in BTD group is better than that in BCD group; if P ≤
      0.05, it can be considered that the treatment of light amyloidosis in BTD group is better
      than that in BCD group. The difference between the two groups was analyzed by chi square test
      or Fisher exact probability test as a secondary evaluation index (the overall survival rate
      and progression free survival period were observed after one year follow-up after six courses
      of treatment).The safety analysis set includes all cases entering the study and using at
      least one dose of the study drug. Chi square test or Fisher exact probability test were used
      to analyze the incidence of adverse events in the two groups. Chi square test or McNemar test
      were used to analyze the change of abnormal rate of laboratory indexes from baseline.
    
  