
    
      Hypotheses, Objectives and Aims:

      Hypotheses:Caspase-3, cleaved and activated, and dystrophin can be detected in human
      circulation. The levels of these two markers are elevated during acute myocardial infarction.
      Furthermore, the levels of these two proteins are greater in those who develop heart failure
      than those who do not.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine whether cleaved caspase-3 and dystrophin can be detected in human
           circulation after an acute myocardial infarction

        -  To compare serum levels of these two markers in those who develop heart failure and
           those who do not

      Scientific Background and Significance: Apoptosis is a regulated biological process resulting
      in cell death (4-9). Caspases, a family of cysteine acid proteases regulate the process, and
      in fact, lead to apoptosis. Apoptotic trigger or signal results in the activation of proximal
      or initiator caspases (such caspase-8, -9, 10). These initiator caspases then cleave and in
      turn activate downstream effector caspases such as caspases-3, -6 and -7. These effector
      caspases then cleave various proteins such as those present in cytoskeletons and nucleus like
      lamin A, alpha-fodrin and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, leading to apoptosis. Caspase-3 is
      the key executioner in this apoptotic pathway, responsible totally or critically in the
      proteolytic cleavage of cellular and nuclear proteins. Activation of caspase-3 requires
      proteolytic processing of its inactive zymogen into active p17 and p12 fragments. The cleaved
      caspase-3 can be detected by antibodies specific for this cleaved enzyme (p17 fragment) in
      cell lysates by immunoblotting or by an ELISA assay utilizing spectrophotometric
      determination with a microplate reader at OD450 nm. Ischemia and reperfusion are known to
      cause apoptosis. Therefore, acute MI may be associated with release of the final executioner
      of apoptosis that is caspase-3, into the circulation.Another potential marker for acute
      deterioration is dystrophin. Dystrophin was originally identified as the x-linked gene whose
      mutations in its N-terminus cause cardiomyopathy. Dystrophin provides important structural
      support for the cardiac myocyte and its sarcolemmal membrane (10-11). It links actin at its
      N-terminus with the dystrophin-associated protein complex and sarcolemma at the C-terminus
      and the extracellular matrix of muscle. Mutations cause loss of support and sarcolemmal
      instability and myopathy. Myocardial dystrophin translocation and cleavage are associated
      with the progression of heart failure and contractile dysfunction. These changes are reversed
      following reduction of mechanical stress from ventricular assistance device (12). Since MI is
      associated with sarcolemmal instability, dystrophin may also be released into circulation.
    
  