
    
      Intraocular pressure measurement (IOP) is a vital part of the routine eye examination. High
      and low eye pressure may be associated with various ocular pathologies, including glaucoma.
      The current gold standard for IOP measurement is Goldmann Applanation Tonometry (GAT). To
      perform measurements with GAT, topical anaesthetic and fluorescein eye drops are applied to
      the eye. The Goldmann tonometer tip directly contacts the cornea and measures the intraocular
      pressure by the Imbert-Fick principle. IOP measurement is generally performed by a trained
      and experienced ophthalmologist or ophthalmic technician on patients in an upright position.
      There may be minor discomfort associated with the use of topical anaesthetic in this
      technique.

      Icare tonometers are a new class of rebound tonometers used for IOP measurements. A
      disposable tip of the Icare tonometer is propelled towards the cornea and the deceleration of
      the tip is measured to calculate the IOP. The Icare series of devices are hand-held
      tonometers, which are easy to operate and do not require topical anaesthesia for IOP
      measurements.

      Despite being the most reliable and clinically validated method to measure IOP, GAT has
      several limitations. First, it requires extensive training and experience to accurately
      measure IOP. Moreover, IOP measurement with GAT may be associated with minor discomfort due
      to the need for topical anaesthesia. Apart from that, GAT is not a portable device and the
      patient needs to be seated upright, making it difficult to perform in certain populations,
      such as pediatric, elderly and those with high BMI. Several hand-held tonometers are
      available, including the Icare series. These tonometers allow for quick, portable, and
      arguably easier IOP measurements. These tonometers do not require as rigorous training to
      use. However, there is an inconsistency in the data to verify if the IOP measurements by
      Icare is in concordance with GAT measurements. Recent Meta-analysis by Rödter and colleagues
      neither confirm nor deny the agreement between Icare and GAT tonometers.

      The purpose of the current study is to prospectively evaluate and determine the relationship
      of the IOP measurements obtained by Icare PRO, Icare ic200, and GAT. The study will evaluate
      IOP measurements in different IOP ranges (low: 7-15mmHg, Moderate: 16- 22mmHg, High: 23-60
      mmHg) as well as the effects of central corneal thickness and BMI on IOP measurements.
      Patient comfort during tonometry will be measured using a visual analogue scale. To date,
      this will be the first study in Canada to compare IOP measurements between Icare PRO, Icare
      ic200, and GAT in different IOP ranges. Additionally, as the Icare ic200 is a new device,
      this will be the first study to perform a comparative functional analysis of the Icare ic200
      versus GAT.
    
  