
    
      This is a non-randomized, three-arm trial.

      Arm 1a and 1b will enroll patients with advanced NSCLC regardless of tumor PD-L1 expression
      who have experienced disease progression on or after PD-1 axis inhibitor therapy, given alone
      or in combination with other systemic anti-cancer therapy. Patients will be assigned to arm
      1a or 1b at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients on arm 1a will receive NC318
      alone; those on arm 1b, combination therapy with NC318 and pembrolizumab.

      Arm 1a will be based on a Simon two-stage minimax design. In the first stage, 18 patients
      will be accrued. If tumor response per RECIST v1.1 is achieved in 2 or fewer patients, arm 1a
      will be closed to further enrollment. If tumor response is demonstrated in 3 or more
      patients, then 25 additional patients will be accrued (stage 2), for a total of 43 patients.

      Arm 1b arm will start with a safety run-in portion consisting of 6 patients (see 4.1.1). If
      deemed safe, arm 1b will continue to accrue and follow the Simon two-stage design used in arm
      1a. Patients in the run-in portion will be included in stage 1 of the Simon two-stage design.

      Arm 2 will enroll patients with advanced NSCLC and tumor PD-L1 expression less than 50% who
      are naïve to PD-1 axis inhibitor therapy. Patients on arm 2 will receive combination therapy
      with NC318 and pembrolizumab. Arm 2 will also start with a safety run-in portion identical to
      that of arm 1b (see 4.1.1). If deemed safe, accrual will continue following a Simon two-stage
      minimax design. In the first stage, 19 patients will be accrued. If tumor response per RECIST
      v1.1 is achieved in 3 or fewer patients, arm 2 will be closed to further enrollment. If tumor
      response is demonstrated in 4 or more patients, then 36 additional patients will be accrued
      (stage 2), for a total of 54 patients. Patients in the run-in portion will be included in
      stage 1 of the Simon two-stage design.
    
  