
    
      Perinatal (antenatal and postnatal) depression is a common complication of childbearing,
      affecting 10 to 20% of mothers. In general, women are exposed to fluctuations in estrogen
      level during childbearing years, especially during pregnancy and following childbirth. For a
      subgroup of women with genetic predisposition rendering them more sensitive to such changes,
      pregnancy or childbirth can act as a trigger for the onset of perinatal depression.

      A case control study will be conducted to evaluate the association of variants in estrogen
      receptor and related genes with the disorder in our population. Women attending antenatal and
      postnatal clinics will be screened with the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale and cases
      will be identified. DNA from controls who are well throughout the antenatal and postpartum
      period and cases meeting DSM IV criteria for depressive disorder will be genotyped for
      various genetic variants. The distribution of single nucleotide polymorphisms and haplotypes
      and non-genetic risk factors will be compared between cases and controls and within the case
      group. The risk factors for postnatal depression in relation to peripartum factors such as
      demographic, obstetric, anaesthetic and pain outcomes will be investigated.

      As perinatal depression is known to contribute to inadequate self-care and poor compliance
      with prenatal care, early diagnosis and treatment interventions are critical for the health
      and well-being of both mother and infant. In the short term, identified genetic markers that
      increase vulnerability to puerperal triggering of depression can be an additional screening
      tool to identify at-risk expectant mothers for early management during a very critical period
      for mother, infant, and family. In the long run, it may lead to identification of new
      pathways or treatment targets for this common but under-studied disorder.
    
  