
    
      Approximately 100,000 individuals in the Unites States experience a first episode of
      psychosis (FEP) each year. Psychotic symptoms typically emerge during formative years of
      adolescence and young adult development and interfere with the establishment of healthy
      educational, vocational, and social foundations. Despite the severity of symptoms and
      significant decline in functioning, the time between symptom onset and receiving appropriate
      care in the U.S. is alarmingly lengthy. Longer DUP has been shown to independently predict
      negative outcomes, including poorer response to treatment, worse global, vocational, social,
      and cognitive functioning, greater risk of relapse, higher symptom severity, and poorer
      quality of life. Prior successful DUP reduction initiatives have utilized various marketing
      strategies to educate the community about early intervention services, however these
      strategies are expensive, inefficient, and outdated. Targeted online outreach, supported by
      technological innovation, offers the prospect of proactively reaching individuals earlier in
      the course of illness development, as well as individuals who might not otherwise come into
      contact with traditional referral sources. In response to this challenge, Northwell Health's
      early psychosis research team is collaborating with Strong365, a nonprofit initiative
      dedicated to raising early psychosis intervention awareness, to develop and test a proactive
      and targeted comprehensive digital media marketing campaign designed to facilitate
      help-seeking and encourage treatment initiation in prospective patients with FEP and their
      caregivers. Investigators will take advantage of search engine advertisements, which allow
      advertisers (researchers) to select keywords/phrases and create linked ads appearing as a
      strategically placed search result. Dedicated ads will appear in response to online search
      queries conducted by prospective patients and their caregivers throughout New York State
      (NYS) that align with the campaign's pre-selected keywords/phrases. Individuals who click on
      the ads will be immediately directed to a landing page/website, and offered a variety of
      innovative and interactive online engagement tools intended to instantly connect users with
      specialty care staff and to facilitate earlier treatment initiation. Campaign referrals will
      be centralized and individuals with FEP will be enrolled into OnTrackNY (OTNY), a network of
      21 dedicated early psychosis intervention programs throughout NYS. The campaign will target
      individuals as well as their caregivers, searching for psychosis-related terms or information
      online. Investigators will measure the DUP of individuals enrolled into OTNY before and after
      campaign activation and track the impact of the campaign on the number of FEP referrals and
      number of patients admitted to OTNY in NYS. Furthermore, investigators aim to identify the
      campaign target audience most effective at promoting treatment initiation as well as the
      online tools and resources most effective at encouraging treatment initiation for individuals
      with FEP. Investigators will additionally explore the online trajectories to care of
      individuals with FEP engaging with the campaign.
    
  