
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Global Epidemic of Trauma: Injuries from trauma accidents have been rapidly increasing in
      number worldwide and particularly so in developing countries. Approximately 5.8 million
      people die every year from traumatic injuries, accounting for 10% of the world's deaths.
      According to a recent report by the World Health Organization, trauma will be the third
      largest killer in the developing world by 2020. Moreover, for every death, several thousand
      individuals will suffer impairments, frequently with disabling consequences. Among the
      Southern Asian countries, India has the highest incidence of deaths due to physical injuries
      (117 deaths per 100,000 individuals). Physical injuries account for 10% of deaths, 20-25% of
      hospitalizations, and one third of disabilities. As this trend is growing, it is leading to
      an increase in the number of physical injury hospitalizations. Most developing nations, where
      trauma burden is escalating, have little empirical data on types of injuries, access to care,
      and management approaches. The investigators propose a prospective study in India (the second
      most populous country in the world) to examine fracture burden and provide the foundation for
      future collaboration and research. This study is fundamental to understanding the global
      burden of trauma and the design of future pragmatic randomized trials to improve function and
      quality of life around the world.

      WHO Decade of Road Traffic Safety: This study directly aligns with the start of the Global
      Road Traffic Safety Decade 2011-2020 (World Health Organization), as well as our Department
      of Surgery's International Surgery Program. The Canadian Orthopaedic Association's 'call to
      action' to Canadian centers towards bridging gaps in knowledge and research in trauma in Low
      and Middle Income Countries further vindicates the rationale for INORMUS.

      METHODS

      Design Overview: Between October 2011 and March 2012, the investigators conducted a
      multicenter, prospective observational study of patients sustaining fractures and presenting
      to orthopaedic fracture units across 14 hospitals in India. 4,659 patients during an 8-week
      period were enrolled.

      Patient characteristics, treatment, and outcome data were documented at initial consultation
      by a study coordinator at each hospital. Major complications, in hospital, and 30-day
      outcomes were evaluated.

      Primary outcome

        1. Logistic regression model involving 12 potential predictors of mortality;

           Secondary Analyses

        2. Mixed-model involving the 12 predictors of mortality to evaluate potential hospital site
           effects;

        3. Logistic regression model looking at timing of irrigation and debridement and open
           fractures and deep infection rates;

        4. Descriptive analyses looking at types of treatments of tibia and femur fractures across
           socioeconomic groups in India;

        5. Descriptive analyses looking at combinations of injuries in patients involved in road
           traffic accidents.

      Sample Size: The study enrolled 4,822 patients, and 4,612 (95.6%) of these patients completed
      follow-up. To include 12 predictors in the model with an estimated mortality rate among
      orthopedic trauma patients of 1.5%, 8000 patients are required to properly power our
      analysis. Based on a 20% drop out rate, 10,000 patients will be recruited in the study.
    
  