
    
      Plantar fasciopathy (PF) is the most common cause of inferior heel pain, and approximately
      40% of patients report symptoms two years following initial diagnosis. Exercise therapy,
      including gastrocnemius and plantar fascia stretching, and high-load strengthening have been
      shown to improve plantar fascia pain and function; however, not everyone improves with these
      interventions, and they require several weeks or months to be effective. The addition of
      instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization (IASTM) techniques may improve these outcomes.
      Moreover, shear wave elastography (SWE) is an imaging technology that may provide helpful
      information regarding PF diagnosis and prognosis. Therefore, research is required to
      investigate changes in plantar fascia stiffness following exercise and IASTM interventions.

      This study is divided into two Parts. Part I is a parallel-group, pre-test post-test
      randomized controlled superiority trial comparing the long-term effects of stretching and
      strengthening exercises (SS) (Group 1, n=35) versus SS plus IASTM (SS+IASTM, Group 2, n=35)
      in subjects with PF. The study is approved by the local Intuitional Review Board. The
      Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) guidelines for
      reporting of randomized interventional trials will be followed. Exercise interventions will
      be reported according to the Consensus on Exercise Reporting Template (CERT) guideline. Part
      II is a pre-test, post-test comparison of the short-term effects of IASTM on PF. Subjects
      from Group 2 of Part I (n=35) and a age and sex-matched healthy comparison group (Group 3,
      n=35) will participate in Part II.

      Random group allocation into SS and SS+IASTM Groups will be performed by an independent
      statistician using the R Statistics package using a 1:1 allocation ratio with permuted block
      sizes of 2 to 6. Although it is not possible to blind study participants, the investigators
      performing the weekly interventions and measurements will be blinded to the subjects' group
      allocation.

      After randomization subjects will receive a booklet that describes their condition and
      contains exercise instructions and an exercise training and medication usage diary. Group 1
      will receive a sheet listing evidence for the beneficial effects of stretching and high-load
      strengthening. Group 2 will additionally receive information regarding the hypothesized
      benefits of IASTM. After group allocation and reading the appropriate booklet, subjects will
      complete the Credibility/Expectancy Questionnaire (CEQ), which contains six items requiring
      subjects to rate the credibility of the intervention and their expectations.

      Both groups will perform an identical exercise program but will additionally receive once
      weekly IASTM treatments over an 8-week period. The weekly and total treatment time in Groups
      1 and 2 will be the same, 15 minutes/week for 8 weeks. Group 3 (Comparison Group) will be
      recruited in clusters of five after every 5 subjects are recruited into Group 2 (SS+IASTM)
      and will be matched to that group's age and BMI.

      Overall, subjects in Groups 1 and 2 will visit the lab 10 times. First, they will attend
      eight weekly sessions, which will include initial screening tests and exercise education on
      visit 1, treatments according to group allocation on visits 1-8, and follow-up testing on
      visits 5, 9, and 10. Both groups will additionally perform daily stretching and strengthening
      exercises at home. Between sessions 9 and 10 (i.e., weeks 9-11), these subjects will be
      contacted via telephone for follow-up testing and encourage continued home exercise program
      compliance. Group 3 will attend one session. This session will include screening tests before
      and after one IASTM treatment.

      Data will be summarized in descriptive statistics such as mean (standard deviation), median
      (interquartile range), and frequencies (percentage) as appropriate depending on the variable
      levels of measurement. Associations among categorical variables will be assessed using
      Chi-square or Fisher's exact test. Associations among continuous or ordinal level variables
      will be assessed using appropriate parametric or non-parametric correlation tests.
      Differences among demographic groups on continuous baseline variables will be assessed using
      t-test and ANOVA or their non-parametric alternatives (Mann-Whitney or Kruskal Wallis tests)
      where appropriate.

      The examined data in this study are clustered (nested) in nature. For example, the Foot
      Health Status, a dependent variable which is measured for both groups (the SS and SS + IASTM)
      through different subscales including pain subscale, function subscale, footwear subscale,
      and general foot health subscale (level 1), at different time points (level 2), within each
      individual participant (level 3). Therefore, linear mixed modeling is a suitable analytical
      technique to handle the data and answer research questions.

      Since the levels of the examined factors in the study constitute all the levels of interest
      for statistical inference, a covariance pattern fixed effects model that accounts for the
      covariance and correlational patterns among repeated measures could be the most suitable for
      this study to be utilized (among other different Mixed Model approaches that would be tested
      and implemented).
    
  