
    
      This study is a 2-arm individually randomized controlled trial design in which outcomes of
      MMT patients randomized to MORE are compared to outcomes of those randomized to treatment as
      usual (TAU). In this study (N=154), the investigators will randomize MMT patients with
      chronic pain to MORE (n=77) or TAU (n=77). The purpose of this study is to determine MORE's
      efficacy for increasing opioid abstinence relative to TAU. Individuals with pain who are
      receiving MMT for an opioid use disorder (OUD) will be recruited from two methadone clinics
      in New Jersey.

      Participants will be recruited through flyers posted in the clinics, being approached by
      research assistants in the waiting room of their usual methadone clinic, and referral by
      clinic staff. The number of individuals who contact the study staff through the flyers or
      referral and who are approached by study staff in the clinics will be tracked. Number of
      individuals who refuse study participation and who consent to the study will also be tracked.
      If an individual is interested in study participation, a trained research assistant will lead
      the individual through the informed consent process in a private space.

      Since MORE is a closed group, the cohorts of 14 participants at each site will be randomized
      to TAU or MORE. Once 14 participants at a particular clinic are enrolled and randomized the
      MORE group will begin.

      Participants randomized to the MORE condition will participate in eight, weekly, two-hour
      group sessions, co-led by a clinic and study counselor. Each session will contain 7
      participants and take place remotely, by video conference. Attendance at each session and
      reasons for missing sessions will be recorded. Participants randomized to the control
      condition will continue receiving treatment as usual.

      All study participants will partake in a total of three interviews lasting up to 90 minutes
      and occurring, remotely, at baseline, 8- and 16- weeks post-baseline by telephone or video
      conference. Each participant will also complete a urine or saliva drug screen at each
      assessment. All attempts to reach participants to schedule follow-up assessments will be
      tracked. Participants will also complete cognitive testing (for approx. 30-45 minutes) at
      baseline and 8-weeks and ecological momentary assessments (EMA) conducted via smartphones or
      tablets, which will be provided to each participant by study staff. EMA participation will
      require the participant to respond to twice-daily prompts in which they will be asked a
      series of brief questions regarding their current mood and exposure to opioid triggers.
      Additionally, subjects will be asked to initiate responses when they experience serious
      craving or relapse to opioid use. Each EMA assessment will last approximately 3-5 minutes.
    
  