
    
      BACKGROUND

      Multiple chemical sensitivities is a collective term used to describe illness from exposure
      to common environ-mental agents. A recent Danish population-based cross sectional study
      reported that 27% of the respondents reported various symptoms from exposure to common
      environmental agents. In 19% of the respondents symptoms had led to behavioral changes and in
      3.3% of the respondents to adjustments in either social life or occupational conditions, and
      in 0.5% to adjustments in both social life and occupational conditions. Multiple chemical
      sensitivities is not acknowledged as a clinical diagnose in Denmark and the Danish Healthcare
      System has no clinical guidelines for management of people who report this type of illness.

      OBJECTIVES

      To evaluate the effect of an 8-week mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) programme on
      psychological - and somatic symptoms, and illness perceptions in individuals with self-
      reported multiple chemical sensitivities.

      PARTICIPANTS

      Participants will be recruited among respondents to a survey on the consequences of
      self-reported symptoms related to inhalation of airborne chemicals conducted by the Danish
      Research Centre for Chemical Sensitives.

      DESIGN

      The pilot trial is designed as a randomized trial on the effect of MBCT versus treatment as
      usual. Eligible participants (n= 42) stratified by occupational status (e.g. employed/not
      employed) will be randomized to either intervention (MBCT) or treatment as usual.

      INTERVENTION

      The MBCT programme includes 2½ hours of group training at the Psychiatric Centre,
      Rigshospitalet once a week for 8 weeks. Furthermore participants are encouraged to practice
      at home for up to 45 min per day, 6 days a week during the entire course.

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      Effect of MBCT will be estimated from individual scores on the following psychometric scales:
      Symptom-Check List-92, The Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire, Perceived Stress Scale-10
      and The Subjective Health Complaints-inventory. Estimations will be carried out at baseline,
      four weeks after start of MBCT programme, eight weeks after start of MBCT programme, and
      three months after ending the MBCT programme.
    
  