
    
      Phase IV clinical trial, single-center, double-blind, randomized, two-period crossover,
      placebo-controlled, to determine the effect of treatment with umeclidinium/vilanterol 55/22
      μg compared with placebo on the increase in left systolic chamber function during exercise in
      patients with COPD, lung hyperinflation and mild to moderate left ventricular dysfunction.

      The participants will be patients from the outpatient offices of the Cardiology, Pulmonology
      and Internal Medicine departments of the Gregorio Marañon University Hospital in Madrid, over
      40 years of age with a diagnosis of COPD, lung hyperinflation with a residual volume more
      than 135 % and stable heart failure with a left ventricular ejection fraction between 35-55%.

      Patients will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either umeclidinium/vilanterol 55/22 μg Ellipta
      for 14 days followed by a washout period of 14 days and then placebo for 14 days, or the same
      treatments in reverse order.

      The randomization numbers will be generated by blocks of 4 elements selected with a
      computer-generated random list.

      Patients, investigators, individuals in charge of the assessments, sponsor, CRO staff, and
      data analysts will be blinded to the identity and assignment of the treatments from the time
      of randomization until database lock, using the following methods:

        1. Randomization data will be kept confidential until the time of unmasking (unlocking the
           database) and will not be accessible to anyone else involved in the study and

        2. The identities of the treatments will be concealed by the use of active drugs and
           placebo identical in packaging, labeling, schedule of administration, appearance, and
           taste.

      Two crossover treatment periods (treatments 1 and 2) of 14 days each separated by 14 days
      washout, and follow-up. The active treatment will be a combination of umeclidinium/vilanterol
      55/22 μg Ellipta given by inhalation once per day over 14 days. Matching placebo will be used
      as a control. Any ongoing hypertensive and cardiovascular medications (including
      beta-blockers if prescribed) will be kept stable throughout the study. All previous COPD
      medications except inhaled corticosteroids (if dose stable for at least 30 days) will be
      withdrawn. Patients will be given salbutamol as rescue medication throughout the study and
      the respective study drugs in the treatment phases.

      All adverse effects (AEs) spontaneously referred to either by the patients or during the
      visits will be registered and notified. All AEs will be collected, including those that are
      not considered associated with the study treatment.

      All clinical information will be anonymously recorded in an e-CRF system programmed using
      in-house resources.

      Any abnormal result of the study variables that the investigator considers clinically
      significant and require adjustments or transient or permanent interruption of treatment or
      any type of intervention or diagnostic evaluation to assess the associated risk for the
      patient will be collected as an adverse event and should be investigated and monitored
      adequately.

      During the study, cardiac parameters will be determined by exercise echocardiography and MRI
      and assessed by experienced cardiologists (with cardiac MRI experience) blinded to all
      clinical and trial-related data.

      Lung function will be assessed using constant-volume body plethysmography and spirometry in
      accordance with the American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society standards.

      Patients will undergo a symptom-limited bicycle-exercise test at 30⁰ lateral decubitus in a
      dedicated ergometer (Easystress, Ecogito Medical SPRL, Liege, Belgium). Workrate will be
      initiated at 25 W and increased by 15 W every 3 min. The gas exchange will be simultaneously
      analyzed breath-by-breath (Ergostik, Geratherm, Germany). Doppler-derived stroke volume,
      systolic ejection period, and left ventricular outflow tract, at a specific point from the
      aortic valve, will be measured as recommended. The LV outflow tract cross-sectional area will
      be assumed constant so that the change in SV will be determined by the change in the outflow
      tract time-velocity integral as measured by pulsed-wave Doppler. We have recently validated
      the Doppler-derived method for measuring SV during exercise.

      Baseline LV volumes and ejection fraction will be measured using the biplane Simpson's
      method. In addition, color-Doppler M-mode images will be acquired at baseline and during all
      exercise phases both for the ejection and diastolic phases at the outflow and inflow tract
      locations, respectively. These recordings have been validated both in clinical and
      preclinical studies as robust and load-independent indices of global LV systolic chamber
      function and diastolic suction, respectively. Furthermore, the ejection intraventricular
      pressure difference (EIVPD) is a simple but very sensitive method to detect subtle changes in
      LV systolic function, undetectable by other conventional methods.

      Because frequently patients do not reach the anaerobic threshold during exercise
      echocardiography (decubitus…), a separate maximal ergospirometry on a cycle ergometer will be
      performed to measure peak exercise capacity. The cycle ergometer (ER-900, Vyasis, Hochberg,
      Germany) exercise test will start with a period of quiet breathing for at least 3 min
      followed by unloaded pedaling for 3 min, thereafter an immediate increase in work rate to 10
      W and then by further increments of 10 W every minute until symptom limitation during which
      breath by breath gas exchange ( i.e. VO2 and VCO2) (Oxycon-pro Vyasis, Hoechberg Germany)
      lactate threshold (if attained by the patient) maximum ventilation and heart-rate dyspnea,
      inspiratory capacity and exercise flow-volume loops (every 2 min) and HR recovery rate will
      be measured. Peak oxygen uptake will be defined as the greatest work rate that was maintained
      for ≥30 s at 50-70 rpm.

      Patients will undergo a conventional cardiac MRI study (Philips Achieva 1.5 T) without
      gadolinium to assess the size of the left and right ventricles. In addition, phase-contrast
      studies will be obtained to address cardiac output and flow characteristics at the level of
      the aorta and the main pulmonary artery, as previously described.

      Patient reported outcomes will be assessed using the COPD assessment test (CAT) to measure
      health status and the transition dyspnea index to measure dyspnea.

      External data monitorization and Adverse Event Reporting shall be contracted to an
      independent CRO, following current standards of clinical investigation

      Primary objective:

      To address the effect (compared with placebo) of umeclidinium/vilanterol 55/22 μg on the
      increase in exercise stroke volume (from baseline).

      Secondary objectives:

      To address the effect (compared with placebo) of umeclidinium/vilanterol 55/22 μg on the
      reduction of dynamic hyperinflation (from baseline).

      To address the effect (compared with placebo) of umeclidinium/vilanterol 55/22 μg on resting
      cardiac function (from baseline).

      To address the effect (compared with placebo) of umeclidinium/vilanterol 55/22 μg on PROMs
      (patient-reported outcomes measurement) from baseline.
    
  