
    
      The use of neuromonitoring in thyroid surgery imposes a number of special demands for
      anaesthetic management. Such demands include avoiding muscle relaxation and local
      anaesthesia. Maintaining a balance between the risk of awakening during surgery and
      excessively deep anaesthesia in fast track surgery is an important task for the
      anaesthesiologist.

      Mild anaesthesia in the absence of muscle relaxation increases the risk of developing
      laryngeal reflexes, coughing during surgery, while excessively deep anaesthesia slows down
      recovery after surgery and increases the risk of arterial hypotension. The frequency and
      duration of arterial hypotension, as well as the depth of anesthesia assessed by the
      Bispectral index, are independent risk factors for postoperative cardiovascular complications
      and long-term mortality. On the other hand, coughing in response to irritation of the
      endotracheal tube during recovery from anesthesia is recognized as a risk factor for
      respiratory and cardiovascular complications, as well as postoperative wound insufficiency.

      Optimization the anesthesia by intravenous infusion of lidocaine can improve anesthesia
      controllability, hemodynamic stability and overall anesthesia recovery rates. Local use of
      lidocaine, including filling the endotracheal tube cuff with its alkalinized solution, has
      also been shown to be effective in reducing the frequency of laryngeal reflexes upon
      awakening after surgery of varying duration. However, the efficacy and safety of local use of
      lidocaine under neuromonitoring conditions has not been studied. Despite recommendations to
      avoid the local use of lidocaine for tracheal intubation, there is evidence of the safety of
      this technique in the absence of a negative impact on the quality of neuromonitoring.

      The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that the quality of recovery with topical
      lidocaine is better than placebo. At the same time, the investigators assume that recovery
      after surgery will be comparable with both local and intravenous use. Intergroup differences
      in arterial hypotension, depth of anesthesia and intraoperative neuromonitoring parameters
      will also be investigated.
    
  