
    
      The treatment of femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAIS) consists of wait-and-see,
      physiotherapist-led treatment, and/or hip surgery. The primary indication for hip surgery is
      based on imaging findings, however, limited correlation has been observed between such
      findings and hip symptoms. As patients with FAIS often show physical impariments, such as
      impaired hip muscle function, physiotherapist-led treatment aiming to address such factors
      may be effective in improving hip function and pain in some patients. However, several
      factors may confound the effect of physiotherapist-led treatement of FAIS, such as whether
      the patient presents with intra-articular hip joint pain or not.

      Thus, the purpose of this prospective study with a two-group comparison design is to
      investigate the effect of 12-weeks of physiotherapist-led treatment on self-reported hip and
      groin function, measured with the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS), in subjects
      diagnosed with FAIS, but with and without intra-articular hip pain. Determination of
      intra-articular hip pain is based on the response to an ultrasound-guided intra-articular
      anesthetic hip injection performed prior to commencing treatment.

      Subjects diagnosed with FAIS based on symptoms, clinical signs and imaging findings will be
      prospectively recruited from a specialized outpatient hip and groin clinic at Hvidovre
      Hospital. Following inclusion subjects undergo 12-weeks of semi-structured and supervised
      physiotherapist-led treatment. The primary outcome measure is the between-group
      (intra-articular pain vs. no intra-articular pain) difference in mean change of the HAGOS
      sport subscale from baseline (week 0) to follow-up (week 12).

      The primary outcome measure will be publised in the primary paper, which will also include
      information on between-group difference in change in hip muscle strength and single-leg hop
      performance as secondary outcome measures.

      Secondary papers will be reported with a clear reference to the primary paper.

      The sample size calculation is based on the primary outcome measure, being the between-group
      (intra-articular pain vs. no intra-articular pain) difference in change in the HAGOS Sport
      subscale following 12 weeks of physiotherapist-led treatment. Based on an expected 1/1
      recruitment ratio between subjects with and without intra-articular hip pain and a clinically
      relevant between-group contrast in change of 15 points corresponding to a moderate effect
      size 0.6 (Cohen's d), a power and alpha value of 80% and 0.05, respectively, 44 subjects in
      each group is adequate (G*power software, v.3.1, Heinrich-Heine-Universität, Düsseldorf,
      Germany). To minimize the risk of underpowering the study in case of uneven allocation to
      groups, based on the intra-articular anesthetic hip injection, inclusion of participants will
      continue until a minimum of 55 (44 including 25% dropouts in each group) subjects has been
      recruited in each group. A blinded member of the research team will be responsible for
      monitoring this.
    
  