
    
      Study Design: This is a randomized, double-blinded, standard of care-controlled clinical
      trial. All adult patients undergoing anatomic total shoulder arthroplasty for glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis will be included and randomized after surgery into either the control group
      which is prescribed a standard rehabilitation protocol or the intervention group which also
      is prescribed the same standard rehabilitation protocol with the the addition of isolated
      subscapularis rehabilitation.

      Purpose: To determine the subscapularis strength and function after anatomic total shoulder
      arthroplasty (aTSA) in patients who receive isolated subscapularis rehabilitation in addition
      to the standard rehabilitation protocol as compared to those who only receive the standard
      rehabilitation protocol at 12-month follow up. Specifically the investigators will measure
      subscapularis strength utilizing a dynamometer and subscapularis function utilizing isolated
      subscapularis physical examination testing: belly-press, bear-hug, and lift-off tests.

      Hypothesis: The investigators believe that subscapularis strength can be improved using
      isolated subscapularis rehabilitation in addition to standard rehabilitation, leading to
      improved outcomes in patients receiving aTSA. This should also improve the post-operative
      physical examination predicting a functional subscapularis tendon.

      Rationale and expectations: Anatomic total shoulder arthroplasty is often performed in
      patients with severe glenohumeral osteoarthritis that have an intact subscapularis. Often
      times it is seen that these patients return with positive isolated subscapularis tests,
      despite the subscapularis being intact after surgery. If these patients require revision
      surgery, an ultrasound is the only test that can be performed to evaluate the status of the
      subscapularis tendon. This study is difficult and not 100% accurate. It needs to be
      determined if the patient will need a reverse total shoulder arthroplasty due to the positive
      subscapularis test findings. Previous studies by Baumgartner et al. showed that patients that
      received a total shoulder arthroplasty with tenotomy improved liftoff, and bear-hug strength
      testing, but operative shoulder strength remained inferior to strength of the nonoperative
      shoulder. Patients with improvements in strength were more likely to have greater
      improvements in outcome scores and range of motion. It was noted that improvements in the
      shoulder activity level after anatomic total shoulder arthroplasty may be dependent on
      improvements in strength. The investigators believe that subscapularis strength can be
      improved using isolated subscapularis rehabilitation in addition to standard rehabilitation,
      leading to improved outcomes in patients receiving aTSA. This should also improve the post
      operative physical examination predicting a functional subscapularis tendon.

      Research Plan: Patients to be included in the study will be those with glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis with an intact rotator cuff that are undergoing anatomic total shoulder
      arthroplasty. Exclusion criteris includes patients undergoing revision shouder arthroplasty,
      a previous subscpaularis rotator cuff repair or deficient rotator cuff, patients with
      inflammatory arthropathies, such as rheumatoid arthritis, and patients with a history of
      infection in the shoulder joint. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty will be excluded.
      Non-English speaking patients will be excluded from the study in order to simplify
      communication with study participants. The control population will consist of patients
      undergoing the standard rehabilitation protocol for aTSA. Patients will be undergoing
      rehabilitation regardless of study participation.

      Protocol and Technique:

      Recruitment: Patients meeting inclusion criteria undergoing aTSA will be recruited and
      consented for participation in the study at their pre-operative clinic visit. Their
      pre-operative strength and function testing will occur at this time.

      Randomization: Placement into the study group or control group will be randomized and
      prospectively followed. The randomization process will remain blinded to surgeon, patient,
      and all co-investigators except for the primary physical therapist lead in the project (lead
      PT). At the first post-operative visit within the first month post-operatively, the patient
      will receive a physical therapy prescription per standard protocol. At the time of physical
      therapy initiation, the lead PT in the project will contact the patient's physical therapist
      and provide them with instructions regarding the research study, including which group the
      patient has been randomized into (standard vs additional subscapularis rehab) and strict
      instructions to perform the physical therapy without informing the patient of their
      randomized assignment. Upon making contact with the physical therapist, the lead PT provides
      them with a manual with the exact rehabilitation protocol assigned to the patient, ensuring
      that regardless of which physical therapy the patient elects to undergo treatment by, they
      receive the same standard physical therapy, plus the same standard subscapularis
      rehabilitation exercises (if randomized into the study group).

      Follow up testing: The post-operative strength and function of patients in both treatment
      groups, isolated subscapularis rehabilitation with standard rehabilitation and standard
      rehabilitation alone, will be measured at subsequent 3 months, 6 months and 12 month
      postoperative visits. Measurements taken are outlined above and include shoulder range of
      motion (forward flexion, abduction, abduction-erternal rotation, abduction-internal rotation,
      external rotation), ability to perform a belly press, lift off, and bear hug test. Strength
      for internal rotation and subscapularis strength will be performed, using the dynamometer.

      Data: Patients will be asked to fill out questionnaires for this study at each time point
      (preoperative, postoperative at months 3, 6, and 12). These include PROMIS Bank v2.0 - Upper
      Extremity, PROMIS Bank v1.1 - Pain Interference, and ASES. Strength scores will be assessed
      using a Lafayette Manual Muscle Testing System Model 01165 (dynamometer) to measure peak
      force in lbs. The means of each group along with standard deviation will be calculated for
      each parameter measured. P-value of 0.05 will be utilized for statistically significant
      results.

      Primary Endpoint: Strength (measured by dynamometer testing) of the subscapularis.

      Secondary Endpoint: Function and outcomes as measured by range of motion and questionnaire
      scores of pain and satisfaction.
    
  