
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the recommended dose of everolimus in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma
           (HCC) treated with transarterial chemoembolization with doxorubicin-eluting beads
           (TACE). (Phase I)

        -  Determine the efficacy and tolerability of everolimus in patients with HCC treated with
           TACE as compared to TACE alone. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation phase I study followed by a randomized phase
      II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 7 days after the start of everolimus
           patients undergo transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) comprising doxorubicin-eluting
           beads into the hepatic artery followed in 4 weeks by an MRI. If viable tumor is found
           patients undergo another TACE treatment continuing every 4 weeks for up to 5 treatments.

        -  Phase II: Patients are stratified according to center, age (≤ 60 vs > 60 years), and
           number of lesions (≤ 3 vs > 3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for up to 12 months and undergo
                TACE comprising doxorubicin-eluting beads as in phase I at the maximum tolerated
                dose (MTD).

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily for up to 12 months and undergo
                TACE comprising doxorubicin-eluting beads as in phase I at the MTD.

      In both arms, patients receive treatment for up to 12 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for analysis of AFP tumor markers. Patients also
      complete quality of life questionnaires, Health Economic Assessment, and EQ5D questionnaires
      at baseline and periodically during the study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed on day 30, and then every 3
      months.
    
  