
    
      Disease Background: More than 60 % of adult people are asymptomatically infected with
      cytomegalovirus (CMV). Due to immunosuppressive therapy, renal graft recipients are at risk
      for CMV infection and life-threatening disease. CMV can cause a variety of symptoms in the
      immunocompromised host, including CMV retinitis, pneumonia or colitis. After grafting, CMV
      disease most commonly occurs in the transplanted organ and can trigger graft dysfunction and
      acute rejection. Therefore, prophylaxis or preemptive therapy should be used in order to
      prevent graft recipients from CMV disease.

        -  CMV prophylaxis means the administration of antiviral agents to all patients at risk for
           CMV disease, directly after transplantation, i.e. for 3 months. Prophylaxis is in
           particular used for patients at high risk for CMV disease.

        -  CMV preemptive therapy (or targeted prophylaxis) means CMV monitoring and initiation of
           induction therapy with antiviral agents in patients with proven CMV viral load only (CMV
           infection). This prevents non-infected patients from being exposed to antiviral drugs
           and the related side effects like neutropenia or renal toxicity. Preemptive therapy is
           in particular used for patients at lower or moderate risk for CMV disease.

      Study Description: 148 kidney transplant recipients at risk for CMV disease were randomized
      and treated with ganciclovir capsules for 3 months (Group A, prophylaxis, N=74) or received
      ganciclovir IV only in case of proven CMV viral load (Group B, preemptive therapy, N=74).
      Initially, a 2 months follow up was planned in this trial. However, the study group decided
      to offer a longterm follow up to all patients and amended the protocol, respectively.

      The aim of the study was to identify the most efficacious way to prevent renal transplant
      recipients from CMV disease and to find out, if one of these two strategies may increase
      graft or patient survival. Therefore, both wellknown approaches of CMV prevention were
      compared in two study groups:

      Prophylaxis (Group A): Oral primary prophylaxis with ganciclovir capsules was started
      directly after transplantation and performed until day 90. In case of CMV infection (proven
      CMV viral load) or symptomatic CMV disease, treatment with ganciclovir IV was initiated.

      Preemptive Therapy (Group B): No oral primary prophylaxis was given. Treatment with
      ganciclovir IV was given to patients with proven CMV viral load (CMV infection or CMV
      disease) only.
    
  