
    
      Premature rupture of membranes (PROM) complicates approximately 8 % of pregnancies and is
      generally followed by the prompt onset of spontaneous labor and delivery. Preterm PROM
      complicates only 2 % of pregnancies but is associated with 40% of preterm deliveries and can
      result in significant neonatal morbidity and mortality (ACOG 2007). Intraamniotic infection
      has been shown to be commonly associated with preterm PROM, especially at earlier gestational
      ages (ACOG 2013). Currently, the diagnosis of PROM is based primarily on the patient's
      history and physical examination. The diagnosis of membrane rupture typically is confirmed by
      the visualization of amniotic fluid passing from the cervical canal and pooling in the
      vagina; a basic pH test of vaginal fluid; or arborization (ferning) of dried vaginal fluid,
      which is identified under microscopic evaluation (ACOG 2013).

      The classic clinical presentation of PROM is a sudden "gush" of clear or pale yellow fluid
      from the vagina. However, many women describe intermittent or constant leaking of small
      amounts of fluid or just a sensation of wetness within the vagina or on the perineum (WHEC
      2009).

      However, the diagnosis of PROM is difficult if there is a slow fluid leak or any bleeding, or
      when the classic "gush of fluid "does not occur (Bornstein 2006).

      Although ultrasonographically guided transabdominal instillation of indigo carmine dye and
      observation for fluid passage transvaginally is designated an "unequivocal" diagnostic method
      for confirmation of membrane rupture, this invasive test carries increased maternal and fetal
      risk (Mercer 2004). The absence of a non-invasive "gold standard" for the diagnosis of PROM
      has led to technically advanced biochemical markers for improved diagnosis (El-Messidi,
      2010).

      The AmniSure ROM (Rupture of Membranes) test received Food and Drug Administration 510(k)
      marketing clearance in 2003. A comparison study of AmniSure versus standard diagnostic
      methods for detection of ROM in 203 pregnant women suspected of ROM reported that the
      AmniSure test was highly accurate (sensitivity = 98.9 %, specificity = 100 %, and negative
      predictive value [NPV] = 99.1 %) in diagnosing ROM (Cousins et al, 2005). Test performance
      was calculated by comparing AmniSure results against clinical history, nitrazine and fern
      results, presence of pooling, ultrasound (US) evidence of oligohydramnios, and findings from
      repeated examinations.

      Chen and Dudenhausen (2008) compared 2 rapid strip tests for the detection of amniotic fluid,
      based on the detection of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) and of
      PAMG-1. Samples of amniotic fluid were taken in 20 pregnant women between 31 3/7 and 41 2/7
      gestational weeks at elective cesarean section before delivery of the newborn. These samples
      were diluted with 0.9 % saline solution in a dilution series down to concentrations of 1:320.
      Immunoassay strip tests were then compared in their ability to detect remaining
      concentrations of amniotic fluid. In 5 cases, both test methods showed the same results. In
      all remaining 15 cases, the test based on PAMG-1 proved to be superior by detecting amniotic
      fluid at least at one descending concentration below the test based on IGFBP-1.

      PRO-MComplete proposes an alternative tool for adjuvant diagnosis of PROM by identification
      of Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein1 and Alpha Feto- Protein (AFP). The addition of
      AFP is projected to increase the sensitivity and specificity of PRO-MComplete over IGFBP-1
      alone.
    
  