
    
      The aging population of the United States and findings from the Women's Health Initiative
      that indicate a shift in the risk/benefits balance of hormone therapy have created a growing
      interest in alternative treatments for hot flashes. Hot flashes are among the most severe and
      frequent symptoms experienced by women during menopause. Over 66% of post-menopausal women
      experience hot flashes. As a result, there is a pressing need for safe and effective
      treatments for hot flashes. Hypnosis is one mind-body therapy that seems particularly
      promising for treating hot flashes.

      However, the treatment effectiveness of hypnosis in reducing physiologically measured (i.e.
      physiologically measured impact) hot flashes with post-menopausal women has yet to be
      established relative to a Structured-Attention Control. This is a critical step to further
      investigate the intervention and to determine if hypnosis reduces the symptoms (i.e. the
      number of physiological hot flashes) or only the women's perception of symptoms.

      Also, the physiologic mechanism by which hypnosis may operate in reducing hot flashes is not
      known. The present study will compare hypnosis to a Structured-Attention Control in reducing
      hot flashes (perceived and physiologically monitored) in post-menopausal women in a
      randomized clinical trial.

      Innovations of this study are that it will be the first full scale test of hypnosis for hot
      flashes; one of the first studies to examine both perceived impact and physiologically
      measured impact of a mind-body intervention for hot flashes using state-of-the-art 24 hour
      ambulatory physiological monitoring; the first study to examine the effect of hypnosis for
      hot flashes on cortisol; and the first investigation of the role of cognitive expectancies in
      treatment of hot flashes in comparison to a Structured-Attention Control.
    
  