
    
      Under-nutrition is widespread among young children in poor countries. In many countries one
      of the programmatic responses has been distribution of supplementary food to under-nourished
      children and, often, their families. Traditionally, children under five years have been
      identified based on low weight-for-age or other anthropometric indicators, and those below a
      certain cut-off have received supplements. Typically this results in supplementation of many
      children in the 3-5 year age range, since they are most likely to display cumulative deficits
      in height and weight, and thus fall below the chosen cut-off.

      However, there has been increasing evidence that the most effective period to ensure benefit
      from supplementary food is when children are 6 to 24 months of age. This is the period of
      highest growth velocity among humans and thus a period when most growth faltering occurs.

      Based on this evidence, the current study aims to assess the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of a preventive approach that targets children under 24 months as compared
      to the traditional "curative" approach that targets malnourished (and usually older) children
      under the age of 5 years.

      The comparison is made in the programmatic context of a US Title II food aid distribution
      program implemented by an international non-governmental organization in rural Haiti. This
      programmatic context is common in many countries that receive assistance from the United
      States Agency for International Development and other donors. The study has also involved
      development of new nutrition education materials and tools, aimed at enabling caregivers to
      prevent malnutrition. In addition, a range of program operational issues will be studied in
      order to yield results useful to other implementers of similar interventions.

      Comparison: Comparisons will be made at the level of the program site, with service delivery
      points randomized either to target food supplements as in the past, based on the child's
      nutritional status, or to target preventively based on age. Pregnant women and lactating
      women with infants under 6 months of age will receive supplements under both targeting
      models. Effectiveness will be assessed based on two cross-sectional surveys, at baseline and
      two years after full implementation of the program.
    
  