
    
      In 2009, the American Heart Association (AHA) reported that the incidence of hemiplegia in
      patients six months post-stroke and over 65 years of age was 50%. Stroke survivors with
      chronic hemiplegia are at an increased risk for falling due to poor motor control, muscle
      weakness, and balance problems. While over-ground walking training has been shown to improve
      muscle coordination and functional movement outcomes in stroke survivors, the physical
      challenges to balance during the training is limited due to safety concerns. The limited
      training does not reflect the individuals' natural environment, which studies have shown to
      contain hazards that put post-stroke individuals at greater risk of loss of balance and
      falls. Therefore, it is important for clinicians to safely implement challenging
      environmental-hazard tasks as a way to effect greater improvements in walking capability
      post-stroke.

      The usage of body weight support (BWS) during treadmill training has been shown to improve
      walking speed, but without the context of real world hazards, individuals may not gain
      improvements in balance related tasks nor gain confidence in moving through hazardous
      environments. The purpose of this study is to introduce a novel, falls-based training (FBT)
      approach that will enable individuals to be challenged at high levels of balance and walking
      safely, using a new robotic device called the KineAssist®, and to determine its relative
      effects compared to traditional body weight support treadmill training (BWSTT). We
      hypothesize that like the standard BWSTT, the novel FBT will result in improved walking
      speed, greater 6 minute walking distance, and greater Berg Balance scores. We also
      hypothesize that FBT will result in greater gains than BWSTT after the training, with a
      greater difference 6 months after training. In addition to the walking tests and the Berg
      Balance scale, we will compare the outcomes of the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS), the Geriatric
      Depression Scale (GDS)SF-36 Health Survey, the Activities-Specific Balance Confidence (ABC)
      Scale, the K-9 task Balance test, and the Dynamic Gait Index (DGI).
    
  