
    
      Malaria represents a major public health concern in sub-Sahara Africa. According to the World
      Health Organization (WHO) nearly half of the world's population is exposed to malaria
      infection causing 400 000 deaths yearly worldwide. In Burkina Faso like in most of sub-Sahara
      Africa countries, malaria remains endemic with peaks during raining seasons. To reduce the
      burden of the disease in the country, Burkina Faso has subscribed to the Roll Back Malaria
      initiative and adopted several malaria control measures including the use of
      artemisininin-based combination therapies as first line treatment since 2005, the
      intermittent preventive treatment for pregnant women, the wide-scale distribution of
      long-lasting insecticide treated net, and seasonal malaria chemoprevention (SMC) for children
      under five years old. However, despite the implementation of these multiple interventions,
      Burkina Faso is ranked among the top 10 countries carrying the highest malaria burden. For
      instance, in 2018, over 10 million clinical episodes and 4294 deaths were reported in the
      country.

      In such context, new strategies to complement the existing ones or to improve their impact
      are urgently needed in order to reduce malaria transmission. The project we propose aims at
      improving the impact of Seasonal malaria chemoprevention (SMC) intervention to achieve best
      impact in malaria control and elimination. SMC is one of the largest and reliable malaria
      preventive measures recommended by WHO and is known to reduce malaria morbidity by 30 to 83%.
      It involves the administration of antimalarial drugs (Amodiaquine+Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine -
      AQSP) to children aged 3-59 months on a monthly basis during the high transmission season. In
      Burkina Faso, SMC is implemented nationally from July to October each year by the NMCP with
      the support of its technical and financial partners such as Global Fund, WHO, Malaria
      Consortium, PMI, UNICEF….). SMC was firstly implemented in 2014 in 6 of the 70 sanitary
      districts of the country. Few years later almost national wide coverage (except in
      Ouagadougou i.e. 60 over 70) was reached in 2018 and the intervention was adequately
      delivered by community health workers. Since the adoption of this strategy, data assessing
      the real-life impact of this intervention in the country are rare. In 2018, Druetz et al
      reported a protective effect of 62% highlighting the potential of this intervention for
      malaria control in Burkina Faso though this protective effect remains far below the highest
      threshold of 83% reduction of malaria incidence expected from SMC intervention. We anticipate
      that holding SMC campaigns in the context of the Covid-19 combined with the fact that some
      parts of the country are prone to insecurity may be challenging. However, it is important to
      stress that the year 2020 SMC campaign has been fully implemented in the study area without
      any disturbance related to the Covid and/or security issue. In addition, the study area,
      Nanoro is located at 85 km from Ouagadougou the capital city in the Central West Region of
      Burkina Faso where we have not experienced any particular security issues so far. With
      respect to research activities, the CRUN has no records of setbacks in fulfilling such
      activities due to security issues. All the research activities initiated before the
      insecurity onset have continued uninterrupted.

      Furthermore, the burden of malaria in children under five years old suggests that the
      expected impact of this promising intervention is not achieved. Indeed, children under five
      years old represented the most affected population accounting for about 90% of malaria cases.
      RDT confirmed malaria cases in the country moved from 1 219 975 cases in 2016 to 1 487 954,
      and to 1 509 931, in 2017, and 2018 respectively. In view of the actual trend it becomes
      obvious that despite the implementation of this strategy, the burden of the disease and
      associated mortality is still very high in children under five years old in Burkina Faso,
      confirming that the expected impact from this intervention is not achieved. This raises
      questions about other hidden factors that can negatively affect the effectiveness of SMC
      intervention. At the same time, huge effort aiming at preventing human-vector contact were
      deployed such as the large-scale distribution of insecticide treated bed nets (LLIN). The
      latter are distributed on the basis of two individuals per unit. However, while most of the
      bedroom in rural setting in Burkina Faso are not adequate for the fixation of several LLIN,
      more than two individuals per room is commonly observed. In addition, the frequent mosquito
      bites before sleeping time and changing mosquito behavior becoming more aggressive before and
      after sleeping time is of concern. The latter could explain a persisting malaria transmission
      within a relatively close environment despite full coverage in LLIN.

      Nevertheless, with regard to the infestation cycle, healthy humans are only infected via
      mosquitos if there are parasites reservoir (symptomatic and asymptomatic careers including
      sub-patent parasitaemia) around. Yet, there is no strategy aiming at protecting healthy
      humans from parasites reservoir. Under these circumstances, multiples humans sharing the same
      habitat (room, household) could continually entertain the transmission cycle despite adequate
      existing measures such as the use of LLIN. For instance, children under SMC coverage live
      closely with their family members e.g. mother, father, siblings and other relatives, who are
      not targeted by any specific interventions. According to the Nanoro health demographic
      surveillance system, an average of 3 inhabitants per household was observed. Published
      literature on sleeping behavior reported that children mostly sleep with their mother or with
      mother + sibling. Attempts to improve the impact of SMC intervention includes its extension
      to children under ten years old which showed promising results in Senegal. However, parents
      and elder siblings (over ten) not covered by the SMC (implemented either in under 5 or
      extended to under 10) sharing the same habitat could be parasites reservoir infecting
      continually the vulnerable group under SMC coverage. This is particularly important in a
      context of low coverage and compliance to ITN. Indeed, according to the household survey
      results in 2018 from the word malaria report, 54.5% of the population in Burkina Faso had
      access to ITN while only 44.1 had slept under ITN last night. This phenomenon of continual
      infestation of children from parents and elder siblings would obviously jeopardize the
      expected impact of the SMC intervention and the global effort to control the disease.

      Furthermore, it's obvious that the presence of parasites reservoir within the community
      represents a huge threat for malaria control and elimination but the detection of the
      reservoir remains challenging given the low sensitivity of routine RDT for the detection of
      low and sub patent parasitemia. Evidence of the contribution of sub-patents infections to the
      sustainability of the transmission was reported. Highly sensitive RDT were developed for that
      purpose but their use is only reserved for research. As they offer the opportunity to pick up
      subclinical infections missed by routine RDT that potentially have a greater impact on
      transmission, estimation of the contribution of sub clinical infections (though the use of
      highly sensitive RDT) is necessary for a good assessment of the impact of this new
      intervention.

      Finally, drug pressure, especially in wide scale community-based intervention such as SMC
      could lead to a selection of less sensitive mutant strains that could compromise the
      effectiveness of the intervention in a long-term period. Therefore, sustainability of any
      intervention relies on its selection pressure on parasite population which need to be closely
      monitored.

      All these aspects underlie the idea of this project which stands on the assumption that
      screening and treating (if positive) malaria SMC-children's roommates could greatly improve
      the impact of SMC intervention and reduce malaria transmission in endemic settings.

      This is a multidisciplinary collaborative research involving key stakeholders such as the
      WorldWide Antimalaria Resistance Network (WWARN) and policy makers such as the National
      Malaria Control Program (NMCP). The involvement of the NMCP will facilitate the rapid
      translation of the project findings into policy. In case of promising results, the NMCP will
      endorse the leadership of advocating with its financial and technical partners on the need to
      change the policy with the adoption and extension of this new strategy at national level. To
      better achieve this goal, a large-scale dissemination workshop will be organized by the NMCP
      to share the project findings. This workshop will bring together all key stakeholders of
      malaria policy decision making in Burkina Faso involving the WHO, UNICEF, USAID, WAHO, etc.
      The project could also be scaled up easily at regional level (through the regional Roll Back
      Malaria network) especially in other Sahelian countries with similar malaria epidemiological
      profile and where SMC is also implemented.

      The proposed project will respond to a major public health concern by providing evidence of
      the efficacy of a new strategy which should necessarily complement the existing ones to
      achieve best impact in malaria control and elimination.

      A superiority of the intervention over the routine implementation of SMC alone is expected.
      By preventing malaria transmission within a relatively closed environment (shared rooms), the
      project is life-saving and is in line with global effort toward the achievement of SDG3 by
      horizon 2030. Therefore, the project will greatly contribute to the reduction of malaria
      burden in terms of reduction of its morbidity and mortality in Burkina Faso. In addition, the
      project will also contribute indirectly to the economic development by reducing the burden of
      malaria, which constitute huge threats to economic development in the country. Moreover, it
      will have a significant impact at the individual and community levels through, reduced
      attendance in education; reduced working days lost due to the disease; reduced individual,
      household, and community incomes because of the costs allocated to treatments.

      By relying on existing strategy (SMC), if successful, the project could be scaled up easily
      at country and regional level especially for other Sahelian countries with similar malaria
      transmission profile and where SMC is implemented as well such as Mali, Niger, Mauritania,
      etc.

      Furthermore, if successful, the project will strengthen the capacity of IRSS/CRUN by offering
      training opportunities to young researchers as one PhD and two M.Sc. degrees are expected by
      the end of this project. Finally, as a collaborative project, its implementation will
      strengthen the links between the IRSS/CRUN and collaborating partners namely the NMCP and the
      WWARN.

      In view of all these aspects, it is obvious that at the end of this study, we will have not
      only collected data to answer the specific aims of the project, but will have also created a
      strong and sustainable research platform able to answer any relevant health research problem
      in the Greater Sahel in the future.

      Type of research:

      This will be a randomized superiority trial in which children will be followed-up for two
      years. The unit of randomization will be the household and all eligible children from a
      household will be allocated to the same study group to avoid confusion. The household will be
      defined as follow: one of several individuals living together within a shared habitat (house)
      and sharing basic needs, especially kitchen, and which recognizes the authority of a single
      person regardless of his/her gender. Households with 3 - 59 months old children with at least
      one under 35 months of age living within the Nanoro Health and Demographic Surveillance
      System (HDSS) catchment area will be assigned to either (i) control group (SMC alone) or (ii)
      intervention (SMC+ roommates screening with standard HRP2-RDT and treatment if positive)
      (iii) intervention (SMC+ roommates screening with highly sensitive RDT and treatment if
      positive).

      Study population :

      The study population will be children under SMC coverage i.e. aged 3-59 months and their
      roommates (individual of all years) living within the Nanoro HDSS catchment area. Children
      will be followed-up for 24 months to fully cover two consecutive malaria transmission seasons
      and then two SMC cycles. Children who leave the bracket covered by the CPS, i.e. whose age
      exceeds 59 months during the follow-up will subsequently be considered as roommates. Before
      the implementation of the year 1 first SMC round, a list of potential eligible households
      will be drawn from the HDSS database. Home visits will be performed to confirm the presence
      of the children and to assess willingness of the parents/guardians to participate in the
      study as well as willingness of all the roommates to be screened and treated. Households with
      absent children or children whose parents/guardians and roommates are not willing to
      participate, will be replaced by other eligible households from the list. Enrolment of study
      participants will be made in parallel with the SMC first round after confirmation of the
      administration of the first dose of the SMC treatment.

      Sample size:

      The aim is to demonstrate that SMC + roommates screening (through ultra-sensible RDT or
      classic RDT) and treatment arm is superior to the SMC alone arm in reducing the incidence of
      malaria after 1 year. The sample size is estimated for testing difference between two malaria
      incidence rates.

      The estimation is performed under the assumption that the average number of malaria episode
      per child aged between 3-59 months per year since the implementation of Seasonal Malaria
      Chemoprevention (SMC) in Nanoro health district varied between 1.38 and 1.76 (Annual
      statistic yearly book, 2016, 2017 and 2018). Sample size of 236 in each arm will give at
      least 80% to detect 20% decrease in the incidence of malaria from a baseline incidence rate
      in SMC arm between 1.5- 2.0 malaria cases per year, assuming one-sided test with significance
      level of 0.025.

      To account for 10% study, drop-out rate for any reason, the sample size will increase to 260
      in each arm.

      Therefore, the final estimated sample size for this study is 780 households (with at least
      one child aged between 3-59 months). Assuming that each household will have an average of 2
      children under SMC coverage, about 1560 children under SMC coverage are expected. The
      expected number of roommates is estimated at about 2600 (260x2x5) under the assumption that
      each household from the 2 interventions arms will have an average of 5 roommates.

      Data will be analyzed with R software using the appropriate tests depending on the variables.
      Adherence of treatment and acceptability of the strategy (focus group discussion) will be
      assessed qualitatively.
    
  