
    
      Renal allotransplantation is the treatment of choice for most causes of end-stage renal
      disease (ESRD). However, successful transplantation is dependent on the use of potent
      immunosuppressive drugs to prevent immune mediated rejection of the transplanted organ.
      Patients who have become infected with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) have an
      underlying immune deficit resulting primarily from the virus's affect on CD4+ T lymphocytes.
      Many of these individuals also develop ESRD. However, patients with HIV infection have been
      excluded from allotransplantation. This has been based on the premise that the immune
      suppression required for transplantation would adversely affect their already compromised
      immune system. Recently, the treatment of HIV infection has improved dramatically,
      particularly with the advent of protease inhibitors (PI) and their inclusion in highly active
      anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) protocols. Additionally, some immunosuppressant drugs have
      actually been shown to limit the replication and spread of HIV in vitro. Thus, the treatment
      of HIV associated ESRD with allotransplantation may be feasible.

      This protocol is a pilot trial investigating the potential utility of renal transplantation
      to treat ESRD in patients infected with HIV. Ten patients with controlled HIV infection will
      receive renal allografts under an immunosuppressive regimen designed to complement HAART
      protocols. Immune system monitoring will be performed specifically to evaluate the effect of
      immunosuppressive drugs on the T cell function and viral burden of allograft recipients. The
      allograft will be periodically evaluated to assess the prevalence of disease recurrence or
      rejection. Pharmacokinetic evaluation will be performed to define the interactions between
      HAART and immunosuppressive drug regimens. Long-term outcome will be assessed at 1 and 5
      years and compared to contemporaneous outcomes for non-infected patients receiving the
      standard of care. It is hoped that this protocol will suggest ways of providing HIV infected
      patients with renal replacement therapy without jeopardizing their control over their viral
      infection.
    
  