
    
      A convergent design will be performed using three qualitative research methods (structured
      observations, semi-structured interviews and focus groups) and a quantitative research method
      (retrospective observational study).

      First, a researcher will observe the daily ICU routine, in two ICU units, when a TBI-patient
      is admitted. In this first step, the specific objective is to observe the care of TBI
      patients during periods of agitation, to understand how it affects the actions of healthcare
      professionals and their interactions with each other and other actors present in the unit.
      These observations will enable researchers to detect non-verbal expression of feelings,
      interactions and communication between patients, their family and health professionals as
      well as interactions between health professionals at the bedside. The observations will also
      enable us to map bedside clinical activities made by health professionals and the time spent
      doing them. The goal is to develop a repertoire of situations combining the degree of
      agitation, the resources present, the experience and the effects on the staff, the patient
      and their relatives, the actions and medical decisions in response to agitation. The data
      gathered in this phase will inform the interview guide for the semi-structured interviews.

      In the second phase, we will conduct semi-structured interviews with ICU nurses to explore
      their experiences and attitudes towards the care of TBI patients with agitated behaviours.
      Nurses will be interviewed as they are the healthcare professionals most present at the
      bedside of TBI patients and their families. Semi-structured interviews enable to explore
      nurse's perspectives and experiences. This will also allow us to investigate how these
      experiences can predict their reactions to agitated behaviours, and how these reactions are
      shared between different health professionals or also with hospital health personnel. This
      particular phase enables us to uncover unanticipated themes.

      We will then undertake a retrospective observational study aiming to describe the
      documentation of agitated behaviours in TBI patients and interventions to manage them. In
      this step, the objective is to substantiate the documentation of the significant elements
      identified in the first two phases of the study. This third phase will be complementary to
      the previous two phases and will allow to document in which way observations in the first two
      phases are reflected in the clinical notes. A convenience sample of consecutive admissions
      for TBI with an abnormal CT-scan will be reviewed.

      Finally, interprofessional focus groups will be conducted in order to gain insights into ICU
      healthcare professionals experiences and explore their attitudes and needs when TBI patients
      develop agitation. Group process can help people to explore and clarify their views and to
      share ideas and perceptions. All healthcare professional who participate in the care of TBI
      patients in the ICU will be solicited for participation. Specifically, the aim is to discuss
      the various themes identified in the previous steps and understand their relational dimension
      among different healthcare professionals.

      The integration of the different methods will be done by the connection of the different
      steps and by the integration of results for each step. This multistep approach allows to
      identify organizational, cultural factors and to better understand social interactions as
      well as health care delivery process.
    
  