
    
      Investigators propose a safety and feasibility trial for treating epilepsy (Transcranial
      Magnetic Stimulation for Epilepsy. Principal Investigator: Robert Fisher, MD, PhD, Stanford
      University). In this approach, the cortical source of epileptic discharges is first localized
      with dense array electroencephalography (256-channel dEEG). This localization is then
      registered with neuronavigator software to allow precise targeting with slow (0. 5 Hz)
      repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) with the STM9000. The purpose in the
      feasibility study is to introduce Long Term Depression (LTD) of the seizure onset zone in
      order to reduce epileptiform discharges. The goal in the future pivotal trial will be to
      extend this approach to suppress seizures. The funds for this trial are provided by Stanford
      University. A loan of dEEG equipment and consulting are provided by Electrical Geodesics,
      Inc. (EGI). EGI seeks FDA's approval for this trial. EGI is the manufacturer of the dEEG
      system (GES 400) and the US distributor of the EB Neuro STM9000 rTMS system (manufactured in
      Italy by EB Neuro, S.p.A.).

      The eventual goal will be a pivotal trial for a de novo 510k for dEEG-guided rTMS for
      suppressing epileptic seizures. The more limited goal of suppressing epileptic discharges
      (spikes) will allow careful evaluation of safety while demonstrating feasibility of the
      therapeutic action. In preparing this request, the investigators have studied the guidance on
      the special controls described for rTMS in the FDA Class II Special Controls Guidance
      Document: Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) Systems, Document issued on:
      July 26, 2011. In addition, because patients with epilepsy are at particular risk of seizures
      that may be induced or exacerbated by rTMS, investigators also address the unique risks of
      this population, the existing evidence on safety and efficacy of rTMS treatment of the
      epileptic focus, and the mitigation the investigators propose to minimize the risks.

      EGI has received an IDE for a safety and feasibility trial for treating epileptic discharges
      with a different method and device, the Geodesic Transcranial Electrical Neuromodulation
      (GTEN 100) system. The primary difference in the present proposal is the use of rTMS (instead
      of the GTEN 100) to induce long term depression and thus suppression of the cortical
      excitability at the epileptic focus. Dr. Robert Fisher, the Principal Investigator on this
      project, is EGI's unpaid consultant. Dr. Fisher has received an IRB approval at Stanford
      University Hospital for the larger study with this title for 10 patients with dEEG-guided
      rTMS treatment of focal epilepsy with the GES 400 and STM9000. The present trial is a safety
      and feasibility study with 10 patients that will be conducted with an informed consent form
      that is now specific to this safety and feasibility study.
    
  