
    
      We propose to collect vaginal specimens to obtain exfoliated mucosal cells from women who had
      vaginal mesh implantation for POP complicated by mesh erosion into the vagina (cases).

      We aim to recruit women who will receive exactly the same clinical investigations (outlined
      below), follow up and management.

      Samples from patients without complications after mesh surgery will be used as controls since
      there are ethical difficulties in obtaining cold-cup swabs from 'normal' women and cystoscopy
      for conditions other than OAB or USI in premenopausal women is rare.

      Both cases and controls will be identified by the urogynaecology team based on surgical
      outcome reports and follow-up documentation. Cases and controls will be invited to
      participate by the research team. Relevant members of the research team (Dr Nikolaus
      Veit-Rubin, Pr Renaud DeTayrac, and Mr Vikram Khullar) have extensive experience in
      urogynaecological investigation and pelvic floor assessment.

      Cases and controls will be provided with an information leaflet about the study and will be
      asked to sign informed consent for the biopsies and a high vaginal swab will be taken.
      Consent will be taken either a trained member of the urogynaecology team. All participants
      will complete the 'P-QoL Questionnaire" for symptoms relative to POP. Clinical assessment
      will include a comprehensive relevant past medical history, calculation of BMI, urinalysis,
      standardized POP-Q Quantification and abdominal examination.

      Specimens collected to be analysed will be a high vaginal swab following fully informed
      written consent. The specimens of Vaginal swab will be processed to extract and purify the
      DNA and then the exact bacterial genomic make up will be sequenced and analysed to identify
      the exact species of bacteria within the samples. Further detailed protocol of the mentioned
      procedures is outlined in the attached protocol.
    
  