
    
      CGM offers the opportunity to improve glycemic control, including a reduction in
      hypoglycemia. Unlike home blood glucose monitors, CGM is not intended to be used directly for
      making therapy adjustments and is an adjunctive device to supplement information obtained
      from a standard blood glucose monitor. However, although the labeling for CGM requires a BGM
      measurement before making a therapy adjustment, many CGM users often decide on a meal bolus
      based on CGM alone.

      A study comparing CGM used solely as an adjunctive device, as per the FDA labeling, versus
      CGM used largely in lieu of BGM measurements would provide valuable data. Since many
      individuals with T1D are often using CGM alone when bolusing insulin, obtaining data on the
      safety and efficacy of this approach will be important. If indeed insulin dosing decisions
      are proven to be safe and effective using CGM alone (without BGM confirmation) compared to
      CGM with BGM confirmations, this study would also pave the way for a new standard diabetes
      management protocol and therapy that would not require eight BGM measurements (i.e. finger
      sticks) a day and ease the burden of managing type 1 diabetes.

      For this study, participants will be randomly assigned with 2:1 probability to the CGM Only
      and CGM+BGM groups, respectively. Prior to randomization, the study will be preceded by a
      run-in period of up to 10 weeks to collect blinded baseline CGM data, to train the
      participants on CGM use, to assess compliance with CGM use, and to initiate standard CGM use.
      During the standard CGM use run-in phase, visits will occur after 2, 4 and 8 weeks, with
      phone calls at 1, 3, and 6 weeks. Current CGM users may be eligible to skip part of the
      run-in phase. Participants successfully completing the run-in phase will be randomized.

      Both groups will use CGM devices and BGM. The CGM device to be used in the study is the
      Dexcom G4 Platinum Continuous Glucose Monitoring System with modified algorithm. The CGM+BGM
      group will be instructed to measure the blood glucose whenever a diabetes management decision
      is made. The CGM Only group will be instructed to only measure the blood glucose (other than
      for calibration) with a standard BGM meter in certain circumstances and will use a blinded
      BGM meter at times when a standard BGM measurement is not done. Following randomization,
      there will be a phone contact during the first week (4 to 8 days following randomization) to
      address any questions the participant has about the protocol. Follow up visits will occur at
      3, 6, 13, 19 and 26 weeks.
    
  