
    
      Objectives General Study the effectiveness of acupuncture in rehabilitation of physical and
      functional disorders of women undergoing surgery for breast cancer.

      Specific

      To evaluate the (the):

        1. Presence of pain by Visual Analog Scale of Pain (VAS).

        2. Shoulder Range of Motion (ROM) by active goniometry of flexion movements, extension,
           adduction, abduction, internal rotation and external rotation

        3. lymphedema presence through top member perimetry.

        4. upper limb function through the DASH questionnaire.

        5. Depressive symptoms through BECK questionnaire.

        6. Quality of life through the EORTC questionnaire.

        7. Muscle strength of flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, internal rotation and
           shoulder external rotation with the Hand Held Dynamometer 01,163 model of Lafayette
           Instrument Company.

      rationale The increased incidence of breast cancer and successful treatment result in greater
      survival. These patients may have chronic condition of pain in the area of the shoulder
      girdle and upper limb, including the thoracic and cervical spine. Knowing that in our
      previous project in which the group treated only with kinesiotherapy showed good results and
      when joined acupuncture no superiority, the investigators created new research study in order
      to determine whether acupuncture and Stiper® in isolated groups, would present equivalence
      results when compared to kinesiotherapy.The investigators propose then treat with acupuncture
      and analyze the rehabilitation of these patients.

      methodology This study will be performed at the Clinic of the Department of Mastology the
      Department of Gynecology, Federal University of São Paulo (UNIFESP) - Paulista School of
      Medicine (EPM). Patients will be recruited, selected and informed about the study objectives,
      relevance, activities to be developed and the possibility of improvement, as well as answer
      your questions and concerns about the disease. Later the patients who wish to participate in
      the study protocol will sign a consent form and specific savy for this project.
    
  