
    
      To investigate whether a virtual reality biofeedback system in conjunction with a treadmill
      is safe and feasible for the rehabilitation of patients with motor neglect due to chronic
      pain conditions, traumatic brain injury and stroke compared to a control group of patients
      with these conditions whose rehabilitation consists of a non-virtual reality screen and
      treadmill.

      To investigate whether a virtual reality biofeedback system in conjunction with a treadmill
      can improve outcome such as distance walked, pain, function, emotional well being and
      activity.

      Study Design Randomised single-blind controlled trial

      Setting The study will take place as part of the normal rehabilitation programmes at the
      single centre of Addenbrookes's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation
      Trust. The treadmill gait task will be undertaken in the Clinical Movement Laboratory in
      Clinic 9 (Orthotics and Prosthetics Department).

      Study population Subjects will be recruited from patients attending in-patient and
      out-patient rehabilitation programmes for chronic pain conditions or neurological conditions.
      Suitable candidates will be identified by the consultants or therapists involved in the
      programme. With consent, potential subjects will be referred to the researchers for
      screening.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Patients with a diagnosis of stroke (of any cause), traumatic brain injury or a chronic
           pain condition of more than 3 months duration (e.g. back and referred leg pain; complex
           regional pain syndrome; fibromyalgia) who are undergoing an inpatient or out-patient
           rehabilitation programme

        -  Motor neglect as assessed by standard clinical examination by a physiotherapist trained
           to detect such motor neglect. This is defined as weakness and functional impairment
           without a loss of strength, reflexes or sensation.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Patients with active serious medical problems that might affect their ability to
           participate in the exercise protocol (e.g. ongoing sepsis; recent myocardial infarction)

        -  Patients who are unable to use treadmill safely as judged by the screening
           physiotherapist.

        -  Patients who are unable to give informed consent, either through issues relating to
           competency or to language.

        -  Patients with significant previous experience of virtual reality rehabilitation.

      Sample size This will be calculated using standard models. It is unknown what the effect size
      will be. Alpha will be 0.05, Beta will be 0.2. It is likely that at least 20 patients will
      need to be recruited in each arm (40 in total). Estimating the likely recruitment target from
      the numbers of patients requiring inpatients rehabilitation at Addenbrooke's (n=400 per annum
      for stroke, traumatic brain injury, back pain and Complex Regional Pain Syndrome), this would
      require a 12-month window of recruitment, assuming approximately 10% successful enrolment
      (n=40).

      Withdrawal criteria Patients who wish to withdraw will be allowed to do so with out this
      affecting their rehabilitation.

      Randomisation Subjects will be randomised to either the study or control group using a
      concealed blind allocation. This will be performed by a group independent from the trial.

      Subjects will be allocated to the study:control groups on a 1:1 ratio using a random number
      generator (e.g. www.mathgoodies.com/calculators/random_no_custom.html) to determine the order
      of the couplets.

      The exception will be applied to the groups who are successfully screened (e.g. Back Pain
      Programme). For this purpose, the entire group will be randomised to either receiving control
      or intervention due to cross-contamination of the treatment effect within a single group
      receiving otherwise identical rehabilitation.

      Blinding Patients and therapists can not be blinded due to the nature of the research. Data
      analysis will be conducted by members of the trial research group who are blinded to whether
      an individual patient received the experimental or control arm. This will be achieved by the
      use of data stripped of any patient identifiable content and divided into the two groups.
      This task will be performed by the senior physiotherapist supervising the project. There
      should be no necessity to 'unblind' subjects from the study due to the lack of any clear
      serious side effects associated with the intervention.

      Intervention Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: intervention or
      control.

      Both groups will walk on a treadmill as part of the task. Walking on the treadmill will be
      explained and demonstrated, and the subjects will have time to practice this task before this
      study commences. For extra safety, the subjects will be allowed to use the handlebars of the
      treadmill for extra support if they wish. The therapy assistant will stand next to the
      Emergency stop button and is fully trained in the use of the treadmill and Virtual
      Environment device.

      In both groups the walking cycles will be determined by their functional ability as assessed
      by the screening physiotherapist but the treadmill walking will not be longer than 5 minutes
      at each cycle. Every 30 seconds, the therapy assistant will ask whether the subject would
      like to change the speed of the treadmill and will make a decision based on his experience as
      to whether to increase the treadmill by 0.1 km/h or reduce / stop the treadmill as necessary.
      The next cycle will start at the speed at which the previous cycle finished. The next day's
      session will commence at baseline speed and increase or decrease as above. The subject will
      be required to complete five walking cycles and will have up to a 3 minute break between each
      cycle. The primary outcome will be the distance walked in the final 5-minute cycle of the
      session at Baseline, week 2 and at 24 weeks. This task will be performed 3 to 4 times per
      week for two weeks. The speed of each cycle will be set back to baseline for each day.

      Intervention group:
    
  