
    
      Fractures of the humeral diaphysis occur in a bimodal distribution and represent 3-5% of all
      fractures. Overall the incidence is higher in women and typically presents at a more advanced
      age in this population, rendering fixation more difficult due to osteoporosis. The majority
      of fractures of the humeral diaphysis occur in the mid-shaft and proximal third and the
      majority are simple (or non-comminuted) in pattern.

      Presently, the standard treatment of isolated humeral diaphysis fractures is nonoperative
      care using splints, braces, casts and slings. Most centres in North America and Europe favor
      functional bracing with a coaptation splint given the positive results reported with this
      device, despite the prolonged period of pain and discomfort as well as the need for repeated
      clinic follow-up visits associated with it.

      Presently there are no published prospective comparative studies that systematically evaluate
      patient function following the operative or nonoperative treatment of humeral shaft
      fractures.

      Clinical evaluations following functional bracing using patient-based outcome tools revealed
      a 20% nonunion rate in patients suffering a simple (non-comminuted) fracture. Invariably,
      this led to surgical intervention to achieve union. In those whose fracture healed with the
      splint, only 50% reported a full recovery while none of those requiring surgery for nonunion
      did so. This low rate of functional recovery may be due in part to the high rate of shoulder
      stiffness following functional bracing. Significant stiffness in the shoulder following
      functional bracing has ranged from 14-60% with an average of 40%.

      The advantages of open reduction and plate fixation of humeral shaft fractures include a
      direct approach to the fracture site with direct visualization and protection of the radial
      nerve (depending on fracture level and approach), the possibility of rigid compressive
      fixation, and the opportunity for bone grafting and/or radial nerve exploration if needed.
      Importantly, it permits rapid mobilization of the shoulder and elbow, obviating the need of
      immobilization, and ensures anatomic or near anatomic alignment. These advantages must be
      weighed against the small risk of infection (<1-6%) with most occurring after open fractures
      or severe crush injury, nonunion (4-6%) especially in high energy injuries, and iatrogenic
      radial nerve injury (1-3%) the vast majority of which are transient.

      Operative care: Fixation with regular or broad 3.5mm or 4.5mm dynamic compression plate (DCP)
      using standard technique will be applied in cases with normal bone density; in the face of
      osteopenic bone, locked-plate implants will be employed at the discretion of the surgeon.
      Bone graft will not be used routinely as these are simple fracture patterns. Postoperative
      splinting (or sling) will be maintained for 10 - 14 days followed by gentle ROM exercises
      under physiotherapy supervision. Strengthening and proprioception will be begun once fracture
      healing has occurred, typically at 6-8 weeks.

      Conservative care will entail the application of a plaster sugartong splint for 10-14 days
      followed by transition to a functional (coaptation) brace, to be applied by a qualified
      orthotist. Gentle ROM exercises of the elbow and shoulder will begin as tolerated under the
      supervision of a physiotherapist after 2 weeks with strengthening and proprioception added
      once fracture healing has occurred, typically at 6-8 weeks.

      This multicentre prospective randomized trial will involve the Canadian Orthopaedic Trauma
      Society (COTS), an association of trauma surgeons involved in collaborative outcomes research
      with a proven track record of research and publication. Patients with a humeral diaphyseal
      fracture who meet all eligibility criteria and provide consent to participate will be
      randomly assigned to the operative or splint/brace treatment group. Patients will start
      physiotherapy at 2 weeks post-randomization (splint/brace group)or 2 weeks post-surgery for
      gentle ROM exercises. The operative group will progress to strengthening and proprioception
      at 4-6 weeks. The splint/brace group will only progress at the 6-8 weeks mark once union has
      occurred. Evaluation at 2 and 6 weeks, 4, 6, and 12 months will include functional, clinical
      and radiological parameters. Functional evaluation will include the DASH, SMFA questionnaires
      and the Constant Shoulder Score. Clinical outcome will evaluate range and motion including
      the shoulder and elbow of both the affected arm and contralateral shoulder and elbow.
      Standard radiographic parameters will be measured. The primary outcome measure will be
      functional outcome as measured with the DASH. Appropriate statistical analyses will be
      performed on the data. Sample size calculation reveals the need for 90 patients per treatment
      arm. A census of the centers committed to the study predicts a 1-24 month recruitment period.
      Patient follow-up will end at the 12 month visit.
    
  