
    
      We conducted a multicenter, prospective, randomized, controlled, parallel group trial of
      standard support versus phone coaching for newly diagnosed SAHS patients starting CPAP
      therapy. Patients for clinical polysomnographic evaluation were recruited from April 2010 to
      March 2012. Those who were subsequently diagnosed with SAHS and prescribed CPAP were included
      in the study. The patient population was then randomized into two groups, one that received
      standard CPAP support only and the other standard support completed by a coaching session.

      Procedure Standard support All patients in this study underwent this procedure, which is the
      regular procedure in France. In short, the patient received information by their physician,
      about modalities and usefulness of CPAP treatment. In the week following this information, a
      technician from the home care provider (SADIR based in France) brought CPAP equipment to the
      home, re-explained the device function and checked the mask adaptation to the patient. The
      follow-up of the patient by the home care provider consisted of one visit at home the first
      month to check the mask's tolerance and the functioning of the machine. An other visit was
      performed after 4 months to assess CPAP parameters (length of use, mask leaks, and residual
      AHI). Sleep physician checked the compliance and efficiency of CPAP treatment once the first
      month, then at 3 and 6 months. The compliance was then assessed by patient questioning and by
      looking at the data registered by the machine. After this period, the medical follow up was
      performed once a year.

      Coached group In the coached group (CG), patients received standard support completed by 5
      sessions (day 3, 10, 30, 60, 90 with equipment at home) of telephone-based counselling
      session by competent staff. Sessions were performed by a qualified person in education,
      qualifies by a university degree (Paul Sabatier University, Toulouse, France). The dates of
      phone calls were planned with the patient availabilities.

      The objective of the first session was to assess the patient's knowledge about the disease,
      device and health consequences. The importance of good adherence was emphasized, encouraging
      the patients to use the CPAP device throughout sleep every day. Objectives of the other
      educational sessions were first to identify disadvantages or obstacles to follow CPAP
      treatment and then focus on the benefits linked to use of CPAP. A particular effort was made
      to discuss misconceptions about sleep apnea and barriers to use, concerns fears and beliefs,
      as well as the perceptions of their partners and family, in order to increase patients'
      positive expectations regarding CPAP benefits. The qualified person in education could also
      refer any problems in links with SAHS encountered by the patient to the technician,
      psychologist or dietician (employed by the home care provider). They can respectively help
      the patient with CPAP technical advice, mentally blocked with CPAP or diet counseling. The
      average length of each phone call was approximately 15 to 20 minutes.
    
  