
    
      Background:

        -  Adrenal incidentalomas are common and found in approximately 4-7% of the population.

        -  About 0.6 to 25% of patients with an adrenal incidentaloma are found to have subclinical
           hypercortisolism: 2.3% develop subclinical hypercortisolism during follow up and 0.6%
           develop clinical hypercortisolism during follow up.

        -  Subclinical hypercortisolism is defined as biochemical excess of cortisol without signs
           and symptoms of overt hypercortisolism but may be associated with metabolic
           complications or disease progression and malignancy.

        -  Overt signs and symptoms of hypercortisolism include facial plethora, easy bruising,
           violaceous striae, and proximal muscle weakness.

        -  Several studies suggest that subclinical hypercortisolism may lead to long term
           consequences such as diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, obesity, and
           osteoporosis.

        -  Thus, patients with subclinical hypercortisolism may benefit from operative intervention
           to halt or reverse metabolic complications associated with the disease and the risk of
           malignant progression.

        -  The optimal management of patients with subclinical hypercortisolism and adrenal
           incidentalomas is controversial and no large randomized trial has been conducted.

        -  We hypothesize that operative treatment would reduce the risk of long term complications
           of subclinical hypercortisolism and malignant progression, and propose a prospective
           randomized trial comparing nonoperative and operative management of subclinical
           hypercortisolism in patients with an adrenal neoplasm.

      Objectives:

      Primary Endpoints:

      -To determine whether unilateral adrenalectomy in patients diagnosed with subclinical
      hypercortisolism and adrenal neoplasm results in normalization and/or improvement of
      hypertension as assessed by reduction in pharmacotherapy and/or normalization of blood
      pressure (systolic pressure <=140 and diastolic pressure <=90), diabetes as assessed by
      reduction or elimination of pharmacotherapy and/or improvement in A1C to <6.5%, osteoporosis
      by increase in bone formation markers indicative of increased bone formation,
      hypercholesterolemia as assessed by a reduction or elimination of pharmacotherapy and/or
      reduction in low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels to risk-stratified goal levels as defined
      by Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III), and/or overweight or obesity as assessed by a 10
      percent reduction in weight at 6 months.

      Eligibility:

        -  An individual with an adrenal neoplasm less than 5 cm in size with biochemically
           confirmed evidence of hypercortisolism (2 out of 3: dexamethasone suppression test (DST)
           >3 mcgl/dL, elevated urine free cortisol, and/or morning adrenocorticotrophic hormone
           (ACTH) <2.2 pmol/l) without overt clinical signs and symptoms.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  Adults must be able to understand and sign the informed consent document.

        -  Patients must have laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable
           limits based on standard clinical practice.

      Design:

        -  Prospective randomized study comparing adrenalectomy versus observation.

        -  Patients assigned to the operative arm will undergo adrenalectomy and then followed
           postoperatively for normalization and/or improvement of metabolic complications
           associated with hypercortisolism and histologic examination of the resected tumor.

        -  Patients assigned to the non-operative arm will be monitored for possible complications
           associated with hypercortisolism for six months, at which point they will cross-over to
           the operative intervention arm.

        -  Patients with bilateral adrenal neoplasms will have the larger adrenal neoplasm used as
           the primary lesion responsible for subclinical hypercortisolism.

        -  Demographic, clinical, laboratory and pathologic data will be collected for each patient
           participant. Data will be securely stored in a computerized database.

        -  Patients will have biochemical testing to determine if their adrenal neoplasm is
           functioning or nonfunctioning.

        -  Projected accrual will be 15 to 20 patients per year for a total of 5 years. Thus, we
           anticipate accruing 62 patients on this protocol.
    
  