
    
      The Study Drugs Lenalidomide is designed to change the body's immune system. It may also
      interfere with the development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth.
      Therefore, in theory, it may decrease or prevent the growth of cancer cells.

      Bendamustine is designed to damage and destroy the DNA (genetic material) of cancer cells.

      Fludarabine is designed to make cancer cells less able to repair damaged DNA (the genetic
      material of cells). This may increase the likelihood of the cells dying.

      Rituximab is designed to attach to leukemia cells, which may cause them to die.

      Before receiving the study drugs, 21 or more days must have passed since your last biological
      therapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or other investigational therapy.

      Before you begin therapy, you will have the following tests and procedures performed. The
      blood may need to be drawn daily. The doctor will tell you how often the other tests will
      need to be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have blood transfusions of blood and platelets as needed.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 6-10 tablespoons) will be drawn to check the effects of the transplant.

        -  You will have a chest x-ray and CT scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate, when the doctor thinks it is needed.

      Study Treatment:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin treatment within
      30 days after the screening visit. All liquid study drugs will be given through a central
      venous catheter (CVC) that will be left in place throughout treatment. A CVC is a sterile
      flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia.
      Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to
      sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      On Days -13, -6, +1, and +8, you will receive rituximab over 5-7 hours by CVC.

      On Days -5 to -3, you will receive fludarabine over 1 hour and bendamustine over 1 hour by
      CVC. You will be given standard drugs such as hydrocortisone and Tylenol to help decrease the
      risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are
      given and their risks.

      On Days -2 to -1, if the donor is not related or is not completely matched, you will receive
      thymoglobulin (ATG) over 4 hours by CVC. This will help to reduce the risk of your body
      rejecting the transplant.

      On Days -2 to -1, if the donor is related, you will "rest" (not receive chemotherapy).

      On Day -2, you will start to receive tacrolimus by CVC to help prevent graft-versus-host
      disease. This will be changed to a dose of tacrolimus by mouth, once you are discharged from
      the hospital. You will continue to take tacrolimus by mouth for 6-8 months following your
      transplant.

      On Day 0, the blood stem cells that were collected from your donor will be transplanted
      (given back to your body) through the CVC over 30-45 minutes.

      On Days 1, 3, and 6 after the stem cell transplant (and Day 11 if the donor is not related or
      not completely matched), you will receive methotrexate over 30-60 minutes by CVC to help
      prevent graft-versus-host disease.

      On Day 7 after the transplant, G-CSF (filgrastim) will be injected under your skin once a day
      until your white blood cell counts recover. Filgrastim is designed to help increase the
      number of white blood cells.

      Treatment with Lenalidomide:

      If your blood cell counts are high enough and if you have not experienced side effects,
      between Days 90 and 100 after the transplant, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip
      of a coin) into 1 of 2 groups. If you are in Group 1 you will take lenalidomide in addition
      to the treatment listed above. If you are in Group 2, you will not take lenalidomide.

      If you are in Group 1, you will take lenalidomide 1 time every day for 3-12 months, depending
      on the disease response to the treatment.

      You should swallow lenalidomide capsules whole, with water, at the same time each day. Do not
      break, chew, or open the capsules.

      If you miss a dose of lenalidomide, take it as soon as you remember on the same day. If you
      miss taking your dose for the entire day, take your regular dose the next scheduled day (do
      NOT take double your regular dose to make up for the missed dose).

      If you take more than the prescribed dose of lenalidomide you should seek emergency medical
      care (if needed) and contact the study staff right away.

      You will be given standard drugs such as aspirin, Coumadin (warfarin), heparin, and/or
      allopurinol to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for
      information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, your dose and schedule of lenalidomide will be changed.

      If you are in Group 2, you will take no additional drugs.

      Pregnancy Tests While Taking Lenalidomide:

      Women who are able to become pregnant must have 2 negative pregnancy tests: the first test
      within 10-14 days before lenalidomide is prescribed and the second test within 24 hours
      before lenalidomide is prescribed. This blood test will be taken as part of a routine blood
      draw. The prescription must be filled within 7 days.

      Once a week for the first month you take lenalidomide, women who are able to become pregnant
      will have blood (about 1 teaspoon) drawn for a pregnancy test. Then, in females with regular
      menstrual cycles, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for pregnancy testing every 4 weeks,
      at the end of study, and 28 days after the last dose of lenalidomide. If menstrual cycles are
      irregular, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn every 2 weeks, at the end of study, and 14
      and 28 days after the last dose of lenalidomide.

      Study Visits (both Groups):

      You must stay in the Houston area for about 100 days after the stem cell transplant.

      Between Days 25 and 35 and then about 3 months after the stem cell transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have CT scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have PET scan to check the status of the disease, if the doctor thinks it is
           needed.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check the level of
           tacrolimus.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate to check the status of the disease.

      Study Visits (Group 1):

      If you are in Group 1, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests weekly
      until the maximum dose of lenalidomide is reached, then once every 2 weeks while you are
      taking lenalidomide.

      Follow-up:

      Every 3 months during the first 18 months and then every 6 months up to 3 years:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have CT scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have PET scans to check the status of the disease, if the doctor thinks it is
           needed.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study up to about 3 years. You will be taken off study if the disease gets
      worse or you experience any intolerable side effects.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After you are off study, you will have an end-of-study visit:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have CT scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have PET scans to check the status of the disease, if the doctor thinks it is
           needed.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      Data Confidentiality Plan:

      Data will be collected in the SCT&CT departmental database (BMTWeb). This database is
      password-protected, contains audit tracking, and follows all federal guidelines. Your
      personal identifying information will be removed for this analysis; no sensitive information
      will be shared.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of CLL. The use of the drugs together in this study
      is investigational.

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  