
    
      Disturbances in phosphate homeostasis are strongly associated with cardiovascular morbidity
      and mortality. High dietary phosphate intake plays a central role in the development of
      disturbed phosphate metabolism and is common in persons consuming typical American diets rich
      in processed and fast foods. An important reason for the high phosphate content of these
      foods is the widespread use of phosphate-based food additives in the food supply. Phosphate
      additives are heavily utilized by the food manufacturing industry to enhance the appearance,
      taste and shelf-life of processed foods, accounting for as much as 50% of total phosphate
      intake per day. Prior work from our group suggest that high phosphate additive intake has
      serious cardiovascular consequences. We showed that phosphate excess induces heart disease
      and inflammation in experimental studies, and associates with heart disease and death
      independently of classic risk factors in epidemiology studies. Further, we showed that high
      phosphate additive intake stimulates the secretion of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), a
      phosphate-regulatory hormone directly implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular
      disease. Together, these data strongly suggest that high phosphate additive intake promotes
      cardiovascular disease, with important potential implications for efforts to reduce
      disparities in cardiovascular disease. This is because individuals with low socioeconomic
      status have limited means to purchase healthy foods, resulting in excessive consumption of
      processed foods rich in phosphate additives. Moreover, low income neighborhoods have a
      disproportionately high prevalence of individuals with chronic kidney disease and black
      individuals, both groups that have impaired ability to excrete excess phosphate. Together,
      these data support our overriding hypothesis that high phosphate additive intake is a novel
      target for reducing socioeconomic and racial disparities in cardiovascular. We will test this
      hypothesis in detailed feeding studies of 80 individuals fed standardized meals with low
      phosphate additive content for 6 weeks. We will investigate the impact of reducing phosphate
      additive intake on changes in FGF23 levels, inflammatory markers and vascular function, and
      test for effect modification by race and chronic kidney disease (CKD). The results of these
      studies will help determine whether high phosphate additive intake is a modifiable risk
      factor for disparities in cardiovascular disease.
    
  