
    
      The objective of this research is to implement and evaluate an enhanced recovery pathway for
      gynecologic surgery patients undergoing laparotomy and compare their outcomes to the current
      standard of care perioperative management.

      Hypothesis: Patients having a laparotomy for gynecologic disease have a shortened length of
      hospitalization in the 30 days post-operatively when undergoing a perioperative enhanced
      recovery protocol compared to the standard of care.

      This study will be a randomized single-blinded control trial.

      Primary Outcomes: Hospital days in first 30 days post-operatively (Length of stay of primary
      hospitalization plus any days of readmission)

      Secondary Outcomes:

        1. 30-day readmission rate

        2. Complications as assessed by the incidence of a composite of major complications and a
           second composite of minor complications.

        3. Patient reported quality of recovery and quality of life as determined by QoR-40 score
           and RAND-36 score.

        4. Pain control at assessed by daily mean pain scores (scale 0-10) as elicited and recorded
           by nursing.

      All women who meet inclusion criteria will be approached in the gynecologic oncology clinic
      at the completion of their appointment. Eligible patients that agree to participate will be
      provided written informed consent. The informed consent process will occur in a clinic exam
      room. There will be no other recruitment methods or advertisements employed. Patients can
      agree to participate at this time or at any time prior to their pre-operative teaching
      appointment which is scheduled at some point between their initial surgical consult visit and
      their surgery. The first study intervention will take place at their pre-operative teaching
      appointment and so enrollment must occur prior to this time.

      Randomization will occur at study entry. The participants will then be randomized to one of
      two groups: "standard care" or "enhanced recovery care." Randomization will be stratified by
      disease type, age, and BMI. Given the longer length of hospitalization inherent in
      ovarian/primary peritoneal cancer debulking surgery, the investigators want to stratify based
      on the pre-operative suspected diagnosis in an attempt to balance these patients between
      groups. Similarly, advanced age and increased BMI are risks factors for peri-operative
      complications and increased length of hospitalizations and should be stratified between
      groups. Within each stratum, randomization will be performed in blocks of 8 to ensure that
      groups are balanced throughout the study in case recruitment goals are not reached. Two
      hundred randomization assignments will be assigned to each stratum to ensure sufficient
      assignments are available to each group in the event that more patients are recruited than
      expected.

      Allocation will be revealed to the PI and the surgical team at the time of randomization.
      This is necessary because the pre-operative counseling intervention for those patients in the
      "enhanced recovery" intervention will need to occur at this time. Allocation will remain
      concealed for the patient and for the members of the research team who are conducting the
      post-discharge surveys.

      Two survey instruments will be used to evaluate pre-operative and post-operative quality of
      life as well as quality of recovery. The RAND-36 will be utilized as a pre-operative and 4
      week post-operative assessment of health-related quality of life. This 36 item health-related
      quality of life instrument includes eight dimensions: general health, physical functioning,
      emotional wellbeing, social functioning, energy, pain, and physical and emotional role
      functioning. While this is a generic assessment of quality of life and not designed to be
      specific to surgical recovery-related quality of life, the investigators are including this
      instrument in order to have a baseline health-related quality of life assessment of the
      investigators patients and to allow for comparisons to other studies of perioperative
      gynecology patients.

      The QoR-40 is a 40-question tool used to evaluate the quality of recovery. It incorporates 5
      dimensions of health: patient support, comfort, emotions, physical independence, and pain.
      The QoR40 is one of the most widely used measurements of patient-determined quality of
      recovery. It has been extensively validated and has excellent reliability, responsiveness,
      and clinical utility to a range of surgical settings.

      Both the RAND-36 and QoR-40 have been used to study post-operative recovery in women
      undergoing gynecologic surgery and have been found to be valid. Furthermore, both surveys
      have been validated for both self-administration and telephone administration.

      Description of Intervention Start of Study Interventions At their pre-operative teaching
      appointment, all study participants will be asked to complete a health and quality of life
      survey.

      Protocol-specific Interventions:

        1. "Standard of care" group: Treating physicians will determine all aspects of patients'
           perioperative care. Specifically, the individual surgeon, nurse, resident, fellow, and
           anesthesiologist caring for the patient will determine the patients' pre-operative
           counseling, bowel preparation, postoperative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis, IV fluid
           replacement, use of drains, timing of urinary catheter removal, mobilization,
           post-operative nutrition, pain medication, and bowel stimulation.

        2. "Enhanced recovery" group: Aspects of perioperative care will be standardized in terms
           of the pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative management of issues such as
           pre-operative counseling, bowel preparation, postoperative nausea and vomiting
           prophylaxis, IV fluid replacement, use of drains, timing of urinary catheter removal,
           mobilization, post-operative nutrition, pain medication, and bowel stimulation. Of note,
           these interventions have previously been studied in isolation and in combination. They
           are considered by many to be the standard perioperative management of surgical patients

      Postoperative Interventions All participants will be surveyed post-surgery regarding their
      quality of recovery.

      Post-discharge and Over-the-Phone Interventions Participants will be called 4 weeks after
      their surgery and asked about any hospital readmissions and complications at this time. They
      will also complete post-discharge surveys.
    
  