
    
      The primary objective is to provide high-quality evidence on potential risks associated with
      substitution of the currently taken AED product (carbamazepine,valproic acid, topiramate,
      oxcarbazepine, levetiracetam or lamotrigine) with an equivalent product, using as endpoint
      changes in serum drug levels at steady-state after substitution compared with baseline.
      Secondary objectives will be the assessment of inter-subject variability in serum drug
      concentration on an unchanged treatment schedule, and evaluation of potential short-term
      changes in seizure control and adverse events rate.

      The study uses an experimental randomized non-inferiority design, and the hypothesis tested
      is that substitution of the currently taken AED product with another product (either generic
      or brand) will be associated with changes in serum drug levels which are no greater than
      those observed in a control group not undergoing any substitution.

      The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients who post-randomization, will show a
      greater than 25% change in serum drug concentration compared with baseline.

      The study will be conducted according to an experimental, prospective, randomized, open-label
      controlled, parallel-group design.

      The study will be conducted in adults of either gender, enrolled at the time of hospital
      admission (or already hospitalized).

      On the day of admission or inclusion in the study (day 1), all subjects fulfilling the
      eligibility criteria and enrolled in the study will be allocated by 1:1 randomization to two
      groups, using a centralized telephone-based randomization office located at the coordinating
      institution and stratification to ensure that the proportion of patients receiving a brand or
      a generic at baseline is comparable between groups. For subjects taking concomitantly more
      than one AEDs being tested, separate randomizations will be conducted separately for each AED
      (for example, a subject receiving valproic acid and carbamazepine will be randomized to
      continue on the same formulation of valproic or to switch to a different formulation of
      valproic acid, and at the same time separately randomized to continue on the same formulation
      of carbamazepine or to switch to a different formulation of carbamazepine).

      On day 1 (day of admission or day of inclusion in the study), all subjects will continue to
      receive their current AED treatment, without any change in formulation (brand or specific
      generic product), route and dosing schedule. Two blood samples for the determination of the
      serum levels of the AED(s) will be collected, one on day 1 two hours after the evening dose
      (absorptive phase sample, close to the expected peak time) and one the next morning (day 2)
      just prior to the morning dose (trough sample).

      When the randomized allocation requires a switch, the AED(s) currently taken (carbamazepine,
      valproic acid, topiramate, oxcarbazepine, levetiracetam and/or lamotrigine) will be
      substituted, starting with the morning dose on day 2, with an equivalent formulation
      available in the market. Namely, a brand product will be switched to a generic, randomly
      chosen among those available in the market, while maintaining unaltered the dosing regimen
      and times of administration.Likewise, a generic product will be switched to the brand or
      another generic, as determined by the randomization scheme, while maintaining unaltered the
      dosing regimen and times of administration. For AEDs which are commercially available both as
      immediate-release as well as sustained-release dose forms, the substituted product (brand of
      generic) will have equivalent release characteristics. The newly allocated treatments will be
      continued unchanged for 4 days (days 2,3,4 and 5) or 5 days (days 2,3,4, 5 and 6) for
      patients receiving lamotrigine or topiramate without enzyme inducers, or lamotrigine combined
      with enzyme inducers plus valproate. No changes in concomitant treatments will be allowed
      during the 5/6 days of the study, although addition, withdrawal or dose modification of drugs
      not interacting pharmacokinetically with the medications taken by the subject will be
      permitted.

      When the randomized allocation requires continuation on the same product (control), the AED
      product(s) currently taken will be continued unaltered, with the same dosing regimen and
      times of administration. No changes in concomitant treatments will be allowed during the 5/6
      days of the study, although addition, withdrawal or dose modification of drugs not
      interacting pharmacokinetically with the medications taken by the subject will be permitted.

      In both the test and the control allocations, two further blood samples for the determination
      of the serum levels of the AED(s) will be collected again 4 days later (5 days later for
      patients remaining on randomized treatment for 5 days), one two hours after the evening dose
      (absorptive phase sample) on day 5 (day 6 for patients remaining on randomized treatment for
      6 days) and one in the next morning (day 6 or 7) just prior to the morning dose (trough
      sample). Care will be taken to ensure that the samples on days 5 and 6/7 be collected at the
      same times, not only in relation to times of dosing but also in relation to actual time of
      the day and meal times. A 4-day interval for the post-randomization pharmacokinetic
      assessment is sufficient to reach steady state for AEDs with expected half-lives of about 12
      h or less (carbamazepine, levetiracetam, valproic acid, topiramate combined with enzyme
      inducers, lamotrigine combined with enzyme inducers, and the monohydoxyderivative (MHD) of
      oxcarbazepine, for which oxcarbazepine is a prodrug). Likewise, a 5-day interval is
      sufficient to reach steady state for AEDs with expected half-lives of about 24 h (lamotrigine
      and topiramate not combined with enzyme inducers, and lamotrigine combined with both enzyme
      inducers and valproic acid).

      All subjects will be kept under medical observation during the study with a daily
      unstructured interview and any additional investigation if needed, and any relevant change in
      clinical status, including any treatment-emergent adverse event, will be recorded in the CRF.
      During the 6/7-day observation period, subjects may undergo any clinical and laboratory
      investigations (eg., hematology and blood chemistry tests, neuroimaging tests, EEGs) as
      clinically indicated for their condition.

      Patients will exit the study on day 6 or 7 as applicable and thereafter will be managed as
      considered indicated by the attending physician. This could involve substituting the AED
      product taken at that time in compliance with the policy on generic substitution implemented
      at that hospital.

      If a change in dose of the AEDs being tested or any potentially interacting comedication is
      necessary prior to day 5/6, the two post-randomization samples may be collected 24 h earlier
      for AEDs with half lives of about 12 h or less (carbamazepine, levetiracetam, valproic acid,
      topiramate combined with enzyme inducers, MHD, and lamotrigine combined with enzyme
      inducers). Because in these patients the half-life of the AED being tested allows attainment
      of steady-steady conditions within 72 h. After collection of the post-randomization samples,
      the subject will exit the study. In all other situations requiring premature termination of
      the allocated treatment, subjects will exit the study and will be considered as drop-outs
      with no evaluable pharmacokinetic outcome data.

      At enrollment (baseline), the subject's medical and pharmacological history and results of
      physical examination will be recorded. Historical data on seizure types and seizure frequency
      will be collected, and assessment of adverse effects of AED therapy by unstructured interview
      and application of the Adverse Event Profile (AEP) 21-item questionnaire developed by Baker
      et al. (1997) . The AEP questionnaire and the physical examination will be repeated on day
      6/7. Occurrence of seizures will be recorded daily.

      The AED products tested will include exclusively products commercially available in the
      Italian market. In accordance with the current regulation (DM 17.12.2012), the hospital
      pharmacy of each study site will stock the full range of available brand and generic products
      of study drugs sufficient to cover at least 6-day treatment at average dosages. All drug
      products will be stored, dispensed and tracked according to GCP guidelines.
    
  