
    
      Clinical studies indicate that more than 80% of patients suffer from surgical-related pain in
      the first few days after major laparotomy or laparoscopic abdominal surgery and about 10% of
      these patients may develop chronic postoperative pain (CPSP), which can last up to several
      years after surgery. One of the major risk factors for developing CPSP is inadequate
      management of the acute postoperative pain. Laparoscopic gastric sleeve and bypass surgeries
      the most common bariatric procedures for weight loss and improved management of metabolic
      syndromes. Patients may suffer from wound pain or referred pain after laparoscopic bariatric
      operation. Most importantly, 11.8% of these patients complained surgical-related pain one
      year after operation, and 8% of them required prolonged use of opioid to control CPSP.
      However, there are currently lack of clinical practice guidelines or recommendations for
      prevention of CPSP after laparoscopic abdominal surgery. Although regional block techniques
      (i.e. truncal block or intrathecal opioid) are considered as effective supplementary
      analgesic approaches to improve postoperative pain control, parenteral administration of
      analgesics remain as the mainstay for pain management of laparoscopic abdominal surgery.
      Nalbuphine is a semi-synthetic opioid that acts as a mixed kappa opioid agonist and mu opioid
      antagonist, but its clinical applications in relieving acute postoperative pain is limited by
      the relatively short duration of action of 3-6h. Naldebain® is prodrug of nalbuphine, which
      was approved by the Taiwan FDA in 2017. Naldebain® is an extended-release dinalbuphine
      sebacate, and is rapidly hydrolyzed by tissue of plasma esterase to release nalbuphine. A
      number of clinical studies have shown that single-dose of pre-operative intramuscular
      administration of Naldebain® provides significantly higher analgesic effect up to 1 week in
      hemorrhoidectomy and laparotomy surgery with a well-tolerated safety profile. Naldebain® has
      not been tested in laparoscopic bariatric surgery and its pharmacokinetic profiles in
      overweight patients are undetermined. Therefore, this PI-initiated randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-control trial aims to investigate the clinical efficacy of Naldebain® in management
      of acute postoperative pain in patients receiving laparoscopic gastric sleeve or bypass
      surgery, and prevention of the development of CPSP after surgery. This study will also
      analyze the plasma levels of nalbuphine following a single intramuscular injection in obese
      patients.
    
  