
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of panobinostat based on when you join this study.

      If you are enrolled in the first portion of Part A, up to 4 dose levels of panobinostat will
      be tested. Three (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group
      of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose of panobinostat is found.

      If you are enrolled in the second portion of Part A, you will receive panobinostat at the
      recommended dose from the first portion of Part A.

      If you are enrolled in the first portion of Part B, up to 3 dose levels of panobinostat will
      be tested. Three (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group
      of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose of panobinostat is found.

      If you are enrolled in the second portion of Part B, you will receive panobinostat at the
      recommended dose from the first portion of Part B.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Induction Therapy (Part A):

      In the Induction phase of therapy, each cycle is 21 days.

      On Days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of Cycles 1-8, you will receive bortezomib either through a needle
      under your skin or by vein over 3-5 seconds. You will be watched by the study staff for 30
      minutes after the infusion.

      On Days 1-14 of every cycle, you will take lenalidomide by mouth 1 time each day. You should
      swallow the lenalidomide capsules whole with 1 cup (about 8 ounces) of water. Do not break,
      chew, or open the capsules.

      You will take panobinostat by mouth 1 time a day with food on Days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10 and 12 for
      2 weeks with 1 week of rest at the end of each cycle.

      On Days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, and 12 of Cycles 1-8, you will take dexamethasone by mouth 1
      time a day. After 8 cycles, you may continue to take dexamethasone if the doctor thinks it is
      needed. Dexamethasone should be taken with food.

      Induction Therapy (Part B):

      In Part B, the induction phase of therapy is 28-day cycles.

      On Days 1, 8, and 15 of Cycles 1-8, you will receive bortezomib either through a needle under
      your skin or by vein over 3-5 seconds. You will be watched by the study staff for 30 minutes
      after the infusion.

      On Days 1-21 of every cycle, you will take lenalidomide by mouth 1 time each day. You should
      swallow the lenalidomide capsules whole with 1 cup (about 8 ounces) of water. Do not break,
      chew, or open the capsules.

      You will take panobinostat by mouth 1 time a day with food on Days 1, 3, 5, 15, 17, 19 of
      every cycle.

      On Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15,16, Cycles 1-8, you will take dexamethasone by mouth 1 time a day.
      After 8 cycles, you may continue to take dexamethasone if the doctor thinks it is needed.
      Dexamethasone should be taken with food.

      Maintenance Therapy (Parts A and B):

      In the Maintenance phase of therapy, each cycle is 28 days.

      You will take lenalidomide by mouth 1 time each day on Days 1-21 of each cycle.

      You will take dexamethasone by mouth 1 time a day on Days 1, 8, 15, and 21 of each cycle.

      In Part A, you will take panobinostat by mouth 1 time a day on Days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12 of
      each cycle. In Part B, you will take panobinostat by mouth 1 time a day on Days 1, 3, 5, 15,
      17, 19 of each cycle.

      Other Instructions:

      You can take the study drugs anytime during the day but you should take them at the same time
      every day.

      If you miss a dose of lenalidomide, take it as soon as you remember on the same day. If you
      miss taking your dose for the entire day, take your regular dose the next scheduled day (do
      NOT take double your regular dose to make up for the missed dose). If you take more than the
      prescribed dose of lenalidomide, you should seek emergency medical care if needed and contact
      the study staff right away.

      Your study drug doses may be lowered if you have side effects.

      You will be given a drug diary for each cycle to write in to help keep track of your study
      drug doses. You should bring the drug diary and pill bottles to your study visit at the
      beginning of each new cycle.

      The panobinostat capsule(s) should be swallowed with 1 cup of water. You should try to take
      the dose at around the same time each day. If you vomit after taking panobinostat, you should
      not take it again until your next scheduled dose. If you forget to take a dose in the
      morning, you can take it up to 12 hours later. If you miss a dose for more than 12 hours, you
      should wait until your next scheduled dose. Do not make up missed doses.

      On Day 1 of every new study cycle and Cycle 1, Day 5, you should wait to take your
      panobinostat until you come to the clinic for study tests. Some of the Day 1 tests need to be
      performed before dosing.

      You need to follow all panobinostat dosing instructions as written. Do not miss any
      panobinostat capsules. You will be asked to return all unused study drug in the bottles
      provided, along with empty bottles, on Day 1 of every cycle, starting with Cycle 2. Capsules
      should not be transferred between bottles at any time. Please do not allow anyone else to
      handle or touch the study drug.

      You can stop anytime after Cycle 4 of Induction to have a stem cell transplant. If you decide
      with your doctor to delay the transplant, you will still be recommended to have your stem
      cells collected. You will continue with Induction therapy until you have had 4-8 cycles.
      After that, you will receive Maintenance therapy.

      You will be given other drugs to help prevent side effects. The study staff will tell you
      about these drugs, how they will be given, and the possible risks.

      Study Visits (Part A):

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 5 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and biomarker testing.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) and/or urine will be collected to check the status of the
           disease. If urine is collected, you will collect the urine over 24 hours. This urine or
           blood will also be used for a pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.

        -  You will complete the symptom questionnaire.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may have had and any drugs you may be taking.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have bone x-rays, an MRI and/or a CT scan to
           check the status of the disease.

      On Days 1 and 5 of Cycle 1, you will have 3 ECGs before the study drug dose and 3 ECGs after
      the dose.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2-8, you will have 3 ECGs.

      On Days 4, 8, and 11 of Cycles 1-8:

      °Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      At the end of Cycle 8 (or if you are going to have a stem cell transplant, at the end of
      Cycle 4):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may have had and any other drugs you may be
           taking.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) and/or urine will be collected to check the status of the
           disease. If urine is collected, you will be asked to collect your urine over 24 hours.

        -  You will have bone x-rays to check the status of the disease.

        -  If the disease completely responds to the study drugs, you will have a bone marrow
           aspiration and/or biopsy to confirm the response.

      On Day 1 of Maintenance Therapy, or Cycles 9 and beyond (if you choose to delay stem cell
      transplant) :

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may have had and any other drugs you may be
           taking.

        -  You will complete the symptom questionnaire.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and biomarker testing.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) and/or urine will be collected to check the status of the
           disease. If urine is collected, you will collect the urine for 24 hours. This urine or
           blood will also be used for a pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have bone x-rays, an MRI and/or a CT scan to
           check the status of the disease.

      Study Visits (Part B):

      On Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may have had and any other drugs you may be
           taking.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have 3 ECGs.

      Pregnancy Tests (Parts A and B):

      During induction therapy, if you are a woman who is able to become pregnant and you have
      regular or no periods, you will have a blood (about 1 tablespoon) or urine pregnancy test
      weekly for the first 21 days and then every 21 days while on therapy (including breaks in
      therapy). If you are a woman who is able to become pregnant and your cycles are irregular,
      you will have a blood (about 1 tablespoon) or urine pregnancy test weekly for the first 21
      days during then every 11-14 days while on therapy (including breaks in therapy).

      During maintenance therapy, if you are a woman who is able to become pregnant and have
      regular or no menstruation, you must have a pregnancy test every 28 days while on therapy
      (including breaks in therapy). If you are a woman who is able to become pregnant and your
      cycles are irregular, you will have a blood (about 1 tablespoon) or urine pregnancy test
      every 14 days (+/-1 day) and every 28 days.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may receive induction therapy for up to 8 cycles, followed by maintenance therapy for an
      additional 2 years. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets
      worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment and
      follow-up visits.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Within 30 days after your last dose of study drugs:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may be experiencing.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) and/or urine will be collected to check the status of the
           disease. If urine is collected, you will collect the urine for 24 hours.

        -  If the disease completely responds to the study drugs, you will have a bone marrow
           aspiration and/or biopsy to confirm the response.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an MRI and/or a CT scan to check the
           status of the disease.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a urine or blood (about 1 tablespoon)
           pregnancy test.

      Follow-Up:

      Every 3 months (+/-1 month) for the first 2 years after the stem cell transplant and then
      every 6 months (+/- 2 months) for Years 3 and 4, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will also have an MRI and/or a CT scan, x-rays,
           and/or a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy.

      Every 6 months during the first 2 years after you are finished with maintenance therapy, you
      will be asked how you are doing. This will be done at the clinic or by a phone call from the
      study staff. If you are called, the calls should take 5-10 minutes.

      If the disease gets worse, you will no longer have follow-up.

      This is an investigational study. Panobinostat is not FDA approved or commercially available.
      It is currently being used for research purposes only. Bortezomib is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of MM. Lenalidomide is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of certain types of myelodysplastic syndrome and for MM. The use
      of this drug combination to treat MM is investigational.

      Up to 54 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  