
    
      Prospective, observational study will enroll 120 unique pediatric Crohn's disease patients
      between the ages of 3-20 years among multiple sites. Patients will be naïve to TNF inhibitor.
      If patient is going to start infliximab or infliximab biosimilar, patient may be enrolled in
      study. Study length will be from commencement of infliximab until the infusion visit given at
      least 1 year after initiation. During the study, if the patient fails infliximab or
      biosimilar, they will be complete study once failure is indicated and discontinued on
      infliximab or biosimilar. Patients may be on concurrent IBD therapy such as antibiotics,
      mesalamines, immunomodulators and may continue in study if non-standard induction schedule or
      changes made during induction or maintenance to dose or frequency. Excluded patients will be
      those receiving infliximab or biosimilar infusions at home due to need for blood collection
      at time of infusion, on systemic corticosteroids (topical preparations such as budesonide are
      allowed), and those who have already undergone significant bowel surgery relating to their
      Crohn's.

      Study visits will take place in conjunction with previously scheduled routine clinic visits
      or infusion visits. At initial study visit, demographics, medical and surgical history, PARIS
      classification, PCDAI, weight and height, fecal calprotectin, labs, EGD and colonoscopy
      report and pathology report, cross-sectional imaging reports and concurrent medications will
      be obtained and entered. Parameters measured at each study visit will include any obtained
      labs, weight and height, PARIS classification, PCDAI, infliximab dose (mg/kg) and dose
      interval. There will be four study visits throughout the course of 1 year after initiating
      infliximab. At these four visits, blood will be obtained in PAXgene tubes for RNA analysis
      and serum for banking for SOMAscan analysis.
    
  