
    
      It will include women with suspected intrauterine polyp(s) as diagnosed by transvaginal
      ultrasonography (TVS) or saline infusion sonography (SIS). They will be women complaining
      from abnormal uterine bleeding in the form of menorrhagia, metorrhagia, intermenstrual
      spotting or postcoital bleeding, or infertility. Intrauterine polyp(s) could be included
      based on a recent hysterosalpingography (HSG) with an intrauterine circumscribed filling
      defect with sharp border. Preoperative counseling of all patients followed by an informed
      written consent taken from those who will agree. The included patients subjected to complete
      history taking and meticulous physical examination. A suspected pregnancy, heavy vaginal
      bleeding, active pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), severe co-morbidity, e.g., severe
      cardiac, neurologic, or chest disease, and other medical contraindications to pregnancy will
      be exclusion criteria of this study. Selected cases will be subjected to office hysteroscopy.

      Sample size calculation is based on the investigator's previous study on the prevalence of
      tubal patency using bubble suction test in infertility patients with normal FT. The
      percentage of agreement between office hysteroscopy and diagnostic laparoscopy will be 92%
      and 88% for the right and left tubes respectively. If it is supposed that bubble suction test
      would be positive in about 90% of apparently normal FT and it would be positive in about 60%
      of cases with intrauterine polyp(s), sample size in each group would be 51 cases needed to
      have a confidence level of 95% with α error of 0.05 (the real value is within ±5% of the
      measured/surveyed value). The vulva, vagina and the thighs will be disinfected with a 10%
      povidone-iodine solution. Sterile draping will be applied.

      Office diagnostic hysteroscopy will be performed using a 2.6 mm 30° rigid scope with a 3.2mm
      outer sheath (Karl Storz, Tutlingen, Germany). At the beginning in all cases vaginoscopic
      approach is tried but if any difficulty will be encountered, grasping of the anterior lip of
      cervix with a volsellum will be done. Therafter, the uterus will be distended with normal
      saline at 100-150 mmHg generated from a pneumatic cuff of sphygmomanometer wrapped around the
      500-cm3 infusion bottle. As attached to a 250-W Xenon light source, the scope will be
      introduced gently through the cervical canal and internal os. To perfectly perform
      hysteroscopic tubal patency testing the following tricks should be followed. Clear view of
      the endometrial cavity should be achieved on panoramic view by placing the hysteroscope at
      internal os waiting for a while to achieve homogenous distension. The uterine cavity should
      be systematically examined starting by its anterior and posterior walls, the fundus, and the
      borders. Examination will be considered complete if the both tubal ostia will be reached
      describing any gross pathology, e.g., septum, adhesions, polyp(s), myoma, and any growth.

      If the uterine cavity is normal the patient will be allocated as group A. If there is one or
      more polyp(s) the patient will be allocated as group B. Localization and size estimation of
      the polyp(s) is mandatory.

      Prerequisites for a successful access to evaluate tubal patency include utilization of a 300
      telescope with gaining skill of its rotation to reach both cornea and most importantly
      orientation with a fundamental anatomic triad (Darwish triad) (DT). The most proximal corneal
      fine wide circle is the ostium (the end of the endometrial cavity) representing a base of a
      cone which is followed by a shallow conical groove (the first millimeters of the intramural
      part of FT). Finally, a distal pinhole dark spot (the narrowest part of the FT) representing
      the tip of the cone. Putting DT (ostium, intramural part and dark spot) in mind is the key
      step to evaluate tubal patency and physiology via hysteroscopy. If DT is clearly accessible,
      the hysteroscopist should comment on this. If there are some osteal lesions like tiny
      polyp(s) or fine adhesions that may hinder proper evaluation of the tubal anatomy and
      physiology, the hysteroscopist should notice and document. Passage of any air bubbles in the
      irrigating fluid towards DT is reported. If no observed air bubbles, the hysteroscopist
      should inject just 2 ml of air into the rubber end of the sterile infusion set. Hysteroscopic
      bubble suction test is considered positive if air bubbles are sucked by DT within 1 min.
      During this period, neither injection of air nor increased pressure will be done. If no
      suction of gas bubbles occurred, the examiner should wait for 1 min more to exclude tubal
      spasm. Again, if no suction of the bubbles by DT and their accumulation at the corneal end,
      the test will be considered negative. Simultaneously, careful visualization of any change in
      the shape of the ostium and intramural part of FT particularly during suction of the air
      bubbles will be recorded in all cases. Tubal peristalsis is defined as observed osteal and
      intramural tubal rhythmic opening and closing on maintained intrauterine pressure, i.e.,
      periodic changes of DT in the form of widening followed by collapse on meticulous
      observation. If the ostium and intramural part of the tube is obviously opened followed by
      collapse and non-visualization of the pinhole dark spot of DT for a while, positive
      peristalsis will be reported. The same steps will be repeated on the contralateral side and
      reported.
    
  