
    
      Acute liver failure (ALF) has a high mortality. However, those who survive recover completely
      without any sequel. Liver transplantation is logistically and financially difficult in most
      countries with the highest disease burden. It also entails a lifelong commitment to
      immunosuppression. We therefore need new treatment options to improve the survival of
      medically managed patients with ALF.

      Ammonia is believed to be the major neurotoxin in ALF. There is experimental evidence of
      direct and indirect ammonia neurotoxicity in ALF. The brain does not have a urea cycle, and
      relies on glutamine synthesis in the astrocytes for removal of excess ammonia. Increased
      intracellular glutamine in the astrocytes leads to cellular swelling. Increased brain ammonia
      concentrations also result in altered expression of key astrocyte proteins including glial
      fibrillary acidic protein, glutamate and glycine transporters and "peripheral-type"
      (mitochondrial) BZD receptors. Accumulation of ammonia in brain results in a redistribution
      of cerebral blood flow from cortical to sub-cortical structures, and also has direct effects
      on neurotransmission. Increased ammonia concentration upregulates the peripheral-type
      benzodiazepine (PTBR) receptors in the outer membrane of astroglial mitochondria, and enhance
      the synthesis and release of neurosteroids, some of which are known GABA (A) receptor
      agonists.

      There is now evidence of high blood ammonia levels in ALF , with a substantial blood-to-brain
      ammonia transfer.Brain-blood ammonia concentration ratios (normally of the order of 2) are
      increased up to 4 fold in liver failure. Higher ammonia levels have been co-related with
      higher mortality and complications in human clinical trials. Clemmesen et al found that ALF
      patients who died of cerebral herniation had higher ammonia levels as compared to the
      survivors. We have also previously shown that higher ammonia levels at admission predicts a
      poorer survival rate, and arterial ammonia levels are an independent predictor of mortality
      by logistic regression analysis. An arterial ammonia level of > 124 μmol/l was found to
      predict mortality with 78.6% sensitivity and 76.3% specificity.There is thus a strong
      rationale for using ammonia lowering therapies in ALF.

      LOLA is a compound salt of Ornithine and Aspartate. The mechanism of its ammonia lowering
      action has been defined. LOLA provides critical substrates for both urea and glutamine
      synthesis- the key pathways of ammonia detoxification in the liver. Urea synthesis is carried
      out in a low affinity, high capacity system that exists largely in the periportal
      hepatocytes. In these cells, Ornithine serves as an activator of
      ornithine-carbamoyltransferase and carbamylphosphate-synthetase. In addition, Ornithine
      itself acts as a substrate for urea genesis. Hence LOLA can activate the periportal urea
      cycle. Glutamine synthesis is a high affinity, relatively low capacity system located in the
      perivenous hepatocytes. Ornithine is converted to α -ketoglutarate, and taken up by these
      perivenous hepatocytes and serves as a carbon source for glutamine synthesis. LOLA also
      upregulates glutamine synthesis in the skeletal muscle via glutamine synthetase (GS).
      Recently, in animal models an increased transport of ornithine across the blood brain barrier
      and an increase in the brain glutamine synthesis after LOLA treatment has been described, and
      suggests that LOLA may have both centrally (CNS) and peripherally mediated effects. , LOLA
      has been shown to reduce raised ammonia levels in experimental models of hyper-ammonemia, and
      in human cirrhotic patients. In patients with cirrhosis,LOLA improves psychometric
      performance and improves the mental status.

      LOLA is therefore a promising agent for use in ALF patients. It has scientific rationale and
      has been found to be effective in cirrhosis. There is however only a single experimental
      study of LOLA in a rat model of acute liver injury. LOLA infusion could normalize the plasma
      ammonia and lead to a significant reduction in brain water content. We would like to study
      whether LOLA infusion in patients with ALF can reduce ammonia levels and improve survival.
    
  