
    
      Cervical Degenerative Disc Disease (CDDD) is the degeneration of a cervical intervertebral
      disc and/or the adjoining vertebral bodies. Possible sequelae are a bulging or herniated
      intervertebral disc resulting in compression of neural structures, foraminal narrowing due to
      loss of disc space height or osteophyte formation, or a combination. Clinical symptoms are
      cervical radiculopathy, myelopathy, myeloradiculopathy, and axial pain. The annual incidence
      of cervical radiculopathy is reported to be 83 per 100,000 people, with a peak incidence of
      202 per 100,000 for people aged 50-54 years. Myelopathy is less common with an incidence of 4
      per 100,000. The estimated prevalence of surgically treated cervical myelopathy is 1,6 per
      100,000 people. In the Netherlands, axial pain is not considered an indication for surgical
      treatment.

      Treatment for cervical radiculopathy can be non-surgical or surgical. The majority of
      patients respond well to non-surgical treatment options, such as physical therapy, use of a
      collar, analgesic or anti-inflammatory medication. Surgery can be considered in cases of
      insufficient relief with these non-surgical treatment options. The reported proportion of
      patients who are eventually treated surgically ranges from 8% to 35%. Treatment for cervical
      myelopathy can also be non-surgical or surgical, and no clear consensus exists. Non-surgical
      treatment can be considered for patients with stable mild degenerative cervical myelopathy
      (DCM), while surgical treatment is recommended for patients with moderate and severe DCM.
      Twenty to 62% of patients with cervical myelopathy will deteriorate at 3 to 6 years 8 for
      which there are no known predictors.

      The standard surgical procedure for treating patients with single or multilevel CDDD and both
      radiculopathy and/or myelopathy is anterior cervical discectomy, either with fusion (ACDF) or
      without (ACD). In our centre, an ACDF is the standard procedure. Both ACD and ACDF have good
      short-term clinical results in 90-100% of the patients with radiculopathy and will result in
      a high rate of fusion, 70-80% and 95-100%, respectively. In the long-term, patient
      satisfaction slowly drops to 68-96% after 7-20 years. This can partly be explained by the
      development of adjacent segment disease (ASD), which is defined as the development of new
      radiculopathy or myelopathy referable to a motion segment adjacent to the site of previous
      surgery. ASD occurs in approximately 25% of patients during 10 years follow-up and more than
      2/3 of these patients need additional surgery. The underlying mechanism is thought to be
      compensation for the loss of motion in the fused segment, resulting in overstraining of the
      adjacent segments.

      Anterior cervical discectomy with arthroplasty (ACDA) was developed in an effort to reduce
      the incidence of ASD by preserving motion in the operated segment. Several randomised
      controlled trials have been published in the past 10 years to assess the effects of ACDA
      versus ACDF in the treatment of cervical radiculopathy/myelopathy due to single level CDDD. A
      Cochrane review with 9 studies and a total of 2400 included patients indicated a preference
      for ACDA over ACDF for all comparisons after 1-2 years. However, the actual differences in
      effect were small and not clinically relevant for any of the primary outcomes. More recently,
      long-term results of the previously mentioned RCTs have been published. In general, the ACDA
      group showed higher overall success rates with less neck complaints and re-operations at
      adjacent levels.

      The results of multilevel surgery appear to be even more in favour of ACDA. Davies et al.
      compared ACDA versus ACDF for treatment of two-level CDDD. They found a significantly lower
      re-operation rate in the ACDA group compared to the ACDF group after two years (3.1% versus
      11.4%, respectively). Radcliff et al. compared re-operation rates for ACDA and ACDF after 7
      years. They reported re-operation rates of 3.7% for ACDA versus 13.6% for ACDF in
      single-level CDDD patients. The rate of re-operation was also significantly lower in the
      two-level ACDA group compared to ACDF, with rates of subsequent surgery at the index level of
      4.4% versus 16.2% and rates of adjacent level surgery of 4.4% versus 11.3%, respectively. In
      a systematic review from 2017, multilevel ACDA was proven at least as safe and effective as
      ACDF, with preservation of cervical motion and potentially with fewer re-operations.

      Three studies with ACDA have been performed in the Netherlands. A double-blind multicentre
      RCT has been performed in the Netherlands comparing ACDA with ACD and ACDF. Patients with
      radiculopathy due to single level CDDD were included. This study was ended preliminary due to
      a low inclusion rate. During 2-year follow-up, no statistical differences were found on all
      clinical outcome measures. A difference in re-operations at an adjacent level was observed
      (0% in the ACD group, 3.1% in the ACDA group, 8.8% in the ACDF group). A second study has
      been performed in the Netherlands investigating ACDA, using the same indication and the same
      three treatment arms. This study was also ended preliminary since the authors concluded that
      the higher costs of the ACDA didn't justify prolongation, in light of increasing data that a
      clinical difference was not present in patients with single-level radiculopathy. Results
      after 9 years showed no significant and clinically relevant differences between the groups.
      There was a difference in re-operations at adjacent levels (0% in the ACDA group, 6.7% in the
      ACD group, 10.6% in the ACDF group). In both studies no patients with myelopathy or
      multi-level CDDD were included resulting in a limited applicability for the general
      population. Moreover, cost-effectiveness was not investigated and no economic evaluation was
      performed. No prospective studies and only one retrospective on cost-effectiveness have been
      performed internationally. One retrospective study analysed cost-effectiveness of ACDF
      (n=6635) compared to ACDA (n=327). They concluded that patients who underwent ACDA for
      single-level CDDD had lower readmission rates, lower re-operation rates (ACDA 5.7% vs ACDF
      10.5%), and reduced index and total costs than those treated with ACDF. ACDA was effective in
      reducing the monthly cost of care compared with ACDF (ACDA $34,979 vs ACDF $39,820). However,
      no actual costs were used, it was based on imputations and no indirect costs were taken into
      account.

      The third study about ACDA in the Netherland is performed in our centre. Boselie et al. have
      described a consistent sequence of segmental contribution in sagittal rotation of the
      cervical spine during flexion and extension X-ray video's in 20 healthy participants. They
      showed that the sequence of segmental contributions in the lower cervical spine during the
      second half of extension of the entire cervical spine and head was uniform in 80-90% of the
      healthy participants (C4-C5 followed by C5-C6, and then C6-C7). Moreover, they described a
      group of single level CDDD patients with cervical radiculopathy in which this sequence was
      present in only one patient (10%). This is the first method described which can reliably
      differentiate between normal or abnormal movement of the cervical spine in an individual
      subject. This group of CDDD patients took also part in an RCT to compare the presence of a
      physiological motion pattern and clinical outcomes for ACDA (n=12) and ACD (n=12) patients.
      In both groups 10 patients were available for follow-up at one year and fusion rate was 0% in
      the ACDA group and 70% in the ACD group. The majority of patients in the ACDA group (80%)
      showed a normal sequence of segmental contribution, which was not the case in the ACD group.
      They concluded that ACDA cannot only preserve normal movement, but also restores normal
      movement in CDDD patients. There were no differences in patient reported outcome measures,
      however the study population was small as sample size calculation was based on absence or
      presence of a normal motion pattern.

      In conclusion, there is increasing evidence suggesting that ACDA can prevent ASD and, as
      such, reduce re-operation rates compared to ACDF or ACD. Studies analysing economic
      evaluations and cost-effectiveness of ACDA are lacking at this moment. The need for
      prospective studies addressing this question is high.
    
  