
    
      If you are willing to participate in this research study you will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests and procedures to confirm your eligibility. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular sickle cell anemia care and may be done even if
      it turns out that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these
      tests and procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. The tests and
      procedures include: a medical history, physical examination, blood tests, blood or urine
      pregnancy test (if applicable) and an electrocardiogram. If these tests show that you are
      eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do
      not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in the research study.
      At the time of screening we will also ask you about your pain level.

      Because no one knows which of the study options is best, you will be "randomized" into one of
      the study groups: the "study drug" group, which will receive Regadenoson, or the "control"
      group, which will receive placebo. Randomization means that you are put into a group by
      chance. It is like flipping a coin. Neither you nor the research doctor will choose what
      group you will be in. You will have an equal (50/50) chance of being placed in either group.
      Neither you nor the research doctor will know what group you are in.

      You will be given a study medication and it will contain either Regadenoson or placebo
      (fluids with no medicine).

      You will be given one infusion of the study drug while you are admitted to the hospital for a
      pain crisis. The study drug will be infused with fluids. You will stay in the hospital for at
      least 3 days and 2 nights. Your infusion will be 48 hours long, followed by a 6-hour
      observation period. During your infusion, you will receive standard treatment for your pain
      crisis. The study drug will be given through a separate part of your body from the infusions
      that are part of your standard treatment. The study drug will not be available after your
      participation in the study ends.

      Before the infusion: We will place a small tube in your vein called an IV, which will be used
      only to infuse the study drug. It will not be used for infusions that are part of standard
      treatment for your pain crisis. During the study drug infusion, standard treatment will be
      given through a separate IV. We can use your standard treatment IV or a needle to draw blood
      for the required blood test. If it is hard to draw blood from your veins, we may ask you if
      you would like to use a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC line) for your blood
      draws. A PICC line is a small tube that is placed in a vein in your arm and goes through to a
      vein in your chest. A chest x-ray is usually done to make sure it is in the right veins. It
      is your choice to decide whether you would like to use a PICC line. We will record your blood
      pressure and heart rate every 5-10 minutes, until they have stabilized. We will also ask you
      about your pain level at the time of your blood test.

      During the 48 hour infusion: Your heart rate and the amount of oxygen in your blood will be
      monitored continuously using a device that fits over your finger. We will take about 2-3
      teaspoons of blood at 24 and 48 hours after the beginning of your infusion for tests to try
      to understand how the drug affects your body. We will ask you about your pain level at the
      time of each blood test. We will take your blood pressure every 30 minutes for the first 2
      hours, then every hour for the next two hours, then every 2 hours for the remainder of the
      infusion.

      A six hour observation period will take place immediately after the infusion. At this time
      you will undergo the following: your heart rate and the amount of oxygen in your blood will
      be monitored continuously with a device that fits over your finger. We will take about 5
      teaspoons of blood at the end of the period to try to understand how the study drug affects
      your body. We will ask you about your pain level at the time of your blood test. We will take
      your blood pressure every 2 hours for the full duration of the observation period.

      You may not eat or drink anything that contains caffeine, such as coffee, tea, chocolate or
      sodas during the infusion and observation periods.

      We would like to keep track of your medical condition for 30 days after you receive the study
      drug. We would like to do this by contacting you on the telephone weekly during the 30 days
      after your participation to see how you are doing.
    
  