
    
      The investigators will test the STRONG MINDS intervention with adults who have moderate to
      severe symptoms of depression or anxiety, originally defined as 66+ on the CAT-MH for
      depression and/or 51+ on the CAT-MH for anxiety. Based on psychometric analyses conducted by
      the developer of the CAT, Dr. Robert Gibbons has two times adjusted the depression and
      anxiety thresholds to best map onto moderate symptoms for diverse language groups. As of
      10/4/19, the criteria for depression had been changed to a cut-off of 50+ on the CAT-MH
      depression screener or a positive on the CAT-MH for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD is a
      positive/negative measure, not a dimensional severity score). As of 12/2020, psychometric
      analysis showed differences across language groups in symptom severity, and the cut offs were
      updated to include participants who scored 50+ on the CAT-MH depression in English; a score
      of 42+ for the CAT-MH depression administered in Spanish or in Chinese. Similarly, the
      developer of the CAT-MH also changed the cut-off scores for anxiety, with 51+ for the CAT-MH
      anxiety administered in English; but a score of 41+ for the CAT-MH administered in Spanish or
      Chinese. The MDD remains a positive/negative item at the same thresholds. These analysis and
      updates help ensure that the adaptive screener is optimally calibrated to diverse language
      samples. Eligible participants cannot be receiving mental health care (therapy sessions with
      psychiatrist, psychologist or social worker) in the past 3 months or in the upcoming month.
      Participants must speak English, Spanish, Mandarin, or Cantonese. Eligible participants will
      be consented and assigned to a CHW within the site. After a baseline interview, participants
      will be randomized to either the intervention or an enhanced usual care condition.
      Randomization will be stratified by site using a computer-generated block randomization
      scheme of variable block size. The investigators will monitor engagement in treatment (% of
      participants with 2 or more mental health sessions/visits in a 6-month period after
      baseline), mental health symptoms (HSCL-25), overall functioning (WHODAS 2.0), and
      participant perceived quality of care (PoC) for the intervention group and compare to the
      enhanced control group. Outcome measures (identified above) will be assessed four times
      during the study period: at baseline, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months.

      Recruitment Strategy: CHWs will screen 6,000 participants with the CAT-MH and substance use
      measures (for exclusion) in addition to obtaining demographic and social determinants
      information during the 3.5 years of study screening to identify approximately 1,200 eligible
      participants across both MA and NC (600 per site). Eligible participants will be randomized
      to the intervention or enhanced control condition and be invited to complete a baseline
      assessment as described above. Based on data from our clinical trials, the investigators
      anticipate that 30-33.5% of those screened will show moderate to severe symptoms of
      depression and/or anxiety and will not be receiving mental health care. The investigators
      conservatively anticipate that 60-70% will agree to participate, for approximately 600 cases
      per site with 20% attrition over a 6 month period.

      Sampling, Recruitment and Consent: Community Health Workers (CHWs) and Research Assistants
      (RAs) will be responsible for approaching potential participants in designated clinics or
      Community-based Organizations (CBOs). In clinics, CHWs will recruit in waiting rooms or by
      provider referrals. In community agencies, they will recruit during special community events
      and meetings. Eligible patients will be scheduled for a baseline interview with a Research
      Assistant that includes instruments designed to identify elevated mental health symptoms, as
      well as socio-demographics, cultural, contextual and social factors, medication use, health
      literacy, language proficiency, past access to health services, migration, patient activation
      and self-management, and motivation to enter care. Following the baseline interview,
      participants will be randomized to either the intervention or enhanced usual care (control)
      condition. Additional interviews will be administered by research assistants blind to study
      condition at 3-, 6- and 12-months following baseline.
    
  