
    
      Participants: 50 participants will be recruited to the trial.

      Method: At baseline each participant will have a detailed interview with the study doctor to
      assess past medical history and previous symptoms attributed to statins and assess if they
      are eligible to be enrolled. Eligible participants will be enrolled on InForm which will
      allocate each participant a random predefined order to take the study interventions in. These
      random codes will be generated by the trials unit statistician and supplied to the production
      pharmacy. The participant will be dispensed High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) containers which
      are in this pre-specified order assigned on inform. Each participant will receive 12 sets of
      HDPE containers pre-labelled. 4 sets of HDPE containers will contain no medication, 4 will
      contain 1-month supply of matched placebo and 4 will contain 1-month supply of atorvastatin
      20mg. At the start of the next calendar month after the screening visit the participants will
      commence the trial intervention. The research nurse will call the participant to remind them
      to start on the 1st day of the next month after screening and thereafter the participants
      will also receive a monthly reminder on their phone to switch to the next set of HDPE
      containers each month. Each day participants will rate their daily symptom on a phone
      application and will also complete 3 additional questionnaires on a monthly basis. The study
      nurse will call the participant at the end of each month to assess their progress in the
      trial. Each participants will return their boxes at dispensing visits (if applicable) and at
      the study end in order for a pill count to be undertaken to assess medication adherence. The
      placebo and atorvastatin pills will be visually identical.

      The study enrolls participants not intending to re-start clinical use of statins.
      Participants' other medications will continue to be managed as normal by their own
      physicians, with no restriction on starting, stopping or changing doses For safety reasons
      the participant's own physician will be asked to consult the investigators prior to
      consideration of starting, or amending the dose of, any other lipid lowering medication

      3.4 STUDY OUTCOME MEASURES For the trial, each participant will receive a smartphone or if
      preferred can have the application downloaded to their existing phone to allow real-time
      daily documentation of symptoms experienced on a visual analogue scale of 0-100. Participants
      will receive training on the simple touch-screen interface and a leaflet with further
      information will also be provided. There is an optional daily reminder that can be disabled
      if intrusive. Participants will rate symptoms every day, with the daily scores aggregated
      into a monthly score. This is preferable over scoring only once a month, because participants
      may struggle to remember and aggregate their symptom burden especially if it varies between
      days.

      Each month participants will fill out two validated questionnaires on the impact of their
      side-effects on their quality of life. These are EuroQol (EQ-5D-3L), a well-validated measure
      of health related quality of life, and the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medicine
      (TSQM) questionnaire, a validated treatment satisfaction questionnaire. EQ-5D-3L assesses
      five domains of health and overall self-rated health using a visual analogue scale. EQ-5D-3L
      is conventional for assessing efficacy of medication on quality of life but may not be
      sufficient for assessing side effects, therefore the TSQM questionnaire will also be used.
      Use of both a health related quality of life questionnaire and a treatment satisfaction
      questionnaire will allow assessment of participants' multiple health states, overall
      self-rated health status and treatment satisfaction, and provide a test of both convergent
      validity and measurement invariance for the monthly aggregate symptom burden score.

      The investigators will also ask participants to fill in a short questionnaire detailing any
      potentially their own physicians, with no restriction on starting, stopping or changing doses
      For safety reasons the participant's own physician will be asked to consult the investigators
      prior to consideration of starting, or amending the dose of, any other lipid lowering
      medication.
    
  