
    
      Introduction

      Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) during cardiac surgery induces in all patients a systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) that is more pronounced than for other surgical
      procedures. Depending on the severity of this, myocardial dysfunction, respiratory failure,
      renal and neurological dysfunction, coagulation disturbances and impaired liver function
      might follow. In worst cases this leads to acute respiratory distress syndrome, disseminated
      intravascular coagulation, multi organ failure, shock and death. The cause is besides the
      surgical trauma, the passage of the blood through the extra corporal circulation (ECC) and
      its pumps and oxygenator, hemodilution, hypothermia, heparin and protamine administration,
      ischemia and reperfusion, and endotoxemia (LPS) as a cause of intestinal ischemia. The ECC is
      the main cause of immunological activation and leads in severe cases to the so-called
      post-perfusion syndrome. This is characterised by increased capillary permeability and
      intercellular fluid, peripheral vasoconstriction, fever, myocardial edema, diffuse cerebral
      edema and diffuse hemorrhagic diathesis. This syndrome is considered to be a more severe form
      of SIRS. Even though most patients have no sequelae after CPB, all patients must be
      considered to be influenced, in varying degree, by SIRS. High levels of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines (interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, IL-1a, IL-1b, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alfa), have
      generally been associated with adverse events after CPB. Of importance is also LPS from
      gram-negative intestinal bacteria, translocating to the systemic circulation during ischemia.

      Hypothesis

      Cleansing of suction blood and the remaining blood in the ECC after termination of CPB,
      reduces the load of inflammatory cells and mediators in the patients' circulation. This
      potentially diminishes SIRS with a reduction in postoperative organ dysfunction and
      morbidity.

      Aim

      To cleanse suction blood and the remaining blood in the ECC after termination of CPB by means
      of a cell saver and monitor the influence on inflammatory mediators and the potential
      clinical benefits.

      Outcome measures

      Primary: Concentrations of IL-1B, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p70, TNFa, TNF-R1, TNF-R2, PCT and
      LPS in patient blood: 6, 24 and 72 hours after termination of CPB.

      Secondary: Bleeding, need for allogenic blood transfusions and blood products and clinical
      effect focusing on known complications to cardiac surgery and CPB.

      Design

      Prospective randomised clinical trial including 40 patients planned for on-pump coronary
      artery bypass grafting (CABG). n=20 in the trial group (use of cell saver) and n=20 in the
      control group (no cell saver). No patients receive postoperative autotransfusion of drain
      blood.

      Sample size

      Estimation based on comparable studies.

      Anaesthesia and surgery

      In accordance with current guidelines of the clinic, this includes prophylactic antibiotics
      (cefuroxime and gentamycin). Cell saver: Medtronic Autolog.

      Patient exclusion during the trial

      Patients are excluded in cases of autotransfusion of blood not cleansed by the cell saver,
      for instance in cases of major blood loss.
    
  