
    
      The primary endpoint is to visualise the delivery of a microdose of FIB ONE and assess
      imaging parameters in patients with lung conditions using two microendoscopy systems (Part
      A). A secondary objective is to quantify the change in mean FIB ONE fluorescence
      amplification gradient in the presence of AZD1236 in the fibroproliferative lung (Part B).
      Imaging will be performed using a novel multi-colour widefield fluorescence microendoscopy
      platform and a commercially available imaging platform.

      Cohort 1 will consist of 20 patients scheduled for routine elective diagnostic or
      surveillance bronchoscopy with a fibroproliferative lung condition and Cohort 2 will consist
      of 6 patients undergoing planned cardiothoracic surgery for biopsy/resection of lung
      conditions characterised by excessive activity of the fibroproliferative pathway. For both
      cohorts, eligibility will be verified by a clinical trial physician after written informed
      consent has been obtained.

      For cohort 1, a bronchoscopy with lavage will be performed to harvest broncho-alveolar lavage
      fluid (BALF). For cohort 2, a sample of resected lung tissue will be analysed. Fibre-based
      endomicroscopy (FE) will be performed and up to 100μg of FIB ONE and PBS/AZD1236 will be
      instilled. CT identified regions of architecturally normal lung in all participants will act
      as internal controls and will be used to compare MMP activity in normal and diseased lung
      tissue.

      Participants will be asked to provide routine blood samples before and after FIB ONE and
      AZD1236 administration. A cardiorespiratory exam and routine observations will be performed
      4-6 hours following administration and all participants will be assessed for discharge. All
      participants will either be contacted by a member of the research team via telephone or ward
      visit 24 hours (± 4 hours) after dosing to ensure no AEs/SAEs were experienced. The
      participant's involvement in the study is concluded when the 24 hour assessment has been
      successfully completed and all AEs/SAEs have been resolved.
    
  