
    
      The investigators designed a single center small sample exploratory study to clear the
      therapeutic effects of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy on live birth rate improvements of
      overweight/obese PCOS patients. The investigators plan to enroll 18 patients. Inclusion
      criteria: 1) Patients who are aged from 18 to 45, not menopause;2) have PCOS which is
      diagnosed according to 2003 Rotterdam criteria; 3) have been treated with behavioral and
      drugs intervention for 3 months but are ineffective; 4) have steady or steady weight gain
      over 5 years, BMI>35kg/m2, or BMI>30kg/m2 with one of the metabolic disorders such as
      impaired glucose tolerance, cardiovascular disease, fatty liver, lipid metabolism disorders,
      sleep apnea syndrome.

      Patients with serious complications (cardiovascular events and recent significant liver,
      kidney or lung disease within 3 months); high blood pressure (>160/100mmHg); active
      infection; secondary diabetes; pregnancy; alcohol abuse; surgical contraindications are
      excluded.

      Then the investigators plan to perform laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy . Before and after the
      intervention, the blood samples would be collected to detect blood glucose, insulin, lipid
      profile, sex hormones, blood chemistry for liver and kidney function, hsCRP etc., as well as
      the anthropometric measurement and image examinations. All patients are followed up every 3
      months until the end of the program. All patients receive MRI plain scan of upper and lower
      abdomen, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and insulin, C-peptide releasing test again every
      6 months after the operation. One year after the operation, patients would be evaluated
      whether they are suitable for pregnancy preparation and record the pregnancy mode. After
      pregnancy, various indicators would be closely monitored, including maternal vitamin and
      trace element levels.The birth of children and the live birth rate would be recorded.

      The investigators will compare the data and finally identify the treatment effect of
      laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy on overweight/obese PCOS patients.
    
  