
    
      Emotional eating, or eating as a mechanism for coping with negative affect, is present across
      a spectrum of eating disorders and is associated with poor health outcomes, namely obesity.
      Research suggests that individuals with emotional eating experience urges to eat in response
      to multiple negative emotions, including anxiety, depression, and anger. While emotional
      eating is related to binge eating, it can be examined in a more dimensional fashion because
      it is not associated with a specific size criterion or a requirement of loss of control over
      eating. As such, emotional eating is a useful analog through which to understand mechanisms
      of binge eating and test the preliminary efficacy of treatment interventions. Interventions
      that target mechanisms of regulating negative affect may reduce both negative affect and
      emotional eating, increasing their transdiagnostic value. Research suggests that a large gap
      exists between the prevalence of psychopathology and access to psychological treatment, and
      this gap extends to individuals with eating disorders. A potential solution to these
      challenges is the use of computerized methodologies that may be easier to disseminate, allow
      for a gradient of treatment intensity, and do not rely upon training treatment providers.
      Computer-administered CBM interventions address the need for more easily disseminated
      treatments. CBM interventions are based in research suggesting that negative interpretation
      biases cause negative emotionality and subsequent symptom expression. Negative interpretation
      biases are the tendency to draw threatening conclusions about ambiguous information. Thus,
      CBM paradigms train people to make neutral or positive attributions about situations they
      would typically view through the lens of their negative biases. CBM interventions have been
      tested across a range of psychopathology, including anxiety disorders, depression, and anger,
      and using a variety of different bias modification techniques. Two recent CBM studies have
      been tested within the field of eating disorders. Although results were promising, both
      studies were marked by methodological limitations and neither addressed emotional eating
      specifically. The purpose of the present study is to test a CBM intervention designed to help
      individuals with elevated emotional eating improve their ability to regulate negative affect.
      In doing so, the investigators will determine if modifying the interpretation of ambiguous
      situations that would typically result in negative affect can reduce negative affect in
      individuals with high emotional eating. The researchers will in turn determine if those
      individuals have decreased food consumption under conditions that would otherwise elicit
      negative emotions. This project extends initial research on CBMs in eating disorders, as well
      as research suggesting that basic emotion regulation training can decrease emotional eating.
    
  