
    
      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES:

      To evaluate the efficacy of conventional inferior alveolar nerve block in mandibular molars
      with symptomatic irreversible pulpitis with injection dexmedetomidine plus injection
      lignocaine and compare it with injection lignocaine plus adrenaline.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS - Study subjects will be recruited from OPD of Department of
      conservative dentistry and endodontics, PGIDS, Rohtak.

      METHODOLOGY- Prior to treatment, a thorough clinical and radiological examination will be
      carried out and a thorough history will be taken.

      Clinical procedure:

      Mature mandibular permanent molars exhibiting deep caries involving pulp radiographically
      will be chosen for the study. The teeth will be evaluated by periapical radiographs,
      periodontal probing, percussion test, and vitality assessment with thermal test and electric
      pulp test; teeth determined to have irreversible pulpitis will be included and with
      reversible pulpitis will be excluded. All periapical radiographs will be exposed by using
      constant kVP, mA, and exposure time (70 KVP, 8 mA, and 0.8 sec.) with a Rinn paralleling
      device.

      Study groups:

      The subjects will be randomly assigned to 2 EXPERIMENTAL AND 2 CONTROL groups. CONTROL GROUP
      1 - The study subjects will receive conventional inferior alveolar nerve block with 1.8 ml of
      2% inj lignocaine with adrenaline 1:80000.

      CONTROL GROUP 2 - The study subjects will receive conventional inferior alveolar nerve block
      with 3.6 ml of 2% inj lignocaine with adrenaline 1:80000.

      EXPERIMENTAL GROUP 1 - conventional inferior alveolar nerve block with1.8 ml of injection
      lignocaine plus injection dexmedetomidine 1micromol/ ml.

      EXPERIMENTAL GROUP 2 - conventional inferior alveolar nerve block with3.6 ml of injection
      lignocaine plus injection dexmedetomidine 1micromol/ ml.

        -  Patients will be explained the treatment procedure and use of pain scales.

        -  Patients will mark their pretreatment pain on a 170-mm HP VAS

        -  The area of injection will be dried by using sterile gauze, and topical anesthesia of
           20% benzocaine (Mucopain; ICPA, Mumbai, India) will be applied by using sterile
           cotton-tip applicator for 60 seconds.

        -  The solution will be injected via a 5-mL disposable syringe (pricon, jodhpur, India)
           with a 24-gauge needle .

        -  The anterior border of the mandibular ramus will be palpated and coronoid notch located.

        -  The needle will be inserted on an imaginary line drawn from coronoid notch to the
           pterygomandibular raphe, 2 mm above the occlusal plane of mandibular molars.

        -  The barrel of the syringe will be in the opposite corner of the mouth, between the
           mandibular premolars.

        -  The needle will be inserted until bony resistance felt. After reaching the target area,
           aspiration will be performed, and the solution will be deposited with a rate of 1
           ml/min. No anaesthetic solution will be deposited during needle insertion and placement.

      Heft-parker visual analogue scale (Heft & Parker 1984), with 170-millimetre line marked with
      various terms describing the levels of pain, will be used. The millimetre marks will be
      removed from the scale, and the scale will be divided into 4 categories:

        -  'no pain' corresponding to 0 mm;

        -  'faint, weak or mild' pain corresponding to 1-54 mm;

        -  'moderate' pain corresponding to 55-114 mm; and

        -  severe pain corresponding above 114 mm and included 'strong, intense and maximum
           possible' pain.

             -  After 15 minutes, each patient will be asked whether his or her lip is numb.

             -  If profound lip numbness is not recorded, the block will be considered
                unsuccessful, and the patients will be excluded from the study.

             -  A conventional access opening will be initiated after isolation with a rubber dam.
                Patients will be instructed to raise their hand if any pain felt during the
                procedure.

             -  In case of pain during the treatment, the procedure will be stopped, and patients
                will be asked to rate the pain on HP VAS.

             -  The extent of access preparation and/or instrumentation will be recorded as

        -  within dentin,

        -  within pulpal space,

        -  and instrumentation of canals. • Success will be defined as no pain or weak/mild pain
           during endodontic access preparation and instrumentation
    
  