
    
      In this study, a total of 1000-1200 patients with carotid artery severe (70-99%) stenosis or
      occlusion who received either CEA or stenting are to recruited. Before carotid artery
      recanalization, CDFI (color duplex flow imaging) and TCCS/TCD are used to evaluate the
      structures and hemodynamic of carotid artery and intracranial artery. In addition, patients
      are to be followed up by ultrasound 1 week, 3 month, 6month and 1 year after recanalization.

        1. Ultrasound examinations procedures: According to the guidelines of vascular
           ultrasonography published by the Stroke Prevention Engineering Committee, the National
           Health Commission of China in 2015. The plaque characteristics, stenosis degrees of
           carotid artery and intracranial arteries, and collateral circulation are evaluated by
           CDFI and TCCS/TCD.

        2. Radiology examination procedures: Before recanalization, enrolled patients receive MRI
           examinations to determine the presence and the location of cerebral infarction. If
           necessary, patients receive CT angiography (CTA) , MRI angiography (MRA) or Digital
           subtraction angiography (DSA) to confirm the degrees of vessel stenosis and occlusion.
           One week after recanalization, CT and MRI are used to identify the cerebral hemorrhage
           and newly cerebral infarction.

        3. The data collected in this study including:

      1) The general information of enrolled subjects, which include age, gender, resident address
      and telephone number, the history of hypertension, coronary artery diseases, dyslipidemia,
      diabetes mellitus and smoking.

      2. The primary endpoints are: The combination endpoints events of death, cerebral hemorrhage
      , newly cerebral infarction, hyperperfusion syndrome, residual sternosis≥50% within 30-day
      after recanalization. The secondary endpoints are the re-current cerebral artery events and
      the occurence of restenosis during the at least 1 year follow-up period.

      4. Statistical analysis plans: The Statistical Package of Social Sciences (SPSS version 22.0)
      software are used for statistical analysis.

      1) Diagnostic test are used to test the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of ultrasound
      for evaluating vulnerable plaque by using plaque specimen after CEA as the "gold" standard.

      2) The Chi-square test are used to compare the success rate of stenting and CEA. The Cox
      regression analysis are used to compare the restenosis rate of stenting and CEA.

      3) A P<0.05 was considered statistically significance. 5. Quality assurance plan:

        1. The medical centers implement the projects are the stroke center awarded by the Stroke
           Prevention Engineering Committee, the National Health Commission of China. The medical
           centers have the instruments required in this study.

        2. Neurologists, neurosurgeons and vascular ultrasound physicians have received standard
           training hosted by the Stroke Prevention Engineering Committee, the National Health
           Commission of China and obtained excellent records.

        3. All the centers conduct the project followed the uniform implementation plans and each
           center guarantee the data input in time and accurately.

        4. The project has the unique database and data input in uniform format.

        5. There are specific staffs to check the accuracy and completeness of data.
    
  