
    
      Background:

      For several years now, a very successful treatment of posttraumatic stress disorders has been
      offered in the Netherlands and in Germany. The contact between clients and therapists takes
      place exclusively via Internet. The therapists follow a scientifically tested treatment
      protocol, that defines fixed treatment elements that are adapted to the specific situation of
      the client. The participants can write at home, in their familiar environment which makes it
      easier to work on trauma related issues with their therapist. In the last years the treatment
      was offered in Arabic as well indicating to be an effective treatment for PTSD in
      Arabic-speaking countries.

      Method:

      Traumatized Arabic-speaking participants are allocated at random to a long version (10
      sessions) of a manualized writing approach over 6 weeks or to a short version, where the part
      concerning the cognitive restructuring is excluded. The investigators expect the treatment to
      be useful for traumatized clients, especially for those who have no access to psychological
      help otherwise and they hypothesize that both interventions will significantly improve
      clinical symptoms of PTSD. Furthermore, the investigators expect improvements in secondary
      outcomes such as anxiety, depression and quality of life. Additionally the investigators are
      interested, if the short form where the cognitive part is excluded and the focus will be more
      on confrontation is effective similarly.

      Conclusion:

      If the interventions prove to be an effective treatment for PTSD in Arabic-speaking
      countries, the results will lend to support to the establishment of internet-based
      approaches, especially in countries, where face-to-face therapy cannot be provided.
      Furthermore a shorter treatment could improve the compliance of the participants,
      particularly in post-conflict regions where people cannot attend long therapeutic
      interventions.
    
  