
    
      Nitric oxide (NO) is an important vasodilating molecule with a very complex biochemistry and
      metabolism. NO is classically synthesized from L-arginin by endothelial nitric oxide synthase
      (eNOS) located in the endothelial cell lining. Several chronic cardiovascular diseases such
      as hypertension, chronic kidney disease and diabetes are accompanied by endothelial
      dysfunction and hence diminished synthesis of NO. NO is a very reactive molecule and direct
      investigation of its function are limited and it has mainly been investigated by inhibition
      of eNOS. Recent research has shown that sodium nitrite is readily converted to NO by enzymes
      in vivo. The effects of sodium nitrite on renal variables, vasoactive hormones and central
      blood pressure are previously unexamined. It is now possible to achieve serial estimations of
      the central aortic systolic pressure (CASP) by a wrist born device.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Sodium nitrite infusion increases the urinary sodium excretion and glomerular filtration
           rate (GFR)

        2. Sodium nitrite infusion increases plasma levels of nitrite, nitrate, NO and cyclic
           guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)

        3. Sodium nitrite infusion lowers the peripheral and central blood pressure

        4. Renal clearance of nitrite is constant and not dose dependent

        5. Sodium nitrite infusion affects vasoactive hormones

        6. The hemodynamic and renal effects is more pronounced in hypertensives as compared to
           healthy controls.

      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of sodium nitrite infusion on

        1. Renal handling of nitrite, nitrate, sodium and water

        2. Plasma concentrations of vasoactive hormones

        3. Peripheral (brachial) blood pressure and CASP

      Design:

      15 hypertensive subjects and 15 healthy, age and sex matched controls is recruited. Each
      subject will attend to two examination days. Four days prior to each examination day subjects
      are given a standardized diet with a low level of nitrate and nitrite. On the evening before
      the examination day the subjects take a single dose of lithium carbonate 300 mg in order to
      measure lithium clearance. On the examination days subjects are receiving a two hour infusion
      of either placebo (isotonic sodium chloride) or sodium nitrite. During the two examination
      days each subject receives both treatments in random order.

      Perspectives:

      Increasing knowledge about the nitrite-NO system can contribute to changing the clinical
      practise of diagnostics and treatment of cardiovascular diseases.
    
  