
    
      Heart failure (HF) afflicts 6.5 million Americans with devastating consequences to patients
      and their family caregivers especially during severe symptoms in the long-lasting end stage.
      Advanced HF was defined by American Heart Association (AHA) as "the presence of progressive
      and/or persistent severe signs and symptoms of HF despite optimized medical, surgical, and
      device therapy." When patients and family members are not prepared for worsening HF and are
      not informed about end-of-life and palliative care (EOLPC) conservative comfort options, they
      experience depression, fear of painful death, home care burden, and medical expenses from
      anxiously seeking aggressive but futile care. Notably, West Virginia (WV) has the highest HF
      death in the U.S. at 32.6 per 100,000 population, where 14% of those over 65 years have HF.
      WV is in the large Appalachian region, which stretches across eastern North America with 25.6
      million people and contains a vast number of disadvantaged rural communities. National
      Institutes of Health has designated Appalachia as a high priority for research as residents
      experience extreme health and poverty inequities and limited access to healthcare.
      Furthermore, home EOLPC is lacking across this disadvantaged rural area. Thus, there is a
      need to investigate the new family intervention (FamPALcare), where nurses coach
      family-managed advanced HF care at home in Appalachia.

      This study addresses the National Institutes of Health Academic Research Enhancement Award
      (AREA) priorities for conducting a low risk clinical trials to provide a foundation to
      advance scientific EOLPC knowledge and testing of our intervention efficacy in larger
      clinical trials. Additionally, effective EOLPC interventions are priorities of palliative
      care professionals and palliative care needs must be addressed with vulnerable and advanced
      HF patients and their families. This study also addresses the priority problem of the lack
      information for families providing advanced HF home care and preventing unwanted and
      unwarranted rehospitalizations at the advanced stage of HF.

      This study uses a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design stratified by gender (male vs
      female) to determine any differences in the FamPALcare HF patients and their family caregiver
      outcomes versus standard care control group outcomes (N=72). Specific aims are to: (1) Test
      the FamPALcare nursing care intervention with patients and family members managing home
      supportive EOLPC for advanced HF in rural WV using a small randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      and (2) Assess implementation of the FamPALcare intervention and research procedures for
      subsequent clinical trials.

      The control patients receive standard care given through the West Virginia University
      hospital and outpatient clinics, prescribed by the patient's cardiologist. The FamPALcare
      intervention group will receive standard care, plus 5-weekly FamPALcare intervention
      delivered by community-based nurses. FamPALcare intervention involves coaching patients and
      family caregivers in advanced HF home care and supporting EOLPC discussions. Data will be
      collected from all patients and caregivers independently at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.
    
  