
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 of atezolizumab in patients with advanced alveolar soft part
      sarcoma (ASPS) in adult subjects >= 18 years and in pediatric/adolescent subjects >= 2 years.

      II. Determine the ORR using RECIST v 1.1 of atezolizumab and bevacizumab in subjects >= 18
      years old with advanced ASPS that has progressed on atezolizumab monotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine duration of response (DOR) to atezolizumab monotherapy or atezolizumab plus
      bevacizumab using RECIST v 1.1 and/or change in clinical symptoms.

      II. Measure progression-free survival (PFS) time for patients receiving atezolizumab
      monotherapy or atezolizumab plus bevacizumab as determined by investigator using RECIST v
      1.1.

      III. Assess the number of activated CD8+ T cells infiltrating the tumor before and after
      treatment with atezolizumab monotherapy or atezolizumab plus bevacizumab, and correlate
      treatment-induced changes with clinical response.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare RECIST v 1.1 vs immune RECIST (iRECIST) in patients with ASPS on atezolizumab and
      atezolizumab + bevacizumab.

      II. Assess the post-progression response rate among patients who progress while on treatment
      holiday and then resume treatment.

      III. Analyze the genomic and immune profiles of tumors expressing type 1 or type 2 ASPL-TFE3
      fusions and correlate findings with response to atezolizumab or atezolizumab in combination
      with bevacizumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      in arm I who do achieve disease progression may cross-over to arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes and bevacizumab IV over 30-90
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 27-30 days.
    
  