
    
      Maternal drug addiction constitutes a major public health problem for both women and affected
      children, with long lasting consequences on children's social, emotional and cognitive
      development. Current treatment strategies tend to focus on the mother and her current
      addiction, rather than her relationship with her child, and developmental processes that may
      perpetuate the addiction problems, such as unresolved childhood attachment trauma, neglect,
      and chronic stress. Unlike mothers who find engaging with their own infant to be a uniquely
      rewarding experience, mothers with addictions may be less able to respond appropriately to
      their infant's cues, finding them less intrinsically rewarding or salient, and more stress
      provoking.

      Aim 1: To examine, in addicted mothers compared to non-addicted control mothers, the effect
      of intranasal oxytocin (OT) on functional MRI brain responses to reward-related cues: own vs.
      unknown happy infant faces.

      Aim 2: To examine, in addicted mothers compared to non-addicted control mothers, the effect
      of intranasal OT on brain responses to stress-related cues: own vs. unknown sad infant faces
      and cries.

      Aim 3: To examine the effect of intranasal OT on functional brain connectivity, including the
      striatum, PFC and amygdala. Specifically, exploring whether, after receiving intranasal OT
      compared to placebo, addicted mothers show increased functional connectivity between the
      amygdala and (i) the ventromedial PFC for own-happy infant faces, and (ii) the dorsolateral
      PFC and striatum for own-sad faces.

      Aim 4: To explore how individual differences in adult attachment and mother-infant synchrony,
      sensation-seeking/risk-taking and stress/trauma exposure are associated with OT brain
      responses to infant faces.

      Aim 5: To examine the effect of intranasal OT on activation of the salience network in
      addicted mothers, as well as connectivity patterns between these regions and the amygdala. We
      predict that there will be noticeable increase in activity in the salience network (dorsal
      anterior cingulate and anterior insula) after administering OT. We predict the addiction
      group will have a greater affect from the OT treatment than the control group.
    
  