
    
      Test group:

      The study will include two visits for the test group:

      At visit one there will be required and optional research activities as the following:

      Required research activities:

      -Peripheral blood draw (3.5 tablespoons) drawn by research coordinator. This blood is to
      isolate PBMCs for generation of iPSCs.If patient did not want to give a blood sample we will
      ask if willing to give a urine sample. A clinical research coordinator will give the patient
      a plastic container and will explain how use it.

      The following research activities will be optional at visit one:

        1. Physical exam and blood work (kidney/liver, blood count, coagulation, B-HCG, iron
           studies, and plasma for microRNA) processed at Presby Lab. This will be required if the
           patient approved to do right heart cath.

        2. Electrocardiogram.

        3. 6 Minute Walk Test.

        4. Skin Biopsy from underarm or inner thigh by physician (Dermatology department) (if
           patients agree to do, if not, we will only get a blood sample)

        5. Resting Echocardiogram

      This visit will last 7-8 hours.

      Study Visit Two:

      This will include optional Right Heart Catheterization.

        -  Right Heart catheterization by PI/Sub-Investigator. Duration ~ 3 hours

             -  IF the results show that the pressure in the lung vessels is elevated without
                exercise AND there is no other abnormality in the heart function, we will NOT do
                exercise testing.

             -  IF the patients are physically able to perform exercise testing/agree to do an
                exercise testing, patients will have an Exercise Right Heart catheterization and a
                Rest and Stress Echocardiography. (Determined by PI/Sub-Investigator

             -  All participants who will do right heart catheterization will have to do a
                pregnancy test before the procedure.

        -  Exercise Echocardiogram completed in. If patient unable to exercise medication
           (Dobutamine) will be given. Duration ~ 1-2 hours

        -  Exercise Right Heart catheterization Duration ~ 2-3 hours

      CONTROL GROUP

      Control group will only have one visit. At this visit there will be a minimum required
      research activity to participate in the study and this will include:

      -Peripheral blood draw (3.5 tablespoons) drawn by research coordinator. This blood is to
      isolate PBMCs for generation of iPSCs. If participant did not want to give a blood sample we
      will ask if willing to give a urine sample.

      The following research activists will be optional at visit one:

        1. Physical exam and blood work (kidney/liver, blood count, coagulation, B-HCG, iron
           studies, and plasma for microRNA) processed at Presby Lab. This will be required if the
           patient approved to do right heart cath.

        2. ECG, done by research coordinator and read by PI/Sub-Investigator.

        3. 6 Minute Walk Test, done by research coordinator, if patient could perform.

        4. Skin Biopsy from underarm or inner thigh by physician (Dermatology department) (if
           patients agree to do, if not, we will only get a blood sample) This visit will last 6-7
           hours.
    
  