
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of human lysozyme goat milk (hLZ) treatment by
      assessing:

      Ia: Type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration of adverse events,
      including diarrhea, bloodstream/intestinal infections.

      Ib. Patients' ability to drink the specified volume (250 ml 3 x/day) of hLZ during the
      treatment period.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the incidence and severity of adverse events (AE) among hLZ-treated and
      untreated patients, including diarrhea, bloodstream infections and intestinal infections.

      II. To obtain preliminary estimates of gut microbiome diversity, as assessed by the Simpson
      Index, in hLZ-treated/untreated patients.

      III. To compare gut microbiome diversity among hLZ-treated/untreated patients. IV. To obtain
      a preliminary estimate of the possible association between gut microbiome diversity and
      bloodstream infections.

      V. To obtain a preliminary estimate of the possible association between gut microbiome
      diversity and acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) cumulative incidence, including time to
      onset.

      VI. To characterize and compare GVHD inflammatory biomarkers (presence, level) among
      hLZ-treated and untreated patients.

      VII. To characterize and compare urinary uindoxyl sulfate, tryptophan and kynurenine levels
      between hLZ-treated and untreated patients.

      IX. To obtain a preliminary estimate of gut microbiome diversity and calorie intake.

      X. To estimate overall survival (OS) cumulative incidence (CI) chronic GVHD of
      relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days (excluding chronic GVHD), 6
      months, 1 year and 2 years.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A:

      CONDITIONING: Patients receive palifermin on days -10 to -8 and days 0 to 2, undergo
      fractionated total body irradiation (FTBI) on days -7 to -4, and receive cyclophosphamide on
      days -3 to -2 or etoposide on day -3 per City of Hope (COH) standard operating procedure
      (SOP) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      HLZ: Patients receive human lysozyme goat milk orally (PO) three times daily (TID) on days -8
      to 28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo stem cell transplant on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Beginning on day -2, patients receive tacrolimus and sirolimus daily per
      COH SOP in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B:

      CONDITIONING: Patients receive palifermin on days -10 to -8 and days 0 to 2 per COH SOP,
      undergo FTBI on days -7 to -4, and receive cyclophosphamide on days -3 to -2 or etoposide on
      day -3 per COH SOP in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo stem cell transplant on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Beginning on day -2, patients receive tacrolimus and sirolimus daily per
      COH SOP in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 30-100 days and
      then up to 2 years after transplant.
    
  