
    
      It is estimated that 2-3 % of the adult population suffers from heart failure (HF) and the
      prevalence is increasing. The European Society of Cardiology (ESC) represents countries with
      a population > 1,1 billion, and it is estimated that approximately 30 million patients have
      HF in these 53 countries. Heart failure is particularly prevalent in the elderly population
      and represents a major burden for both patients and the health services. In United states
      (US) more than 5 million people, or almost 2% of population have HF (Go at al, 2013) Medicare
      data indicate that 12% to 27% of patients hospitalized for heart failure are readmitted
      within 30 days after their discharge, and all-cause mortality reaches 12% in the same period.
      (Jencks at al, 2009).

      Despite optimal non-pharmacological, pharmacological and device therapy, the morbidity among
      HF patients is high with symptoms such as dyspnoea and fatigue that reduce quality of life.
      Following diagnosis approximately 50% are dead after 4 years. Forty percent of patients
      admitted to hospital with HF are either dead or hospitalized within one year.

      During the last decade, PDE5-inhibitors have been evaluated as a potential treatment for
      heart failure (see scientific rationale and reference). However, these investigations have
      been small and there is still limited data. Trials assessing the acute effects of
      PDE5-inhibition in patients with symptomatic HF due to systolic dysfunction have been
      performed primarily with sildenafil. Due to the short half-life of sildenafil the drug is
      administered 3 times daily when studying its chronic effects.

      Previous studies have evaluated the 50 mg dose acutely and 50 mg 3 times daily during
      short-term chronic studies. Importantly, there is considerable off-label use of sildenafil in
      symptomatic heart failure patients in most European countries.

      Revatio is currently licensed for pulmonary hypertension group 1. The dosing scheme is 20mg x
      3. However, we suggest targeting a higher dose to achieve optimal clinical benefit in
      patients with heart failure and moderate congestion. As mentioned above most of the clinical
      literature in patients with symptomatic heart failure has been done using the 50mg x 3
      regimen. However, it is believed that in the proposed study using 40mg x 3 should be equally
      efficacious. There is already considerable experience using this dosage scheme in heart
      failure patients locally.

      The hemodynamic profile of PDE-5 inhibitors is favorable with reduction in filling pressures,
      both systemic and pulmonary, vascular resistance accompanied by improvement in symptoms and
      sub maximal and peak exercise performance. This pilot study will evaluate the use of the
      PDE5-inhibitor sildenafil in patients with heart failure, systolic dysfunction and documented
      secondary pulmonary hypertension.
    
  