
    
      The study is designed as an open label cross-over study. Ethical approval will be obtained
      from both the University of Alberta Health Research Ethics Board and the University of
      Saskatchewan Health Research Ethics Board.

      Following informed consent, we will obtain pulmonary function testing in all subjects. If
      subject is currently prescribed a long acting beta agonist (LABA) it will be stopped before
      continuing with the study and the subject, as with all subjects, will be re-assessed after
      two weeks. We will also measure exhaled NO (eNO) using standards established by the American
      Thoracic Society. Additionally we will obtain a urine sample which will be frozen and stored
      for subsequent metabolite profiling by NMR spectroscopy. Subjects currently prescribed LABA's
      will have testing done two weeks after stopping medication.

      We will obtain routine demographic information including age, sex, and usual asthma
      medication usage. We will also obtain health related quality of life status using generic
      (15D) and disease specific (Asthma Quality of Life) questionnaires. Subjects will be
      instructed regarding use of peak flow meters and the typical symptoms associated with loss of
      asthma control. They will be instructed regarding accessing a dedicated asthma website (the
      Virtual Asthma Clinic) that incorporates the above questions. There is also a place for
      subjects to enter twice daily peak flow measurements. The website is password protected and
      each subject can access only their own individualized data entry pages. A research
      coordinator is able to access any subject data again using a unique password. We will use
      this internet-based program to monitor daily PEF, daily asthma symptoms and asthma-related
      quality of life. Patients will be instructed to access the website daily and will be
      re-assessed at two weeks. Subjects will be instructed to continue with their usual asthma
      management and to log on to the asthma website daily to record symptoms and twice daily peak
      flows. Peak flows will consist of pre-bronchodilator peak expiratory flow taken in the
      morning and in the evening. Only subjects meeting criteria for well controlled asthma (GOAL
      criteria) along with objective compliance with study protocols over the two weeks will then
      be enrolled in the next phase of the study.

      For the next two weeks of the study, subjects will be randomly allocated to take either their
      regularly prescribed inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long acting beta agonist (LABA) or
      their regularly prescribed ICS and tiotropium. At the end of this period all subjects will
      return for spirometry, urine sampling and for measurement eNO. This will be followed by a two
      week wash-out period when all subjects will take only their inhaled corticosteroid (ICS). For
      the subsequent two weeks the subject will take the treatment they did not receive in the
      first two weeks. At the end of this period all subjects will again return for spirometry,
      urine sampling and for measurement of eNO. During a fifth period of two weeks duration,
      subjects will take both the LABA and tiotropium. Subjects will then return for final
      measurement of spirometry, urine sampling and eNO.

      Subjects showing variability of symptoms consistent with poor asthma control, will be
      referred back to their treating physicians with their clinical information. All subjects will
      be instructed to return to their medication regimen that was initiated by their physician
      prior to the study.

      If subjects experience a clinical exacerbation, they will be instructed to return to their
      test site. They will be instructed to increase their controller medication and to continue
      with the increased steroid phase of the study. Any subject experiencing a severe asthma
      exacerbation (described below) will be withdrawn from the study. Assuming approximately 30%
      severe exacerbation rate per year in this population, we would anticipate that one to two
      patients would normally experience a severe exacerbation over a 10 week course. If four of
      our subjects experience severe exacerbations, we will hold the trial and have an external
      review of the unblinded data. This will include review of patient compliance with study
      protocols. If the exacerbations are all in the tiotropium group we will stop the study. We
      anticipate with the use of the on-line data collection tool (VAC), the study coordinators
      will be able to see any exacerbation developing at an early point and that we will be able to
      effectively intervene to prevent severe exacerbations.

      A mild clinical exacerbation will be defined by any one of the following events:

        1. A decrease in peak flow to less than 80% of best effort for two consecutive days.

        2. An increase in reliever medication (fast acting beta agonist) by 50% over baseline needs
           for two consecutive days.

        3. Waking at night due to asthma on two consecutive nights. A severe exacerbation will be
           defined as any need for additional medical contact for treatment of asthma (e.g.,
           emergency room, walk-in clinic) or any hospital admission for asthma. The need for oral
           corticosteroids will also constitute a severe exacerbation. If at any point the subjects
           undergo a severe exacerbation, they will be examined by either their own treating
           physician or by one of the physicians associated with this study and appropriate
           escalation of treatment will be commenced. The HREB will be informed of all severe
           exacerbations. The study coordinator and one of the study physicians will be available
           by pager during the course of the study.
    
  