
    
      Eighty-four ASA I-IV patients presenting for operative repair of an unstable
      intertrochanteric femur fracture will be enrolled. This will include fractures classified
      according to the Orthopaedic Trauma Association / Arbeitsgemeinschaft fur
      Osteosynthesisfragen (OTA/AO) classification system as 31A2.2, 31A2.3, 31A3.1, 31A3.2, and
      31A3.3.15 After consent and upon arrival to the operating room, patients will be monitored
      and then sedated with midazolam, fentanyl, and ketamine as necessary per standard practice to
      facilitate lateral positioning. Patients will be positioned with the operative side down for
      the spinal blockade. Under sterile conditions, spinal anesthesia will be induced with 10mg
      (1.2mL) of hyperbaric 0.75% bupivicaine as per standard practice. The patient will then be
      given a standard general anesthetic induction consisting of propofol, succinylcholine,
      fentanyl, and lidocaine. The patient will be intubated and anesthesia will be maintained with
      desflurane in oxygen and air. At the time of incision, the patient will be randomized to one
      of two groups. The surgeon and the anesthesiologist will be blinded to the patient's
      randomization status. Group 1 (NMB) will be given IV rocuronium 0.6mg/kg in a volume of 10cc.
      Group 2 (placebo) will be given 10cc normal saline. The anesthesia practitioner will test a
      Train of Four (TOF) and confirm a return of twitches prior to administering the study
      intervention. The nerve stimulator will then be disconnected until the conclusion of the
      case. Hemodynamic changes which suggest light anesthesia will be treated with additional
      fentanyl in 50mcg increments and/or increasing the desflurane concentration. Any hypotension
      directly attributed to the anesthetic by the anesthetic practitioner will be managed using a
      phenylephrine bolus and/or infusion as per standard anesthetic practice. Surgery will be
      performed by one of three fellowship trained orthopedic trauma surgeons, and fixation of
      these fractures will be with a single type of cephalomedullary implant (Synthes TFN-A, West
      Chester, PA). These three surgeons employ an identical bed, patient position, and traction
      technique (sterile skeletal traction) for these procedures. A percutaneous reduction will
      first be attempted. If unsuccessful, an open reduction will then be pursued. Following
      adequate reduction, fixation with the cephalomedullary implant will then be completed. Once
      skin closure has been initiated, to reverse any NMB, sugammadex 200mg in 2ml will be given to
      those patients randomized to the NMB group, and 2mL normal saline for the placebo group. At
      the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist, a nerve stimulator may be reapplied not
      less than 5 minutes after NMB reversal (or saline) is given. Once the attending surgeon has
      evaluated the final radiographs, all patients will have their anesthetics discontinued and
      will be extubated after emergence from anesthesia.
    
  