
    
      Background Single sided deafness (SSD) and asymmetrical hearing loss are common hearing
      impairments, and their social consequences are well established. At the central auditory
      system level, the single sided deafness is associated with a reorganization of auditory
      temporal cortices that leads to a reduction of inter hemispheric asymmetry.

      Purpose : Our main objective is to study the relation between the reorganization of the
      central auditory system, namely the inter hemispheric asymmetry, and the psychophysical
      deficits in binaural hearing in subjects with SSD.

      Abstract : Binaural hearing enables spatial localization of the sound source and improves
      speech recognition in a competing noise. SSD and asymmetrical hearing loss are common hearing
      impairments, which affect 0.3 to 1/1000 children. In the adult population, this prevalence
      increases with age. The impact of SSD and asymmetrical hearing loss on quality of life
      indices is well established and some reports underline its consequences in children
      scholarship. Previous neuro-imaging and electro physiological studies highlighted the
      reduction of normal inter hemispheric asymmetry in subjects with SSD. To the best of our
      knowledge, there is no report about the relation between the central auditory system
      reorganization and its behavioural deficits.

      The investigators propose to conduct a study which analyzes the relationship between the
      reduction of inter hemispheric asymmetry and performance in binaural hearing tests. Thus, the
      auditory plasticity will be studied using functional magnetic resonance imaging and more
      specifically BOLD variations in auditory temporal cortices. A set of binaural hearing
      assessments will be performed, including speech recognition in noise and localization
      abilities. The correlation between the lateralization ratio and binaural measurements (speech
      reception threshold (SRT) in dichotic hearing, diotic hearing, reverse dichotic hearing) will
      be estimated. Likewise, the impact of SSD duration on cortical reorganization and binaural
      tests will be studied.
    
  