
    
      Although smoking prevalence is decreasing in Hong Kong, there are still 641,300 daily smokers
      (10.5%) and half will be killed by smoking which accounts for over 7,000 deaths per year.
      Smoking also accounts for a large amount of medical cost, long-term care and productivity
      loss of US$688 million (0.6% Hong Kong GDP). Smoking is a highly addictive behavior and it is
      difficult for smokers with strong nicotine dependence to quit without assistance. On the
      other hand, reaching and helping the many smokers who have no intention to quit is a
      challenge, because they are unlikely to seek professional help from smoking cessation
      services.

      The Quit and Win programme provides an opportunity to reach and encourage a large group of
      smokers to make quit attempt and maintain abstinence. The Quit and Win model posits that
      smokers participating in the contest will have higher motivation to quit with incentives and
      better social support. Studies have found that such quitting contests or incentive programs
      appeared to reach a large number of smokers and demonstrated a significantly higher quit rate
      for the quit and win group than for the control group.

      Smoking cessation services in Hong Kong are under-used with most of the adult daily smokers
      (79.6%) who had never used smoking cessation services. Among these smokers, only 2.4% were
      willing to use the services. Our previous RCT in previous QTW Contest 2015 evaluated the
      effects of low-intensity active referral (LAR) vs. very brief general SC advice (VBA) on
      quitting. LAR included onsite AWARD counselling and collection of smokers' personal contact
      information for SC services providers to connect with the smokers. Findings at 3-month
      follow-up of this RCT suggested the LAR intervention resulted in significantly higher
      self-reported quit rate than VBA in the control group (18.7% vs. 14.0%. P<0.001). Our RCT in
      previous QTW Contest 2016 evaluated the effects of a higher intensity and personalized active
      referral (HAR) vs. low intensity text messaging (SMS) vs. very brief SC advice (VBA; control
      group) on encouraging smoking cessation (SC) service use and increasing the quit rate.
      Findings at 6-month follow-up of the QTW 2016 RCT showed that the intervention group with HAR
      had a significantly higher self-reported quit rate than VBA (the control group) (17.0% vs.
      11.2%, P = 0.02). Text messaging group also had significantly higher self-reported quit rate
      than the control group (17.1 % vs. 11.2%, P = 0.02).

      However, these SMS-based RCTs could not provide real-time responses from the counsellors,
      which might weaken the smokers' intention to quit and lower the intensity of social support.
      In the present proposal, we hope to enrich the SMS-based intervention by using social media
      such as WhatsApp or WeChat etc., which can provide an interactive platform and develop a
      semi-personalized interactive IM system that can tailor for the smokers according to their
      characteristics, needs and demand.

      Therefore, the present study will examine (1) the effectiveness of regular messages and
      semi-personalized instant messaging with AWARD brief advice and active referral to smoking
      cessation (SC) services and (2) explore the use of CBPR model to build capacity and to engage
      community partners in taking on this important public health issue for sustainability in the
      community. In addition, a process evaluation will be conducted to assess the effectiveness of
      the recruitment activity and how it is linked with the overall program outcomes.
    
  