
    
      Eligible participants will have 8 sessions where they will receive two IM injections.The dose
      of ketamine will be manipulated (0 mg/kg to 0.4 mg/kg) across sessions. The dose of
      hydromorphone will either be 0 mg or 8 mg. Therefore, participants will be exposed to
      ascending doses of ketamine with and without hydromorphone. Order of study medications will
      be randomized for each participant by an un-blinded statistician and transmitted securely to
      study pharmacist in charge of medication administration. This study will provide unique
      information on optimal hydromorphone-ketamine dosing strategies for acute pain management. in
      buprenorphine maintained patients.

      Each session will take place 17 hours after the last buprenorphine dose (trough levels) to
      control for time since last dose. Sessions will be held on a dedicated unit for human
      subjects clinical research at Zuckerberg San Francisco General and include two IM injections
      of study medication given 15 minutes apart by blinded nursing staff. Study sessions will each
      last approximately 5 hours. Sessions will take place 1-2x weekly and must be separated by at
      least 72 hours to allow for drug wash-out. QST outcomes will be measured at baseline, as well
      as 15, 75, 135, and 195 minutes after injection #2 for each session. In addition, abuse
      liability outcomes will be measured at baseline (if required) and at 15, 75, 135, and 195
      minutes after injection #2 for each session.

      Blood will be drawn to evaluate baseline buprenorphine /norbuprenorphine levels. Then, PK
      analyses will be done for ketamine, norketamine and hydromorphone. Blood will be drawn at
      baseline as well as 15, 75, 135, and 195 minutes after injection #2.

      Primary outcome will be analgesia as assessed by QST. The use of various QST measures which
      assess acute anti-nociception as well as central modification of pain processing will allow
      us to evaluate whether overall analgesia results from blocking of nociceptor signaling and/or
      changes to central pain facilitation to better understand the mechanism of
      ketamine-hydromorphone combinations.
    
  