
    
      Nausea and vomiting are common side effects caused by chemotherapy. Some studies have shown
      that acupuncture can be helpful in treating nausea and vomiting. Acupuncture uses very thin
      needles inserted at certain points on the body that are believed to affect bodily functions.
      Researchers want to study the effects on nausea and vomiting of giving electro-stimulation
      (using wires attached to the body to provide very small electrical shocks to the skin) to an
      acupuncture site, compared to giving electro-stimulation to a inactive site (a site that does
      not respond to acupuncture).

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to be in 1 of 2 groups. Participants in one group will receive
      electro-stimulation at an active (responsive) acupuncture site on the bottom of the foot.
      Participants in the other group will receive electro-stimulation at a inactive site on the
      bottom of the foot (a "placebo" site).

      Participants in both groups will have electro-stimulation on the feet. You will sit or lie
      down in bed. The acupuncturist will wet the points with a cotton ball dipped in water and
      attach the electrodes of the electro-stimulating instrument to the bottom of your feet. The
      electrodes are little paddles that will be attached with tape. The acupuncturist will begin
      slowly increasing the stimulation to a level you can withstand comfortably. This will last
      about 30 minutes.

      The stimulation will occur about 1-2 hours before your TAI chemotherapy on the first day, and
      then between 7-9 A.M. on the next 5 days.

      After each electro-stimulation procedure, your vital signs will be measured, you will
      complete quality-of-life questionnaires, and you will be asked about hiccups and diet
      tolerance (how nausea has affected your ability to eat or how much you eat). After your last
      electro-stimulation, you will also have a TCM diagnosis. This will include diagnosis by a
      doctor as well as by using a heart-rate machine and taking a photograph of your tongue. Blood
      (about 1 teaspoon) will also be drawn to check your liver function about 6 days after the
      treatments.

      You will be given the standard medicines if you experience uncontrolled nausea or vomiting
      while on this study.

      Your total participation on this study will last less than 2 weeks.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at the Fudan University Cancer Hospital.
    
  