
    
      Chronic inflammatory diseases (CID), including inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) (of which
      Crohn's disease [CD] and ulcerative colitis [UC] are the two most prevailed entities),
      rheumatic conditions (rheumatoid arthritis [RA], axial spondyloarthropathy [axSpA], psoriatic
      arthritis [PsA]), skin diseases (psoriasis [PsO], hidradenitis suppurativa [HS]), and eye
      disease (non-infectious uveitis [NiU]), are diseases of the immune system that are managed
      with biological agents targeting the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor-α
      (TNF), i.e. TNF inhibitors.

      Design In this prospective cohort study disease activity prior to and after (14-16 weeks)
      initiation of biologic treatment will be assessed. The endpoint is the treatment outcome
      defined as A: Responder according to the specific criteria described below (incl.
      drug-continuation) or B: Non-responder (incl. drug-discontinuation due to unacceptable side
      effects). Whether a patient will discontinue therapy is assumed to be based on a certain
      degree of shared decision making between the patient and physician supported by principles
      from national guidelines for each CID as recommended in the respective national guidelines
      and laboratory data.

      Setting All patients assigned for initiation of biologic treatment at 1) Department of
      Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Aalborg University Hospital; 2) Department of Hepatology and
      Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital; 3) Diagnostic Centre, Silkeborg Regional
      Hospital; 4) Department of Internal Medicine, Herning Regional Hospital; 5) Department of
      Gastroenterology, Herlev Hospital; 6) Organ Centre, Hospital of Southern Jutland; 7)
      Department of Gastroenterology Hospital of South West Jutland; 8) Department of Medical
      Gastroenterology, Department of Rheumatology, Department of Dermatology and Allergy Centre,
      and Department of Ophthalmology, Odense University Hospital from 1st of April 2017 and until
      31th of Marts 2019 or until a minimum of 100 patients with IBD, 100 patients with RA, and 120
      patients with axSpA, PsA, PsO, HS and NiU are achieved.

      Clinical data consist of personal data, data on health and disease, lifestyle, laboratory
      measure, and disease activity scores including using patient-reported outcome measures
      (PROMs), clinical assessments, and laboratory data. Each participant will fill out validated
      questionnaires on disease activity, quality of life, and lifestyle using an electronic link.
      Studies have found electronic questionnaires to be equivalent to paper-based in relation to
      PROMs.

      Data management The electronic questionnaire is in Danish language and the participants will
      have access to the questionnaire by an electronic link sent to their personal, electronic
      mailbox. All data will be stored in a secure research storage facility. Information
      registered by clinicians and technicians will be transferred from paper format to electronic
      format using either double entry of data or automated forms processing.

      Statistical methods The investigators will use this rigorously designed, prospective cohort
      study to explore the ability to predict clinical response across the conditions included
      (Y=primary endpoint), and explore whether patients who are on a diet high in fibre AND low in
      red and processed meat (X=assessed at baseline) is an informative prognostic factor. Per
      default, the statistical model will include condition (any of the CID conditions included),
      and clinical centre (site #1 to #8) as fixed effects.

      Sample size considerations: It is a well-known difficulty for exploratory prognostic factor
      research studies like this, to formalize how many participants (i.e. with events) to include.
      In order to consider an adequate number of outcome events, the investigators apply "the rule
      of thumb" that dictates that 10 outcome events are needed for each independent variable
      (possible predictors); the investigators plan to enrol 320 patients in total, and anticipate
      that 50% of these will experience a clinical response during the 14-16 week period after
      therapy is initiated. With this in mind: Anticipating that at least 160 will achieve clinical
      responses (among the 320 patients), this study will have a reasonable power to explore the
      impact of as many as 16 independent (predictor) variables (including condition and clinical
      centre).

      Focusing on the contrast between groups, for a comparison of two independent binomial
      proportions (those with high fibre AND low meat intake vs other) using Pearson's Chi-square
      statistic with a Chi-square approximation with a two-sided significance level of 0.05
      (P<0.05), a total sample size of 318 assuming an allocation ratio of 1 to 2 has an
      approximate power of 0.924 (i.e. >90% statistical power) when the proportions responding are
      60% and 40%, respectively.

      All the statistical programming will be done in SAS (Statistical Analysis Software), STATA or
      R, transparently reporting the source code used to analyse the data. All computational
      details will be available in the pre-specified Statistical Analysis Plan (will be finalised
      before data collection is complete).

      Project organisation The project is organised with a Clinical Research Group and an
      Analytical Research Group. The clinical group includes specialists from the medical,
      gastroenterological, rheumatological, dermatological and ophthalmological departments that
      are sampling the cohort. The analytical group will perform the analyses on the biological
      material.
    
  