
    
      The study is a prospective, randomized multicenter trial. Approximately 200 subjects will be
      enrolled at 12 sites throughout the United States and Canada. Up to 250 subjects may be
      enrolled to account for screen failures. Rutgers, New Jersey Medical School is the
      coordinating center for the study. The purpose of this study is to determine whether there is
      an advantage to using autograft (bone material taken from the patient's own hip) or allograft
      (bone material derived from other sources) when performing ACDF. Both of these materials are
      routinely used by surgeons in ACDF surgeries. Neither is experimental.

      Using a computer randomization program, the central study coordinating site will randomize
      subjects in a 1:1 ratio to either the autograft or allograft arm of the trial. Surgery is
      then scheduled in the routine manner. The same ACDF surgeries routinely employed by study
      surgeons will be performed with screw-plate fixation using the same Medtronic system for all
      surgeries. In addition, all surgeons will use the same allograft struts, also be provided by
      Medtronic [Cornerstone].

      Postoperative management will be the usual and customary procedures followed by the spine
      surgeons participating in the trial. This would include a wound check at some point in the
      first two weeks following discharge with clinical and radiographic studies performed at 6
      weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years after the index surgery. Baseline and 1 year
      postoperative X-rays will be collected for the study. As the "gold standard" for the
      evaluation of fusion is the presence of bridging trabecular bone across an intended fusion
      interspace as well as the lack of motion between the spinous processes at the treated levels,
      dynamic plain film radiographs in neutral, flexion and extension will be obtained to
      determine fusion status. Neuroradiologists will review the subjects' 1 year radiographs. If
      these images are unable to definitively clarify whether a fusion has occurred at the 1 year
      time point, then CT scan examinations would be obtained as standard of care to make the
      determination. Review of these CT scans for the trial would also be performed by a blinded
      study radiologist. Sagittal and coronal reconstructed views will be generated. All subjects'
      imaging studies will be reviewed by a Board certified radiologist certified in
      neuroradiology. The flexion and extension cervical spine radiographs would be obtained to
      determine motion between the spinous processes and the presence of bridging trabecular bone.
      This will include preoperative and postoperative (1 year) imaging in which the
      neuroradiologist will be blinded to the readings of any outside radiologists or surgeons. At
      1 year, the neuroradiologist will provide a binomial response of either "fused" or "not
      fused". Partial fusions will be considered not fused for the purposes of this study. The
      decision of the blinded neuroradiologist will be final regardless of the surgeon's
      impressions of the imaging studies.

      Subject visits will occur at the patients' standard of care clinical visits at
      baseline/screening and at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years post-surgery. Study
      questionnaires and routine physician evaluations will be completed at each of these visits.
      X-rays will be collected and reviewed at the baseline and 1 year visits. A CT scan will be
      collected at 1 year only in the event that radiographs cannot determine whether fusion has
      occurred. Subjects will be monitored for adverse events at each visit.

      Complications related to the cervical and the iliac regions will be carefully observed. In
      the cervical spine, the complications would include: persistent neck pain, persistent arm
      pain, new neurological findings, instrumentation failure, fusion failure, dysphagia, and
      voice issues (hoarseness and/or weakness). Specific to the iliac patients, complications
      related to pain, bleeding, infection, development of meralgia paresthetica, pelvis fracture,
      or other findings related to the iliac harvest would be catalogued. If reoperation is
      necessary, this will be recorded on a Report of Second Cervical Surgery as well the reason
      for the reoperation. Complications such as graft dislodgement, extrusion, or collapse will be
      noted. Instrumentation failure resulting in screw and/or plate fracture will be recorded.
      Reoperations for any reason will be identified and specific observation will be made as to
      whether a pseudoarthrosis was present as the rationale for the reoperation. In addition,
      clarification as to whether surgery was needed for an adjacent segment issue next to a
      previously successful fusion will be documented.

      Due to concerns with swallowing dysfunction following anterior cervical surgery, all patients
      in the study will be evaluated prior to the surgery and at routine follow-up time points with
      the Dysphagia Short Questionnaire (DSQ).

      Smokers will be included in the study and their patient-reported status with respect to the
      level of use of nicotine containing products will be documented at each visit. All smokers
      will be encouraged to quit smoking prior to the surgeries.

      Both disease- specific and general patient outcomes will be analyzed at regular intervals.
      Outcomes related to neck pain, arm pain, and neurological abnormalities will be assessed. The
      following patient-reported outcomes measures will be administered to subjects prior to
      surgery and at 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months, 1 year and 2 years: DSQ, PROMIS-PF, EQ-5D-5L,
      NDI, and VAS (arm and neck and iliac crest-if applicable).
    
  