
    
      Peer counselling and support has been shown to be effective in improving breastfeeding (BF)
      initiation, duration and exclusiveness. Peer counselling is being introduced into different
      country settings worldwide as an intervention to support women to achieve successful
      commencement and maintenance of breastfeeding, given the range of health benefits for the
      woman and her infant. Findings from one Cochrane review suggested that postnatal contacts in
      the home may reduce infant health service utilisation in the weeks following the birth, and
      that more home visits may encourage more women to exclusively breastfeed.

      The planned study A feasibility randomized controlled trial (RCT) study is proposed in the
      current study as women who had given birth to their first babies recruited to a previous
      project specifically expressed the need for postnatal BF support from peer counsellors at
      home and there is evidence that this could be of benefit for women and their infants.
      Evidence of whether women in Hong Kong who had peer counsellors have better breastfeeding
      outcomes compared to women who had standard care however is not available. Prior to
      undertaking a definitive RCT, the investigators need to know if women would be willing to be
      recruited and randomised to an intervention or standard care.

      This study is important for several reasons. Chinese women are expected to be housebound
      during the first month postnatally due to the tradition of 'doing the month', when problems
      with infant feeding and/or infants failing to thrive due to poor feeding could result in a
      decision to stop breastfeeding. The innovative home-based intervention the investigators will
      undertake will address an important service gap in Hong Kong to promote and sustain exclusive
      breastfeeding, and could be an effective strategy which reflects Chinese culture. The Health
      Care and Promotion Scheme grant review panel recommended that although an evaluation of a
      home-based peer counselling project is a high priority, a small-scale feasibility study was
      needed before a definitive RCT application is submitted.

      Peer counsellors will be recruited from those who passed the UNICEF and La Leche League Peer
      Counselling Training programme. Additional training tailored to issues that they may
      encounter in home-based contacts with women who are breastfeeding, for example solving
      problems of exclusive breastfeeding and correct breastfeeding technique will be needed and
      conducted by team leaders for the peer counsellors. Women planning to breastfeed who meet the
      study's inclusion criteria will be recruited from hospital postnatal ward and randomly
      allocated using opaque, sealed envelopes, by an independent research assistant not involved
      in participant recruitment, data collection or analysis to the intervention group (n=10,
      home-based peer counselling intervention and standard usual care) and control groups (n=10,
      standard usual care).
    
  