
    
      This project is a community based participatory research collaboration among two universities
      and two research networks that will enable increased Informed Decision Making (IDM) for
      prostate cancer screening in Hispanic and African American men. Our collaborating
      universities are the University of Texas Health Science center at Houston, Texas Prevention
      Research Center (TPRC), Baylor College of Medicine (BCM), and the University of South
      Carolina (USC). Our collaborating networks are the Latinos in a Network for Cancer Control
      (LINCC), and the South Carolina Cancer Research Network (SC-CRN). Through the LINCC and the
      SCCRN, we have been able to link to the Cancer and Chronic Disease Consortium (CCDC, El Paso)
      which is working with Hispanic communities and the South Carolina Baptist Education and
      Missionary Convention (BEMC) which is a network of African American churches. Following the
      quality criteria for inclusion in evidence reviews conducted by the Community Guide for
      Preventive Services, we will adapt existing interventions and evaluate the effectiveness of
      these community-based IDM interventions for prostate cancer screening through two different
      studies, one at each site. We will first perform formative qualitative research in Hispanic
      communities in El Paso, Texas and in African American communities in Columbia, South
      Carolina. We will review existing IDM programs and contextual factors pertinent for adoption
      and dissemination in these two groups. Using the formative research and the review, we will
      adapt existing materials for intervention development in each group. For each study, the
      interventions will be evaluated using a pre-post-test delayed intervention comparison group
      design. As primary outcomes, we will measure the effect of community-based IDM interventions
      on men's knowledge of prostate cancer screening, participation in screening decisions at
      their desired level and whether participation was congruent with individual values and
      preferences in decision-making.
    
  