
    
      The chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment (also called chemobrain) has a great incidence
      among breast cancer population. However, the knowledge about effective interventions of
      supportive care is still inconsistent. Furthermore, the majority of programs targeted to this
      problem has been applied in survivorship, while the onset of cognitive impairment and the
      decline in quality of life occur during medical treatments. In this line, actual evidence
      suggests testing the effectiveness of interventions in a preventive setting in patients with
      breast cancer scheduled to receive neurotoxic chemotherapy. In addition, telehealth
      approaches have become a promising practice and increasingly more frequent among healthcare
      disciplines.

      Our objective is to study the effects of a videoconferenced cognitive training in combination
      with cognitive-behavioral strategies to prevent or mitigate the cancer- and
      chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment in women with breast cancer who undergo this
      treatment, as well as to improve quality of life and allow an optimal adaptation to the
      occupational needs derived from medical treatment.

      This study will use a two-arm, single blinded randomized clinical trial design. Eligible
      women will be randomized to one of the following groups: the experimental group that will
      receive the e-OTCAT program (12 weeks), or the control group that will receive and
      educational handbook and standard care. The study outcomes will be assessed after
      intervention and at 6-month follow-up post-randomization.

      This study may contribute the need to include disciplines such as occupational therapy in the
      supportive care of cancer patients during the active phase of the disease, as well as the
      potential advantages provided by a telehealth approach related to economic, temporal and
      geographical barriers.
    
  