
    
      Production of PRF membranes A venipuncture was performed, prior of performing any treatment
      (median basilica vein, median cubital vein, median cephalic vein). Blood was drawn into four
      sterile, red cover tubes (IntraSpin™, Biohorizons®, Birmingham, Alabama, USA) 10-mL tubes
      without anticoagulant. The tubes were immediately centrifuged at 2700 rpm for 12 min (~708g)
      using a vertical/ fixed angle centrifuge (IntraSpin™, Biohorizons®, Birmingham, Alabama,
      USA). The g-force values were referenced at the bottom of the centrifugation tubes (RCF-max).
      After centrifugation, each L-PRF clot was removed from the tube and separated from the red
      element phase at the base with pliers. Four L-PRF clots were squeezed between a sterile metal
      plate and a metal box to obtain L-PRF membranes, similar in size and thickness.

      Surgical procedures and initial clinical measurements The participants underwent periapical
      radiography or computed tomography (when necessary) and clinical examination to assess the
      absolute need for dental extraction. The participants underwent initial periodontal
      treatment, including supra and subgingival scaling, plaque control, and were given oral
      hygiene instructions.

      Before tooth extraction, participants from both groups underwent local anaesthesia with
      mepivacaine 2% (Mepiadre, Nova DFL, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil). All teeth were extracted using a
      minimally traumatic procedure. No vertical releasing incisions were performed. To avoid root
      and bony fractures, the molar teeth were sectioned using a multilaminated drill (Zecrya,
      Microdont, São Paulo, Brazil). Luxation of the teeth was performed using a periotome followed
      by removal using forceps. After exodontia, a rigorous inspection and curettage of the socket
      was performed, followed by irrigation with sterile saline solution (Linhamax, Eurofarma, Rio
      de Janeiro, Brazil).

      The sockets of the test group were filled with two PRF membranes followed by cross suture
      (Mononylon Ethilon, Johnson & Johnson, NJ, USA) to stabilize the membranes (Figure 1A), while
      the sockets of the control group received no type of biomaterial (i.e., left to spontaneous
      healing).

      Postoperative control It was prescribed Ibuprofen (400 mg, Advil, Pfizer, São Paulo, Brazil)
      every 6 h was also prescribed in case of pain. Mouthwash with chlorhexidine gluconate 0.12%
      (Periogard, Colgate, São Paulo, Brazil) was also prescribed twice per day for 2 weeks.
      Sutures were removed after 10 days.

      Clinical measurements One and two weeks after extraction, an assessment of soft tissue
      healing around the sockets was performed using the healing index system described by Landry
      et al (Landry, 1985). The following parameters were used to assess the level of healing:
      colour of tissues; epithelialisation of wound margins; presence of bleeding on palpation;
      granulation; and suppuration. The level of healing was scored as very poor, poor, good, very
      good, or excellent.

      Postoperative pain and number of consumed analgesic tablets were recorded and evaluated. To
      assess postoperative pain, participants were instructed to complete a 10-unit visual analog
      scale (VAS) in combination with a graphic rating scale. The VAS ranged from 0 (no pain) to
      100 (worst pain imaginable). Questionnaires were collected at the one week follow-up visit.
    
  