
    
      Bipolar disorder may be associated with the highest rates of substance abuse of any
      psychiatric illness. Studies suggest that substance abuse in persons with bipolar disorder
      have lifetime prevalence rates as high as 60% with reports of cocaine abuse as high as 30%.
      Comorbid substance abuse in persons with bipolar disorder is associated with increased
      hospitalization, poorer psychiatric recovery and treatment response than in patients with
      bipolar disorder alone. Thus, therapeutic agents that may enhance prognosis by improving
      psychiatric outcomes, reducing stimulant cravings, and increasing treatment retention are of
      considerable interest. In a previous study conducted in this lab, we found that conventional
      neuroleptic agents were associated with an increase in depressive symptoms and a significant
      increase in stimulant cravings. These results mirror preclinical animal data that show
      conventional neuroleptics (i.e.haloperidol) with high dopamine receptor binding affinities
      actually increase cocaine self-administration in rats and monkeys. These results are
      clinically relevant as persons with bipolar disorder who abuse cocaine and other drugs often
      receive higher doses of conventional neuroleptics than those without cocaine or other drug
      abuse. In contrast to conventional neuroleptic therapy, atypical antipsychotics (i.e.
      quetiapine, risperidone), decrease self-administration of cocaine. The receptor binding
      profile of the atypical antipsychotics broadly vary although all agents in this drug class
      are known as serotonin-dopamine antagonists. Quetiapine has 'moderate' dopamine binding,
      while risperidone has 'high' dopamine receptor binding properties similar to conventional
      neuroleptic agents. Thus, our hypothesis is that quetiapine may be a more efficacious agent
      than risperidone in treating bipolar mood symptoms while attenuating drug cravings and use.
    
  