
    
      Fats are present in the body in the form of lipid particles containing cholesterol and
      triglycerides. Lipid particles can deposit in blood vessels, forming atheromas, blocking
      blood vessels and leading to heart attacks and strokes. These harmful particles are termed
      'atherogenic' particles. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) is the major atherogenic particle.
      Each atherogenic particle has a protein associated with it called apolipoprotein B (apoB).
      Cholesterol, triglycerides, and apoB levels can be measured in the laboratory. In this study
      we focus on patients with raised levels of triglycerides (hypertriglyceridaemia).

      We will recruit patients with hypertriglyceridaemia to look at (1) therapeutic targets, (2)
      genetic causes, and (3) associated neuropathy in these patients.

        1. Therapeutic target arm:

           LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) is the primary target for lipid-lowering drugs. A drug (commonly
           a statin) is effective when it lowers LDL-C. Patients with diabetes, chronic kidney
           disease and hypertriglyceridaemia on statins may have normal levels of LDL-C; but
           because the size of LDL particles in these patients is smaller, they may in fact have
           raised levels of apoB and therefore remain at cardiovascular risk. Thus, measurement of
           apoB may be a better target for treatment because it measures 'atherogenic' particle
           numbers. Since atheromatous disease is an inflammatory disease, we will also investigate
           if residual risk may be correlated with inflammatory markers, such as hsCRP and Lp-PLA2.

        2. Hypertriglyceridaemia and nerve function arm:

           We aim to demonstrate that severe hypertriglyceridaemia is associated with more
           significant nerve damage.

        3. Genetic screening arm:

      Several genetic mutations have been identified to cause hypertriglyceridaemia. Deficiency of
      the enzyme lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) results in Cholesterol Ester Storage Disease (CESD)
      and hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, and abnormal lipid deposition in organs. We
      wish to identify genetic mutations associated with severe hypertriglyceridemia and the
      prevalence of LAL deficiency in patients attending our tertiary referral centre.
    
  