
    
      The study is composed of two parts, which run independently of each other. However, in both
      parts the course of the wounds is analyzed.

      Part 1: Two wound swabs are taken. One used for routinely performed microbiological analysis
      and the second will be used for biochemical analysis (enzyme activities). The aim of the
      wound swabs is to answer the question whether the rapid diagnostic tool used in the
      examination can display an infection prematurely or not. This means that an increased enzyme
      activity (especially MPO, NHE, LYS, gelatinase, pH) would indicate a change in the wound bed
      (infection, inflammation) earlier than the regular clinical assessment. These wound swabs are
      expected to function as an improvement of the biochemical assays or rather of the technology
      concerning sensitivity and specificity of, for example, the pH number, the MPO, the LYS, the
      gelatinase and the elastase. In addition to that, the correlation between the Enzyme
      activities and the course of the infection will be examined. This technology is supposed to
      be later used as an early infection diagnostic tool in wound fluids. The followup of this
      testing system is a crucial prerequisite for the application of the technology in VAC therapy
      (part 2).

      Part 2: The findings of this examination will be used to investigate the applicability of the
      developed in-vitro early infection diagnostic tool in negative-pressure therapy (VAC therapy;
      vacuum assisted closure).

      Patients of the plastic surgery with a NPWT are included in this prospective study. Before
      the NPWT will be applied, two swabs (biochemical and microbiological analysis) of the wounds
      will be taken. After installation of the dressing, the connecting tube between the wound and
      the vacuum-generating device will be cut and an "additional collector" will be inserted. This
      collector will be changed daily and afterwards the concentrations of enzymes (lysozyme,
      elastase, myeloperoxidase) will be biochemically analyzed.
    
  