
    
      Objective and Hypothesis: The aim of this study is to investigate and compare the mid-term
      safety and efficacy end-points (SF-36 PCS at 30 days after surgery, etc.) in patients with
      complex coronary artery lesions (an indication of OPCAGB) who received MICS-CABG and those
      who received thoracotomy OPCABG. The investigators hypothesize that patients in MICS-CABG
      group have superior clinical demonstrations regarding the primary endpoint than those in
      OPCAGB group without increased adverse outcomes.

      Intervention Methods:

        1. MICS-CABG (experimental group): Off-pump multi-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting
           via left thoracotomy under minimally invasive conditions.

             1. Surgery preparation:

                General anesthesia, double lumen tracheal intubation. In the supine position, tilt
                15° to the right. An automatic defibrillation electrode is attached to the right
                front and left rear chest wall, and the external defibrillator is connected. A
                small incision of 8-10 cm into the left anterior lateral 5th intercostal space was
                performed into the chest.

             2. Internal mammary artery acquisition:

                After entering the chest, the internal mammary artery (IMA) is exposed through a
                new minimal invasive retraction system. Single or bilateral IMA is obtained as
                needed. Separate the IMA From the middle segment (non-fat muscle coverage area)
                applied with an electric scalpel (15J), and the free range was up to the first rib
                to the fifth or sixth intercostal (IMA bifurcation).

             3. Bypass strategy:

                All procedures were performed under a non-cardiopulmonary situation, and vascular
                anastomosis was performed with the aid of a laparoscopic cardiac stabilizer. The
                stabilizer is smaller and does not occupy the operating space. The head of
                stabilizer can be rotated 360 degrees and the target vessel can be fixed at any
                angle. Bilateral internal mammary artery, radial artery and saphenous vein can be
                used as graft vessels. The bypass strategy is not particularly different from
                conventional bypass surgery, including aorta (AO)-saphenous vein graft (SVG) or
                radial artery (RA)-X1-X2-...( sequential anastomosis), left internal mammary artery
                (LIMA)-right internal mammary artery (RIMA) -RA or SVG(Y)-X, RIMA-left anterior
                descending (LAD), LIMA-RA or RIMA or SVG(I)-X1-X2 and so on.

             4. Vascular anastomosis:

                The target vessel is exposed through the pericardial suture, the heart is locally
                fixed with the aid of a cardiac stabilizer, and the target vessel is inserted shunt
                to avoid hemodynamic disorder and arrhythmia. Vascular anastomosis is performed by
                8-0 polypropylene suture.

             5. Aortic exposure and proximal anastomosis:

           Place gauze behind the aorta, expose the aorta with the right pericardial suspension
           suture, temporary block aortic anterior wall with a soft-chain sidewall clamp, Punch on
           the aortic anterior wall with 3.5 mm puncher, anastomose SVG or RA on AO with 6-0
           polypropylene suture.

        2. OPCABG (control group): Off-pump multi-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting with
           conventional thoracotomy.

      Randomization Procedure:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to MICS-CABG or OPCABG group with an allocation ratio of
      1:1 after providing written informed consent. The randomization sequence will be generated by
      an independent statistician with block randomization method (block size=4 or 6). Each
      enrolled patient will be allocated to MICS-CABG or OPCABG group within 24-48 hours prior to
      surgery in the order of the assigned number in the allocation table uploaded in the
      electronic data capture (EDC) system. The allocation table will be concealed from researchers
      during research process.

      Patient Selection:

      Details are shown in the Eligibility Criteria part.

      Measurements:

        1. Baseline Measurements:

             1. General Information: sex, age, body mass index.

             2. Medical History and Comorbidity: smoking status, history of diabetes (oral
                hypoglycemic agents, insulin therapy, HbA1c greater than 7.0%, postprandial blood
                glucose greater than 11.1 mmol/L, fasting plasma glucose greater than 7.0 mmol/L),
                previous stroke, hyperlipidemia (under drug therapy, serum cholesterol greater than
                5.72 mmol/L or triglyceride greater than 1.7 mmol/L at admission), hypertension
                (blood pressure greater than 140/90 mmHg without medication), renal insufficiency
                (dialysis or serum creatinine level greater than 140 mmol/L or creatinine clearance
                rate less than 30 mL/min), peripheral vascular disease [preoperative ultrasound or
                computed tomography (CT) confirmed peripheral vascular stenosis greater than 50%],
                previous history of cardiac surgery, previous percutaneous coronary intervention
                (PCI) history (balloon dilatation or stent implantation), previous myocardial
                infarction (MI) [pathological Q wave on ECG, definite evidence of elevation of
                creatine kinase (CK-MB) or troponin (cTnI) greater than 10 times of normal value
                with st-t segment elevation on cardiogram].

             3. Preoperative Status: SF-36, Seattle angina questionnaire (SAQ) score,
                classification of angina (stable angina pectoris, unstable angina pectoris, non
                st-t segment elevation myocardial infarction, st-t segment elevation myocardial
                infarction), New York Heart Association (NYHA) heart function classification,
                severe pulmonary insufficiency [post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s
                (FEV1)/forced vital capacity (FVC)<70% and FEV1%predicted<50% or partial pressure
                of oxygen (pO2)<60 mmHg or partial pressure of carbon dioxide (pCO2)>40 mmHg
                without oxygen therapy].

             4. Preoperative Examination: creatinine (Cr), N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide
                (NT-proBNP), preoperative cardiac function [ejection fraction (EF)%, left
                ventricular end-diastolic myocardial mass (LVEDm)], SYNTAX score (evaluated by two
                cardiologist).

             5. Preoperative Medication (within 1 week): aspirin, P2Y12 receptor antagonist
                (clopidogrel, ticagrelor), glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (abciximab,
                eptifibatide, tirofiban, etc.).

        2. Outcomes: Details are shown in the Outcome Measures part.

      Follow-ups:

      Patients will be followed at 7 days, 14 days, 30 days (1 month), 3 months, 6 months, and 12
      months after surgery.

      Sample Size:

      According to previous studies and reports, the average SF-36 PCS was 43 with a standard
      deviation of 10 at 30 days after OPCABG. Through preliminary studies, the average SF-36 PCS
      at 30 days after MICS-CABG was 50. The minimum clinically important difference of SF-36 PCS
      was 2 according to previous publications. Assuming that the lower limit of 95% confidence
      interval of PCS score difference between MICS-CABG group and OPCABG group is greater than 2,
      it is considered that the PCS score of MICS-CABG group is better than OPCABG group, with
      inspection level α=0.025 (one side) and inspection efficiency 1-β=0.80. The sample size of
      OPCABG group and MICS group is calculated to be 64 cases, with an estimated drop-out rate of
      10%, and each group needs to include at least 72 people. Based on the above conclusions, the
      investigators calculated sample size is 100 cases in each group.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The primary endpoint is SF-36 PCS at 30 days after surgery. The analysis on the primary
      endpoint will be conducted according to the basic principle of ITT.

      For baseline characteristics, mean and standard deviation will be described for continuous
      data with normal distribution, while median and interquartile range (IQR) will be used to
      depict continuous skewed data. Frequencies and percentages will be demonstrated for
      categorical variables. For group comparisons, t-test will be used for normal distributed
      variables, Mann-Whitney U test will be applied for skewed variables, while Pearson's
      chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be conducted for categorical variables.

      For the primary endpoint, the difference of SF-36 PCS at 30 days after surgery between two
      groups with 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated. If the lower limit of 95%CI is
      greater than 2, the superiority of MICS-CABG will be established.

      For secondary endpoints, t-test will be used for normal distributed variables, Mann-Whitney U
      test will be applied for skewed variables, while Pearson's chi-squared test or Fisher's exact
      test will be conducted for categorical variables. Survival analysis will be applied for
      time-to-event data [time to the first major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events
      (MACCE) within1, 3, 6, and 12 months after surgery].

      Statistical significance is defined as the two-sided p-value less than 0.05. All analyses
      were performed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 26.0 or
      Statistical Analysis System (SAS) version 9.4 or later.
    
  