
    
      Immune checkpoint blockade with anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies has become a new standard
      of care in several cancer types as NSCLC and melanoma. However, in biomarker-unselected
      patient populations, overall response rate (ORR) depending on type of cancer and whether
      single or combination treatment is chosen remains still only 20%-60%. Though overall well
      tolerated approximately 5-10% of patients treated with PD1/PD-L1 targeting agents will
      experience grade 3 or 4 toxicities, including potentially life-threatening auto-immune
      toxicities such as colitis, hepatitis, and pneumonitis. Therefore, due to high costs of
      treatment and its possible complications, improved selection of patients is a crucial goal
      and an easily available non-invasive, point-of-care test for better patient selection is very
      much needed.

      A promising approach in this regard is the analysis of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in
      breath. Breath analysis for the detection of VOCs is increasingly investigated for its
      utility in diagnosis and management of cancer. Electronic noses (eNoses) are promising as
      cheap and clinically-practical devices that are designed to detect patterns of VOCs. Recently
      published prospective observational data showed very promising discriminant function for
      breathprint analysis for non-response to immunotherapy in NSCLC patients.

      The principle goal of this study is to validate a prior study that found that
      breathomics-based classifiers predicted 12-week early progression vs non-progression in
      advanced NSCLC patients treated with nivolumab or pembrolizumab. Secondarily, we will expand
      assessment of breathomic-based classifiers to include other cohorts of advanced tumors
      treated with ICI, and also consider using response instead of non-progression as an endpoint.
      Exploratory goals include refinement of the breathomics classifier using alternative
      machine-learning techniques, and correlate with other biomarkers of immunotherapy outcomes.
    
  