
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the potential of T-cell-depleted bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cells
           (PBSC) from HLA-haplotype, partially matched related donors to induce extended
           disease-free survival in patients with leukemia, lymphoblastic lymphoma, myelodysplastic
           syndrome, or severe aplastic anemia who would otherwise be ineligible for
           transplantation because of the lack of an HLA-identical related or unrelated donor.

        -  Determine the impact of filgrastim (G-CSF)-stimulated, CD34+, E-rosette and
           T-cell-depleted PBSC derived from an HLA-haplotype, partially matched donor on the
           incidence and quality of engraftment, kinetics, and quality of hematopoietic and
           immunologic reconstitution, and incidence and severity of graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) in these patients.

        -  Correlate the doses of PBSC and clonable T-cells with the incidence of engraftment,
           extent of chimerism, incidence and severity of acute and chronic GVHD, characteristics
           of hematopoietic and immunologic reconstitution, and overall and disease-free survival
           rates at 2-4 years after transplantation in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified by number of HLA-incompatible alleles (1 vs 2 or 3).

        -  Harvest: Beginning 6-10 days before transplantation, allogeneic bone marrow is harvested
           and treated in vitro. Beginning 5-6 days before transplantation, filgrastim
           (G-CSF)-stimulated, allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested,
           selected for CD34+ cells, and treated in vitro. If feasible, autologous bone marrow is
           harvested in the event of allogeneic graft failure.

        -  Myeloablation: Patients undergo total body irradiation 3 times a day on days -9 to -6,
           thiotepa IV over 4 hours on days -5 and -4, and cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2.

        -  Transplantation: CD34+, E-rosette and T-cell-depleted PBSC are infused over 15 minutes
           and then T-cell-depleted bone marrow is infused over 1-5 minutes on day 0. Patients
           receive G-CSF IV over 30 minutes beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts
           recover and then tapering. Patients receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-6 hours on
           days 8, 10, 12, and 14 and oral methylprednisolone on days 8-14 followed by tapered
           doses on days 15-17.

        -  CNS prophylaxis: Beginning at least 2 months after transplantation, patients with acute
           lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) and no history of CNS leukemia receive cytarabine
           intrathecally (IT) monthly for 6 months and patients with ALL and a history of CNS
           leukemia receive cytarabine IT monthly for 12 months.

      Patients with graft failure are offered autologous bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or
      second allogeneic BMT.

      Patients are followed at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months and then annually for 3 years.
    
  