
    
      Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) represents a first-line non-curative therapy for
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). TACE is associated with unsatisfactory long-term outcomes.
      The objective response rate of TACE is only 15% to 55%, and the tumor recurrence rate is 70%
      at 5 years. One potential reason for this may be the increase in plasma vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) levels after TACE. Disturbances in the tumor microenvironment following
      TACE result in increased hypoxia, leading to an up-regulation in hypoxia inducible factor-1a,
      which in turn up-regulates VEGF and platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) and
      increases tumor angiogenesis. TACE is considered for the patients with unresectable HCCs that
      are also ineligible for local ablative therapy. The lack of portal blood flow (because of
      portal vein thrombosis, portosystemic anastomoses or hepatofugal flow) had been considered as
      the main contraindication of TACE. However, it has been reported that TACE can be safely
      performed in a selected population of patients with main portal vein invasion, if they have
      well-preserved liver function due to collateral blood supply.

      DC Beads are a novel drug delivery embolization system comprised of biocompatible,
      non-resorbable polyvinyl alcohol polymer hydrogel beads which can be loaded with cytotoxic
      drugs. The beads have a high affinity for drugs and this enables the gradual release of
      doxorubicin into the tumor, allowing a longer intratumoral exposure and less systemic
      exposure of the drug, reducing systemic toxicity. One multivariate analysis study showed that
      the median survival duration for the patients with portal vein invasion who were treated with
      DC-bead TACE (DEBDOX) were 176 days, retrospectively.

      In international, multicenter, randomized phase II trial, the drug-eluting bead group showed
      higher rates of complete response and objective response compared with the cTACE group (27%
      vs. 22%, 52% vs. 44% respectively). The hypothesis of superiority was not met. However,
      patients with Child-Pugh B, ECOG 1, bilobar disease, and recurrent disease showed a
      significant increase in objective response compared to cTACE.

      Here, the investigators will investigate the safety and efficacy of DC Bead TACE in patients
      with advanced HCC with portal vein invasion.
    
  