
    
      Study Design

      This is a phase I/II study. The phase I portion of the study will determine the maximum
      tolerated dose of everolimus, rituximab, and bortezomib combination, while the phase II
      portion will evaluate the depth of responses to the everolimus, rituximab, and bortezomib
      combination. If patients show response, they will continue on therapy for a total of 6
      cycles, and then go on maintenance therapy with everolimus alone until progression. Patients
      on maintenance will be monitored every 3 months for response. Because of the potential of an
      IgM flare after rituximab, patients who show an increase in IgM after rituximab in the first
      3 months will not be deemed as having progressive disease unless they show evidence of
      clinical progression and not just an increase of IgM levels. If biochemical progression is
      confirmed by m-spike, but the participant is clinically benefitting from therapy, the
      participant may continue on treatment for a few additional points of assessment and
      re-discuss benefit of therapy. Additionally, if the participant progressed because the
      treatment was held, participant may remain on study at the discretion of the overall
      Principal Investigator. Relapse from CR is defined by the reappearance of monoclonal IgM
      protein and/or recurrence of bone marrow involvement, lymphadenopathy/splenomegaly or
      symptoms attributable to active disease (Owen et al., 2012). Progression from PR is defined
      by ≥ 25% increase in IgM level from lowest recorded value and confirmed by a repeat
      assessment. The development of new signs and symptoms of disease, including Bing Neel
      syndrome and histological transformation, is also considered as evidence of disease
      progression. An absolute increase of at least 5 g/l is required to define progression when
      the IgM level is the only applicable criterion (Owen et al., 2012).
    
  