
    
      There are currently 800 000 people in the United Kingdom (UK) living with dementia and this
      is predicted to grow to 1 million people by 2021. Studies suggest that 250 000 of people with
      dementia reside in care homes. Reports such as the National Dementia Strategy and subsequent
      government initiatives, such as the Dementia Challenge and the Prime Minister's Challenge on
      Dementia 2020 have helped the nation focus on provision of services for people with dementia.
      Further, our media remind us that the quality of care being delivered in care homes needs
      significant improvement. With an ageing population effective, safe, good quality care for our
      older people is paramount.

      A high proportion of people in care homes have dementia and many have co-existing physical
      health problems and/or additional mental health needs. An integrated Care Home Support
      Service (CHSS) delivers care and treatment of both physical and mental health problems at an
      early stage of development. This integrated service combines two approaches which have been
      shown to be effective in randomised control trials and open studies in a stepped care model.
      Evidence suggests it is feasible to implement some elements of such approaches into a
      specialist mental health NHS context. However, no widespread implementation of this combined
      approach had been undertaken in an NHS context until the integration of this Care Home
      Support Service.

      Evaluating the implementation of health care initiatives is crucial in determining their
      impact and sustainability in a routine NHS setting. This qualitative evaluation is part of a
      broader evaluation of the service. Focus groups and service improvement workshops will be
      conducted with NHS staff and other stakeholders. The data will be analysed using thematic
      analysis and applied to the RE-AIM framework to:

        -  Provide valuable information from NHS staff and stakeholders regarding the impact and
           sustainability of this model.

        -  Explore key factors to consider when integrating physical and mental health services.

        -  Increase understanding of the potential barriers and facilitators of integrating
           evidence-based practice into a routine NHS setting.

      On completion of the research the findings of the study will be disseminated to research
      participants and health professionals to support learning and best practice both locally and
      nationally.
    
  