
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of UCN-01
      (7-hydroxystaurosporine) administered after perifosine in patients with relapsed or
      refractory acute leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or high risk myelodysplastic
      disorders.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and toxicity of UCN-01 administered after perifosine in these
      patients.

      II. Evaluate the safety and toxicity of perifosine administered after UCN-01 in these
      patients.

      III. Document responses in patients treated with this regimen. IV. Observe the
      pharmacokinetics of both perifosine and UCN-01 when administered in combination.

      V. Study the pharmacodynamics of perifosine alone, UCN-01 alone, and in combination in
      leukemic blast cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of 7-hydroxystaurosporine. The first
      patients enrolled in the study are assigned to arm 1. Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      is determined in arm 1, subsequent patients are enrolled in arm 2.

      ARM 1: Patients receive a loading dose of oral perifosine every 6 hours on day 1 followed by
      a maintenance dose once daily on days 2-28 of course 1 and then once daily on days 1-28 in
      all subsequent courses. Patients also receive 7-hydroxystaurosporine intravenously (IV) over
      3 hours on day 4. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 7-hydroxystaurosporine
      until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      ARM 2: Patients receive 7-hydroxystaurosporine IV over 3 hours on day 1 at the MTD determined
      in group I. Patients also receive oral perifosine as a loading dose every 6 hours on day 4
      followed by a maintenance dose once daily on days 5-28 of course 1 and then once daily on
      days 1-28 in all subsequent courses. In both groups, treatment repeats every 28 days for ≥ 2
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve
      a complete remission (CR) or a CR with incomplete hematologic recovery receive 4 additional
      courses beyond documentation of CR. Patients who achieve a partial remission or hematologic
      improvement may continue treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days and then periodically
      thereafter.
    
  