
    
      English Synopsis

      I. Title of Study:

      Effects of simultaneous or sequential combination of physical and cognitive training on
      dual-task walking performance for community-dwelling healthy older adults: a randomized
      controlled trial.

      II. Study Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to investigate psychometric properties of dual-task walking
      assessments and compare effects of simultaneous or sequential combination of physical and
      cognitive training on dual-task walking and cognitive performance for community-dwelling
      healthy older adults. Specifically, the study aims to test: 1) the psychometric properties
      (i.e., test-retest reliability and validity) of dual-task walking outcome measures, 2) the
      effectiveness of delivering physical and cognitive training via simultaneous or sequential
      way (physical training concurrent to or followed by a cognitive training) on improving
      dual-task walking for healthy older adults by using good psychometric properties of outcome
      measures, 3) the changed CMI pattern of older adults after simultaneous or sequential
      physical and cognitive training.

      III. Study Design A metric analysis and comparative efficacy research will be conducted at
      medical center(s). Sixty community-dwelling ambulatory healthy older adults will receive
      dual-task walking assessments twice at pretreatment with a 1-week interval for test-retest
      assessment and investigation of the reliability and validity of outcome measures. The primary
      outcome measure of the six dual-task walking assessments will include two types of walking
      conditions (walking at preferred speed and fast speed) and simultaneously perform three
      cognitive tasks (Serial Three Subtractions, Stroop, and Auditory Stroop tasks). These three
      cognitive tasks represent different domains of cognitive function: working memory and
      executive function. Concurrent validity will be studied to validate the dual-task walking
      measures with each other and with the item 14 of the mini-Balance Evaluation Systems test
      (Mini-BESTest) and dual-task Timed-up-and-Go test (dual-TUG) obtain concurrently for
      assessing dual-task ability. In addition, we will compare dual-task walking performance
      between older fallers and non-fallers to examine discriminant validity of dual-task
      assessments.

      A comparative efficacy research is a single-blind, randomized controlled trial. Sixty healthy
      elderly will be randomized to physical training concurrent with cognitive training (P+C,
      n=20), or physical training followed by cognitive training (P-then-C, n=20), or physical
      training without cognitive training (P, n=20) groups. The P+C group will undertake standing
      balance, stepping, and treadmill walking training while concurrently perform cognitive tasks.
      The P-then-C group will train the same set of standing balance, stepping, and treadmill
      walking activities as the P+C group while followed by cognitive training later. The P group
      will only train the same set of standing balance, stepping, and treadmill walking activities
      as the other two groups. All three groups will receive training at progressively increasing
      task difficulty 3 times a week for 12 weeks and followed by another 12 weeks without exercise
      (follow-up). Two baselines, 12 week, and 24 week data will be analyzed using multivariate
      statistical analyses and groups will be compared on treatment related changes in dual-task
      walking and cognitive performance among participants. To determine comparative effectiveness
      of interventions on primary outcomes (dual-task walking speed and composite score of
      cognitive tasks), two way mixed repeated measure ANOVAs will be used.

      A blinded assessor will administer four assessments. All participants will be examined gait
      and cognitive performance under single-task (walking only, cognitive tasks only) and
      dual-task conditions (walking while performing 3 cognitive tasks) at two baselines, post
      intervention, and 3-month follow-up. The primary outcome measure of gait and cognition is
      gait speed and composite score of accuracy and reaction time of the cognitive tasks under
      single- and dual-task conditions. The secondary outcome measures will be the Berg Balance
      Scale, Mini-BESTest, dual-TUG, Functional Gait Assessment, Physical Activity Scale for the
      Elderly, Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale, Chair Stand Test, hand-held
      dynamometers, and Geriatric Depression Scale Short Form. Repeated measure ANOVA will be used
      to compare measurements at baseline, after training, and follow-up among the groups.

      Number of Planned Patients: 60 healthy older adults Duration of the Study:
      2018/08/01～2021/07/31
    
  