
    
      Patient Selection The present study is a single-center, randomized controlled and double
      blinded trial. The patients going to enroll for this study had creatinine clearance less than
      10 ml/min/1.73 m2 and had been on intermittent HD treatment for at least one year.

      The exclusion criteria for the present study are masking or white coat hypertension, heart
      failure, cardiomyopathies, acute coronary syndromes, chronic ischemic heart disease, acute or
      chronic liver disease, endocrine or pulmonary diseases, valvular heart diseases,
      malignancies, active urinary tract infections, hemoglobin levels below 8 g/dL, and
      hypotension tendency.

      Sixty-four patients going to enroll for eligibility and after the initial assessment. Clinic
      and laboratory profiles of the patients including cause of renal disease, history of HT and
      antihypertensive treatments going to record by systematic review of the patient files. After
      the enrollment stage, the patients going to allocate low-sodium dialysate or standard sodium
      dialysate for 6 months via computer-generated randomization.

      They going to dialyze three times a week with synthetic polysulfone (Hollow-fiber, Low Flux,
      KUF<20, 1.6 m2) membrane, each session lasting 4 hours with bicarbonate dialysate (with
      33mmol/L concentration) and 300-350 ml/min blood-flow. .

      Study protocol All patients going to assess before and 6 months after the study. Before
      initiating the study, all patients were dialyzed with 140 mEq/L sodium concentration. In the
      low-sodium dialysate group, the dialysate sodium concentration going to reduce from 140 to
      137mEq/L. To eliminate the acute effects of hemodialysis on the parameters measured, baseline
      and end-of-study measurements going to perform in non-dialysis day, 24 hours after the
      mid-week session.

      Ambulatory blood pressure measurement Ambulatory BP measurement during 24-hour going to
      perform using a Space Labs 90207 oscillometric method (Redmond, Washington, USA). The BP
      measurements going to perform automatically from non-fistula arm. The confirmation of the
      device going to check with the standard auscultator method in order to ensure that the
      changes in BP values between the two methods did not exceed +5 mm Hg.

      The device going to set to achieve BP evaluation at 30-minute intervals during the night
      (11:00 PM to 07:00 AM) and at 20-minute intervals during the day (07:00 AM to 11:00 PM).

      ''Nocturnal dipping'' going to define as a decrease of greater than 10% (when compared with
      the daytime values) in the systolic or diastolic blood pressure at night. ''Non-nocturnal
      dipping'' going to define as a decrease of less than 10% (when compared with the daytime
      values) in the blood pressure parameters levels at night or did not decrease in the systolic
      or diastolic blood pressure at night
    
  