
    
      The study schedule for each patient consists of a screening period followed by an infusion
      day with an optional overnight in-clinic stay, and a follow up call 48h post infusion.

      Screening Phase:

      At screening, patient eligibility will be determined according to inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, with evaluation of patient's vital signs, ECG and laboratory parameters. The
      duration of screening can be as short as one day but should not exceed 7 days. Patients who
      show potassium level > 6 mmol/L at screening should have their potassium level corrected and
      can be re-screened afterwards.

      Treatment Phase:

      Eligible patients will be admitted to the in-clinic unit to be dosed with arginine/lysine
      solution for infusion of 1,000 mL, which is administered intravenously over a period of 4
      hours. Before the infusion (at 0 h time point), a set of baseline tests will be performed.
      During and after the infusion, patient condition will be monitored for evaluation of any
      adverse events. Only patients with a potassium level of ≤ 6 mmol/L at screening will be
      allowed to be dosed. Potassium testing on the infusion day will be performed at 0h (before
      the infusion), and at 2h, 4h, 6h, 8h, 12h, and 24h after the start of infusion. Vital signs
      and ECGs will be taken as specified in the assessment schedule. All patients will be
      monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hyperkalemia, e.g. dyspnoea, weakness, numbness,
      chest pain and cardiac manifestations (conduction abnormalities and cardiac arrhythmias).
      Other common adverse reactions during arginine/lysine solution administration are nausea and
      vomiting. Before the start of arginine/lysine solution infusion, an intravenous bolus of an
      anti-emetic should be given. The choice of anti-emetic drugs is at the discretion of the
      physician.

      Follow-up Phase:

      All patients will be called for a safety follow-up in 48 hours after dosing. Patients should
      not be scheduled to receive repeat dosing with arginine/lysine solution as concomitant
      medication with Lutathera® within 7 days of the arginine/lysine solution infusion in the
      study.
    
  