
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the efficacy of rTMS versus placebo for
      spasticity reduction in a cross-over design in 6 people with stroke.

      Our research question is: In patients with upper extremity spasticity as a consequence of
      chronic stroke, does stimulation of the contralesional motor cortex with low-frequency
      (inhibitory) rTMS lead to reduction of spasticity and thereby clinical improvement in upper
      extremity function? Our rationale is that the pathophysiology of post-stroke spasticity is
      primarily driven by ensuant cortical derangement, and further, that this derangement can be
      mitigated to a clinically meaningful extent by proper utilization of rTMS directed at these
      foci. Optimized rTMS treatment protocols may even achieve efficacy that surpasses current
      mainstays of spasticity management.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to receive either rTMS or placebo during their first
      treatment arm and then cross-over to receive the opposite treatment at the second treatment
      arm. A washout period of one month will occur between treatment arms. Each treatment arm will
      consist of 3 daily treatment sessions. Participants will present on a Monday for the pre-test
      assessment, Tuesday-Thursday for the treatment sessions and Friday for the post-test
      assessment. One treatment session will consist of 600 pulses of 1Hertz rTMS at an intensity
      of 90% of resting motor threshold (duration 10 minutes) applied to the primary motor area of
      the contralesional hemisphere. Sham rTMS intensity will be 0% but with a similar sound and
      scalp sensation. Assessments will be made at each session, and will be conducted at pre-test,
      post-test, and one-month follow-up. The one month follow-up test will serve as the pretest
      for the next treatment arm. That is, after follow-up, patients will cross-over to receive the
      opposite treatment in the same format. Safety has already been demonstrated for our protocol.
      Data will be analyzed with methods appropriate to a single-subject crossover design (visual
      analysis, confidence intervals and 2-Standard Deviation bandwidth).

      The primary outcome that we will measure is reduction of spasticity at the fingers and wrist.
      A secondary outcome of interest is functional improvement of the spastic upper limb.
    
  