
    
      Patient retention in care is critical to the success of programs funded by the President's
      Emergency Relief Plan for HIV/AIDS (PEPFAR). High levels of patient retention after first
      clinical contact contribute to the timely initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and
      better health outcomes for patients. With the dramatic proliferation of cell phone use in
      Africa, telecommunications technology offers new opportunities to improve retention using a
      low-cost, culturally appropriate format. In Kenya (WelTel Kenya1), a weekly short message
      service (SMS) text message led to improved ART adherence and viral load suppression. This
      study, WelTel Retain, will evaluate the effect of WelTel on retaining pre-ART patients in
      care and determine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention. Specific objectives include:
      1) determining if the WelTel SMS intervention improves patient retention in the first stage
      of HIV care; 2) determining whether the WelTel SMS intervention improves 12-month retention;
      and 3) evaluating the cost-effectiveness of the WelTel SMS intervention. We will fulfil these
      objectives by conducting a randomized controlled trial at the Kibera Community Health Centre
      in Nairobi, Kenya. Over one year, HIV positive individuals newly enrolling at the clinic will
      be recruited and randomly allocated to an intervention or control arm at a 1:1 ratio.
      Intervention arm participants will receive a weekly SMS 'check-in' to which they will be
      required to respond within 48 hours. An HIV clinician will follow-up and triage any problems
      that are identified. The control arm will receive standard of care. Patients will be followed
      for one year. The WelTel Retain study will contribute critical information on the
      effectiveness of an mHealth program to engage patients in care during the first year of HIV
      care. This research has the potential to demonstrate that the WelTel SMS intervention is an
      effective, feasible retention strategy, which can contribute significantly to the long-term
      success of PEPFAR-funded programs and towards a sustainable global HIV/AIDS response.
    
  