
    
      Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) have been a cornerstone treatment for
      patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) for over 25 years. They are
      included in every major set of guidelines for HFrEF management. Angiotensin receptor blockers
      (ARB's, such as valsartan) have similarly been shown to decrease the mortality rate of
      patients with HFrEF for patients who are unable to tolerate ACEi therapy.

      The newest neurohormonal therapy approved for heart failure (August 2015) is
      sacubitril/valsartan (trade name Entresto). This medication is the first of a new family of
      agents (ARNI = angiotensin receptor antagonist with neprilysin inhibitor), combining the
      approved angiotensin receptor blocker valsartan with sacubitril, an inhibitor of neprilysin,
      which is a neutral endopeptidase that degrades endogenous vasoactive peptides. Treatment with
      sacubitril increases circulating levels of natriuretic peptides, which have been shown to
      facilitate natriuresis and vasodilation. Although the precise mechanisms responsible for
      benefit in heart failure remain unclear, sacubitril/valsartan may reduce the fluid retention
      and vasoconstriction that contribute to heart failure symptoms, and may also decrease
      apoptosis and remodeling that lead to disease progression. There is limited data about the
      incremental acute and long-term hemodynamic effects of composite
      neprilysin/angiotensin-receptor inhibitors over enalapril, and these data may provide
      important mechanistic insights.

      Progress in HF management outside the hospital has included validation of a strategy of
      ongoing monitoring of pulmonary artery pressures every day from home via a monitor implanted
      in a distal pulmonary artery, the CardioMEMS device. The information is transmitted to a
      website where it is reviewed by the HF team, who can intervene to adjust diuretics and other
      medications by phone to avert decompensation and re-hospitalization. The device received FDA
      approval in mid 2014, and is now being implanted in many cardiac catheterization
      laboratories, including at Brigham and Women's Hospital. The pressure information is reviewed
      regularly by the HF management team who are in regular contact with the patient to aid in
      management decisions.

      In summary, this pilot study will assess the impact of sacubitril/valsartan, an approved drug
      for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) on the elevated pulmonary artery
      pressures measured using an implanted monitoring device that is also approved for such
      patients. Both the medication and the device will be used according to approved indications.
    
  