
    
      This is a Phase 2, randomized, placebo -controlled, participant and investigator blinded,
      multi-center study to assess efficacy and safety of MAS825 for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2
      infected patients with COVID-19 pneumonia and impaired respiratory function.

      The study consists of five parts:

        1. Screening / Baseline / Treatment (Day -1 to 1): lasts up to a maximum of 24 hours and
           comprises a screening / baseline assessment. This visit will be used to confirm that the
           study inclusion and exclusion criteria are met and serves as baseline assessment prior
           to randomization. Baseline blood tests will be performed in all patients; those who
           screen fail because of study inclusion / exclusion criteria (e.g., serum CRP, liver
           function tests), will not undergo randomization. Eligible patients will receive a single
           i.v. infusion of MAS825 or placebo on Day -1 to 1.

        2. Treatment period (Day 2-15): Study assessments to be conducted every 2 days for
           hospitalized patients. If patients are discharged from the hospital prior to Day 15,
           assessments on the day of discharge should be performed according to the schedule listed
           under Day 15 and patient should return to the site for the Day 15 assessment (all other
           visits between discharge and Day 15 can be omitted). If hospital visit is not possible
           at Day 15, then home nursing services may be used to support this last visit where these
           are available in accordance with local guidelines and should include all possible
           assessments (e.g. oxygen saturation with portable monitors). In case home nursing is not
           possible, patients will be contacted by phone on day 15.

        3. Follow-up (Day 16-29): After completion of the treatment period, patients will be
           observed until Day 29 or discharged from hospital, whichever is sooner. Study
           assessments to be conducted every 2 days for domiciled patients. Where patients are
           discharged from hospital prior to Day 29, a study visit conducted by telephone will
           occur on Day 29 (all other visits between discharge and Day 29 can be omitted).

        4. Safety follow-up visit assessment (Day 45): A follow-up visit will be conducted at Day
           45 if the patient is hospitalized. If patients are discharged from hospital prior to Day
           45, a study visit will be conducted by telephone on Day 45.

        5. End of Study/Safety follow-up visit assessment (Day 127): A follow-up visit for safety
           will be conducted at Day 127 if the patient is hospitalized. If patients are discharged
           from hospital prior to Day 127, a study visit will be conducted by telephone on Day 127.
    
  