
    
      Procedure The DBS lead is stereotactically introduced into the target in the brain (AIC) and
      fixed to the skull; the lead is then connected to a neurostimulator implanted subcutaneously
      in the subclavicular region. This is performed by a neurosurgeon skilled in this technique,
      as the same procedure is routinely performed in patients with other diseases (using other
      brain targets).

      Sample Size:

      There is no minimum number or maximum, but is expected to be far less than 100. Patients that
      meet the inclusion criteria and will obtain insurance coverage will be candidates for the
      procedure. As this is not a study on efficacy, there is no statistical analysis to be
      performed. IRB approval is required per FDA stipulations. Recruitment: Patients who have
      medically refractory OCD for at least 5 years or more, have failed 3 or more SSRIs, and who
      meet the criteria for the indications above and are not contraindicated, will attempt to be
      recruited, or to at least learn more information about the procedure, through the use of
      flyers. These flyers will attempt to catch the attention of those subjects who may be
      candidates, and who may benefit from the procedure; only through a more detailed clinic visit
      would it be know if they meet criteria. The flyers are included as an attachment, and display
      contact information. They will be posted on line, on free advertising bulletin boards, on UT
      Psychiatry Clinic buildings, on Baylor Psychiatry Clinic buildings, within the UT and Baylor
      schools of Medicine, and in private OCD support groups.

      Course of Study Patients who are enrolled will meet the necessary requirements/indications
      for insurance coverage of the system to be implanted.

      Aside from these criteria, no specific population will be targeted or else excluded from
      recruitment. They will sign the informed consent form (attached) prior to surgery if they
      agree with the course of action. They will be followed for clinical effect and side effects
      on a routine basis following surgery: after 2 weeks, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 months and then every 6
      months for months, by both the psychiatrist and neurosurgeon. The known risks are detailed in
      the attached Summary of Safety and Probable Benefit document, Section VIII, as well as the
      Device manual (attached). All patients enrolled will have their identity safe-guarded, will
      be issued subject numbers, and personal information will be kept electronically under lock
      and key in a permanent office.

      Data Safety Monitoring As this procedure is nearly identical to that routinely performed here
      on patients with Parkinson's disease (except that these are different patients and thus a
      different brain structure is targeted), no specific/independent DSMB will be needed, as there
      is none currently in use nor needed for the Parkinson's patients. Risks to
      Clinicians/Researchers There are no known procedures or situations that will provide risks to
      the clinical/research staff.
    
  