
    
      Obstructive jaundice is the most common symptom in patients with periampullary cancer and
      cancer of the pancreatic head. For patients with unresectable tumors, palliation of malignant
      obstructive is traditionally achieved using endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography
      (ERCP) with transpapillary (TP) stent placement. Data show that ERCP is equivalent to surgery
      with regards to relief of jaundice. Self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) offer prolonged
      palliation compared to large-bore (10Fr) plastic stents. However, it is believed that gastric
      outlet obstruction occurs more commonly in patients who have received SEMS for palliation of
      MOJ. In addition, ERCP is associated with adverse events including pancreatitis,
      post-sphincterotomy bleeding, and perforation.

      More recently endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided biliary drainage has been described for
      biliary drainage in patients with malignant distal bile duct obstruction. Thus far it has
      been used as a rescue approach when traditional ERCP-guided transpapillary biliary drainage
      ERCP fails. TP failure can occur as a result of duodenal obstruction, failed cannulation, and
      failed wire access across the stricture.

      Potential advantages of EUS-guided biliary drainage include avoidance of pancreatitis and
      post-sphincterotomy bleeding. Additionally, it may result in a lower frequency of gastric
      outlet obstruction since the stent does not encroach upon the tumor.

      To compare the potential advantages of EUS-guided biliary drainage the investigators are
      conducting a multicenter, randomized trial comparing the EUS-guided drainage to traditional
      ERCP.

      This EUS-BD vs. ERCP-TP-trial (BILPAL) is a randomized controlled multicenter trial that will
      provide evidence whether or not traditional ERCP biliary drainage is to be performed in
      patients with obstruction in bile duct due to unresectable pancreatic head or periampullary
      tumor.

      This study will enroll 120 subjects; 60 subjects in each arm. Trial duration is about 1 year
      and involves 5-7 visits.
    
  