
    
      It is known that glioblastomas have mutations that are specific to an individual patient's
      tumor. These mutations can cause the tumor cells to produce proteins that appear very
      different from the body's own cells. It is possible that these proteins used in a vaccine may
      induce strong immune responses, which may help the body fight any tumor cells that could
      cause glioblastoma to recur.

      Methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) is a DNA repair protein which can be increased in some
      cancers, including glioblastoma. MGMT works to repair the DNA of cancer cells that are
      damaged by treatment. If a tumor is found to be "unmethylated", it means there is more MGMT
      present in the tumor than one that is "methylated".

      Methylation of MGMT is believed to make tumor cells more responsive to drugs like
      temozolomide. Studies have shown that temozolomide provides a very small improvement in
      outcome for many patients whose glioblastoma is MGMT-unmethylated.

      Patients with glioblastoma usually receive six weeks of radiation with a daily chemotherapy
      called temozolomide after their surgery, followed by six to twelve months of additional
      temozolomide. In this study, only participants whose tumors are MGMT-methylated will receive
      temozolomide; those participants whose tumors are MGMT-unmethylated will not receive
      temozolomide, as studies have shown that temozolomide provides a very small improvement in
      outcome for many patients whose glioblastoma is MGMT-unmethylated.

      On this trial, an initial cohort of participants (Cohort 1) will receive the Personalized
      NeoAntigen Vaccine (5 priming doses and 2 booster doses over ~ 20 weeks) after having
      completed six weeks of standard radiation. The study will examine the safety of the vaccine
      when given at several different time points and will examine the participant blood cells for
      signs that the vaccine induced an immune response.

      Three additional cohorts (1a, 1b, & 1c) were added to the study following completion of
      accrual to the original study cohort (cohort 1). Each new cohort receives NeoVax and
      radiation therapy as administered to cohort 1 and will also receive pembrolizumab: cohort 1a
      patients will start pembrolizumab w/in 2 weeks after start of RT, and continue every 3 weeks
      for up to 2 years; cohort 1b patients will start pembrolizumab 2-4 weeks after completion of
      NeoVax priming, and continue every 3 weeks for up to 2 years; cohort 1c patients will receive
      a single dose of pembrolizumab administered within 2 weeks after start of RT, re-start 2-4
      weeks after completion of NeoVax priming, and continue every 3 weeks for up to 2 years.

      The rationale for adding cohorts 1a, 1b and 1c is: 1) to assess the safety and feasibility of
      NeoVax when administered with pembrolizumab; and 2) to determine if the timing of anti-PD-1
      administration impacts the immunogenicity of NeoVax.

      An additional sub-study cohort (1d) is being added for patients whose tumor is
      MGMT-methylated. Cohort 1d will enroll patients with tumors for which the MGMT status is
      methylated or partially methylated; patients on cohort 1d will receive standard daily
      temozolomide during radiation and as adjuvant therapy for up to six cycles following
      completion of radiation therapy. The rationale for adding cohort 1d is to determine the
      safety and feasibility of NeoVax when administered with pembrolizumab and temozolomide.
    
  