
    
      This will be a prospective observational study. We will include 1) all patients that are
      admitted to the PICU of the CHUSJ after a cardiac surgery, 2) that are aged less than 6
      months on the day of admission and that 3) have an arterial line inserted.

      All children studied will have an arterial line inserted at the time of surgery that will
      allow for arterial-Hb measurements. As this study is strictly observational, all arterial-Hb
      measurements will be requested by the medical treating team as clinically indicated. We will
      install, on admission, the spectrophotometric adhesive sensor required for Sp-Hb measurements
      on each patient (Masimo Rainbow R1 20 for children over 30 kg and R1 20L for those under 30
      kg). The sensor will be applied on the hand or foot that does not have an arterial cannula.
      The sensor will be covered with an impermeable black shield to prevent optical interference.

      We will collect all the arterial-Hb measurements performed in the 48 hours after PICU
      admission as well as all the Sp-Hb readings performed at the time of the arterial samples.
      The blood samples drawn from the arterial catheter will be analyzed using a laboratory
      CO-oximeter (model ABL820; Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark). Simultaneous recording of Sp-Hb
      will performed within 10 seconds after the arterial blood sample is drawn. We will also
      collect demographic data and clinical data on each patient; age, weight, sex, ethnicity, type
      of cardiac surgery, blood transfusions. At the CHUSJ PICU, all clinical and demographic data
      is systematically recorded in our electronic database (Intellispace Critical Care and
      Anesthesia, Philips Medical Systems). Data on red cell transfusions are recorded through the
      TracelineTM database that is made available to our research group through Héma-Québec. Data
      will be extracted from our database by our research assistant.
    
  