
    
      It is well known that even with surgical skin preparation, there are some microorganisms that
      remain on the patient's skin. There have been numerous studies demonstrating surgical site
      infections that arise from contamination at time of surgery or by seeding from other sites in
      the body which arise from organisms normally found on the skin. This has been known to cause
      complications in spine surgery, shoulder, hip, and knee arthroplasty. While studies have
      shown that organisms like Cutibacterium persist on the skin despite standard surgical
      preparation, there have not been studies that examine the organisms found in the fingernail
      region pre- and post- standard surgical preparations. It is common practice to not cover the
      fingernails when patients are undergoing distal upper extremity surgery. Providers tend to
      consider them prepped when they have the chlorhexidine or betadine preparations applied;
      however, there is uncertainty regarding how much attention is given to the fingernails. This
      study investigates how thorough fingernails are prepped prior to the operation. The results
      of this study would determine whether providers are adequately cleaning the patient's entire
      arm, including under the fingernail, prior to surgery. The results may support continuation
      of the current practice or adding to the standard surgical preparation to ensure adequate
      sterilization of surgical sites and all exposed areas, which include the fingernails.

      This is a prospective study design of 20 pediatric patients who are undergoing distal upper
      extremity surgery. Ten patients will receive a chlorhexidine prep prior to their operation,
      and the other 10 will receive a betadine prep. Patients will be considered for the study if
      they are 10 years old or younger and are having either wrist, forearm, or elbow internal
      fixation surgeries. Three culture specimens will be sent to microbiology: 1) before the
      surgical skin preparation; 2) after the skin preparation but before the operation; and 3)
      after the operation. Culture results will be compared pre- and post- surgical prep and
      between chlorhexidine and betadine preps.
    
  