
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the radiographic response rate (by RECIST criteria) of IV VEGF Trap after
      four cycles (approximately 8 weeks) of therapy, as well as the 6-month
      progression-free-survival (PFS) rate (as part of a composite primary outcome measure), in
      patients with recurrent and/or metastatic differentiated thyroid carcinoma of follicular cell
      origin (D-TC-FCO; comprising papillary, follicular, Hurthle cell, and respective variants)
      not amenable to RAI or curative surgery.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and toxicity profile of IV VEGF Trap in patients with recurrent
      and/or metastatic TC-FCO. Please see the adverse event table for the specifics for this
      protocol.

      II. To determine the biologic effect of IV VEGF Trap on FDG avidity after four cycles
      (approximately 8 weeks) of therapy through pre- and post-treatment FDG-PET scans in patients
      with recurrent and/or metastatic D-TC-FCO.

      III. To determine if changes in thyroglobulin concentration after four cycles (approximately
      8 weeks) of IV VEGF-Trap therapy correlate with radiographic response after four cycles
      (approximately 8 weeks) and progression-free-survival at 6 months after start of therapy in
      patients with recurrent and/or metastatic D-TC-FCO.

      IV. To determine if pre-treatment serum VEGF concentration correlates with clinical outcomes
      after IV VEGF Trap therapy in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic D-TC-FCO.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine population pharmacokinetics of IV VEGF Trap for patients with thyroid cancer.

      II. To determine whether antibodies to VEGF Trap develop in patients with thyroid cancer.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive aflibercept intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1.

      Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing clear clinical benefit with aflibercept may
      continue treatment beyond 12 months, at the discretion of the study sponsor. Patients undergo
      fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-PET scans at baseline and after 8 weeks of study therapy to
      evaluate changes in FDG avidity on FDG-PET scan. Blood samples are obtained at baseline and
      periodically during study for laboratory correlative studies. Samples are examined for
      pretreatment serum VEGF concentration, thyroglobulin levels (when elevated), serum
      pharmacokinetics of aflibercept by ELISA, and anti-aflibercept antibodies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 2-4 months.
    
  