
    
      Chromoendoscopy by applying a dye (indigo-carmine) through the colonoscop is the new standard
      for cancer surveillance in patients with IBD . It gives the opportunity to identify suspected
      areas of dysplasia and to take targeted biopsies. The diagnostic accuracy improves and the
      chances for detecting dysplastic areas increase. In recent years new endoscopic techniques
      have been developed, including laser-based endomicroscopy. There is an increasing need for
      structured evaluation of the efficiency of these techniques. Laser-based endomicroscopy,
      taking in vivo confocal microscopy pictures during the colonoscopy examination, is the most
      promising new method. This method is established in highly rated centers for the early
      diagnosis of neoplasia in the bile ducts and the esophagus but its role for detection early
      malignancies in the colon is not known and studying this issue is of very high clinical
      value.

      Specific questions: Does the use of laser-based endomicroscopy increase the chances for early
      detection of dysplasia? What is the intraobserver variability? What is the learning curve for
      interpretation of confocal microscopy pictures? Material and methods: A laser-based
      endomicroscope (Cellvizio®, Mauna Kea Technologies) have been acquired and the examination
      procedure has been established at the Unit for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Karolinska
      University Hospital Huddinge. Eighty patients with PSC and IBD included in annual
      surveillance with colonoscopy with routine biopsy regime will be included in the study. After
      informed consent, patients are investigated with laser-based endomicroscopy during
      surveillance colonoscopy. Each colonic segment will be examined before and after staining
      with indigo-carmin. After intra-venous fluorescein (FITC) injection, all macroscopically
      abnormal lesions will be examined by endomicroscopy. Intravenous administration of FITC makes
      it possible to obtain in vivo microscopic pictures with up to a 1000x magnification of the
      colon mucosa. The Cellvizio® technique allows for evaluation of epithelial and endothelial
      cell structures in areas with suspicious changes as well as for acquisition of directed
      biopsies. Confocal pictures from all sites where biopsies have been taken are saved for
      future blind re-evaluation. The biopsies are taken according to the routine standard with
      minimum of 2 biopsies from each 10 cm in the colon. For the immunological and microbiological
      (specific aim 2) parts of the study, additional 16 biopsies are gathered from left,
      transverse, and right colon. All the laser-based endomicroscopy pictures and sequences are
      saved for further evaluation and further application in arranging pedagogical sessions for
      evaluation of the learning curve of the technique.
    
  