
    
      Although cancer continues to be one of the leading causes of death each year, advancements in
      cancer treatments and detection have improved patient prognosis across a large number of
      cancer types. This trend of improved survival rates has made apparent the significant risk of
      chemotherapy on the cardiovascular system in such a way that cardiotoxicity has become a
      prime concern in cancer survivors. Indeed, cardiotoxic events have been related to numerous
      chemotherapy types, including the commonly used 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU). 5-FU is the third most
      commonly administered form of chemotherapy used in the treatment of solid malignancies.
      Despite undeniable effectiveness in treating cancer, administration of 5-FU is associated
      with the second highest incidence of cardiotoxicity out of all chemotherapeutic agents.

      Such cardiotoxic manifestations typically appear in the form of chest pain, angina during
      rest and/or exertion, and acute coronary syndromes, however, other events such as arrythmias,
      myocarditis, pericarditis, heart failure, or even death have been reported following 5-FU
      administration. While multiple mechanisms are believed to lead to 5-FU cardiotoxicity, the
      effects 5-FU has on the vasculature seem to be of particular importance. Initial findings
      suggest these drugs have a direct toxic effect on the vascular endothelium and smooth muscle,
      likely through increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS are known to adversely affect
      endothelium independent and dependent factors which influence vascular tone. Along with
      increased ROS, decreases in antioxidant capacity following 5-FU therapy lead to increased
      vasospasms and altered vasodilator/constrictor responses. Indeed, both coronary artery
      vasospasms and brachial artery vasoconstriction have been found to occur in some groups
      directly after injection of 5-FU.

      Although the primary signaling pathways for 5-FU induced cardiotoxicity are well documented,
      many of these studies have been conducted in animal models. Previous work has demonstrated
      substantial vascular dysfunction in current cancer patients undergoing adjuvant systematic
      chemotherapy when compared to healthy controls, however, alike investigations specifically
      focused on vascular dysfunction in patients receiving 5-FU have yet to be conducted. To
      investigate such mechanisms, microvascular reactivity will be measured with laser Doppler
      flowmetry combined with iontophoresis of acetylcholine in cancer patients currently
      undergoing treatment with 5-Fluorouracil, patients receiving chemotherapy treatments other
      than 5-Fluorouracil, cancer survivors previously treated with 5-Fluorouracil, and age and sex
      matched controls.
    
  