
    
      Rationale: MCAD deficiency (MCADD; #OMIM 201450) is the most common inborn error of
      mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. Already before the introduction of population newborn
      bloodspot screening (NBS), large phenotypic heterogeneity was observed between MCADD
      patients, ranging between deceased patients and asymptomatic subjects. Most clinically
      ascertained patients were homozygous for the common c.985A>G ACADM mutation. After the
      introduction of the disorder to the NBS, newborns with novel ACADM-genotypes have been
      identified. Subjects can be classified as either severe/classical or mild/variant MCADD
      patients. Dietary management guidelines are based on expert opinion and limited experimental
      data summarized in one retrospective study on fasting tolerance in 35 MCADD-patients.
      Interestingly, data are absent from the fasting tolerance of MCADD patients between 0-6
      months of age. These guidelines cause parental stress, especially regarding young patients
      (0-6 months). Moreover, the guidelines do not take into account the heterogeneity between
      patients, including the classification between severe versus mild MCADD patients. The
      investigators question whether at least a subset of the MCADD patients is overtreated with
      these guidelines.

      Objective: The main objective of the study is to explore the fasting tolerance in
      MCADD-patients of two and six months of life. Second, it is aimed to compare fasting
      tolerance and biochemical dynamics between subsets of MCADD patients. Third, it is aimed to
      identify novel diagnostic and/or prognostic biomarkers. The last objective is to elucidate
      the (fundamental) origin of phenotypical differences between MCADD patients.

      Study design: Longitudinal, prospective investigator-initiated human pilot-study.

      Study population: Otherwise healthy infants with severe MCADD and mild MCADD at the ages of
      two and six months of life.

      Intervention: During two visits, the included infants will be fasted according to local
      standardized procedures at the University Medical Centre Groningen (UMCG). Fasting will take
      place under continuous blood glucose monitoring and bedside supervision by an experienced,
      dedicated pediatric nurse in collaboration with a metabolic pediatrician, who will be
      available to attend the patient instantly. During visit 1, at two months of life, fasting
      will be continued for maximally eight hours. During visit 2, at six months of life, fasting
      will be continued for maximally twelve hours. Fasting will be ended prematurely if; (a) the
      blood glucose concentration drops < 3.6 mmol/L, (b) the fasting subject shows symptoms/signs
      of a low blood glucose concentration, and/or (c) subject's parent(s) or guardian(s) request
      the end of fast.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Dynamics of both traditional clinical and biochemical
      metabolic parameters and unbiased multi-omics (metabolomics, lipidomics, and proteomics)
      parameters will be studied.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The trial is considered to be a low-risk study. The clinical research team at
      the UMCG has a longstanding tradition of performing supervised controlled clinical fasting
      test in patients with inborn errors of metabolism, for diagnostic as well as research
      purposes. No adverse effects are expected during fasting in otherwise healthy infants with
      MCADD. The study holds three moderate burdens for participants: insertion of the indwelling
      IV catheter, the discomfort of fasting for the subject and the parent(s) or guardian(s), and
      the time consumption. However, subjects and their parents(s) may directly benefit from the
      results of this study by reduction of stress concerning feeding, under normal, healthy
      circumstances and the (possible) institution of a personalized feeding regimen based on the
      study results by the treating pediatrician. As this project will substantiate current
      management guidelines and aims to identify new (prognostic) biomarkers, it may further
      improve the outcomes of future MCADD patients and their parent(s) or guardian(s), by
      reduction of (unnecessary) parental stress, treatment and follow-up.
    
  