
    
      Between January 2010 and December 2019, all patients (n=85) who developed after EVAR, a
      secondary type IA endoleak, and received a F/BEVAR stent graft were entered in a prospective
      multicentre study bringing together 8 French university centres.

      Type IA secondary endoleak was defined as an endoleak appearing during follow-up, but absent
      on computed tomography angiography (CTA) within 30 days of EVAR. All aetiologies leading to
      the development of this endoleak were recorded in the study, including any abnormality of the
      infra-renal stent graft, any aneurysmal evolution of the neck of the infra-renal aneurysm,
      and any aneurysmal evolutionof the inter-renal or thoracoabdominal aorta.

      All patients gave their informed consent for the operation. Following the European regulation
      on data management, the database was anonymised, upon completion.

      All patients had a preoperative assessment of cardiac, renal, respiratory function and
      underwent an ASA physical status classification. All preoperative imaging were performed on
      <1.5 mm slices.

      All F/BEVAR were performed using a COOK Zenith stent graft (Cook Medical Inc. Bloomington,
      Ind). The number of fenestrations used was based on the preoperative sizing made from 3D-CTA
      reconstructions. The investigators only used on-label F/BEVARs which were approved by the
      Zenith cook planning centre.

      Procedures were performed under general, epidural or local anaesthesia, depending on the
      preference of the anesthesiologist, surgeon or patient. Procedures were performed in a
      conventional operating theatre or a hybrid room as described elsewhere.

      General postoperative complications included any cause mortality. Acute kidney injury was
      defined following the KDIGO criteria , and myocardial infarction according to the generally
      accepted criteria. Postoperative respiratory complications were defined by the need for
      mechanical ventilation for more than 48 hours or re-intubation. SCI was classified according
      to the severity of the American Spinal Injury Association score and stroke was classified
      according to National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) .

      The European Society for Vascular Surgery guidelines were used to define technical success,
      major adverse events, aneurysm sac changes, endoleak and device integrity .

      F/BEVAR procedures were analysed in an intention to treat. A procedure was considered
      successful if the stent graft was implanted without any Type IA or type III endoleak, and
      with patent target arteries on peroperative angiography and on CTA or contrast enhanced
      ultrasound performed within the first week following the procedure. Target artery instability
      was defined as any branch-related death, rupture, occlusion or reintervention for stenosis,
      kink, endoleak, or disconnection. Monitoring during follow-up was carried out by CTA, at 3, 6
      and 36 months thereafter. Any endovascular or open revision related to the procedure was
      recorded during follow-up.

      Univariate analysis was performed using t-tests for normally distributed continuous
      variables, and Wilcoxon rank sum test for non-normally distributed continuous variables.
      Chi-square or Fisher tests was used when appropriate for categorical variables. Time
      dependent outcomes including patient survival, freedom from reintervention, freedom from
      endoleak and target arteries patency were reported using Kaplan-Meier time-to-event method. A
      p-value < .05 was used to assess statistical significance. All analyses were performed with
      SPSS V26, (IBM Corp.) and Medcalc ®.
    
  