
    
      Patients calling the Danish out-of-hours primary care service (OOH-PC; i.e. lægevagt) and
      Medical Helpline 1813 (i.e. Akuttelefonen) queue up in the telephone waiting line. Ranging
      from patients calling for acute illness such as chest pain to parents calling to ask if their
      coughing child is well enough to go to day care the next day, they must all wait for their
      turn to talk to the triage general practitioner (GP) or triage nurse. This Project is a part
      of a PhD-project which is a composition of two different randomised controlled studies with
      overlapping background. This registration with www.clinicaltrials.gov only concerns the
      following study:

      - Intervention to bypass the telephone queue in case of a perceived emergency: The
      investigators implement an option for patients to bypass the telephone queue by pressing a
      button if they perceive their illness as acute and severe.

      Background:

      Acute out-of-hours (OOH) care is an important part of health care and the point of entrance
      into the health care system for many patients, who contact outside normal working hours (i.e.
      4 pm to 8 am on weekdays, all weekends, and bank holidays). Patients with acute health
      problems have several options to access the health care system, such as OOH-PC, 112-Emergency
      Medical Communication Centre (112-EMCC), and Medical Helpline 1813. These settings have
      complementary aims in delivering health care, but at the same time their patient population
      is partly overlapping.

      Primary care is often the first point of contact, also outside office hours. However, in the
      Capital Region of Denmark patients call the Helpline 1813 which is answered by triage nurses
      who have the option to forward the call to a doctor, to triage to a consultation at the
      emergency department (ED) or another hospital department, to order a home visit, to forward
      the call to 112-EMCC or to give telephone health advice. In the four other regions OOH-PC is
      run by GPs, who answer and triage all telephone calls. They can triage to a telephone advice,
      a clinic consultation, a home visit, or directly refer to the ED/hospital. Patients
      contacting the OOH-PC or Helpline 1813 are put on hold and wait in a telephone queue if no GP
      or nurse is available to answer their call.

      The Danish acute care settings are intended to provide care to different patient groups
      depending upon the nature and severity of the health problem. With the decision to contact a
      specific setting, patients themselves choose the point of access to acute care, thus
      influencing their care pathway. An 'inappropriate´ choice may result in serious delay of
      treatment or insufficient intensive care, if they for example contact primary care instead of
      112-EMCC in life-threatening cases. On the contrary, over-use or -treatment is a potential
      risk if calling 112-EMCC for minor problems.

      At the moment, if a patient calls OOH-PC or Helpline 1813, he has to wait in line, even if
      the health problem is experienced as highly urgent or life-threatening. The alternative to
      waiting in line is calling 112-EMCC instead, as there is no possibility to bypass the
      telephone waiting line. In the Netherlands this functionality is integrated in the telephone
      system, meaning that patients who jump the waiting line are connected to the first available
      telephone triage professional.

      No information is available about the number of patients whose safety has been compromised
      because of extensive waiting. The investigators also lack knowledge on the number of patients
      who decide to contact another health care service, such as 112-EMCC, due to the waiting time
      in OOH-PC and Helpline 1813. At the OOH-PC about 5% of patients estimate their condition as
      potentially life-threatening and approximately 1% of all telephone contacts are directly
      triaged to 112-EMCC. In the Central Denmark Region this accounts for approximately 7,000
      patient contacts per year who may experience potential harm from a delay as a consequence of
      the telephone queue.

      Although it is not clear whether the absence of the possibility to jump the line is a problem
      for patients, its presence may provide patients with a feeling of safety and reduce the level
      of stress in medical situations which are experienced as distressing.

      Aim:

      To implement the jump-the-line option in OOH-PC and Medical Helpline 1813 to:

        1. study the frequencies of patients jumping the line and the general characteristics of
           these patients,

        2. study the patients' reasons for jumping the line and their satisfaction with this
           option,

        3. evaluate the amount of jumps assessed as relevant by the triage GP/nurse

      Methods

      Design, setting and intervention:

      The investigators conduct a randomised controlled trial (RCT) at OOH-PC in the Central
      Denmark Region and Helpline 1813 in the Capital Region. The two settings are used so the
      investigators can make a comparison of the usage of the jump-option in the two regions and
      hopefully a well-founded recommendation regarding the intervention. At the moment, when
      calling, patients are already routinely asked to press their CPR number at the telephone.
      Hereafter, the patients will be randomized into two arms according to their date of birth
      (even or uneven date in the month) which is part of the Social security number (Central
      Person Register, CPR number).

      For those in the intervention arm, the message at the answering machine will inform the
      patient of the possibility to jump the waiting line by pressing '9'. By doing this their call
      will be answered by the next available triage person. On the computer screen of the triage
      person a message will appear, if the patient has used the jump option. Patients at the
      control arm will get the normal message at the answering machine and will not get the
      possibility to jump the line. If patients call several times during the study period they
      will be randomized to the same arm every time, using the CPR number. If patients do not press
      their CPR number, they will get the normal message at the answering machine without the
      option to jump the line.

      Data collection:

      A questionnaire will pop-up on the PC for the triage GPs in the Central Region of Denmark and
      triage nurses and doctors in the Capital Region for all patients who use the jump option.
      This pop-up questionnaire contains questions about the medical and social relevance of
      jumping the line, the degree of urgency, the reason for encounter (RFE) and the probable
      diagnosis. The questionnaire is short and can be completed in less than a minute.
      Furthermore, a similar questionnaire (without the question about the relevance for jumping
      the line) will pop-up for the triage professionals for a random group of patients in the
      intervention arm who did not jump the line and for a random group of patients belonging to
      the control arm. This will enable the investigators to compare the three groups. This method
      of collecting data from the GPs has been found feasible in earlier studies.

      A patient questionnaire will be sent to a random group of patients who use the jump option.
      Questions focus on the reason for using the jump option, patient satisfaction, and the effect
      of the intervention on their feeling of safety, as well as relevant patient and contact
      characteristics (e.g. RFE). Furthermore, questionnaires will be sent to a random group of
      patients from the intervention arm who did not jump the line. Questions for this group focus
      on the reason for not using the jump option, RFE, patient satisfaction, and the effect of the
      intervention on their feeling of safety. Finally, a questionnaire will be sent to a random
      group of patients in the control group, focusing on the RFE and patient satisfaction with the
      current system.

      As a part of the telephone message in the OOH-PC telephone, patients will be informed about
      the ongoing study with the option not to participate in the study. The questionnaires are
      planned to be sent in a few days after the contact by ordinary letter as well as by a message
      to the patient's electronic mailbox required by the state (e-boks) with a link to an
      electronic version of the questionnaire. If the patient is less than 14 years old, the
      questionnaire will be addressed to the parents. Patients will only receive one questionnaire
      in the study period although they may have several contacts.

      Furthermore, the investigators collect information of all contacts to OOH-PC and Helpline
      1813 in the study period the electronic patient record system of OOH-PC and Helpline 1813 can
      provide: CPR number of the patient, date and time of contact, triage outcome (i.e. telephone
      consultation, consultation, home visit or referral to ED or other hospital departments), use
      of jump the line option, and waiting time in the telephone line at time of patient call to
      the service. If the patient has chosen to jump the line, the investigators also collect the
      length of waiting time at the time of the jump.

      Study period and power calculation:

      Based on the patient questionnaires: The investigators want to be able to detect a minimum
      mean difference of 0.3 between jumpers and non-jumpers in the outcome measures regarding
      satisfaction and feeling of safety. If the investigators assume that the sample standard
      deviation is 1, significance level is 5%, power is 95% and given a mean of 3 the
      investigators need a total of 580 answered patient questionnaires to be able to detect a
      difference of 0.3 between the two groups. This means that, with a response rate from the
      patients of 40%, the investigators have to send out 1450 questionnaires.

      In 2013 the total number of contacts with OOH-PC in the Central Denmark Region was
      approximately 660,000. An earlier study showed that approximately 80% of patients type in
      their CPR number on their phone when calling the service. Numbers from the Netherlands show a
      user rate of 3 % of their version of the option to jump the line. An estimated response rate
      from the GPs of 70% gives a study period of approximately 1,6 months.

      Based on number of jumps: In relation to the aim of frequency of jumping the line the
      investigators want to determine the user rate. The investigators estimate a user rate of 3 %
      and this gives them 7,800 users of the intervention in one year. In order to obtain
      satisfactory power in the calculations of the usage of the jump option the investigators want
      a 95%-confidence interval of +/- 2,2%. This means that the investigators need at least 1950
      jumpers, which requires 3 months to complete the study.

      In conclusion the investigators need approximately 3 months to complete the study if they
      want satisfactory power regarding the frequency of jumps and patient satisfaction.

      The investigators plan to conduct a pilot study with a running time of 1-2 weeks to give a
      more precise estimate of the user rate in order to perform a more accurate power calculation
      to define the length of the study period.

      Analyses:

      The investigators provide a descriptive analysis of the group of patients who jump the line,
      the group who chose not to jump the line, and patients from the control group, along with
      univariate analyses comparing the patients in the three groups (i.e. patient characteristics,
      RFE, incentives). Descriptive analyses will be performed using Student's t-test for data
      following a normal distribution, Mann-Whitney U-test for non-normally distributed data, and
      chi-square test for categorical data. For the primary outcome measures patient satisfaction
      and feeling of safety the investigators perform intention to treat analyses as wells as
      analyses between subgroups. The association between relevant jumps and GP assessed level of
      urgency and patient characteristics is explored by the use of multivariate binomial
      regression taking clustering at GP level into account. The association between patients'
      choosing to jump the line, satisfaction with having the option, and the reasons to do so, is
      assessed using multivariate binomial regression models.

      Perspective:

      This study will provide knowledge on the feasibility and effects of implementing an option to
      jump the telephone waiting line at OOH-PC and Helpline 1813, and it will be clarified whether
      patients will use such an option appropriately. This information will be used to decide
      whether this intervention should be implemented nationwide. The percentage of patients
      potentially benefiting from this option to jump the line is expected to be relatively
      limited, but as the total number of contacts with OOH-PC is extensive, the absolute number of
      patients actually benefiting from this simple intervention is likely to be substantial.
      Especially in the area of feeling safety the investigators hope to see a significant effect.

      This intervention is robust and can be extended to other regions and settings easily.
      Information about the decrease in waiting time for urgent cases could lead to stratification
      of quality goals for different patient groups. Also a higher number of cases with acute
      illness could be handled by the OOH-PC which could ease the pressure on 112-EMCC.
    
  