
    
      Aim of the work:

      This study aims to compare between postoperative pain following repair of episiotomy by
      continuous or interrupted suturing.

      Study population:

      All primipara full term women with episiotomy done in a selective rather than liberal use.

      E- Patients in the study will be randomized into one of two groups either those who have:

        1. Interrupted technique of episiotomy repair or

        2. Continuous knotless suturing technique and each of the two groups will be subdivided
           into either medio-lateral or lateral episiotomy.

      The Episiotomy in group A will be done using the interrupted suture (IT) which involves
      placing three layers of sutures: a continuous non-locking stitch to close the vaginal
      epithelium. commencing above the apex of the wound and finishing at the level of the
      fourchette; three or four interrupted sutures to reapproximate the deep and superficial
      perineal muscles; and interrupted transcutaneous technique to close the skin.

      The Episiotomy in group B will be done using the continuous knotless suturing technique (CKT)
      which involves placing the first stitch above the apex of vaginal trauma to secure any
      bleeding points that might not be visible. Vaginal wound, perineal muscles (deep and
      superficial), and skin are reapproximated with a loose, continuous, non-locking technique.
      The skin sutures will be placed closely fairly deeply in the subcutaneous tissue, reversing
      back and finishing with a terminal knot placed in the vagina beyond the hymeneal remnants.

      And subgroups subjected to Mediolateral episiotomy:it is defined as an incision beginning in
      the midline and directed laterally and downwards away from the rectum .The incision is
      usually about four centimeters long. In addition to the skin and subcutaneous tissues the
      bulbocavernosus, transverse perineal, and puborectalis muscles will be cut. And Lateral
      episiotomy; It begins in the vaginal introitus 1 or 2 cm lateral to the midline and is
      directe downwards towards the ischial tuberosity.

      The standard suture material in the study will be EGYSORB (sterile coated synthetic
      polyglycolic acid absorbable braided suture) No 2/0, Manufacturer TAISIER-MED Company).

      F- Written informed consent will be taken from all women participating in our search.

      G- Data recording: age,weight,height,body mass index,type of anesthesia used,type of
      episiotomy,time taken,infection or gaped episiotomy, amount of bleeding, postpartum
      hemorrhage,amount of suture material used,amount of analgesia used, severity of pain detected
      by VAS.

      H- all patient will be given oral nonnarcotic analgesics (NSAIDs eg; ibuprofen 600 mg every
      eight hours for three days , if NSAIDs is contraindicated acetaminophen/ paracetamol 500 mg
      every eight hours for three days.

      I- Antibiotic prophylaxis will be given as a single dose of a broad spectrum antibiotic
      (second generation cephalosporin or clindamycin if the patient is allergic to penicillin
    
  