
    
      METHODOLOGY:

      Subjects:

      Participants with IF will be recruited from patients followed by our multidisciplinary
      intestinal rehabilitation program at SickKids.

      Exclusion criteria: patients who are wheelchair bound or non-weight bearing, those unwilling
      to participate.

      Methods:

      An annual DXA is ordered for all our patients beginning at 1-year of age as part of routine
      clinical monitoring. On the day of the scheduled DXA, FFM using BIA, FM using Skinfolds and
      muscle strength will be measured in clinic. After DXA measurement, patients will be fitted
      with an accelerometer to be worn for 7 days.

      Body composition: 3 methods - BIA, Skinfolds & DXA

      Whole body and segmental BIA (leg, trunk and arm) will be taken on the right side of the body
      using a fixed frequency analyzer (50kHz) (BIA model 101A: RJL Systems). Resistance (R) and
      reactance (Xc) measurements will be made using 4-terminal bioelectrical impedance analyzer
      according to the manufacturer's recommendations after 10 hour overnight fasting for patients
      on enteral nutrition. Three readings R and Xc (in) will be taken from each subject. Patients
      on parenteral nutrition (PN) will be prescribed a standard fluid intake of 130 mls/kg and be
      cycled off PN for 3 hrs before measurement of BC. Body composition will also be assessed by
      BIA in clinic and DXA (GE-Lunar DPS Pro (EG Healthcare, Waukesha, WI, USA), at the Radiology
      Department, SickKids as part of routine annual clinical monitoring.

      Four SF thicknesses (triceps, biceps, subscapular, and super iliac) will measured to the
      nearest 1mm with a Harpenden caliper to obtain estimates of fat mass.

      Anthropometric & IF related factors: Data will be collected on PN prescription, % of calories
      on PN and enteral nutrition, number of months weaned of PN (if off PN), age, sex, diagnosis,
      weight and height.

      Physical activity level:

      Physical activity will be measured by accelerometry using the Actigraph GT3X accelerometer
      for measuring activity counts. It provides quantitative information regarding vertical
      acceleration of the trunk, and lower body parts at specified time intervals and can be used
      to evaluate frequency, intensity and duration of PA. Their small size and robust design make
      them an excellent alternative for use in children. They are less burdensome relative to heart
      rate monitors and capable of detecting the intermittent activity patterns characteristic of
      children.

      Participants will be asked to wear the accelerometer for 7 consecutive days, including two
      weekend days during waking hours except when participating in water related activities (e.g.,
      showering, swimming). The accelerometer will be worn on an elastic belt on the right hip,
      above the iliac crest. Each subject will receive a call by a research coordinator to remind
      them to wear the monitor. Subjects will also be given a handout that will include common
      solutions to potential barriers for wearing the monitor along with a prepaid envelope to
      return the accelerometer at the completion of the 7 days. Data from the accelerometers will
      be downloaded and analyzed with the manufacturer's software.

      Muscle strength

      In this study, objective measures will be used to assess both functional strength and
      specific muscle strength of the participants. The Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor
      Proficiency-2 (BOT-2) is norm referenced and designed to measure gross and fine motor skills
      in children and youth 4-21 years of age. It is a widely accepted test with a reliable and
      efficient measure of motor proficiency. The strength subtest will be utilized in this study
      and is designed to measure functional strength. Children will be tested on their grip
      strength using a Jamar 5030J1 dynamometer. Specific muscle strength of select arm and leg
      muscles will also be measured clinically by a physiotherapist.

      Subjects:

      Patient with intestinal failure:

      Patients with IF will undergo all tests as described above. Before clinic visit, patients
      will be contacted by the person preparing for clinic (a study team member) and the study will
      be introduced to the parents or child by a member of the health care team. If parents are
      interested, the study will be further explained in clinic and any questions answered by a
      study team member. The same person will obtain informed consent/assent (study team member but
      not a member of the health care team) Patients will be recruited in clinic.

      All patients with IF followed by the GIFT team at the hospital and aged 1-18 years will be
      eligible to participate except those who are wheel chair bound.

      Control participants:

      Healthy control participants will be recruited by posting flyers in common areas at the
      Hospital for Sick Children and the PGCRL. Contact information for the study team member
      accepting enquire will be included on the flyer. These postings will be negotiated through
      Public Affairs. Healthy controls will also be recruited through families of patients with IF
      and children of staff members and other colleagues at the Hospital for Sick Children. Two
      healthy controls will be recruited for each case.

      Healthy controls will be age, race and sex matched. Age will be matched within ±2 months for
      subjects between 1-3 years and within ±6 month for those 4 years and above.

      Both IF patents and controls will be fitted with an accelerometer and sent home to wear it
      for 7 days. A stamped and addressed envelope will be given to mail the accelerometer back to
      the hospital for those patient who live outside of the GTA. For those residing within the
      GTA, the accelerometers will be picked up from their homes or an arranged location by study
      team members.
    
  