
    
      BAY 43-9006 (Sorafenib) is a potent inhibitor of wild-type and mutant b-Raf and c-Raf kinase
      isoforms in vitro. In addition, this agent also inhibits p38, c-kit, vascular endothelial
      growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta
      (PDGFR-beta) affecting tumor growth as well as possibly promoting apoptosis by events
      downstream of c-Raf. At this time, over 500 patients have been treated with this drug with
      tolerable side effects.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if BAY 43-9006 (Sorafenib) is associated
      with a 50% 4 month probability of progression free survival in patients with metastatic
      androgen independent prostate cancer (AIPC) as determined by clinical, radiographic, and
      prostatic specific antigen (PSA) criteria.

      The secondary objective of this study will be demonstration of biologic effect by the drug in
      the patient and on the tumor (when possible). Correlative studies will be conducted on
      serially obtained tissue biopsies, bone marrow biopsies, and white blood cell collections.
      These laboratory correlates will include elucidation of activation of components of the
      Raf-extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK)-methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) and angiogenesis
      pathways using protein microarray technologies developed by the National Cancer Institute
      (NCI)/Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clinical proteomics program.

      Per Amendment D, a secondary objective of this study will also be to determine the time to
      progression measured by clinical and radiographic criteria. The 22 patients treated on the
      first stage of this protocol will be retrospectively evaluated with respect to this secondary
      endpoint possible. Please refer to the statistics section for further details.

      The combination of correlated clinical and laboratory endpoints with emphasis on molecular
      signaling will provide new information on the anti-tumor effects helping to characterize its
      role in the treatment of androgen independent prostate cancer (AIPC).
    
  