
    
      In spite of the existence of multimodal therapy, the long-term survival of patients with
      gastric cancer remains poor. In advanced tumor stages, five-year survival rates rarely exceed
      30%. One of the factors limiting overall survival is peritoneal carcinomatosis, which
      frequently occurs after surgical treatment with curative intention.

      Peritoneal carcinomatosis is supposed to develop from peritoneal implantation of tumor cells
      already present in the abdominal cavity during primary surgery. It is assumed that both
      serosal tumor infiltration and intraoperative lymphadenectomy, which per se leads to a
      survival improvement (1) and is therefore considered standard in Europe and Japan ((2),
      http://www.jpca.jp/PDFfiles/ Guidelines2004_eng.pdf), can release tumor cells into the
      peritoneal cavity. Of note, a Japanese study found that tumor cells were released into the
      peritoneal cavity during lymphadenectomy in 14-46% of patients, depending on preoperative
      tumor stage (3).

      A randomized clinical trial from Japan (4) demonstrated that an "extensive intraperitoneal
      lavage" (EIPL), i.e. an irrigation of the abdominal cavity with ten times one liter of
      physiological saline solution, in combination with intraperitoneal chemotherapy (IPC) carried
      out after gastrectomy and lymphadenectomy, led to a significant improvement in overall
      survival compared to patients who received only surgery and IPC without EIPL, and those who
      received surgery alone without EIPL and IPC. These results suggest that the largest survival
      benefit is attributable to the addition of EIPL to IPC (5-year survival rate: 43.8% vs. 4.6%)
      and not to the addition of IPC to surgery alone (5-year survival rate: 4.6% vs. 0%).

      However, it is important to consider that the study included only patients in whom peritoneal
      tumor cells were detected before resection of the stomach and lymph nodes. Thus, only 90 of
      1522 (5.9%) patients operated in the participating centers throughout the study period
      fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Furthermore, the study design was not appropriate to assess
      if EIPL really leads to a reduction of free tumor cells as assumed. Regarding this
      hypothesis, the only available results stem from single patients out of smaller studies
      (4;5). To date, there is no higher level evidence from larger populations.

      The present trial, for the first time, uses EIPL as additional treatment in patients with any
      tumor stage and regardless of the detection of intraperitoneal tumor cells at the beginning
      of the operation.

      Intraperitoneal lavage fluid will be harvested and assessed for tumor cells at three
      different points of time:

      (i) before gastrectomy and lymphadenectomy (ii) after gastrectomy and lymphadenectomy,
      directly before EIPL (iii) after EIPL

      The trial will test the hypotheses that a) lymph node dissection causes a release of tumor
      cells in the abdominal cavity, and b) EIPL eliminates free peritoneal tumor cells.
    
  