
    
      Adult patients presenting to a University Hospital and found to have hip and knee
      osteoarthritis that had failed conservative management were subsequently indicated for
      primary hip or knee replacement (arthroplasty). Patients who subsequently had their surgery
      delayed or cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic were eligible for this study. Eligible
      patients consenting to the study will be assigned a unique study identification number (ID).
      A master database linking patient ID to patient name and medical record number will be housed
      on a password protected and encrypted departmental server location, which only research
      personnel can access.

      Participants will complete a basic demographics survey and preoperative/ baseline patient
      reported outcome surveys at enrollment, including the Patient-reported outcomes measurement
      information system (PROMIS) Pain Intensity 1A short form, PROMIS Pain Intensity 3A short
      form, PROMIS Pain Interference 8A short form, and PROMIS 8A Emotional Distress-Anxiety 8A
      short forms. Following completion of these surveys, subjects will be randomized in a 1:1
      ratio using a random number generator into one of two study groups. The intervention group
      will receive mobile messages communicating the behavior intervention. The control group will
      not receive the intervention. Subjects will not be blinded to their study group. Participants
      randomized to the intervention group were subsequently enrolled into the automated mobile
      messaging protocol and received a confirmation message welcoming them to the study, which was
      reviewed with them by the research assistant. Subjects were instructed that they were only
      required to read all messages, no responses were required.

      A single instance of follow-up will take place on Day 14 of the study. This will occur over
      the phone with a research team member. Subjects will fill out a second set of the patient
      reported outcome surveys completed at enrollment. Collection of these followup items marks
      the end of the subject's participation in the study. No data collection is planned following
      the two week study period. The study hypothesis is that subjects receiving the behavior
      intervention delivered via an automated mobile messaging robot would demonstrate better
      patient reported outcome survey scores than controls at follow-up.
    
  