
    
      Right-sided lung metastases are resected synchronously with liver metastases by means of a
      thoracophrenolaparotomy.

      The pre-operative staging includes for all patients colonoscopy, thoracic and abdominal
      contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT), contrast enhanced magnetic resonance (MRI) of the
      upper abdomen, and 18-fluorodeoxyglucose PET scan.

      Laboratory examinations including liver function tests, spirometry, cardiologic and
      anesthesiological evaluation are also performed in alla patients.

      Surgical Procedures The patient is placed in supine position with the arms extended
      laterally. The anaesthesiologist for selective lung insufflation positions the double lumen
      endotracheal tube. The J-shaped abdominal incision conventionally adopted for liver surgery
      is performed. In case of tumors involving segment 1 or cranial segment portion of segments 4
      superior, 7 and 8 close to the caval confluence, the incision is prolonged along the 9th
      right intercostal space allowing the access to thoracic cavity. The incision of the skin and
      the external oblique muscle reaches the anterior axillary line. A small portion, about 2
      centimetres, of the cartilaginous costal arch is removed, and then the diaphragm is divided
      in a radial direction. The inner parietal incision, involving parietal pleura and intercostal
      muscles is prolonged up to the posterior axillary line preserving the intercostal
      neurovascular bundle.

      Intraoperative ultrasound (IOUS) is performed in all patients to stage the liver involvement
      as well as to assess the relation between tumors and vascular structures and guidance in the
      dissection of hepatic parenchyma. If nodules are isoechoic in comparison to the surrounding
      tissue, the staging is completed with contrast-enhanced IOUS (CEIOUS); the contrast agent
      consists of 4.8 mL of microbubbles filled with sulfur hexafluoride (SonoVue®; Bracco Imaging,
      Italy), which is injected intravenously.

      Once surgical strategy is defined, the liver mobilization is completed by dividing the right
      and/or left triangular and coronary ligaments as needed. For combining the abdominal and
      thoracic procedures the right liver has to be mobilized at least up to the exposure of the
      inferior vena cava allowing larger radial incision of the diaphragm and enlarged view field
      to the thoracic cavity.

      At first the thoracic surgeon performs the pulmonary part. The bed is tilted to the left side
      and exposure of right thoracic cavity is gained to the entire lung and the lateral
      mediastinum. With deflation and gentle retraction of the ipsilateral lung, the mediastinum
      and pericardium are exposed. Pulmonary ligament and lobar fissures are divided as needed.
      Manual palpation of the lung to detect the metastatic lesion is carried out. Then, wedge
      resection of the lung metastases is performed by using disposable stapler. Allowing the lung
      to collapse facilitates application of the stapling device and achievement of an adequate
      margin. Absorbable monofilament sutures are used, if necessary, to ensure haemostasis and/or
      small air leaks.

      The hepatic resection is then started. Briefly, definition of the resection area with the
      main purpose of surrounding the tumor at its deepest portion combining the minimal
      parenchymal sacrifice and the flattest cut surface is performed under IOUS guidance. The
      hilar pedicle is then encircled with a tourniquet if dissection is not intended. Otherwise,
      in case of major hepatectomy, hilar dissection is performed. For all patients, parenchymal
      transection is obtained under intermittent clamping by Pringle maneuver continued for 15
      minutes followed by 5 minutes of reperfusion without preconditioning. After 4 clamping
      cycles, reperfusion time is prolonged for 10 minutes. Liver dissection is accomplished using
      crush clamping technique, ligating with sutures all the vessels but those thinner which are
      coagulated using bipolar electrocautery . Before abdominal closure, the cut surface of the
      liver is sealed with haemostatic agent.

      Closed suction abdominal drains are inserted in every patient around the liver, in variable
      number depending to the number and the size of liver cut surfaces. They are removed on the
      7th postoperative day (POD) if the bilirubin level in the drain discharge sampled routinely
      on the 3rd, 5th, and 7th POD showed a decrement, and in any case was below 10 mg/ml.

      One or two chest tube are placed in the pleural cavity, being removed from the 3rd POD, in
      absence of air leak within the bottle and if the serous output is below 200 mL/24h.

      The ribs are approximated with pericostal sutures using braided absorbable sutures size 2.
      The diaphragm is closed with a single layer running suture. Peritoneum and fasciae of the
      chest and abdominal wall are closed in an anatomic pattern. Subcutaneous layer and skin are
      finally closed in the routine manner.
    
  