
    
      Internet-based interventions in depression have emerged over the last decades to improve the
      access to effective treatments. Despite the increasing relevance of these treatments,
      empirical evidence is still needed to demonstrate their clinical and cost-effectiveness in
      different healthcare contexts. The present study represents an extension to the Portuguese
      context of the original trial developed by the ECOMPARED consortium. The overall project
      involves a pilot study and a randomized clinical trial (RCT).

      The pilot study main objective is to adapt the bCBT based on Moodbuster, an internet-based
      treatment platform developed by the ICT4Depression Consortium (INESC-TEC, Vrije Universiteit
      and University of Limerick), to the Portuguese population. More specifically, this pilot
      study intends: (1) to detect problems and refine procedures, establishing a definitive
      Portuguese version of the blended treatment; (2) to assess clinical effectiveness
      (non-controlled), estimating effect sizes at the end of the treatment and follow-up; (3) to
      assess patients' satisfaction and personal views concerning their process of change; (4) to
      develop dynamic models of the individual trajectories during treatment based on Ecological
      Momentary Assessments (EMA). The pilot study will involve the participation of psychologists
      trained in bCBT and 20 participants diagnosed with Major Depression and willing to use the
      Moodbuster system. The assessment protocol will be implemented at the baseline, during
      therapeutic sessions, 16 weeks and 26 weeks after baseline and it is composed by several
      measures that evaluate depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, distress, quality of life,
      working alliance, treatment credibility and expectancy, treatment satisfaction and system
      usability. Moreover, the EMA concerning mood, sleep quality, anxiety and other emotional
      states will be collected in a daily basis before, during and after the treatment. The
      intervention protocol includes ten face-to-face cognitive-behavioral sessions combined with
      nine online sessions based on the self-help treatment modules of the Moodbuster
      (psychoeducation, exercise therapy, behavioral activation, problem solving, cognitive
      restructuring and relapse prevention) delivered over a period of 16 weeks.

      The RCT is composed by two arms (an experimental condition and a control condition) and it
      will be implemented in routine practice. In the experimental condition, the patients
      diagnosed with Major Depression will receive a treatment that integrates face-to-face
      cognitive-behavioral sessions with online sessions available through Moodbuster system
      (bCBT). In the control condition, patients diagnosed with Major Depression will receive TAU
      that consists in routine care that patients receive in primary care. The RCT will involve the
      participation of family doctors and psychologists working in routine practice. One-hundred
      patients will be recruited and randomized in the two conditions: 50 patients for bCBT
      condition and 50 patients for TAU condition. The main objectives are: (1) to assess the
      clinical effectiveness of bCBT and compare it with TAU in routine practice; (2) to estimate
      and compare cost-effectiveness of both treatments; (3) to assess patients' and clinicians'
      satisfaction with the bCBT and TAU; (4) to refine the previous models of individual
      trajectories and to assess differential effects on different patient clusters; (5) to
      establish guidelines for using bCBT within Portuguese routine practice services. The
      assessment protocol will be implemented at the baseline, during therapeutic sessions, 16
      weeks, 26 and 52 weeks after baseline and it is composed by several measures that evaluate
      depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, distress, quality of life, working alliance, treatment
      credibility and expectancy, treatment satisfaction, system usability and cost-effectiveness.
      Moreover, the EMA concerning mood, sleep quality, anxiety and other emotional states will be
      collected in a daily basis before, during and after the treatment. The intervention protocol
      includes ten face-to-face cognitive-behavioral sessions combined with nine online sessions
      based on the self-help treatment modules of the Moodbuster (psychoeducation, exercise
      therapy, behavioral activation, problem solving, cognitive restructuring and relapse
      prevention) delivered over a period of 16 weeks.
    
  