
    
      The aim of this proposal is to investigate the effects of uneventful microsurgical and
      endovascular treatment of unruptured saccular non-giant anterior communicating artery [ACoA]
      aneurysms on resting state functional connectivity levels of higher order cognitive networks
      and to correlate the connectivity levels of these networks with neuropsychological
      performance and functional outcome. The investigators' hypothesis is that the functional
      connectivity of various cognition networks, i.e. cognitive control network, emotion control
      of cognitive networks, and working memory networks, as assessed by resting state functional
      magnetic resonance imaging [rsfMRI], can be impaired after uneventful microsurgical and
      endovascular treatment of unruptured ACoA aneurysms and can be correlated with
      neuropsychological performance. The investigators propose to investigate 38 patients
      harboring unruptured ACoA aneurysms and 19 healthy controls over a 36 (until 48) months
      period. Patients and healthy controls will undergo baseline structural MRI, task fMRI,
      rsfMRI, and baseline neuropsychological examinations prior as well as 2 months after either
      microsurgical or endovascular aneurysm treatment or baseline examinations, respectively.
      Furthermore all subjects will undergo additional neuropsychological examinations 12 months
      after baseline examination or long-term recovery from microsurgical and endovascular
      treatment, respectively. The research question is of substantial importance for this patient
      population, since it is currently incompletely understood how the minor structural brain
      tissue damages seen after both treatment methods of unruptured ACoA aneurysms translate into
      the observed neuropsychological deficits - which are often subtle and transient in nature but
      still insufficiently explained on grounds of morphology and structural connectivity alone.
      The sensitivity of rsfMRI to depict the functional communication of spatially remote brain
      regions presents a novel opportunity to investigate these deficits on a whole brain scale by
      mapping resting state functional connectivity in higher order cognition networks that are
      thought to be endangered by events related to both microsurgery and embolization. Correlating
      these data seems promising for several reasons. First, functional connectivity analysis could
      be correlated with the neuropsychological impairment in various neuropsychiatric disorders
      and in ischemic stroke. Ischemic damage to the territories supplied by ACoA perforating
      arteries is involved in many cases of postoperative neuropsychological impairment after ACoA
      aneurysm treatment. Second, neuropsychological evaluations have become increasingly
      incorporated into the standard of care in the postoperative follow-up of cerebral aneurysm
      patients. RsfMRI could serve as a novel adjunct to neuropsychological outcome assessment.
      Third, the results could add relevant information to the general perception of the role of
      frontal lobe and forebrain damage in the pathophysiology of neurocognitive impairment. This
      could have an impact on neurorehabilitation programs to improve neurocognitive outcome and
      quality of life in this patient population. Forth, the correlation of validated
      neuropsychological tests with the functional connectivity rsfMRI data would further enhance
      the role of rsfMRI in neuroscience and its clinical use.
    
  