
    
      Introduction

      To guarantee chronic patients and elderly a high quality service from health care
      organizations in the coming decades, new technologies has been implemented to treat patients
      from a distance. This document reflects the latest research studies based on
      tele-rehabilitation (TR), its application in chronic lung diseases and the topics that still
      needs to be investigated.

      Tele-rehabilitation Studies of TR in patients with lymphedema (Galiano-Castillo et al., 2014)
      or COPD (Paneroni et al., 2014)(Tousignant et al., 2012)(Dinesen, Seeman, and Gustafsson,
      2011)(Dinesen, Huniche, and Toft, 2013) or in the orthopedic areas as, lower back
      (Palacín-Marín, Esteban-Moreno, Olea, Herrera-Viedma, & Arroyo-Morales, 2013), knee (Cabana
      et al., 2010) (Tousignant, Moffet, et al., 2011) (Tousignant, Boissy, et al., 2011) and
      shoulder (Eriksson, Lindström, Gard, & Lysholm, 2009)(Eriksson, Lindström, & Ekenberg, 2011)
      show that tele-technology has been developed to a level where it is possible to treat, test
      and follow-up patients from a distance. Patients who have not been offered such solutions
      face increased risks of hospital-acquired infections (Dancer, 2009) and longer travel and
      waiting time to get treated. The public sector expects higher expenditure due to treatment
      and transportation cost, specifically in chronic patients and the elderly whose numbers tends
      to increase according to demographics trend (Palacín-Marín et al., 2013)(Barros, Francisco,
      Zanchetta, & César, 2011)(Parker & Thorslund, 2007)(Yach, Hawkes, Gould, and Hofman, 2004).
      Such facts points to the need of creating and improving solutions that overcome such health
      care challenges.

      TR seems to be a good approach to reach patients in low inhabited areas (Hill and Sppath,
      2010), changing health care to self-care (Haarder, 2011), empowering patient's awareness of
      their disease and increasing the flexibility patients need to acquire to obtain healthier
      behaviors. Although the interest in TR research is high, there is still a need for more
      studies on the efficacy (Paneroni et al., 2014) and cost-effectiveness of TR (Paneroni et
      al., 2014) (Langberg, Lindahl, Kidholm, and Dinesen, 2014) just as the long-term effects of
      TR have to be determined (Langberg et al., 2014).

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) COPD is among the most resource costly diseases
      we face in our century (Kjøller, Juel, and Kamper-Jørgensen, 2007). In Denmark, approximately
      430,000 people have COPD of which around 50,000 have severe COPD (Kirkegaard N, Brandt A,
      Timm H, 2013)(Mannino, Doherty, and Sonia Buist, 2006). Eriksen (Eriksen and Vestbo, 2010)
      states that up to 42.3% of patients with COPD discharged from hospitals are readmitted the
      following year, and 17% of patients treated in emergency departments require hospitalization.
      Danish pulmonary physicians concluded that COPD cost the Danish society three billion DKK in
      2002 (Hos, 2007) where up to 20% of the most severe COPD patients consume over 70% of the
      total health expenditure (Jansson et al., 2002). Nowadays, some municipalities have already
      problems with offering rehabilitation services to all COPD patients in some areas in Denmark
      (Kjøller et al., 2007). Actions implementing TR for COPD patients have been started and
      research begins to show some improvements.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation in COPD The objective of treatment for patients with COPD is to
      delay the progression of the disease, prevent acute exacerbations, improve quality of life,
      reduce symptoms and reduce mortality. Rehabilitation of COPD includes among others physical
      training and patient education (Sundhedsstyrelsen, 2007). There is a need for an improved
      prevention and treatment of exacerbations (Barnes, Calverley, Kaplan, & Rabe, 2013). Despite
      the poor evidence about determinants of physical activity and impact of treatment in COPD
      patients (Gimeno-Santos et al., 2014), a wide range of interventions are commonly used by
      physiotherapist to treat individuals with COPD (Kozu et al., 2011),(Kenn, Gloeckl, and Behr,
      2013) (Garrod and Lasserson, 2007). Researchers have shown significant improvement in general
      condition (Lacasse, Guyatt, and Goldstein, 1997)(Ries, Kaplan, Limberg, and Prewitt,
      1995)(Lacasse, Goldstein, Tj, and Martin, 2009)(Nava, 1998)(Simpson, Killian, McCartney,
      Stubbing, and Jones, 1992), quality of life (Wijkstra et al., 1995)(Bendstrup 1997),
      long-term survival (Godoy 2007), sputum clearance (Garrod 2007) (Oldenburg 1979);
      Health-related quality of life (Almagro 2013) (Blackstock 2013) (Jones, 2013)(Bendstrup et
      al. 1997), training of muscle strength and exercise tolerance (Ortega et al., 2002)(Bendstrup
      et al., 1997), walking distance (Ries et al. 2007) (Ringbaek 2008) (Wedzicha et al., 1998),
      exercise capacity, endurance (Lacasse et al., 1997) (Ries et al., 1995) (Lacasse et al.,
      2009) (Nava 1998) (Simpson et al., 1992); days of hospitalization (Ries et al., 2007)
      (Griffiths et al., 2000), tachypnea (Lacasse et al., 1997) (Ortega et al., 2002) and
      morbidity (Godoy, 2007). Although the advantages of PR are many, its implementation should be
      placed alongside the routine treatment options (Ozalevli 2010). It has been shown that the
      frequency of emergency department presentations and hospital admissions in COPD patients was
      significantly reduced after participation in early discharge care with ongoing follow-up
      support (Lawlor et al., 2009).

      Tele-rehabilitation in COPD Tele-rehabilitation at home is feasible and well accepted by
      patients, although technology may be perceived as difficult (Paneroni et al.,
      2014)(Tousignant et al., 2012). It seems to improve walking capacity, dyspnea, quality of
      life and daily physical activity (Paneroni et al., 2014). The interaction between the COPD
      patients at home and the healthcare professionals at the clinic through TR has evolved as a
      dialogue channel forming the basis for mutual learning processes and new relationships
      (Dinesen 2011). Here, patients exhibit four types of attitudes about their
      tele-rehabilitation: indifference, learning as part of situations in everyday life, feeling
      of security and motivation for performing physical training (Dinesen et al., 2013).
      Preliminary evaluations from tele-rehabilitation initiatives in Scotland showed
      tele-rehabilitation to be more cost effective for patients living in remote areas compared to
      an out-reach- or centralized model (Hill 2010).

      Conclusion There is still a need for more studies of the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of
      TR, just as also the long-term effects of TR have to be determined. To guarantee individuals
      with COPD a qualitative service from health care organizations in the coming decades and
      economically save the national health systems for an expensive bill to treating COPD, new
      actions plans has to be taken in mind in order to treat more patients with less human
      resources and still sustaining or improving today's services. The importance of such welfare
      action plans has to maintain a quality of service that individuals with COPD are willing to
      accept. Here, TR seems to be a good welfare action plans. Despite improved cost
      effectiveness, evidence supporting patient ´s adherence and security, treatment efficacy and
      improvements of quality of life with tele-rehabilitation in COPD is still warranted.

      Aim To assess and compare the feasibility and effect of a tele-rehabilitation program with a
      new and innovative TR platform (NITRP) compared to standard COPD rehabilitation with respect
      to exercise capacity, quality of life and activities of daily living in patients with COPD.

      The primary purpose of the study is to assess the effect of tele-rehabilitation with a NITRP
      compared to standard COPD rehabilitation on exercise capacity and quality of life in COPD
      patients based on the following hypotheses:

      Activities of daily living, exercise capacity and health-related quality of life are equal or
      improved by tele-rehabilitation compared to conventional COPD rehabilitation.

      The secondary purpose is to investigate the efficacy and cost effectiveness of
      tele-rehabilitation with a NITRP compared to standard COPD rehabilitation on "number of acute
      exacerbations and number of visits to the health care system in a period of time" and
      "rehabilitation- and transportation costs" in rehabilitation of COPD patients based on the
      following hypothesis:

      The rehabilitation costs of tele-rehabilitation are lower or equal compared to conventional
      rehabilitation.

      METHOD AND MATERIAL

      Design:

      The study is a prospective randomized controlled trial comparing the effects of
      tele-rehabilitation and conventional rehabilitation in patients with COPD.

      Patients 54 adult patients with moderate to severe COPD referred for conventional COPD
      rehabilitation in the outpatient clinic at the Department of Respiratory Medicine and
      Allergy, Aarhus University Hospital

      Inclusion criteria

      In order to be eligible to participate in this study, the patient must meet all of the
      following criteria:

      A diagnosis of COPD (FEV1/FVC < 70% in a stable phase of the disease) Age > 18 years Referred
      for conventional COPD rehabilitation Compliant patient willing to fulfill the study
      requirements Signed informed consent Oxygen therapy is not an obstacle for participation.

      Exclusion criteria

      A potential patient who meets any of the following criteria will be excluded from
      participation in this study if:

      Musculoskeletal disorders limiting training Dizziness, significant sensory or motor
      disabilities, dementia or terminal malignant disease precluding training Severe comorbidities
      such as i.e. unstable heart disease, dysregulated diabetes, known malignant disease, any
      other illness making the patient inappropriate for participating in the study Non-compliant
      patient Severe vision or hearing impairment Non-Danish speaking Unwillingness or inability to
      follow the protocol COPD exacerbation in the preceding 6 weeks

      Sample size calculation In this non-inferiority study of tele-rehabilitation vs. standard
      rehabilitation, we will use 6MWT as the primary outcome. Power calculations based on previous
      rehabilitation studies in COPD results I 54 patients that should participate in this study.
      The biggest allowed difference in 6MWT: +/- 35 m (Puhan et al 2008) to accept the H0: same
      mean difference, assuming equal group sizes, means that 18 patients is needed in each group.
      A drop-out rate less than or equal to 30% is expected (Sohanpal et al 2012). The maximum
      dropout rate in the present study is set to 40%. Thus, the final power calculations results
      in 54 patients, significance rate 0.05. Therefore, 27 patients will enrolled in each group.

      Recruitment All COPD patients referred for rehabilitation at the Department of Respiratory
      Medicine and Allergy, Aarhus University Hospital that might be eligible will be informed
      about the study by their respiratory physician or physiotherapist when evaluated after
      referral for rehabilitation. The patients will be asked if they are interested in
      participating in this study, and if so, they will receive verbal and written information. An
      enrolment letter will also be hung up at the outpatient clinic to inform potential
      participants about the project. An advertisement will be published in local newspapers, on
      AUH facebook and on www.forsoegsperson.dk (Appendix 4). In this information the study is
      explained in detail. Potential participants are entitled to at least one day consideration
      time before they decide whether to participate in the trial. They have the right to be
      accompanied by a family member, friend or acquaintance for the oral information they will
      receive previous to the enrolment. . The patients have to give their informed signed consent
      to the principal investigator or his designee before the patient can enter the trial.
      Clinical stability will be assessed by the physician. If patients are eligible they will be
      randomized to the intervention group or control group.

      Treatment of subjects There will be no changes in the patients' regular treatment due to
      participation in the tele-rehabilitation study.

      Investigational treatment The intervention is the use of a tele-rehabilitation program during
      8 weeks. The patient's training time will be registered automatically. The control group will
      receive standard COPD rehabilitation.

      Escape medication In case of a COPD exacerbation or any other medical incidence, the patient
      will be treated to the discretion of the clinician in charge and excluded from the study.
      However, the patients will be offered to be included again at the moment clinical stability
      is reached and the patient again fulfils inclusion criteria.

      Randomisation, blinding & treatment allocation Randomisation will allocate patients to either
      the intervention or control group and will be performed electronically.

      Study procedures The trial is registered in the public database of Clinical Trials.gov. After
      informed consent, the patients will be screened at baseline and physical examination,
      pulmonary function tests and 6MWT will be performed.

      Information on comorbidities and smoking status will be registered. All patients will be
      asked to fill in the questionnaires on health-related quality of life, general-well-being and
      anxiety. Patients will be asked to wear a pedometer and record steps during 7 days and will
      be instructed not to change their daily routine while wearing this device. After returning
      back the pedometer, patients allocated to the intervention group will receive instructions
      about the tele-rehabilitation program while patients allocated to the control group will
      start the standard rehabilitation program.

      In week 8, the intervention group will again receive a pedometer to register steps for 7 days
      during the intervention. 8 weeks after the end of the intervention program, pulmonary
      function tests, 6MWT and the questionnaires will be repeated. The same investigations and
      questionnaires are performed at follow-up after 3 and 6 months after the end of the
      rehabilitation program.

      Patients allocated to the control group will follow the same procedure during the first 9
      weeks, except not using tele-rehabilitation.

      Control group COPD patients in the control group will undergo the conventional standardized
      rehabilitation program as implemented at the Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergy,
      Aarhus University Hospital. The program is an 8 weeks program consisting of 2 weekly group
      training sessions at the hospital with instruction by a physiotherapists and 6 hours of
      education about COPD and its treatment.

      Intervention group The intervention group will follow this procedure Video Consultation (VC)
      Sessions: Each patient will have the opportunity to have minimum one VC per week the first
      month, one VC each second week the second month one VC a month the rest of the trial. Here
      the physiotherapist, via history will extract the information needed to calibrate the daily
      tele rehabilitation program according to patient's physical status and needs.

      Retraining breath: Patients will also be instructed to use different techniques to breath
      during the video consultations with the physiotherapist. The patient receives advice on how
      to the use breathing retraining techniques such as pursed lip breathing. Because COPD
      patients suffer from obstructed airways, the goal for them using PLB will be to increase
      their positive expiratory pressure.

      Chat Sessions: Each patient has the opportunity to chat with the physiotherapist any time via
      the chat module of the system. The patient and physiotherapist will be reminded via mail,
      anytime someone is writing in the chat, allowing the users to interact when needed.

      Workout Sessions with a Virtual Physiotherapist Agent (VPA): The patient will train according
      to what is decided by the physiotherapist and the patient in the VC or chat meetings.
      Normally, the patients will train 10-20 minutes daily at home with its individual and
      tailored VPA. Instead of ergometer bike training, the patient will receive some easy training
      tools such as elastics and weights that can be used in the different exercises showed by the
      VPA to reach the same intensity of work out. The VPA will then be animated to motivate and
      encourage the patient to exercises at home. A digital diary will automatically register the
      data obtained by the system on patient's performance.

      Patients' security: In order to minimize the risks of possible accidents while performing the
      exercises, the patient will answer questions before and after each exercise performance that
      the physiotherapist can follow in real time via scales and use to calibrate the performance
      of the virtual physiotherapist. The patient has the opportunity to chat with the
      physiotherapist 24 hours per day any time if needed and for consultation reasons.

      Study parameters/endpoints

      Primary endpoint:

      Change in the 6MWT measured at week 9.

      Secondary endpoint:

      Change in the 6MWT measured 3 and 6 months after cessation of the tele-rehabilitation program
      compared to baseline.

      Change in total score in health-related quality of life measured by SGRQ at week 9, and 3 and
      6 months after cessation of the tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in total score in health-related quality of life measured by GAD-7 at week 9, and 3
      and 6 months after cessation of the tele-rehabilitation program compared to baseline.

      Change in component scores (symptoms, activity & impact) in health-related quality of life
      measured by SGRQ at week 9, and 3 and 6 months after cessation of the tele-rehabilitation
      program compared to baseline.

      Cost of the tele-rehabilitation program

      End point measures

      Pulmonary function tests (PFT):

      PFT are done as part of the routine follow-up and performed to prove disease stability. The
      following pulmonary function indices will be registered:

      Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) Forced vital capacity (FVC)

      6 minute walk test A 6 minute walk test will be performed at baseline, after 8 weeks, and
      after 3 and 6 months after cessation of the program to assess exercise performance. The
      purpose of this test is to see how far and fast the test person can walk during 6 minutes.
      This test is a sub-maximal exercise test used to assess aerobic capacity and endurance. The
      distance covered over a time of 6 minutes is used as the outcome by which to compare changes
      in performance capacity. During this test the patient will be asked to walk between two cones
      placed 30 meters apart. The patient is asked to go to the speed he thinks he can walk without
      stopping during 6 minutes. Oximetry, pulse and Borgs Dyspnea Score are tracked before, after
      6, 7, and 8 minutes. Total distance is recorded after 6 minutes. The patient stops walking
      after 6 minutes but recovery is also recorded at 7 and 8 minutes.

      Pedometer:

      To assess the physical activity status of the patient, measurement of the number of steps
      walked is an indication of the magnitude of physical activity. In controlled laboratory
      settings, the Yamax Digi-walker SW-200 has consistently been shown to be among the most
      accurate. It's a small device worn on the belt or waist and responds to vertical
      accelerations of the hip during gait cycles.

      Questionnaires:

      At baseline, and after 8 weeks, 3 and 6 months, the patient will be asked to self-administer
      the following questionnaires on quality of life and general well-being:

      IADL Instrumental Activity of Daily Living consists of seven questions related to shopping,
      housework, cooking, walks, money management, handling of medications and use of telephone.
      Both patients and their closest relatives (mostly spouses) should reply. For each of the
      seven questions, a score of zero indicates no need for help, one indicates some needs and two
      indicates inability to perform an activity without assistance. A total score is calculated on
      a scale from 0 to 14. Higher scores indicate greater dependence. The form has been translated
      into Danish (Appendix 1), SGRQ Sct. Georges Respiratory Questionnaire is a disease specific,
      self-administered questionnaire with 50 items comprising two domains with 3 components as
      symptoms, activity and impacts. Each is scored from 0-100, with higher scores corresponding
      to worse health related quality of life. SGRQ has been developed for COPD patients and found
      to be a valid measure of health related quality of life (Appendix 2).

      GAD-7:

      The General Anxiety Disorder Score measures the presence and severity of general anxiety
      disorder. It is a 7 self-rated items. Each item scores 0-3. The total score range is 0-21.
      Reliability and validity are excellent (Appendix 3).

      COPD exacerbations The number of exacerbations and visits to the general practitioner,
      emergency room or hospital during rehabilitation and follow-up will be registered, first via
      a diary and corroborated then by short interviews performed during follow-up at 8 weeks and 3
      and 6 months after cessation of training.

      Cost The average cost of the hospital rehabilitation program and transportation per patients
      for an eight weeks standard and tele-rehabilitation program and transportation will be
      calculated.

      Data Collection Information about patient demographics, lung function (spirometry with
      measurement of FEV1 and FVC), oxygen saturation, comorbidities, smoking habits, BMI, blood
      pressure, visits to the clinic, number of exacerbations, use of any public health care
      service and cost of it will be registered at each visit.

      Data analysis There will be used Wilcoxon rank sum test for assessing, the primary endpoint
      comparing the performance of the physical functions tests between the intervention group and
      control group from base line to 8 weeks, 3 and 6 months after and for the test variables with
      correction for multiple comparisons. A p-value less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. All patients will be analyzed in the groups they originally were
      randomized from according to the intention-to-treat principles.

      Differences in activities of daily living and health-related quality of life between the two
      groups from baseline to 8 weeks, 3 and 6 months after will be compared with Chi2 test or
      Fischer's exact test for categorical data. Continuous data will be compared with t -tests or
      Wilcoxon rank sum test depending on distribution. A p-value less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.

      Copyrights, distribution and implications Authorship must meet the Vancouver rules, and
      everyone who has contributed under this framework will be named in the author list. The
      authors will try to publish the results of the study in international peer-reviewed journals
      and present them at relevant conferences. Moreover, the results will be published in other
      relevant media. All positive, negative and inconclusive results will be published

      Ethical issues Since rehabilitation is a standard treatment offer, it is not expected that
      this study will result in any risk to patients. Participation is voluntary and the patient
      may, at any time, withdraw from the study without consequences for future care or treatment.
      Questionnaires and test methods used are clinically recognized instruments. An informed
      written consent will be obtained from the participants after verbal and written information.
      The Regional Research Ethics Committee will be applied in order to obtain their consent to
      carry out the study. The is approved by the Data Protection Agency for permission for data
      recording and storage of data. The data will be rendered anonymous through a code system and
      stored safely in accordance with applicable rules of the organizers. The study follows the
      general research ethics rules as expressed in the Helsinki Declaration II ("World Medical
      Association Declaration of Helsinki: Ethical Principles for Medical Research involving Human
      Subjects," 2000).

      Passed on information from the patient journal system Patient data as mentioned below will be
      passed on from the electronic patient files to the project.

      Gender, age, marital status, comorbidities and smoking status will be passed on at the
      beginning of the study to compare the data at the end of the trial.

      Telephone number, address and or E-mail from participants in the focus group will be passed
      on with the goal to contact the participant in the case there is a break in the connection
      via the tele rehab devices or if we need to send a new updated devices.

      Health status, number of exacerbations in the last period, days of hospitalization, number of
      visits to the hospital or number of visits from healthcare suppliers to participants at home
      will be used to calculate the health care expenditure for each participant.

      Economy MD, Ph.D. Elisabeth Bendstrup, MD Anders Løkke, MD, ph.d. Ole Hilberg and
      physiotherapist José Cerdan has initiated this project and sought various foundations to
      execute this study.

      Elisabeth Bendstrup, Anders Løkke and Ole Hilberg are the responsibles of the investigation
      for this study and have no financial ties to the donors.

      The study is predominantly financed by EURO STARS Foundation (1,500,000 kr.) and Aarhus
      University (about 450,000 kr.).

      Physio R & D, Laster Technologies, Cortrium and bookBeo are providing the the technology,
      network, hardware, software and support needed for free.

      Aarhus University Hospital provides locations and resources as needed and pays for the costs
      of the control group training. Aarhus University Hospital is also responsible for the
      administration and disbursement of funding.

      Enrolled participants do not receive honorees for participating in this study. Transport
      costs associated with the trial will be covered by Aarhus University Hospital.
    
  