
    
      Study design

      The freeBILy-GAB study is a set of interlinked prospective, observational studies conducted
      in Gabon to comprehensively assess the performance of CAA measurement for the detection of S.
      haematobium infections in pregnant women and infants. The study is composed of 3 sub-studies
      each targeted to assess a specific objective (see figure 1 for a schematic trial design,
      procedures and stages). The study activities will also contribute to safety reporting of PZQ
      use in pregnant women.

      Sub-study A: At baseline, a diagnostic study will be conducted that will also allow to select
      sub-study B study participants. The approach is a prospective, cross-sectional, observational
      study conducted in pregnant women to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the UCP-LF
      CAA test for the detection of S. haematobium infections using urine samples. In the absence
      of a sensitive reference standard test, the index test (UCP-LF CAA) will be compared against
      a composite diagnostic reference test based on extensive egg microscopy, serology, qPCR on
      egg DNA, and POC-CCA. Sampling will include standardized urine collection of 3 consecutive
      days for S. haematobium diagnosis by egg microscopy, UCP-LF CAA testing, qPCR, and POC-CCA,
      one (1) stool sample (within the 3 days of urine sampling) to control for S. intercalatum and
      soil-transmitted helminths infections, and 1 blood sample (within the 3 days of urine
      sampling) to measure anti-Schistosoma antibodies and to detect any other parasitic infections
      endemic in the region including filarial and Plasmodia spps. and to provide blood cell counts
      and hemoglobin to assess pregnant women health status. The laboratory staff involved in
      performing the laboratory assays using the new techniques will be trained prior to the start
      of the study. Volunteers positive for any parasitic infection except filaria will be treated
      for the respective parasitic infection (S. haematobium, STH and malaria parasites) following
      national treatment guidelines. Women positive for S. haematobium by egg microscopy or UCP-LF
      CAA at baseline will receive either PZQ treatment (1x 40 mg/kg) within 7 days after the third
      urine sample (early PZQ treatment) or after delivery (late PZQ treatment) following an
      allocation ratio of 3:1. The late PZQ treatment group serves as a safety control group of PZQ
      administration to pregnant women and exposure of their offspring (s). Maternal and perinatal
      safety and efficacy outcomes will be assessed. For efficacy in offspring, birthweight (with
      low birthweight defined as weight at birth <2.5 kg) and small gestational age (used as an
      indicator for possible intrauterine growth restriction) will be investigated. In addition,
      the exposure to PZQ during pregnancy will be evaluated in infants at the age of 12 and 24
      months. For efficacy in mothers, maternal anemia (defined as Hb < 11 g/dl) at inclusion and
      at delivery will be investigated.

      Sub-study B is an observational, follow-up study of pregnant women infected with S.
      haematobium by egg microscopy and/or UCP-LF CAA test and treated with PZQ or intended for
      late PZQ treatment (see sub-study A). The aim of this sub-study is to assess if the UCP-LF
      CAA test can be used to evaluate treatment efficacy of PZQ during pregnancy. Women positive
      for S. haematobium by egg microscopy and/or UCP-LF CAA test and treated with PZQ (see
      sub-study A) will be actively followed-up. Urine will be collected on day 2, day 4 and day 6
      after PZQ treatment to determine the kinetics of CAA decay and then once a week until both
      egg microscopy as well UCP-LF CAA assay become negative but no longer than 6 weeks after PZQ
      treatment.

      Sub-study C is an observational, longitudinal study on mothers and their newborn babies. This
      sub-study aims to determine the incidence of S. haematobium infections and age to first S.
      haematobium infection in life time in infants born from mothers included in the study.
      Therefore, between 6 and 24 months post-delivery, mother and her infant will be asked to
      provide urine every three month until UCP-LF CAA test becomes positive for S. haematobium
      detection. In addition a questionnaire addressing water contact of mother and infant will be
      applied. If UCP-LF CAA test becomes positive, mothers will be treated with 1x 40 mg/kg PZQ.

      Furthermore, outcome of PZQ treatment during pregnancy on infant development will be assessed
      at the age of 12 and 24 months after delivery in the two groups (early and late PZQ treatment
      groups). This allows for a comparison to the freeBILy-MAD study in Madagascar.
    
  