
    
      Women who engage in exchange sex (i.e., sex in exchange for money, drugs, or other services)
      remain are at substantial risk for HIV infection. (1-6) Due to a confluence of social and
      structural factors, exchange sex is relatively prevalent among women from socially and
      economically marginalized groups, such as women who are transgender, unstably housed/homeless
      and/or those who use and/or inject drugs. (1-3, 19-23) The overarching goal of this research
      is to decrease new HIV infections among women who engage in exchange sex. Daily oral HIV
      pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is an innovative method of HIV prevention that women,
      themselves, can control; as such, PrEP has the potential to reduce the risk of HIV
      acquisition among women who engage in exchange sex. Therefore, the investigators developed a
      theory-guided behavioral intervention (PrEP-UP) which utilizes street-based peer outreach and
      navigation to increase access to PrEP and promote PrEP uptake among women involved in
      exchange sex. Specifically, PrEP-UP involves a Peer delivering PrEP education and counseling
      during street-based outreach followed by offer of a PrEP care appointment along with peer
      navigation (e.g., appointment accompaniment and reminders, etc.) for the first several PrEP
      care visits. The objective of this study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of
      PrEP-UP. To implement PrEP-UP, the investigators will collaborate with an established
      community-based organization (CBO) in East Harlem, NY, which uses street-based peer outreach
      and navigation to connect individuals to needed health and social services. Medical and
      pharmacy records will be reviewed to assess PrEP initiation. The investigators will conduct
      self-report surveys at baseline and at a week 4-12 follow-up visit that will collect data
      about sexual and drug use risk behaviors, perceived HIV risk, and PrEP-related knowledge,
      attitudes, and self-efficacy to assess for temporal changes in these variables. Additionally,
      individual interviews will be conducted post-intervention with a subset of the women as well
      as the CBO staff and leadership to access acceptability of the intervention.
    
  