
    
      Background: Dental implants restored with single crowns (SCs) have been reported to have a
      comparable survival rate and fewer technical complications compared to multiple-unit
      implant-supported FDPs. Porcelain-fused to metal restorations were the golden standard option
      for implant supported reconstructions in the past, but nowadays, the application of
      all-ceramic restorations in general and specifically zirconia as a restorative material for
      implant-supported single crowns has increased utilizing the CAD/CAM technology. The
      continuous technological progress in both the computer-based development and the dental
      manufacturing process ensures new opportunities in the clinical workflow. A fully digital
      pathway in a model-free approach or a combination of these workflows is now possible.

      Purpose: The purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to investigate the
      prosthetic outcomes of posterior implant-supported single crowns (SCs) with a modified
      monolithic zirconia or metal-ceramic design utilizing the digital workflow at 1, 3 and 5
      years of loading.

      Materials and methods: This single-blind split mouth study will enroll 60 participants,
      having to receive 120 dental Implants. They will be scheduled for a bilateral posterior
      single-unit prosthetic rehabilitation supported by one implant in the posterior region of the
      maxilla or the mandible (premolars, molars). A fully digital pathway will be followed. A CT
      scan will be performed without any template. An intraoral optical impression using CEREC
      Omnicam scanner will be made. A virtual set-up of the prosthetic reconstruction, as well as a
      surgical template with optimal 3-D implant positioning will be designed then printed using a
      3-D printer without the need of any physical model. Straumann bone level implants with either
      a wide diameter (Ø4.8 mm) or regular diameter (Ø4.1 mm) with a minimum length of 8 mm will be
      inserted. Implants will be loaded after 3 months of submerged healing. A second intraoral
      optical impression will be made using CEREC Omnicam scanner and Straumann scanbody. The
      implant-supported prosthetic suprastructure will be designed. Implants will be randomly
      allocated to either the test group modified monolithic zirconia crowns (MMZ) or the control
      group metal ceramic crowns (MC), using a computer-generated randomization list. A digital
      model with movable dies will be 3-D printed, then used to adjust restoration in terms of
      occlusal and proximal contacts. Prefabricated screw-retained Titanium abutments (Variobase
      Abutment; Straumann) will be used as the metal substructures of the crowns and will be
      secured to lab analogues on the digitally printed casts. Metal/ zirconia substructures with a
      hole for the screw retention will be designed using the CAD software and will be anatomically
      reduced by 1 mm to allow for porcelain veneering then will be laser-printed/ dry milled. Hand
      layering of glass ceramic will be made on the surface. Crowns will be cemented extraorally to
      titanium abutments using dual cure resin cement to make one-piece screw-retained single
      crown. The screw-retained single crowns and titanium abutments will be inserted intraorally
      with 35 Ncm torque and screw-access holes will be restored with Teflon and light-polymerized
      composite resin. The implant-supported SCs will be examined after 1, 3 and 5 years for
      survival and technical complications.

      Clinical significance: to evaluate the survival and prosthetic complication rates of
      zirconia-ceramic and metal-ceramic implant-supported single crowns at 1, 3 and 5 years of
      service. In addition to that, the digital workflow for implant supported single crowns will
      be evaluated for efficiency, accuracy, time and cost compared to conventional workflow.
    
  