
    
      Caregiver Consent:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to have 1 interview. This will be
      a face-to-face interview that will take place at M. D. Anderson while you are there for the
      patient's physician appointment.

      During this interview, you will be asked to describe what it has been like for you to help
      care for a person with a primary brain tumor in the past, what it is like to care for a
      person with a primary brain tumor now, and what you think it might be like in the future. You
      will be interviewed alone, and your interview will be tape recorded and then written on
      paper. The information that is gathered (the tape and the written information) will be kept
      strictly confidential. The tapes and any paperwork will be kept in a locked box during and
      after this study. The written information will be kept in password-protected computer files.
      The researcher is the only person who will have access to the tapes. You will also be asked
      to answer a questionnaire on paper. This questionnaire will ask specific personal
      information, such as your age, occupation, and relationship to the patient. This
      questionnaire will take about 5 minutes to complete. The entire interview will take about 30
      minutes to complete.

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the interview and the
      questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 20 caregivers will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Patient Consent:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to choose a family member or a
      friend who is your main caregiver and who may be willing to take part in 1 interview for this
      study. Your consent in this study, will give researchers permission to contact your
      caregiver. If your caregiver chooses to participate, the interview will be face-to-face, and
      it will take place at M. D. Anderson while you are there for your physician appointment.
      During this interview, the caregiver will be asked to describe what it has been like for them
      to help care for you. The researcher will get informed consent from your caregiver and will
      go into further detail about this study.

      He or she will be interviewed alone, and the information gathered during the interview will
      be kept strictly confidential. Your caregiver will be asked to complete a questionnaire for
      specific personal information, such as his or her age, occupation, and relationship to you.
      The entire interview will take about 30 minutes to complete.

      You will be asked to allow your sociodemographic data (such as your gender, marital status,
      etc.) and medical data (such as your diagnosis, therapies received, etc.) to be collected
      from your medical record. This information will be used to help researchers learn about the
      unique backgrounds of the patients participating in this study. Your information that is
      gathered will be kept strictly confidential, and it will be kept in a locked box during and
      after this study.

      Your participation in this study will be over after your sociodemographic and medical data
      have been collected from your medical record.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  