
    
      In December 2019, an outbreak of a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) emerged in Wuhan, China and
      rapidly spread worldwide. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak a
      pandemic on March 11th, 2020. The clinical disease (COVID-19) is mild in 81% of patients,
      severe disease occurs in 14%, and 5% of cases result in critical illness. The reported
      overall case fatality rate (CFR) is 2.3% in China, although the CFR varies widely (0.7- 7.2%)
      between regions. Older age is associate with increased mortality. The reported CFR is 8%
      among patients 70-79 years old and 15% in those 80 years and older.

      Multiple therapies have been proposed based on in vitro evidence or anecdotal reports.
      Although, no high quality clinical trials have demonstrated an effective treatment regimen
      other than supportive care. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a major
      complication among patients with severe disease. In a report of 138 patients with COVID-19,
      20% developed ARDS at a median of 8 days after the onset of symptoms, with 12.3% of patients
      requiring mechanical ventilation. Efficacious therapies are desperately needed. Supportive
      care combined with intermittent prone positioning may improve outcomes.

      Prone positioning (PP) of patients with severe ARDS (when combined with other lung-protective
      ventilation strategies) is associated with a significant mortality benefit. In addition, PP
      for >12 hours in severe ARDS is strongly recommended by clinical practice guidelines.
      Improvements in gas exchange, cardiac output, and clearance of secretions have been
      demonstrated with PP, and are thought to contribute to the survival benefits. Low quality
      evidence from case series and retrospective studies in awake, spontaneously breathing
      patients suggest PP is feasible, improves oxygenation, and may avoid the need for mechanical
      ventilation. A recent prospective observational study of early PP combined with high-flow
      nasal cannula or non-invasive mechanical ventilation was well tolerated and may help patients
      avoid intubation.

      This study is a single-center non-blinded randomized controlled pragmatic feasibility study
      comparing the outcomes of prone positioning (intervention) versus usual care (control) in
      non-intubated patients hospitalized for COVID-19.
    
  