
    
      The treatment of recurrent glioblastoma is, beside of its abundance in clinical practice,
      still under discussion. Patients presenting with recurrent disease are therefore treated
      within individual concepts, largely based on small prospective trials, retrospective
      evaluations or case reports. Therefore, the treatment ranges from best supportive care over
      primary systemic treatments towards local therapies such as radiotherapy or surgical
      resection. Even if there might be a large selection bias, local therapies with or without
      concomitant or adjuvant chemotherapy seem to promise the largest prognostic benefit. Whether
      the combination of surgical resection and adjuvant radiotherapy improves survival, as it does
      within the primary situation, is unknown.

      The result of surgical resection might have an impact as well. Several case reports,
      retrospective evaluations and prospective studies have also included patients with remaining
      gross tumor after maximum save resection. In these trials, radiotherapy was associated with
      improvements in progression free as well as overall survival. Therefore, the influence of
      neuroimaging on prognosis is currently evaluated within the GLIA-A trial. Furthermore,
      stereotactic radiotherapy with or without an experimental systemic therapy is currently
      investigated within another multicenter randomized trial (NOA-12).

      Whether patients might benefit from a postoperative radiotherapy of the resection cavity
      after complete extirpation of all macroscopic tumor is key question of this protocol.

      To answer this question, the considered standard of care after complete resection, namely
      observation with or without adjuvant systemic therapy, will be compared to a postoperative
      normofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy towards the resection cavity within an open
      label, randomized trial. The prescribed total dose will be 46 Gy in 2 Gy fractions of 36 Gy
      in 3 Gy fractions depending on the treatment volume.

      Concerning safety, side effects will be monitored prospectively. Safety parameters will be
      compared between both arms of the study. Furthermore, measures for quality of life,
      neurocognitive function as well as neuroimaging features will be evaluated prospectively.
    
  