
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the disease-free survival of patients (defined as invasive disease-free
      survival [IFDS]) with lymph node positive and high risk lymph node negative breast cancer
      randomized to treatment with either doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride)/cyclophosphamide
      plus placebo followed by paclitaxel (AC + placebo > T + placebo) or the same chemotherapy
      regimen plus bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare short-term (20-24 weeks) versus long-term (50-54 weeks) bevacizumab therapy.

      II. To compare the overall survival. III. To evaluate toxicity. IV. To evaluate the
      association between outcomes in E5103 (disease-free survival, overall survival and
      toxicities) and genotype (derived from candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms and genome
      wide evaluations).

      V. To compare the quality of life of breast cancer patients treated with AC/paclitaxel and
      bevacizumab or placebo, in terms of physical symptoms, physical functioning, psychological
      state and social functioning over an 18 month period.

      VI. To determine the impact of theoretical biomarker information on patients' willingness to
      accept the toxicities of bevacizumab for the estimated potential benefit.

      VII. To create a biospecimen repository including plasma, serum and CellSearch cassettes
      containing circulating tumor cells (CTC) for evaluating determinants of late relapse,
      including candidate biomarkers reflecting occult tumor burden (e.g., CTCs and plasma tumor
      deoxyribonucleic acid [DNA]) and host factors (e.g., estrogen, insulin-insulin-like growth
      factor [IGF] axis, inflammation, etc).

      VIII. To create a biorepository of metastatic tumor samples in patients who have had a late
      relapse.

      IX. To determine body mass index (BMI) and comorbidity burden in patients with operable
      breast cancer five or more years after diagnosis.

      X. To determine whether there is a relationship between late relapse and BMI at diagnosis and
      at 5 years after diagnosis, and whether BMI-associated inflammatory and/or metabolic
      biomarkers are associated with early and late recurrence.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV), cyclophosphamide IV
      over 20-30 minutes, and placebo IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 or
      3 weeks for 4 courses. Beginning 3 weeks later, patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 1
      hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and placebo IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with
      paclitaxel and placebo repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

      ARM II: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide as in arm I and
      bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 or 3 weeks for 4
      courses. Beginning 3 weeks later, patients then receive paclitaxel as in arm I and
      bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with paclitaxel and bevacizumab repeats
      every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

      ARM III: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide as in arm I and
      bevacizumab as in arm II. Treatment repeats every 2 or 3 weeks for 4 courses. Beginning 3
      weeks later, patients then receive paclitaxel as in arm I and bevacizumab as in arm II.
      Treatment with paclitaxel and bevacizumab repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Beginning 2
      months later, patients then receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      with bevacizumab alone repeats every 3 weeks for 10 courses.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 15 years.
    
  