
    
      The host response to infection and other forms of tissue injury has been termed the systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). SIRS is seen in association with a wide variety of
      non-infective insults, including major trauma and surgical procedures, including those
      necessitating cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In this population the incidence of SIRS is high,
      afflicting up to 70% of patients. This may be manifest from an increased vasopressor
      requirement, to refractory hypotension, and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) with
      liver, renal, myocardial, and neurological problems. MODS is associated with significant
      mortality rates of around 30-45%. Survivors require prolonged and costly intensive care,
      thereby representing a considerable burden for the healthcare services. Survivors often
      suffer considerable morbidity and have significantly impaired health related quality of life.

      Despite intense investigations of anti-inflammatory therapies in SIRS and its sequelae, the
      case of patients is largely supportive whilst underlying triggers (such as infection) for the
      process are treated. Indeed, the only therapy drotrecogin alfa (activated) demonstrated to
      reduced mortality in a randomised study has only been investigated in patients with the most
      severe SIRS consequent of infection (i.e. severe sepsis) and is contra-indicated in those who
      have just undergone surgery.

      Haemolysis is a common feature of surgery requiring CPB and may potentiate the development of
      SIRS and organ injury through the release of heme/iron. Furthermore, haemolysis during CPB
      may lead to the depletion of important mechanisms which scavenge free heme/hemoglobin from
      the circulation. Albumin, the most abundant plasma protein, has specific and non-specific
      heme and iron binding sites which are used under circumstances in which standard scavengers
      are overwhelmed. However, albumin is also depleted following CPB. It is therefore
      hypothesised that by priming the CPB circuit with albumin the heme/iron scavenging capability
      of the plasma will be maintained following surgery and that the systemic inflammatory
      response will be attenuated.
    
  