
    
      A. Introduction

      Painful bladder syndrome(PBS) is a syndrome which is poorly understood. Patients usually
      report suprapubic pain related to bladder filling and also report urinary urgency and
      frequency. In a subgroup of patients, typical cystoscopic findings can be noted and this
      defines this subgroup as interstitial cystitis. (Abrams et al. 116-26) The treatment of
      PBS/IC is empirical. Bladder hydrodistension under anesthesia, tricyclic antidepressants,
      antihistaminics and intravesical DMSO instillations are the only treatment for which some
      evidence exists in the literature. More than 150 other treatment modalities have been
      described . Most of them were poorly studied. (Fall et al. 1-99) Intravesical treatment with
      DMSO has stood the test of time and is the only FDA approved intravesical treatment of
      PBS/IC. DMSO however is also used as a solvent in the chemical industry and is in fact used '
      off label' in this indication. (Erickson 333-43;Emerson and Perezmarrero A136;Perez-Marrero,
      Emerson, and Feltis 36-39) One of the theories on which intravesical treatment is based,
      claims that the glycosaminoglycan layer, which protects the urothelial cells is damaged.
      DMSO, Chondroitin sulphate, hyaluronic acid and heparin have been used to repair the GAG
      layer with variable clinical success. (Daha et al. 369-72;Daha et al. 987-90;Riedl et al.
      717-21) Chondroitin sulphate seems to be promising, but comparative data are lacking.
      (Gauruder-Burmester and Popken 355-59;Nickel et al. 56-60;Hauser et al. 2477-82;Nordling and
      van Ophoven 328-35) Assessing the outcome of such treatments is difficult. Objective
      parameters such as daytime and nighttime frequency may not always reflect the impact of the
      condition on the life of the patient.

      Patient reported outcome parameters are more frequently used to assess treatments in
      overactive bladder disease and in painful bladder research. Several validated questionnaires
      can be used to assess patients with PBS/IC. One of the most frequently used is the
      O'Leary-Sant questionnaire ( see annex 1). Next to this questionnaire the Global Response
      Assessment will be used. This is a validated 7 point Likert scale comparing the current
      status of the patient to the pre-intervention status. This scale has been used in several
      other studies on PBS/IC. (Nickel et al. 910-18;Baranowski et al. 33-36) Aim To compare the
      clinical effectiveness of intravesical chondroitin sulphate 2% ( Uracyst ™) and DMSO 50% in
      the treatment of patients with painful bladder syndrome

      B. Randomization A central randomization will be used. Participating centers will have to
      contact the trial office of the dept. of urology of the University Hospitals Leuven to
      randomize the patient to one or the other treatment, either by telephone 016/346692 or
      016/348345 or by mail elza.goossens@uzleuven.be or evelien.vankriekingen@uzleuven.be . A
      block randomization per center will be done. The randomization list was generated on a web
      application ( www.randomizer.org) to ensure an unbiased randomization schedule.

      C. Protocol of administration Patients that are enrolled in the study will receive one
      intravesical instillation of Uracyst or DMSO a week during 6 weeks. DMSO is prepared as a 50%
      solution in 50cc physiologic serum. Uracyst will be prepared by the nurse or urologist
      administering the product.

      Uracyst is delivered as a 2% sterile solution in 20cc vials. The instillation is done by a
      urethral catheterization. The catheter is withdrawn once the fluid has been instilled. The
      solution is kept in the bladder for at least 30 minutes. A simple instillation protocol is
      followed, meaning that the patient can move immediately after the instillation of the
      product. The product is eliminated by spontaneous voiding after 30 minutes.

      D. Safety Safety is assessed by monitoring adverse events at every visit. Anticipated adverse
      events are hematuria, algiuria, urinary tract infection and garlic odor ( for DMSO)…

      E. Statistics Comparison of the mean GRA by T-test will be used for the primary endpoint.
      Appropriate statistical tests will be used for the secondary variables.

      To detect a 0.75 difference on the 7 point Likert scale, with 80% power at 0.05% significance
      45 patients will be needed in each group.
    
  