
    
      Research Questions: 1. How do methods of dysphagia assessment and clinical management during
      the first 72 hours of admission affect the risk of stroke patients developing
      Stroke-Associated Pneumonia (SAP)? 2. During the first 72 hours of admission, what
      organisational factors (for example; oral hygiene routine, adherence of the speech and
      language therapy recommendations) affect the risk of stroke patients developing SAP? Aims and
      objectives: 1. To explore how variations in dysphagia assessment and management within the
      first 72 hours post stroke, impacts on developing SAP? 2. What and how do other
      organisational factors affect the development of SAP? Background to the project: Dysphagia
      (swallowing problems) occurs in 37-55% of acute stroke patients and is associated with
      difficulty swallowing foods, liquids and saliva. Inhalation of oral or gastric contents into
      the lungs (aspiration) can lead to pneumonia which increases the risk of mortality and is one
      of the main causes of death in the first few days and weeks after stroke. Aspiration
      pneumonia is also independently associated with worse rehabilitation outcomes, increased
      length of hospitalisation and associated healthcare costs. Aspiration pneumonia develops most
      frequently in the first few days of stroke, therefore timely detection and management of
      dysphagia is essential. In England and Wales, patients with acute stroke are recommended to
      have their swallow screened using a validated multi item screening tool within four hours of
      admission and a comprehensive speech and language therapy (SLT) assessment within 72 hours of
      admission. However, the Royal College of Physicians (RCP) National Clinical Guideline for
      Stroke does not specify the exact screening tool to be used (2016).

      The Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) is the national register of stroke in
      England and Wales and collects data for stroke patients in the majority of acute hospitals.
      Using this national dataset, Bray et al. (2016) found an association between a delay in
      screening and specialist SLT assessment with an increased risk of stroke-associated pneumonia
      (SAP) and that reducing the risk of SAP might also reduce mortality after stroke. There are
      several possible mechanisms for why delays in dysphagia assessment might lead to an increased
      risk of SAP, including variation in who, when and how the screening is carried out. Anecdotal
      evidence from the clinical team has found that a number of patients who pass the screen, are
      subsequently referred to SLT because of ongoing concerns about risk of aspiration. This
      raises the question of whether the timing of the screen is too early for some patients whose
      neurological symptoms may still be evolving. Other possible reasons might be that the screen
      is not sufficiently sensitive to detect aspiration or the competencies of the staff
      undertaking the screen are inadequate. Further studies are required to test these
      uncertainties and confirm or refute a causal relationship not only between dysphagia
      assessment and management and development of SAP but other potential outcomes, including
      death, alternative nutrition and return to normal diet.

      Methods: Ethical approval will be sought from the Yorkshire and the Humber Sheffield Research
      Ethics Committee and the Research Ethics Committee at Sheffield Hallam University. Most
      hospital (aggregate) level SSNAP data are publicly accessible. A data request will be
      submitted for non-publicly available aggregate data, if necessary. Accessing anonymised
      patient level data from SSNAP involves applying for data access from Healthcare Quality
      Improvement Programme (HQIP) who commission SSNAP and are the data controller. Phase 1 (6
      months) Systematic search and review of the literature: A systematic search and review of the
      literature will be undertaken on the nature and evidence for early assessment and management
      of dysphagia in acute stroke and the risk of developing stroke aspiration pneumonia, using
      the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination guidance on systematic reviews . The search
      strategies adopted RCP clinical guideline for Stroke will be utilised and developed,
      following a building-block approach which will identify search terms for the different
      concepts of the search question and culminating in a search of electronic databases. Manual
      search methods will also be carried out. The findings from the literature will be synthesised
      and used as one of the methods to inform the development of a national survey. A
      peer-reviewed, open-access paper will be submitted for publication based on the findings of
      the literature. Alongside this, a review of the evidence on questionnaire design to inform
      the development of the national survey will be carried out. During this phase, participant
      information sheets and consent forms and data collection tools for Phase 2 will be developed.
      Service users feedback on the study protocol and design, information accessibility of
      participant materials and research outcomes will be sought from stroke survivors and carers.
      Phase 2 (18 months) Mixed Methods Study: This phase will further inform the development of
      the national survey across the 199 hospitals registered with the SSNAP. The survey will be to
      find out about the dysphagia screening protocols used and details of the comprehensive SLT
      assessments so as to understand the variations in patient management during the 72 hours from
      admission. In addition, the questionnaire will investigate other organisational factors (e.g.
      training protocols) or care processes (e.g. policies on positioning, oral hygiene, early
      mobilisation) which may affect the development of SAP. To inform this development phase, data
      will be collected using two methods; a medical note review and interviews. Patient
      information will be collected from the medical notes of 30 consecutive patients admitted to
      the Hyper Acute Stroke Unit (HASU) in Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
      Information will be collected on time/day of admission and dysphagia screen, outcome of
      screen, other investigations and assessments during 4 hours from admission, outcome of SLT
      assessment if indicated and whether SAP is recorded within the first 7 days post stroke. The
      data collected from this 72-hour timeline will be descriptively analysed to identify key
      events which occur on the patient pathway during the 72-hours. Staff and patient interviews
      will explore the views of different groups about what happens during these first 72 hours and
      how different factors may impact on patients developing SAP. Patients will be asked if they
      would like a carer to attend the interview. The role of the carer would be to support the
      patient during the interview recognising that some patients may appreciate a carer being
      present. All participants will be provided information about the study and a consent form and
      asked to indicate their consent to be involved. Possible areas for investigation include: Are
      the SLT dysphagia management plans put in place? Are patients put nil by mouth (NBM)? Who is
      responsible for providing oral hygiene for patients and how frequently is it carried out? Are
      patients positioned appropriately at mealtimes? Fifteen local and regional interviews will be
      undertaken with different staff groups e.g. Stroke Nurse Specialists, staff trained in
      dysphagia screening, SLT Stroke Team Leaders, Ward Sisters, Dysphagia Trained
      Practitioners/SLTs working in HASUs in Sheffield Teaching Hospitals and other regional NHS
      Trust HASUs. User perspectives will be gathered from five interviews with stroke patients and
      carers of patients who have received the dysphagia screen and/or had a comprehensive SLT
      swallow assessment. Patient participants will be those who have been admitted via the
      Neurological Assessment Unit where I work as part of their care team and routinely have
      access to their records. All the interviews will be recorded and transcribed. A framework
      approach will be used to analyse the interview transcripts and textual data from the
      interviews will be managed and coded using QSR NIVO software. The findings from the 72 hour
      time line and interviews will be triangulated to gain a more complete picture and to inform
      the content of the survey for the follow-on cross-sectional study of national practice. Phase
      3 (12 months) National Survey: This phase will involve the development of the survey, in the
      form of a questionnaire. Service users will be involved in reviewing the format and
      accessibility of the language used. The electronic questionnaire will be piloted across a
      target group of SLTs from the Trent Dysphagia Clinical Excellence Network (CEN) who will
      access the pilot questionnaire and provide feedback via their virtual Basecamp network. The
      questionnaire will be adapted following their feedback before being distributed nationally to
      the SLT Clinical Lead for Stroke working in each Hyper/Acute Stroke Unit (H/ASU) in hospitals
      in England and Wales registered on the Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP)
      register. The SLT Clinical Lead for Stroke will be identified from the researcher and
      research team existing professional networks, wider research networks, for example, the
      Council for Allied Health Professions Research (CAPHR), social media networks such as
      Twitter, and information that is publicly available. In instances where there is no
      pre-existing professional relationship or the information about the appropriate person is not
      publicly available the researcher would contact a third party, with the request that they
      circulate information about the study with the researcher's contact details, with a further
      request that the most appropriate person contact the researcher about the survey if they are
      interested in receiving more information. Phase 4 (12 months) Data Analysis: The survey data
      will be analysed and data extracted from the SSNAP register. Cross-referencing information
      from the questionnaire with centre-level SSNAP data will explore associations between date,
      time and type of screen, SLT assessment and the risk of developing SAP. The adjusted odds of
      developing SAP will be estimated by fitting multivariable logistic regression models. The
      data sets from the seminal research by Bray et al. (2016) will be used for consistency and
      comparison of data. The findings of this analysis will be published in an open-access, peer
      reviewed journal. Phase 5: (1 year) Write up and development of future research projects: The
      programme of work will be written up and the next stages developed.
    
  