
    
      1. INTRUDUCTION 1.1 Background and Rationale The implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
           (ICD) is an effective tool for the prevention of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in high-risk
           patients. The efficacy of the ICD in the secondary and primary prevention of SCD was
           demonstrated in several large randomized clinical trials. The evolution of clinical
           trials of ICD therapy for primary prevention of SCD and the adoption of current national
           practice guidelines has lead to a considerable increase in the use of ICDs worldwide. In
           the Arab Gulf region, utilization of ICD therapy in high-risk patients had increased in
           the past decade with the arrival of trained electrophysiologists in the Gulf states.
           While observational studies in the United States and Europe have evaluated ICD use in
           those regions, there are scarce data on how ICDs are being used in the Gulf. Few single
           center studies have reported early results, and to date there are no prospective
           multinational data on ICD use in the Gulf. The Gulf Implantable
           Cardioverter-Defibrillator Registry (GulfICD) will be the first prospective,
           multicentre, multinational, observational studies of patients receiving ICDs in the Arab
           Gulf states.

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES AND ENDPOINTS The primary objective of the study is to describe the
           characteristics and outcomes of patients receiving ICD in the Arab Gulf region. Once
           completed, the data collected from GulfICD will be available for further secondary
           analyses including a description of ICD implant indications and programming patterns in
           the Gulf. As this is an observational and descriptive study, no specific endpoint is
           considered primary. However, main outcomes to be measured include all-cause mortality
           and ICD discharges including appropriate discharges for ventricular tachyarrhythmias and
           inappropriate discharges for other causes. Other endpoints to be measured include
           adverse events in the immediate post-implant period.

        3. STUDY DESIGN Gulf ICD is a prospective, multicentre, multinational observational study.

        4. SUBJECT SELECTION 4.1 Inclusion Criteria All adult patients 18 years or older, receiving
           a new ICD implant and willing to sign a consent form will be eligible.

           4.2 Exclusion Criteria Patients < 18 years and those not willing to sign a consent form.
           Subjects with existing ICDs undergoing pulse generator replacements or system revisions
           will not be included.

        5. STUDY TREATMENTS All subjects will be treated per routine clinical practice. There will
           be no study-specific interventions/treatments.

        6. STUDY PROCEDURES 6.1 Subject Withdrawal Subjects will have the right to withdraw from
           the study at anytime.

        7. DATA VARIABLES 7.1 Data Variables Data variables to be collected are detailed in the
           attached case-report form(CRF) (Baseline CRF Appendix 1, Follow Up CRF Appendix 2). Data
           will be collected on paper CRF and then entered online. Variables to be collected at
           baseline will include the following domains: 1. Baseline Demographics, 2. Admission
           Characteristics, 3. Medical History and Risk Factors, 4. Diagnostic Procedures, 5. ICD
           Implant Procedure Characteristics, 6. ICD Programming, 7. Adverse Events, 8. Discharge
           Characteristics, 9. Discharge Medications, 10. Interim Events (during follow up).

           Variable definitions will be based on the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
           Association/Heart Rhythm Society 2006 Key Data Elements and Definitions for
           Electrophysiological Studies and Procedures and the American College of Cardiology
           National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR) ICD Registry data dictionary
           (httpp://www.ncdr.com/Web
           NCDR/docs/public-data-collection-documents/icd_v2_datadictionary_codersdictionary_2-1.pd
           f?sfvrsn=2)

        8. ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING 8.1 Adverse Events Reporting Since there will be no
           study-specific intervention/treatment, we do not expect study specific adverse events.
           However, adverse events that may be related to ICD implantation will be collected as per
           the attached CRF (Appendix 1).

        9. DATA ANALYSIS 9.1 Sample Size Considerations Unlike randomized controlled trials where
           specific hypotheses are tested and primary comparative analyses are planned,
           observational studies and patient registries typically address descriptive objectives.
           Such objectives do not lend themselves to classic sample size/power calculations.
           Nonetheless, sample size considerations are important in the planning of registries.
           Typically, adequate sample size is required to ensure adequate precision around key
           outcomes and provide sufficient generalizability. With that in mind, we wanted to ensure
           adequate precision around two key outcomes: all-cause mortality and/or rate of
           appropriate ICD discharges at one year. To estimate an event rate of 10% at 1 year with
           a margin of error of 2% and 95% confidence intervals, a sample size of 829 patients is
           required. Since there is little guidance in the literature on such event rates among ICD
           recipients in the Gulf, and to compensate for losses to follow-up, we adjusted our
           sample size upwards to 1,000 patients. Sample size was later increased to 1,500 patients
           as additional funding became available. Such a sample size was considered logistically
           feasible given our experience with ICD implant rates in the Gulf.

           9.2 Statistical Methods Standard descriptive statistics will be used to analyse the
           data. Continuous variables will be summarized using mean and standard deviation or
           median and 25th and 75th percentile when significant deviation from a normal
           distribution is observed. Categorical variables will be summarized using counts and
           percentages. Basic univariate comparisons will be performed using Student's t-test or
           the Wilcoxon rank sum test as appropriate for continuous variables, and the Chi square
           test for categorical variables. Associations between baseline variables and outcomes
           during follow-up will be assessed using logistic regression or when exact event dates
           are available Cox proportional hazard models.

       10. QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE There is no substitute for good conscious. The
           investigators and their personnel filling the CRFs are responsible for filling the forms
           honestly and accurately. All forms must be filled prospectively. Quality control
           checking mechanisms are implemented in the online CRF system to prevent entry of
           inconsistent variables.

       11. DATA HANDLING AND RECORD KEEPING 11.1 Case Report Forms/Electronic Data Records A CRF is
           required and should be collected and completed for each patient. Online data entry of
           the CRF will be available.

           11.2 Record Retention Investigators will retain the paper CRFs per local ethics
           regulations. Paper CRFs will be stored in a secure area with access only available to
           study investigators. The online CRF portal will be password protected.

       12. ETHICS 12.1 Institutional Review Board/Ethics Committee Approval It is the
           responsibility of the investigator to get prospective approval of the study protocol,
           consent form, and any amendments from the local institutional review boards/ethic
           committee.

           12.2 Ethical Conduct of the Study The study will be conducted in accordance with the
           protocol and applicable local regulatory requirements and laws. Study conduct will also
           conform to the Declaration of Helsinki on Ethical Principles for Medical Research
           Involving Human Subjects adopted by the General Assembly of the World Medical
           Association

           12.3 Subject Information and Consent All investigators will ensure protections of
           subjects' personal data and subject names or identifiers will not be included on any
           reports or publications from the study. Each study subject will be informed about the
           study objectives and procedures and all questions will be answered. Subjects will have
           to sign a consent form to be enrolled in the study. The consent form must be in
           compliance with local regulatory requirements.

       13. SPONSORSHIP GulfICD will be conducted under the auspices of the Gulf Heart Rhythm
           Society (GHRS) and the Gulf Heart Association (GHA). Partial funding for the development
           of the online CRF portal is provided by Medtronic, Inc.

       14. STUDY STRUCTURE AND TIMELINE 14.1 Principal Investigators and Steering Committee Members
           The study co-principal investigators are: Dr Alawi Alsheikh-Ali, Dr Ahmad Hersi and Dr
           Adel Khalifa. Country-level Principal Investigators include: Dr Najib Alrawahi
           (Principal Investigator Gulf ICD-Oman), Dr Nidal Asaad (Principal Investigator Gulf
           ICD-Qatar), additional steering committee members at the time of this righting are: Dr
           Fayez Bokhari, Dr Ahmad Alfaqih and Dr Amin Daoulah (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia), Dr
           Fawzieh Alkandari (Kuwait), Dr Salim Al-Kaabi, Dr Omer Elhag, Dr Hani Sabbour and Dr
           Hosam Zaky (United Arab Emirates). Additional members will be added to the steering
           committee as more centers join the study.

           14.2 Study Timeline

           Below is a tentative study timeline:

           Milestone Date Initial talks between GHRS and Medtronic October 2011 Formal solicitation
           of funding submitted to Medtronic April 2012 Funding approved by Medtronic June 2012
           Contract Signed with software company to develop online CRF system November 2012 Draft
           protocol and CRF circulated to Steering Committee December 2012 Development of online
           CRF portal and finalizing protocol December 2012-July 2013 Final protocol and CRF
           approved by steering committee August 2013 Submit for Institutional Review Board(IRB)
           approvals August/September 2013 Pilot online CRF September/October 2013 Official study
           launch November 2013 Submit "Methodology manuscript" December 2013 Complete enrolment
           November 2014 Complete follow-up for all patients November 2015 Data cleaning throughout
           study duration Data lockout January 2016 Start data analysis January 2016 Draft "main
           results manuscript" March 2016 Submit "main results manuscript" May 2016 Drafting and
           submissions of other manuscripts May 2016 onwards

       15. PUBLICATION OF STUDY RESULTS Results of GulfICD will be disseminated through
           peer-reviewed manuscripts, abstracts, and presentations. The co-principal investigators
           and steering committee will be solely responsible for analysis, writing, and decision to
           submit for publications/presentation of all abstracts and manuscripts. Members of the
           steering committee will be co-authors on all study manuscripts that utilize the shared
           registry data. Manuscripts/abstracts based on country- or site-level data will require
           co-authorship by all steering committee members from the relevant country or site.
           Outside co-authors will be included if they meet the authorship requirements per the
           guidelines established by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors and
           outlined in "Uniform Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals;
           http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html".
    
  