
    
      Although a number of therapeutics have been utilized by clinicians to treat hospitalized
      patients with COVID-19, none were systematically evaluated in clinical trials at the time of
      the outset of this RCT (COVID MED). Since then, dexamethasone has been shown to decrease
      mortality and remdesivir to possibly decrease hospital LOS in the RECOVERY and ACTT-II trials
      and others. The initial iteration of this protocol included 4 arms, hydroxychloroquine,
      lopinavir/ritonavir, losartan, and placebo based on suggestive efficacy and safety and
      widespread empiric use. The current iteration of COVID MED includes two arms, standard of
      care and losartan vs. standard of care and placebo.

      Hydroxychloroquine was initially included in COVID MED based on suggestive in vitro, animal
      preclinical, and early RCT data, and widespread empiric use in hospitalized patients with
      COVID-19. Lopinavir/ritonavir, an antiretroviral medication, showed equivocal and possibly
      positive efficacy and safety in an early pandemic Chinese RCT published in NEJM. After public
      release and eventual publication of the negative results for hydroxychloroquine and then
      lopinavir/ritonavir initially from the RECOVERY trial and then others, enrollment in COVID
      MED in these two arms was halted and then discontinued permanently. Data from subjects
      enrolled in the hydroxychloroquine arm are being incorporated into a pooled analysis of RCTs
      by the Trial Innovation Network.

      Losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), has theoretical benefit as SARSCoV-2
      appears to bind to lung tissue via Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE-2) receptors which
      might be inhibited by ARBs; other potential benefits have been hypothesized as well. Since
      the initial iteration of this protocol, observational studies have shown that patients
      already taking ACEi/ARB medications do not have adverse outcome when these drugs are
      continued in hospitalized COVID-19 patients. These data have reinforced continuation of the
      losartan vs. placebo arms of this RCT which are ongoing.

      This pragmatic adaptive trial continues to compare outcome in hospitalized COVID-19 patients
      treated with standard of care and losartan vs. standard of care and placebo.
    
  