
    
      Treatment methods of lumbar radiculopathy include short-term bed rest, medical treatments,
      physical therapy and rehabilitation techniques, psychotherapy, acupuncture, cryotherapy,
      epidural steroid injections, and surgical treatment. Epidural steroid injection is an
      effective treatment procedure in patients whose conservative treatment methods are not
      successful. Fluoroscopy guided transforaminal epidural steroid injection (TESI) is the most
      ideal procedure and it is considered as an effective treatment approach in radicular pain and
      concomitant neuropathic pain because of reaching the target area, which is the origin of
      pathology. Although radicular pain is usually caused by a peripheral lesion, central
      sensitization and maladaptive plasticity have been shown to play an important role in the
      development and chronicity of this pain. These data suggest that central pain processing
      should be altered or stopped, especially in the presence of refractory pain. Repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
      are non-invasive brain stimulation techniques that are increasingly being used to treat
      refractory neuropathic pain. Although short-term efficacy of rTMS treatment in radicular pain
      management was shown in one study, long-term efficacy was not evaluated and the necessity of
      trials evaluating long-term efficacy was reported. In accordance with these findings, we
      aimed to investigate the long-term effect of rTMS treatment in patients with chronic lumbar
      radiculopathy who received TESI.

      Patients diagnosed with chronic lumbar radiculopathy and planned to administer
      fluoroscopy-guided TESI will be included in the study. Patients will be randomized into two
      groups following TESI. Home-based exercise program will be given to both groups after
      injection. One week after the injection, only the first group will receive 10 sessions of
      rTMS treatment for 2 weeks in addition to the exercise program. rTMS treatment will be
      performed with the device used in our clinic for neurological rehabilitation and pain
      management.

      Patients will be assessed by a blind researcher using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for low
      back and leg pain, the Douleur Neuropathique 4 Questions (DN-4) for neuropathic pain, the
      Oswestry Disability Index for disability, the Beck Depression Scale for depression, and the
      Central Sensitization Inventory for central sensitization. All assessments will be performed
      by the same physician before injection, first hour (only VAS), third week, third month, and
      sixth month after the injection. All adverse events will be noted.

      After data collection, analysis will be performed with the appropriate statistical method.
    
  