
    
      This protocol is an open label, single arm, non-randomized, phase I / II clinical trial
      investigating the use of pegylated interferon alpha-2a (peg-IFN-α, Pegasys®, Genentech) for
      prevention of relapse in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) not in remission at the time of
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT). The inability to attain remission
      status following induction therapy for AML remains a significant problem and is associated
      with poor outcomes. While HCT remains a curative option, its activity in the setting of
      relapsed or refractory AML is significantly diminished due to high relapse.

      The anti-leukemic properties of HCT are primarily attributed to the combined effects of 1)
      pre - transplant chemotherapy (termed conditioning) and 2) the immunologic effects of donor
      cells (termed graft-versus-leukemia or GVL). While increasing the intensity of conditioning
      reduces relapse, this strategy has historically been associated with greater toxicity.
      Alternatively, improving GVL without added toxicity (particularly graft-versus-host disease)
      represents an alternative strategy for limiting relapse and improving outcomes, which is the
      aim of this protocol.

      IFN-α, FDA approved for viral hepatitis, has demonstrated anti-tumor activity in several
      hematologic malignancies including myeloproliferative diseases and AML. IFN-α has also shown
      feasibility in the treatment of post HCT relapse by eliciting durable clinical responses,
      without significant toxicity. Recent insights from pre-clinical studies in HCT have now
      identified a central role of IFN-α in enhancing antigen presentation, thereby promoting
      leukemia specific T cell responses (GVL) without GVHD. In this protocol, the investigators
      propose to administer peg-IFN-α to prevent relapse by increasing GVL responses in patients
      with relapsed and refractory AML not in remission at the time of HCT.
    
  