
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac disorder currently affecting 2.3 million
      U.S. adults with an expected increase in incidence to 5.6 million by the year 2050.
      Randomized clinical trials have shown that ablation was superior to antiarrhythmic drug (AAD)
      in maintaining sinus rhythm among patients with symptomatic predominantly paroxysmal AF.
      However the results for catheter ablation of persistent AF is much lower and more variable,
      ranging between 20-80%. Moreover there is no agreed-upon standard ablation approach. Prior
      studies suggest that pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) alone has an unacceptably low success
      rate so most laboratories supplement this approach with additional lesion sets. These include
      complex atrial fractionated electrograms ("CAFÉ"), autonomic denervation, and linear left
      atrial ablation at the roof and mitral isthmus, in an empirical manner or stepwise approach.
      However, these strategies are time consuming and prone to proarrhythmia, namely post-ablation
      atrial tachycardias which can occur with an incidence ranging from < 5 to 50%.

      The lower efficacy of PVI alone in persistent AF has been attributed to adverse electrical,
      molecular, and structural remodeling of the atria. Collectively, atrial remodeling decreases
      conduction velocity and the effective refractory period, and results in a shortened atrial
      wavelength, which increases the number and stability of reentrant wavelets. This can cause
      persistence of AF independent of a focal discharge. Standard PVI addresses the "focal
      discharge" or trigger from the PVs that initiates AF but not necessarily the underlying
      atrial substrate.

      Based on these concepts, we hypothesized that successful atrial reverse remodeling by
      temporary AAD therapy would facilitate the performance of PVI alone in patients with
      persistent AF. The utilization of reverse remodeling to enhance the efficiency, efficacy and
      safety of ablation of AF has not been tested in a randomized clinical trial.
    
  