
    
      Palbociclib (Ibrance®) is an orally active highly selective reversible inhibitor of
      cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 4 and CDK 6. Faslodex® (Fulvestrant) is a potent anti-estrogen
      drug that binds and degrades estrogen receptors (ERs). Interim results from the Phase 3 trial
      (Study PALOMA-3) have shown that combination of palbociclib and Faslodex increases
      progressive-free survival (PFS) from 3.8 to 9.2 months in patients with metastatic estrogen
      receptor positive (ER+) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2-) breast
      cancer that progressed during or after anti-endocrine therapy (Turner et al. 2015). The
      palbociclib/Faslodex combination was found to be well tolerated. Additionally, there is
      growing data indicating that this combination can be safely and effectively administered up
      front in anti-endocrine therapy-naive patients in the neoadjuvant setting.

      Gedatolisib (code name PF-05212384, formerly known as PKI-587) is an intravenous (IV)
      adenosine triphosphate (ATP) competitive, highly selective and potent inhibitor of pan-class
      I isoform phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3-K) and mammalian target of
      rapamycin (mTOR) (Fry et al. 2004). Preclinical and first-in-human studies have shown a
      manageable safety profile with predictable toxicity for this class of drugs.

      Activation of the PI3-K/Akt/mTOR/p-S6 pathway has been associated with endocrine resistance
      in ER+ breast cancer. There is ample evidence that inhibition of this pathway, in combination
      with anti-hormonal therapy, increases PFS (Baselga et al. 2012). There is also clinical
      evidence that combination therapy targeting all three pathways is feasible, safe and
      effective (Sweeney et al. 2014). The advantage of Gedatolisib is its potential to inhibit
      signaling through different PI3-K isoforms. Also important is the fact that once a week
      administration may be as effective, but less toxic, than chronic oral dosing. If
      hyperglycemia is a surrogate for effective PI3-K/Akt/mTOR/p-S6 inhibition, once weekly dosing
      of Gedatolisib would appear to accomplish equivalent degrees of hyperglycemia as chronically
      oral dosing and with less toxicity.

      Preoperative or neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy, once reserved for patients with locally
      advanced breast cancer in whom the goal was to render large breast cancers operable, has
      become increasingly common due to the improvement in disease-free survival and overall
      survival. Historically, the endpoint of pathological Complete Response (pCR) in neoadjuvant
      therapy against ER+/HER2- breast cancer has been of limited value. However, new targeted
      agents, with higher response rates, have the potential to use pCR assessment as a strong
      clinical endpoint in drug development. Given the systemic response rate in previously treated
      Stage 4 breast cancer patients, the expectation will be a similar high rate of pathological
      improvement which can lead to greater use of targeted agents in the neoadjuvant setting.

      In addition to the potential of better pathological improvement, the advantage of clinical
      studies involving neoadjuvant therapy is that they can provide response information in
      patients that are treatment-naïve. This type of clinical trial can also be used to assess
      cellular and molecular changes with serial biopsies while on neoadjuvant therapy, which can
      aid in development of companion tissue and/or imaging biomarkers, and further the development
      of preclinical models.

      Accordingly, this investigation assesses the safety and efficacy of the combination of
      Gedatolisib, palbociclib and faslodex in the neoadjuvant setting in previously untreated
      patients with ER+/HER2- breast cancer. Being the first clinical trial using this combination
      in neoadjuvant setting, one of the main objectives for the current trial is to determine the
      Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Gedatolisib when used in combination with palbociclib and
      faslodex. Subsequent Phase II clinical trials will be conducted to assess the safety and
      efficacy of the Gedatolisib/palbociclib/faslodex combination, with the dose of Gedatolisib
      being the MTD determined from the current trial.
    
  