
    
      The investigators aim to study 93 resuscitations of very preterm infants (23+0-31+6 weeks),
      in consecutive groups of 31. First, as a baseline, 31 infants will be resuscitated using the
      standard approach, with vital signs monitoring only. Subsequently, 31 infants will be
      resuscitation with the addition of Respiratory Function Monitor (RFM) to measure VT. Finally,
      31 infants will be resuscitated using vital signs monitor, RFM, and cerebral near-infrared
      spectroscopy (NIRS). Study participants will be health care providers, and the primary
      endpoint is based on the recruitment of 93 team leaders (31 in each group). Other team
      members will also be recruited, to an estimate of 3-5 team members per resuscitation in total
      (N=279 to 465). Throughout the study, HCPs will be trained to incorporate the use of RFM and
      NIRS in their resuscitation decision-making, using a combination of weekly in-situ
      simulations and incorporation of NIRS and RFM teaching into ongoing resuscitation team
      educational sessions and practice updates. Suggested tidal volume and NIRS goals will be
      posted as cognitive aids in the resuscitation rooms throughout the study. This sequential
      approach will allow for resuscitation teams to become acclimatized to the use of RFM and NIRS
      as routine practice. The sequential approach will also allow the investigators to study
      time-based changes in perceived mental workload as teams acclimatize to the use of additional
      monitoring.

      After each resuscitation, all team members involved will be asked to complete a brief
      workload questionnaire (NASA-Task Load Index), which will be linked to the resuscitation.
      Resuscitations will be video-recorded for analysis of i) resuscitation steps required (e.g.
      basic steps, bag-mask ventilation, endotracheal intubation, chest compressions, medications),
      and ii) frequency of use of additional monitoring data (RFM, NIRS) for decision-making. In a
      subset of resuscitations, the team leader will also be equipped with eye-tracking glasses to
      record visual attention and pupillary dilatation, and Empatica wristband to record the team
      leader's heart rate and EDA. Parents of the infants will then be approached for permission to
      collect more detailed information for the infant's resuscitation and subsequent
      hospitalization.

      Data will be analyzed to compare i) team leader subjective mental workload, ii) composite
      team mental workload, iii) other workload measures (physical demand, temporal demand,
      performance, effort, frustration), iii) percentage of visual attention focused on infant,
      monitoring devices, and other HCPs, iv) frequency of visual access to each monitor display
      type (vital signs, RFM, NIRS), iv) respiratory function (VT, PIP), v) cerebral NIRS, vi) time
      to placement of monitoring probes (ECG leads, pulse oximetry, cerebral NIRS), vii) time to
      first reading for each monitoring device, and viii) time to target HR and SpO2. The primary
      outcome will be the perceived mental workload of the team leader. Data will be compared
      between the three groups. In addition, time-dependent changes in team leader and composite
      mental workload will also be analyzed using a run chart approach. Deferred consent will be
      obtained from each infant's parents / guardians for collection of hospital course data
      including: i) incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage, ii) respiratory supports needed, iii)
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia at 36 weeks, iv) death / survival to discharge.
    
  