
    
      Mobile health (mhealth) refers to delivering health care and health promotion through mobile
      devices [1]. Advances of mobile technologies have led to increased use of mhealth
      interventions for effective healthy infant feeding practices and breastfeeding promotion. A
      meta-analysis reviewed that mhealth significantly improved exclusive breastfeeding
      initiation, breastfeeding attitude and knowledge [2]. Whether more interactive and adaptive
      mHealth platforms, including smartphone apps and social networking tools, could further
      improve breastfeeding outcomes remains understudied. Smartphones have become new channels and
      tools for information acquisition and exchange and have been well adopted by the general
      public. In 2019, the number of smartphone users in Hong Kong was estimated to reach 6.5
      million. By the year 2025, it is predicted that 93% of the population in Hong Kong will use a
      smartphone [3]. Among instant messaging apps for smartphones, WhatsApp is regarded as one of
      the largest social network platforms used in Hong Kong. WhatsApp is a free all in one
      communications app widely used for sending text and voice messages, video calls. Online
      discussion platforms have been used, acceptable, affordable and accessible in previous years
      for promoting physical activity [4], a healthy diet [5], smoking cessation [6] and reducing
      alcohol use [7]. Interventions using these communication tools tend to have high uptake due
      to personalized intervention and instant response without having time and location
      limitations. Whether WhatsApp can be used as a communication tool to positively change
      selected behaviours has yet to be assessed its effects on breastfeeding outcomes.

      With the current pandemic and social distancing measures, this study offers insight on the
      practicality and feasibility of supporting Chinese mothers who are housebound due to Chinese
      traditional cultural "doing the month" in which Chinese mothers are housebound during the
      first month post-birth. In addition, due to the pandemic, there is limited face to face
      antenatal and postnatal support from the health services. Unresolved problems and inadequate
      support with infant feeding may result in a decision to stop exclusively breastfeeding. Our
      previous qualitative study suggested that WhatsApp messaging might be a viable way of
      promoting breastfeeding (unpublished data). Therefore, a pilot study is developed to address
      an important service gap in Hong Kong to promote and sustain exclusive breastfeeding.
      However, there might be potential barriers to successful implementation and to evaluating the
      effectiveness of the innovation intervention. This is the first WhatsApp breastfeeding
      support programme provided by peer supporters in Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, the most recent
      breastfeeding survey showed that the exclusive breastfeeding rate at 6 months was 26.3% in
      Hong Kong [8]. Furthermore, more than 88% of mothers initiated breastfeeding but half of
      breastfeeding mothers never exclusively breastfed their babies [8]. Despite the importance of
      exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months postpartum, the maintenance of exclusive
      breastfeeding is a major public health issue particularly in Hong Kong where the rate on
      exclusive breastfeeding duration indicated that it tailed off during the first 2 months [8].
      This indicates novel approaches are needed to engage hard to reach mothers who encounter
      breastfeeding problems or support during the first 6 months.

      Existing services mainly target mothers in clinical or primary care settings delivered by
      health professionals for promoting breastfeeding. Hong Kong has an extensive smartphone
      penetration rate (78% in 2020). Therefore, before proceeding with a full scale randomized
      controlled trial (RCT), a feasibility and pilot study is needed to identify if a WhatsApp
      online group on breastfeeding by peer counsellors, delivered through instant/video messaging
      support, designed to improve breastfeeding outcomes is feasible and acceptable. The main
      objective of the study is to determine the feasibility of conducting a WhatsApp online group
      on breastfeeding by peer counsellors over a six-month period in postpartum Chinese women in
      Hong Kong.
    
  