
    
      Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is the third leading cause of hospital-acquired acute
      renal failure (ARF). Accounting for 12% of ARF cases, CIN is defined as an increase of serum
      creatinine of at least 0.5 mg/d ("Barrett´s definition") and/or 25% within 48 hours of
      contrast-medium application. CIN is associated with prolonged hospitalisation and increased
      mortality. CIN frequency depends on several risk-factors including pre-existing renal
      dysfunction, high amounts of contrast-medium, diabetes, and concurrent use of nephrotoxic
      drugs. CIN incidence is low in the absence of risk-factors; however, in high-risk patients,
      CIN occurs in more than 50% of patients.

      A variety of prophylactic approaches have been investigated. Despite nephro-protective
      effects of hydration with saline or with sodium bicarbonate, other trials reported
      CIN-incidences between 20 and 50% despite hydration. Several studies and two recent
      meta-analyses demonstrated a significant reduction of renal impairment after contrast-medium
      using medical prophylaxis with the adenosine antagonist theophylline. However, a recent trial
      failed to prove prophylactic effects of theophylline.

      The antioxidant acetylcysteine (ACC) was effective in patients with impaired renal function
      in at least six studies, but it was not preventive in at least 21 trials and two recent
      meta-analyses. A recent study comparing the prophylactic efficacy of theophylline and
      acetylcysteine demonstrated superior prophylactic effects of theophylline. Nevertheless, this
      study did not include a placebo group, was not restricted to patients with impaired renal
      function and exclusively enrolled ICU-patients.

      Therefore, we performed a double-blinded study to compare the effects of acetylcysteine,
      theophylline, a combination of both, and placebo in patients with impaired renal function
      (serum creatinine >=1.3mg/dl) parenterally receiving >=100ml of contrast-medium.
    
  