
    
      The researchers aim to evaluate the effectiveness of email reminders in promoting COVID-19
      vaccinations among Geisinger employees. The project will compare two emails, which will vary
      in the subject line and email content. Both emails will test different approaches that draw
      from principles in behavioral science: social proof, reframing, and scarcity. Employees
      receiving these emails will be compared with employees in a delayed-contact group, who will
      not receive emails. Employees in the control group will later receive one of the emails.The
      responses to the emails will help determine the communications later sent to the control
      group.

      All emails will ask recipients if they want to receive a COVID-19 vaccination. If they click
      on a hyperlink indicating yes, they will be forwarded to an online registration and
      scheduling homepage. If they click on a hyperlink indicating no, they will be forwarded to an
      online questionnaire surveying people about their main reason for declining the vaccine at
      this time. The questionnaire will automatically present information intended to assuage the
      specific concern that people endorse, followed by a hyperlink to the scheduling site.

      The data will be analyzed with logistic regression models with the control group as the
      reference group, to compare the two email conditions versus the control group. This set of
      analyses will only be conducted for scheduling a vaccination appointment as opposed to email
      engagement outcomes (e.g., number of emails opened), which will not be applicable for the
      control group. A second set of logistic regression models predicting scheduling a vaccination
      appointment and email engagement will also be run, comparing the two email conditions against
      each other. The data will be examined two days later (to help decide which email to send to
      the delayed-control group) and four days later (when the policy for employee vaccination will
      change, making the content of the email irrelevant).
    
  