
    
      Amputation of a limb is a life-altering event with profound physical, psychological, and
      social implications. To address their functional, vocational, and recreational needs, people
      with lower limb amputation (LLA) are often provided with a prosthesis or artificial leg.
      While use of a prosthesis can allow an individual to achieve a basic level of functional
      mobility, absence of an anatomical foot and ankle still impairs their physical performance.
      As a result, people with LLA regularly exhibit decreased walking speeds, diminished
      endurance, and restricted ability to participate in desired life situations.

      Over the past three decades, increasingly sophisticated prosthetic foot designs have been
      developed by the prosthetics industry to replace amputated structures in the leg.
      Contemporary, energy storing feet (ESF) employ advanced materials and unique geometric
      designs to improve walking performance and endurance of their users. Although prosthetic
      limbs with ESF allow people with LLA the potential to return to an active lifestyle, even the
      most advanced ESF do not significantly reduce the increased energy demands required for
      walking when compared to conventional prosthetic feet.

      Commercially-available running-specific feet (RSF) like the Össur Cheetah (Össur, Reykjavik,
      Iceland) allow people with LLA to participate in athletic activities and sporting events. RSF
      provide significantly enhanced performance, compared to traditional ESF, by extending the
      length and increasing the stiffness of the prosthetic keel (forefoot). RSF also do not
      include a heel, as they are used only for running activities. Although transtibial runners
      with RSF exhibit endurance levels similar to non-amputees, the RSF design does not allow the
      biomechanical movements or provide the stability needed to use the foot for walking (over
      level or uneven terrain).

      A novel modified running-specific foot (mRSF) has been developed to integrate the performance
      of a RSF with the utility of an ESF. The mRSF combines the running keel (forefoot) of a RSF
      with the walking heel of a ESF. The mRSF can then be used for walking, running, and other
      routine daily activities. Preliminary feedback on the mRSF suggests that users experience
      improved overall function and high satisfaction with the device. However, empirical evidence
      is needed to support prescription of this prosthetic foot at other clinical facilities.

      The goal of this study is therefore to evaluate endurance, walking performance, mobility, and
      perceived exertion of transtibial prosthesis users (i.e., study participants) walking with a
      conventional ESF and the mRSF. Results will be compared to determine if the mRSF provides
      superior performance to the ESF, which is commonly prescribed to most active individuals with
      LLA.
    
  