
    
      Up to 20-30% of clopidogrel treated patients do not adequately respond to the drug and are at
      higher risk for ischemic events including death, myocardial infarction, stroke and stent
      thrombosis.

      Residual high on-treatment platelet reactivity while the patient is on clopidogrel depends on
      a complex interplay of phenotypic (spontaneous platelet reactivity, inflammatory status,
      acuity of the clinical presentation, age, renal function) and genetic variables.

      Two main Loss of function alleles have been identified: 1) CYP450 2C19*2 is present in around
      25% of the Caucasian population and result in a lower amount of clopidogrel active
      metabolite. Carriers of 2C19*2 are at higher risk for death or MI and 2.7 fold increase in
      the risk of stent thrombosis if treated with conventional clopidogrel; 2) ABCB-1 C carriers
      have reduced clopidogrel absorption and they have similarly been shown to be at higher risk
      for ischemic adverse events if treated with clopidogrel. Many investigators have recently
      shown however, that the positive predictive value of genetic testing alone at the time of PCI
      is limited and the knowledge of genetic status alone with respect to the two previously
      described loss of function alleles is only poorly able to identify to long-term clopidogrel
      poor responders. An Algorithm has therefore been developed, combining phenotype information
      which has been shown to risk stratify both ischemic and bleeding events up to one year
      follow-up in PCI patients.

      This algorithm has been developed from a single center retrospective registry. To
      prospectively validate it in the context of a prospective multicenter study, the first 320
      patients recruited in the present study will undergo phenotype at discharge and at 30 days
      and genotype assessment at the time of randomization, irrespective of the group which they
      have been assigned to (i.e. standard of care or gene and phenotype). The hypothesis behind
      this mechanistic sub-study is that the use of this combined phenotype-genotype algorithm will
      increase the proportion of patients at 30 days who will be in the therapeutic range according
      to PRU values from 50% in the standard of care versus 70% in the gene and phenotype group.
    
  