
    
      Liver cancer is currently the second most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for more than 90% of liver cancers. There has been a
      marked increase in HCC-related annual death rates over the past two decades, with the
      majority of all cases of HCC worldwide found in the Asia-Pacific region. As such, HCC
      represents a major public health problem in the Asia-Pacific region and globally. There are a
      significant number of variables known to influence the prognosis of HCC, with the stage of
      underlying liver disease being a dominant factor. Elucidating these variables remains a
      challenge and the poor understanding of these variables has translated to poor
      prognostication of treatment outcomes. To date, no ideal predictive modality has been
      developed. One of the treatment therapies in HCC is surgical resection. Despite advances in
      the surgical and perioperative fields, potential posthepatectomy liver failure (PHLF)
      persists as a life-threatening complication, and is reported in up to 15% of patients (Aliza
      et al., 2017). This accentuates the need to develop accurate methods to quantitatively
      characterize future liver remnants (FLR) prior to surgery, as postoperative outcomes mainly
      depend on the size and quality of FLR (Cieslak et al., 2014).

      This study seeks to address this unmet need as we will employ the LMS platform to assess and
      monitor changes in the liver health of HCC patients following treatment. In addition, this
      platform will be leveraged upon to monitor patients' response to the different treatment
      modalities such as surgical resection, Y90 and systemic therapy. These aims will be achieved
      through the quantitative characterization of liver tissues, which forms the basis of LMS
      technology. LMS is an MRI-based non-invasive tool that has attained CE marking and FDA
      clearance to aid the diagnosis of patients with liver disease. This technology is highly
      sensitive to subtle differences in liver tissue composition and samples the entire liver
      quickly, rendering it an ideal platform for liver tissue characterisation. LMS uses MRI
      mapping techniques to characterize liver tissue at the cellular level, delivering the
      quantification of liver fat and correlates of fibroinflammation and iron load using proton
      density fat fraction (PDFF), T1 and T2* maps, respectively. The modelling algorithms of this
      device correct the T1 map (cT1) for the confounding effect of iron overload. In addition,
      this platform has further refined the measurements for PDFF to be more accurate in liver
      tissue characterisation. Previously, the use of LMS to predict clinical outcomes through
      tissue characterisation has been validated in a few clinical studies on patients with liver
      disease. In a prospective general hepatology clinical cohort following 112 patients for a
      median of 27 months, patients with higher cT1 values tended to experience clinical events,
      whereas patients with normal or low cT1 values had no clinical events (Pavlides et al.,
      2016). Additionally, from a prospective study on 71 patients with suspected non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease (NAFLD), cT1 values have been shown to correlated with cirrhosis,
      ballooning and significant NAFLD (Pavlides et al., 2016). Finally, an independent study has
      also demonstrated the utility of T1 mapping in predicting clinical outcomes and for
      distinguishing decompensated cirrhotics from compensated cirrhotics (Bradley, 2018).

      In-depth characterisation of liver tissues will be done following Couinaud segmentation of
      the liver. Specific to the surgical resection cohort, estimated FLR volume and cT1 will be
      combined to refine the LMS platform in the assessment of liver health. The significance of
      this in the long term resides in more accurate assessment of surgical risks, which is
      paramount to improve the care of HCC patients considered for surgical resection. By adopting
      the LMS platform to monitor patients' response to treatment longitudinally through the
      characterisation of their liver tissues, our study also seeks to discern features present in
      the LMS platform that are predictive of patients' outcomes. Additionally, this study will
      compare anonymized blood test results and anonymized histological reports (histological
      reports only for the surgical resection cohort) against features observed in the LMS platform
      to better discern features indicative of patients' outcomes.

      This study will monitor patients closely before treatment and after their treatment with
      follow-up visits, and the MRI scans of these patients across these visits will be analysed
      using the LMS. A total of 4 MRI scans will be taken for each patient with 1st MRI scan taken
      within 6 weeks before treatment and the remaining MRI scans taken at the 1st, 3rd and 9th
      month post-initiation of treatment.
    
  