
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Diamond Blackfan anemia (DBA) is a heterogeneous genetic disorder characterized by pure red
      cell aplasia, congenital anomalies, a predisposition to pancytopenia and myelodysplasia as
      well as hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cancer. Anemia usually presents in infancy or
      early childhood and greater than 40% of patients have at least one congenital anomaly. The
      actuarial cancer risk is, as of yet, undetermined. One DBA gene has been cloned and the
      existence of at least two other DBA genes has been inferred by linkage analysis. Penetrance
      and expressivity of DBA genes are highly variable. "Affected" individuals within the same
      family may vary dramatically as to the degree of anemia, response to corticosteroids, the
      presence of congenital anomalies and the development of cancer. Despite improvements in
      understanding of this disorder there are significant deficiencies in knowledge that inhibit
      the exploitation of this syndrome to increase both specific and general knowledge of
      mechanisms of hematopoietic failure, birth defects and cancer predisposition. Furthermore
      this disease will, in the near future, provide a valuable platform to study complex gene
      interactions. There are less than 1000 individuals in the United States and Canada estimated
      to have DBA, representing at least 11 genotypes. Thus, no single center follows sufficient
      numbers of well-characterized patients for meaningful clinical and laboratory investigations.
      Furthermore, clinicians require an accurate knowledge of the clinical and laboratory
      presentation, mode of inheritance, treatment response, outcomes and prognosis to make
      important diagnostic treatment and reproductive decisions. A comprehensive registry that
      captures this information and characterizes patients accurately is therefore essential to
      advance our understanding of DBA, and in the process, knowledge regarding hematopoietic cell
      differentiation, birth defects and cancer predisposition. The registry will be an essential
      component of clinical and laboratory DBA related research and patient care.

      The Diamond Blackfan Anemia Registry (DBAR) was established in 1992, and families were asked
      to participate if a member was affected by the disorder. From this, the Diamond Blackfan
      Anemia Foundation (DBAF) was established, largely as a cooperating entity for families to
      share information. The registry attempts to establish contact with all affected individuals
      at the time of diagnosis, avoiding the pitfalls of reporting bias inherent to the study of
      many diseases for which extraordinary events prompt referral to specialized centers. The
      registry is already capturing a high percentage of the estimated number of new cases per
      year, and has facilitated genetic studies to define the gene(s) responsible for the disorder.
      Thus, the registry has an established track record based on funding from non-NIH sources.

      The study is in response to RFA HL-04-008 on Molecular Mechanisms Underlying Diamond-Blackfan
      Anemia and Other Congenital Bone Marrow Failure Syndromes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The objective of this study is to expand and update the DBAR in order to: 1) facilitate
      investigations into the epidemiology and biology of Diamond Blackfan anemia; 2) provide an
      accurate phenotype of DBA patients to facilitate genotype- phenotype correlations; 3) provide
      access of well characterized patients to treatment protocols; 4) provide patients to access
      to research studies; 5) provide patients with results of research studies; 6) serve as a
      resource to patients and their doctors to guide diagnostic, therapeutic, and reproductive
      decisions.
    
  