
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called pevonedistat. The study will characterize the
      PK of pevonedistat, assess the safety, and determine the dose of pevonedistat, in combination
      with azacitidine, docetaxel OR paclitaxel plus carboplatin in participants with higher-risk
      myelodysplastic syndromes (HRMDS), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), chronic myelomonocytic
      leukemia (CMML), acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), or advanced solid tumors who also have
      severe renal impairment or mild or moderate hepatic impairment.

      The study will enroll approximately 42 participants. Participants with solid tumors or
      hematologic malignancies will be assigned to one of the four treatment groups on the basis of
      their renal and hepatic function:

        -  Control Arm (Normal Renal and Hepatic Function)

        -  Renal Arm (Severe Renal Impairment)

        -  Mild Hepatic Arm (Mild Hepatic Impairment)

        -  Moderate Hepatic Arm (Moderate Hepatic Impairment)

      The study will be conducted in 2 parts: Part A and Part B. Part A will include single dose
      administration of pevonedistat. Eligible participants from Part A who will opt to continue
      treatment in Part B will be treated with pevonedistat in combination with standard of care
      (SOC) agents (azacitidine, docetaxel OR paclitaxel plus carboplatin) in Part B.

      Intrapatient dose escalation of pevonedistat and SOC agents will be based on the safety data
      from Cycle 1 of Part B as mentioned below:

        -  In renal arm (severe renal impairment ) based on the safety data from Cycle 1 of Part B,
           pevonedistat may be increased to 15 mg/m^2 on Days 1, 3, and 5 of Cycle 2 Part B and in
           subsequent Cycles, to a maximum dose of 25 mg/m^2. Participants may be eligible for
           intrapatient dose escalation to paclitaxel 175 mg/m^2 in Cycle 2 or beyond if the lower
           dose is well tolerated. Intrapatient dose escalation of carboplatin to AUC5 will be
           allowed if treatment with AUC4 in Cycle 1 of Part B is safe and tolerable.

        -  In mild hepatic arm (mild hepatic impairment), the starting dose for pevonedistat and
           azacitidine in combination are not escalated in the cohort. Intrapatient dose escalation
           of carboplatin to AUC5 will be allowed if treatment with AUC4 in Cycle 1 of Part B is
           safe and tolerable.

        -  In moderate hepatic arm (moderate hepatic impairment) based on the safety data from
           Cycle 1 of Part B, pevonedistat may be increased to 15 mg/m^2 on Days 1, 3, and 5 of
           Cycle 2 Part B and in subsequent Cycles, to a maximum dose of 20 mg/m^2. Intrapatient
           dose escalation of carboplatin to AUC5 will be allowed if treatment with AUC4 in Cycle 1
           of Part B is safe and tolerable.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted in the United States and Spain. The overall time to
      participate in this study is approximately 3.5 years. Participants will attend end of the
      study visit 30 days after the last dose of study drug or before the start of subsequent
      therapy, if that occurs sooner for safety follow up.
    
  