
    
      The study will be conducted in Cache County, UT. Surrounded by tall mountains (2513-3042 m),
      and subject to frequent winter atmospheric inversions characterized by stagnant air that
      traps and concentrates pollutants, Cache Valley, home to 120,000 inhabitants, is particularly
      susceptible to high particulate air pollution during the winter months.

      A total of 70 individuals (with the goal of completing 60) between the ages of 45-80 will be
      recruited from Cache County, UT. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to one of
      two treatment arms (Placebo Dietary Supplements, Active Dietary Supplements) in a manner to
      provide balanced assignment between the two arms with respect to age, sex and baseline
      exhaled nitric oxide levels.

      Participants assigned to the Placebo or Active arms will be provided with sealed envelopes or
      bottles containing dietary supplements (or matched placebos) along with instructions as to
      when to consume the supplements. Participants will be instructed to consume their supplements
      twice a day with meals containing a small amount of fat (at least 3 grams) in order to
      optimize the absorption of fat soluble nutrients. They will also be instructed to consume the
      supplements with liquids in order to enhance absorption and to minimize GI upset and choking
      potential. Participants will be asked to maintain their typical diet for the 18 weeks of the
      study.

      Routine Clinic Visits are scheduled at two week intervals for the length of the study (with
      accommodations made for Holiday schedules). During these visits, participants will: 1)
      receive a sufficient supply of supplements to last until the next routine clinic visit; 2)
      return any unused supplements; 3) be provided an opportunity to describe any adverse
      events/reactions to the supplements; 4) describe any health issues experienced since the
      previous exam; and 5) have their weight and blood pressure assessed.

      Endpoint Clinic Visits are scheduled to coincide with low and high PM2.5 exposure. Starting
      on Jan 2, participants will be notified of a potential endpoint assessment day when the PM2.5
      levels are predicted by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Air
      Quality, to rise above 30 µg/m3 (peak event) or fall below 8 µg/m3 (baseline event). Endpoint
      visits will take place 24 hrs following these peak and baseline events. Based on historical
      patterns, we anticipate at least three peak events, with corresponding baseline assessments,
      during the intervention time period. For purposes of analysis, each peak event will be paired
      with the nearest baseline event so that both events are captured at a similar time after
      initiation of the intervention.

      At each endpoint clinic visit, participants will undergo assessments of lung function and
      systemic inflammation. Blood samples will be obtained for potential future analysis of
      additional markers of systemic inflammation and plasma antioxidant capacity.
    
  