
    
      Schizophrenia is a disorder of cognition. The cognitive deficits of schizophrenia are present
      at the onset of the disorder, prior to medication exposure, are persistent during periods of
      remission, and are strongly related to functional outcome. These deficits prominently include
      prefrontal-dependent functions. While existing medications effectively treat psychotic
      symptoms, they exhibit modest benefit at best for cognitive dysfunction. Studies of cognition
      in animal models indicate that the neurotransmitter systems that mediate prefrontal-dependent
      cognitive processes are not generally augmented by existing antipsychotic medications.
      Therefore, advances in the treatment of schizophrenia will require the study of agents with
      novel pharmacological profiles to establish their potential to remediate cognitive
      dysfunction.

      Advances in understanding the mechanism of action of these agents will also require the
      integration of pharmacology with a sophisticated methodology for testing cognition. This goal
      has been strongly pursued in recent years with the use of functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI) to study pharmacological effects on cognition. fMRI studies have identified
      the cortical network subserving cognitive control and working memory, which are consistently
      impaired among schizophrenia patients. The study of medication effects on these processes
      with fMRI (pharmaco-fMRI) will permit the more precise delineation of the cognitive
      mechanisms amenable to pharmacological intervention.

      This study will use fMRI to study the effects of modafinil on the functional neuroanatomy
      underlying prefrontal cognitive processes. Modafinil is an FDA-approved medication with a
      unique pharmacological profile and an increasing range of off-label indications. Its
      neurochemical effects in animal models include elevation of extracellular dopamine (DA),
      noradrenaline (NA) and glutamate in the neocortex. This profile is favorable for the
      enhancement of prefrontal cognitive processes. These neurochemical effects also appear to be
      selective for cortical versus subcortical brain regions, suggesting that modafinil may have
      minimal effects on psychotic symptoms, or extrapyramidal, autonomic and hormonal side
      effects. In addition, it differs from amphetamine in structure, neurochemical profile and
      behavioral effects, with a lower risk of addictive or cerebrovascular effects. Recent studies
      in animal models, healthy adults and adults with psychiatric and neurological disorders
      indicate that modafinil improves prefrontal cognitive functions. This suggests that modafinil
      is a leading candidate for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. We aim to
      test modafinil effects on these processes in healthy adults, in order to evaluate modafinil
      effects on normal-range cognition, and then evaluate the remediation of deficits in these
      functions in individuals with schizophrenia, both in a single-dose trial and followed by a
      trial of sustained treatment.

      Comparison 1. The effect in healthy adults and adults with schizophrenia/schizoaffective
      disorder, of Modafinil 200 milligrams single oral dose versus placebo (double-blind, balanced
      crossover design), on cognitive control task performance, and on activity of dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortical (DLPFC) during context processing, and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC)
      during conflict monitoring phases of the task, both measured by fMRI.

      Comparison 2. The effect in adults with schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorder, of 4-week
      randomized, double-blind treatment with Modafinil 200 milligrams daily versus placebo, on
      cognitive control task performance, and on activity of dorsolateral prefrontal cortical
      (DLPFC) during context processing, and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) during conflict
      monitoring phases of the task, both measured by fMRI.
    
  