
    
      Patients (m / w) aged 0-17 years with scalding and burning injuries will initially receive
      polyhexanide gel 0.02% in the ordinary course.

      After 24-48 hours after the accident the wound depth is measured and documented with laser
      Doppler imaging (see inclusion criteria).

      Then the patient is enclosed into the study.

      From day 3 after the accident daily dressing changes are performed with possibly slight
      analgesic medication (ibuprofen 10 mg / kg ) and if necessary under sedation with midazolam
      0.5 mg / kg po. Here, a 30-minute-treatment with the wireless micro current stimulation or
      the placebo lamp is performed.

      For visual support of the process of the colorless wireless microcurrent therapy / colorless
      placebo therapy the medical device has an additional light source (red and white color). So,
      in addition, both (the control and the placebo) groups are divided in one group with
      colorless intervention (white light) and a group with red light. The main aspect is to avoid
      bias.

      The treated wound areas are examined daily during the dressing change by the study doctors
      and standardized photographed.

      The condition of the wound is detected in the wound documentation module of KIS. The end
      point of the wireless micro current stimulation is an epithelialization of the wound surface
      under investigation of> 95%. The detection of reepithelisation is performed by the
      investigators and objectified through a photo-image program.

      At the total absence of wound healing on day 16th, the patient receives the standard surgical
      therapy (skin grafting).

      If there is an absence of wound healing with less than 50% epithelisation after 3 weeks of
      wireless micro current stimulation therapy the patient will also receives the standard
      surgical treatment (skin graft).

      If the wound-epithelialisation at day 24 is greater than 50% but not> 95%, the wireless micro
      current stimulation will still be continued, but no longer than 4 weeks - until day 30.
    
  