
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is associated with considerable blood loss and increasing needs
      for allogenic blood transfusion. Previous studies demonstrated a transfusion rates ranging
      from 6% to 38% after standard TKAs. Transfusion carries significant risks of cardiopulmonary
      embarrassment, disease transmission, immunological reaction and postoperative infection.

      The major causes of postoperative blood loss following TKA are attributed to surgery itself
      which induces a considerable activation of the coagulation cascade and local fibrinolysis,
      the latter is further enhanced after release of the tourniquet at the end of surgery.
      Tranexamic acid (TXA), an inhibitor of fibrinolysis, was reportedly effective reducing blood
      loss after standard TKA. Previous experiences in minimally invasive (MIS) TKA showed that
      intraoperative infusion of TXA reduced 45% of postoperative blood loss and needs for
      transfusion from 20% to 4%. However, the safety to use TXA systemically in TKAs especially in
      high risk patients remains controversial. A recent study by Nishihara et al. demonstrated
      that use of TXA in total hip arthroplasty did not appear to affect the prevalence of either
      proximal DVT or PE. Another study by Xie J et al. also showed the incidence of postoperative
      VTE was unchanged when TXA was administered in primary unilateral TKA, but in their study the
      total occurrence of vascular occlusive events was statistically significantly higher (17.55%
      Vs 9.35%, p < 0.001) in the TXA group. However, in this two studies the patient with high
      risk of thromboembolic events (ischemic heart disease, chronic renal failure on hemodialysis,
      cerebral infarction, previous VTE disease, thrombophilia associated with genetic diseases)
      were excluded.

      The investigators believe the use of hemostatic agent topically in patients with high risk of
      thromboembolism can avoid its systematic effect and decrease its potential perioperative risk
      of thromboembolic complications (arterial thrombosis, myocardial infarction and pulmonary
      embolism). On the other hand, thrombin-based hemostatic agents, Tisseel®, have been widely
      used in surgical procedure including gynecology, general surgery, and orthopedics which were
      still attracting the attention and interest of multitudinous surgeons. Some recent studies
      demonstrated that topic use of Tisseel® in primary TKA can reduce hemoglobin decline and
      calculated total blood loss after TKA and is not related to adverse reactions or
      complications such as wound infection, venous thromboembolism events(VTE). But there were
      another studies showed Tisseel® does not reduce blood loss in TKA procedures.

      The purpose of this study therefore is to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial
      to investigate the blood-conservation effect of the topic hemostatic agents and their safety
      in a primary TKA procedures in patients with risk of thromboembolic events. The first group
      by topical Tisseel and intravenous TXA application, and the second group of placebo IV TXA
      then observe whether there is difference in the blood-conservation effect by total blood loss
      calculation, hemoglobin loss and transfusion requirement among different groups.
    
  