
    
      Innovative approaches to addressing the unique physical and mental health needs of
      adolescents with PCOS are needed. In response to this need, the investigators have developed
      an integrated mindfulness-based healthy lifestyle intervention for adolescents with PCOS
      (Working to Optimize Wellness in Teens with PCOS [WOW] through an iterative process of serial
      focus groups with adolescents and parents of adolescents with PCOS guided by the Individual
      and Family Self-Management Theory (IFSMT). In this pilot randomized control trial (RCT), 40
      adolescents aged 14-18 years will be recruited to participate in the 5-week Working to
      Optimize Wellness in Teens with PCOS (WOW) intervention (N=20) or a waitlist-control
      condition (n=20). All participants will receive treatment as usual. Participants will meet
      weekly for 75-90 minutes for five weeks. Data collection will occur at 3 time points:
      Baseline data (T1) will be collected from all participants immediately following the informed
      consent process, Time 2 (T2) data will be collected immediately post-intervention, and Time 3
      (T3) data will be collected one-month post-intervention. The waitlist- control condition will
      receive the intervention immediately following the one-month post-intervention data
      collection period. Following completion of the self-report measures at T3, individual exit
      interviews will be conducted with a subset of participants (N=10) from the WOW condition.

      The primary aims of this research study are:

      1. To conduct a pilot RCT with 40 adolescents (ages 14-18) diagnosed with PCOS comparing WOW
      (n=20) to a wait-list control condition (n=20), and conduct individual exit-interviews to
      further refine WOW. The investigators expect to determine:

      a. Preliminary effects of WOW vs. wait-list control on blood pressure, fasting insulin,
      hemoglobin A1C, nutrition self-efficacy, physical activity, medication adherence,
      psychological well-being (i.e., depressive/anxiety symptoms, perceived stress, self-esteem)
      and health related quality of life.
    
  