
    
      Stroke is a major cause of disability among adults. After stroke, post-stroke fatigue is a
      common and negatively influences post-stroke recovery. Today, there is insufficient evidence
      how to treatment post-stroke fatigue. Post-stroke fatigue is considered to have a
      multifactorial cause and it is biologically plausible that fatigue might be related to
      physical deconditioning and reduced physical activity.

      After stroke, functional limitations often lead to a reduction in physical activity, which in
      turn may lead to decline in cardiorespiratory fitness. Cardiorespiratory fitness is often
      measured as peak oxygen consumption, VO2peak. Studies have reported that physical activity
      and cardiorespiratory fitness is lower in stroke victims than gender- and aged-matched
      healthy individuals.

      Intervention aimed to increased cardiorespiratory fitness has been highlighted as an
      important component in in stroke rehabilitation. Guidelines for physical activity and
      cardiorespiratory fitness following stroke recommend cardiorespiratory training 20-60
      minutes, 3-7 days a week at 50-80% of maximal heart rate. Interval training (4 x 4 minutes)
      has showed to improve cardiovascular fitness at different patient groups, including Stroke.

      Today, stroke unit and early supported discharge service (ESD) is recommended as an effective
      way to improve patient outcome and quality of care following stroke. The ESD service provides
      support and rehabilitation for the patients in their own environment and the rehabilitation
      is often focused on activities in daily living and mobility.

      The objective of this study is to investigate if a structured cardiorespiratory interval
      training program added to the early supported discharge (ESD)-service results in relieved
      post-stroke fatigue and increased oxygen uptake. Furthermore, the study will explore whether
      it is feasible and safe for patients with post-stroke fatigue to perform a structured
      cardiorespiratory interval training program in their home environment.

      Method/design

      This is a 1:1 prospective randomized open-label trial (Two-centre study) with blinded
      evaluators (PROBE-design) comparing 8 weeks structured cardiorespiratory interval training
      program added to standard ESD care compared with standard ESD care alone in 50 patients with
      post-stroke fatigue.

      Study participants

      Consecutive stroke patients who receives stroke unit care followed by ESD-service at Umeå
      Stroke Center, University Hospital, Umeå, Sweden and Gävle hospital, Region Gävleborg,
      Sweden. A stroke physician will examine the patients 4 (± 1) weeks after discharge from the
      stroke unit. The patients fulfilling the eligibility criteria will receive oral and written
      information. Thereafter, the potential participants will be given at least 24 hours until
      they are asked for written informed consent.

      After informed consent, an incremental cardiopulmonary exercise test will be performed on an
      ergometer cycle (pre-treatment test). The participants will also estimate post-stroke fatigue
      with the Swedish fatigue assessment scale (S-FAS).

      Randomization

      Participants (N=50) eligible for study participation according to inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be randomly assigned to the intervention group(N=25) or the control
      group(N=25). The randomization procedure will be web-based using program Minim. Minimization
      will be used to create groups for intervention and control in order to stratify groups and
      ensure balance at study entry with respect to significant variables. The participants will be
      stratified according to sex, age and stroke severity (Modified Rankin Scale 0-1 vs ≥2).

      Treatment

      Stroke patients in the control group will receive usual ESD care including information about
      post-stroke fatigue, support and practical advice about how to identify and manage fatigue
      symptoms in daily tasks, such as the adaptation and prioritization of activities, physical
      activity and rest.

      The participants in the intervention group will receive structured cardiorespiratory interval
      training program on an ergometer cycle. This is in addition to usual ESD care. The training
      will be conducted 30-40 minutes, 3 days a week for 8 weeks. Based on the incremental
      cardiopulmonary exercise test (pre-treatment test) an individual training heart rate range of
      70 to 80% of maximal heart rate (HR peak) will be set. The participants will wear a heart
      rate monitor during the training and be instructed to exercise within the heart rate range.
      An experienced physiotherapist will be present and guide the training sessions during the
      first weeks. When the participants become more familiar with the exercise, the
      physiotherapist will monitor the training through phone or telemedicine equipment.

      . The training session will start with a 10 minutes warm-up followed by 25 minutes of 4x4
      minute interval, at 70 to 80% of peak heart rate, interrupted by 3 minutes active recovery
      and 5 minutes cool down. In order to get a estimation of perceived exertion, the participant
      will rate on The Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) scale every minute during the
      4-minute intervals.

      Statistical analysis

      The sample size was estimated by a power calculation. The power calculation was based on the
      level of fatigue assessed with the Swedish Fatigue Assessment scale (primary outcome). The
      absolute reliability for the Swedish Fatigue Assessment scale is 9 points, which means that a
      9 points change is required to indicate a real change of fatigue level. 21 persons per group
      are needed for power of 80 % significance level of 0.05 (2 sided t-test, assuming a standard
      deviation of 10). This calculation is based on a t-test assuming a standard deviation of 10
      points. A total of 50 participants (25 participants per group) will enter this study. The
      analyses of primary and secondary outcome will be on the basis of intension to treat.
      Two-sided students t-test or two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare
      groups for the pre-treatment test and post treatment test.
    
  