
    
      15 Patients with 100 teeth meeting the inclusion criteria were enrolled in this study. NCCLs
      characteristics were evaluated and recorded before the placement of restorations. The cavity
      dimensions in millimeters (height, width, and depth), the cavity geometry (labeled at >45°,
      45° - 90°, 90° - 135°, and <135°), the degree of dentin sclerosis , the existence of
      attrition facets, and the existence of spontaneous sensitivity were measured and recorded in
      the patient's form. The preoperative sensitivity was also evaluated by applying air from a
      dental syringe placed 2 cm from the tooth surface for 10 seconds.

      NCCLs meeting the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned into four experimental groups
      (n=25); A: air-abrasion + etch&rinse, B: air-abrasion + self-etch, C: etch&rinse and D:
      self-etch.

      Prophylaxis was conducted using a rubber cup with pumice and water. The color of the
      composite was selected using VITA classical shade guide before applying local anesthesia with
      Lidocaine 2% with 1:100000 adrenaline. Retraction chord was inserted into the gingival sulcus
      with the aid of a blunt spatula without excessive pressure to the periodontium. Teeth were
      isolated with rubberdam. No preparation or beveling of cavosurface margins was performed to
      the NCCLs.

      In air-abrasion groups, a clinical air-abrasion unit was used to pre-condition the NCCLs with
      bioactive glass 45S5 powder for 10 sec. The operating parameters were; air pressure, 20 psi;
      powder particles size, 20 µm; nozzle angle, 90◦; nozzle-lesion distance, 5 mm and the
      internal nozzle diameter, 900 µm

      For the etch&rinse groups, enamel and dentine were etched using 37% Phosphoric acid for 30
      sec and 15 sec respectively. NCCLs were rinsed thoroughly for 20 sec to remove the acid.
      Excess water was removed using a cotton pellet to leave a moist dentine surface. One coat of
      bonding adhesive was gently scrubbed on the entire enamel and dentin surface for 20 sec, air
      dried for 5 sec and light cured for 10 sec using LED curing light ( output >800mW/cm2).

      In self-etch groups, the bonding adhesive was applied to enamel and dentine for 20 sec with
      agitation, gently air dried and light cured for 10 sec.

      NCCLs were restored using FiltekTM Z250 XT resin composite, placed in 2 mm increments and
      light cured for 20 s per increment. Final contour was achieved with a fine diamond rotary
      instrument followed by finishing and polishing using Optrapol polishing kit .

      Clinical evaluation was conducted by two trained and calibrated examiners. The examiners and
      patients were blinded to the group assignment, in accordance with the double-blinding
      randomized clinical trial design. Each restoration was evaluated at baseline (one week after
      restoration placement), 3 months and 6 months. This evaluation was conducted according to
      World Federation criteria (FDI)
    
  