
    
      Our single center, retrospective, observational study will analyze the transfusion practices
      at the Montpellier University Hospital during the perioperative period (defined as 24 hours
      before surgery to 48 hours after surgery).

      Aim of the study The aim of the study is to identify the transfusion rate for each surgical
      procedure (transfused patients / total number of procedures performed).

      The study will also allow us:

        -  to identify the hemorrhagic risk related to each surgical procedure performed;

        -  to define the triggers for and factors determining transfusions of PRBC and others
           bloods products, according to the surgical procedure and to the patient's
           caracteristicus;

        -  to assessee the quality of transfusion practices according to the national and
           international recommendations;

        -  to evaluate the accuracy of the preoperative bleeding risk estimation;

        -  to check the traceability of the transfusions in our department;

        -  to evaluate the length of hospital stay (LOS) and the 30-days outcome of transfused
           patients

      Starting from these objectives, a model of transfusion management could be defined.

      Also, requests of pre-transfusion blood test could be limited, reducing the costs associated
      with transfusion management.

      Definition of the population This is an observational monocentric retrospective study. All
      the patients undergoing to a scheduled surgical procedure at the Montpellier University
      Hospital, head and neck department, between 01-01-2015 and 31-12-2017.

      The scheduled surgery will be defined as performed at least 48 hours after the indication
      given by the surgeon.

      The only exclusion criteria will be age < 18 years and emergency surgery patients.

      Data circuit definition All data will come from our computerized medical records. A complete
      list of transfused patients for this period will be requested to the hospital transfusion
      center.

      Each patient will be renamed with a progressive numeric code and the database will be saved
      in a password-protected hospital computer. The data will be read and analyzed exclusively on
      Montpellier University Hospital's computers by people

      Data collection

      The following data will be collected for each patient:

      Demographic data

        -  Name, hospital ID

        -  Age, sex, weight, height, BMI, ASA classification

        -  Reason for hospitalization, type and day of surgery

        -  Emergency surgery during the hospitalisation

        -  Duration of anesthesia

        -  Existing co-morbidities (especially liver and coagulation diseases, anemia, chronic
           inflammatory bowel diseases and diseases influencing the level of hemoglobin and
           coagulation)

        -  Anti-aggregating treatments, personal anticoagulants at risk of haemorrhage

      Biological data

        -  Basal Hb, Ht, INR, ACT, aPTT, platelets count, fibrinogen, albumin, liver function,
           lactate and SvO2

        -  Hb, Ht, INR, ACT, aPTT, platelets count, fibrinogen, albumin, liver function, lactate
           and SvO2 at the beginning of the surgery, before (period of 30 min) transfusion PRBC and
           at the end of procedure

      Parameters and drugs

        -  Vital signs, use of vasoactive drugs at the beginning of the surgery, before (period of
           30 min) transfusion PRBC and at the end of procedure

        -  Cardiac events or other incidents before (period of 30 min) transfusion

        -  Estimated blood loss

        -  Volume of crystalloids, colloids, labile blood products administered

        -  Estimated loss of volume until the end of the surgery (blood loss, Urine, other liquids)

        -  Input-output balance

        -  Use of: tranexamic acid, PPSB, fibrinogen, Factor VIIa, cryoprecipitate, factor XIII,
           cell saver

        -  Traceability of the transfusion

      Follow-up

        -  Blood transfusions during the follow-up period and reason for transfusion

        -  ICU stay (duration, complications, hours of mechanical ventilation)

        -  LOS at the hospital

        -  Mortality at the hospital

        -  Patient 30-day survival

      The end of the follow-up is defined by the hospital discharge or by the 30th postoperative
      day.

      Statistical management of data

      This study is observational retrospective, no intervention of the patient will take place,
      only descriptive statistical methods will be used.

      Future development This database could be the basis for a second study, comparing data from
      not-transfused patients undergoing to the same surgery.

      These results could be also at the origin of a prospective randomized controlled study
      concerning the transfusion practice in our center.
    
  