
    
      Objective

      In this study we will develop and apply imaging techniques to perform the first three-
      dimensional (3-D) measurements of brain biomechanics during mild head movement in healthy
      human subjects. Biomechanics is the application of mechanics, or the physical principles in
      action when force is applied to an object, to the anatomical structure and/or function of
      organisms. Such techniques will be invaluable for building computational models of brain
      biomechanics, understanding variability of brain biomechanics across individual
      characteristics, such as age and sex, and determining brain sub-structures at risk for damage
      when movement of the head is accelerated, such as during a traumatic event. Using the
      developed imaging techniques above, we will acquire a sufficient number of data sets to
      create templates of the average brain response and stiffness based on age and sex. Anonymized
      raw and processed data will be made publicly available to improve computational models of
      brain biomechanics.

      Study Population

      Measurements will be performed on 194 healthy men and women aged 18-65.

      Design

      We will build upon the model pioneered by our collaborator, Dr. Philip Bayly. The model
      places a human subject in a magnetic resonance (MR) scanner with one of two head support
      units that allows a specific range of motion. Each head support is latched such that it can
      be released by the subject, and results in either a rotation of the head of approximately 30
      degrees or a flexion- extension of the head of approximately 4 degrees. Although both
      supports are weighted so that the motion is repeatable if the subject is relaxed, the subject
      can easily counteract the weight. The resulting acceleration/deceleration is small (in the
      range of normal activities, such as turning one's head during swimming) and has been
      validated and used in other human investigations of brain biomechanics. The subject repeats
      the motion multiple times during the MR scan under their own volition and desired pace to
      measure motion of the head and brain. Additionally, we will use a type of MRI called magnetic
      resonance elastography (MRE), which measures brain motion in response to mild head vibration,
      to investigate brain stiffness.

      Outcome measures

      This project is a study evaluating the potential of extracting three-dimensional estimates of
      brain deformation, such as strain measurements and stiffness, using MR imaging. A primary
      outcome of this project will be MRI techniques for characterizing 3-D brain biomechanics. The
      techniques will be evaluated by applying the protocol to human subjects, followed by
      preliminary quantification of the reproducibility and stability of deformation and stiffness
      mea urements. Acquired data will be made publicly available for use by the research
      community.
    
  