
    
      Laser iridotomy is an established procedure in the management of angle closure glaucoma (ACG)
      and for prophylaxis in the fellow eyes.

      Sequential argon-YAG (SAY) laser iridotomy is the serial use of argon and Nd:YAG laser at the
      same treatment session to create an iridotomy. Argon laser is initially used to make a bore
      of about 500 μm in diameter to an estimated two-thirds iris thickness in depth. The 1064 nm
      Q-switched neodymium YAG laser is next used to complete the perforation1. Others aim the
      argon laser at the iris surface to create a crater, and the next shots at the base of the
      crater until the iris is penetrated as evidenced by a pigment plume. The Nd:YAG laser then
      creates a photodisruptive explosion to enlarge the opening.

      This procedure was first described by Zborwski-Gutman in 1988. Sixteen eyes were treated with
      two argon stretch burns and up to 35 penetrating burns that produced an iridotomy that was
      either imperforate or inadequate. Nd:YAG laser was used to complete the iridotomy. In all the
      eyes, the iridotomy was achieved in one session, and two eyes had a moderate increase in
      pressure that was easily controlled. The authors found that the total energy levels for each
      laser modality were significantly lower than those previously reported using either laser
      alone. The authors concluded that the sequential technique is safe and effective, and is
      recommended for iridotomy in difficult iris types.

      Lim et al in 1996 did a prospective study that compared argon laser iridotomy and SAY in dark
      irides. Twenty-four eyes of 17 patients were involved; and 13 underwent argon laser
      iridotomies, and 11 underwent SAY. The argon laser settings were standardized at 1.2 W, 50 μm
      spot size and 0.1 second duration. The Nd: YAG laser was set at 2.5 mJ and single-pulse shots
      were used. All the iridotomies were completed in a single session. The mean total energy used
      for argon laser iridotomy was 8.28 J; while for SAY, 3.12 J was used for the argon laser
      stage and 7.5 mJ for the Nd:YAG stage. The authors concluded that the total argon laser
      energy used can be reduced by 2.65 times using the SAY technique.

      The SAY technique is ideal in Asian eyes because it avoids the disadvantages of argon and
      Nd-YAG laser, when they are used as separate methods.

      In SAY, bleeding is uncommon and microscopic, unlike in Nd:YAG iridotomy wherein it can be
      severe enough to cause the abortion of the procedure. Nd:YAG iridotomy is rarely associated
      with focal lens or retina damage; but argon laser can cause inadvertent focal lens damage.

      By using ND:YAG laser as second stage laser, SAY iridotomy avoids the tedious and hazardous
      chipping enlargement phase of argon iridotomy that can contribute to retinal damage.
      Likewise, with the argon laser pre-treatment, excessive pigment and debris dispersion, iris
      splintering, and high energy levels needed for iris perforation from a Nd:YAG iridotomy in an
      Asian eye is avoided. In Ho's series of 20 patients who underwent SAY, only one eye had
      iridotomy closure during a mean follow-up period of 14 months.

      Q-switched 532 nm frequency-doubled neodymium:yytrium-aluminum-garnet (fd-Nd:YAG) laser has
      been used in the recent years for selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT). It was developed by
      Latina et.al. to selectively target pigmented trabecular meshwork (TM) cells without causing
      thermal or collateral damage to the nonpigmented cells or structures of the TM. This is so
      because it is able to deliver a short pulse duration of 3 nanoseconds while selectively
      lysing intracellular melanosomes, killing pigmented cells and leaving cellular membranes and
      neighboring nonpigmented cells intact. This technique delivers less than 1% of the energy of
      ALT, with shorter pulse durations and consequently higher power levels. Latina noted bubble
      formation at higher fluence, but this is not from boiling tissue, but are microcellular
      cavitation effects.
    
  