
    
      Study design: Randomized controlled trial, comparing one group of individuals that take part
      in the Memory Training Workshops (Experimental Group) with another group of similar
      characteristics that do not (Control Group). Data will be collected at baseline, 3 months
      later and 6 months later.

      Setting: The study will be done in Health Care Centres of Barcelona City (Spain)
      Randomization unit: Individuals Study Population: Healthy older people belonging to the four
      Health Care Centres included in the study and that meet the inclusion criteria

      Description of the study procedure:

        1. Recruitment and screening: Recruitment will be conducted in the four participating
           Health Care Centres through printed materials.(leaflets and posters) in the Health Care
           Centres and close community sites (library, pharmacy, market or elderly meeting centre).
           Interested individuals will have to contact their corresponding Health Care Centre where
           they will be first screened regarding age (older than 65 and younger than 81) and
           previous memory training (not having been involved in memory training during the 3
           previous years). Those who meet both criteria will be cited for a inclusion interview
           with a study-trained doctor or nurse at the Health Care Centre.

        2. Inclusion and randomisation: Informed consent follows the requirements of the
           institution's Ethics Comitee. Written consent to participate will be obtained in-person
           assessment at the beginning of the screening interview. Selection of the participants
           will be performed through the screening interview, where data will be sought for
           regarding socio-demographic questions, the Short version of the Geriatric Depression
           Scale (GDS-5), the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the medical history with the
           active clinical diagnoses and active medication. After the screening interview and if
           the participant is eligible and willing, the individual will be randomly assigned to the
           EG or to the CG through a closed and opaque envelope with the group information inside.
           Total time required for screening is around 30 minutes.

        3. Baseline and follow-up assessments: Three assessments will be conducted through the
           study: at baseline after randomisation, post-intervention at time-point between 3 and 4
           months post-baseline (immediate post-test), follow-up at time-point 6 months
           post-baseline (delayed post-test). All three assessments will collect information on
           variables detailed in Table 1, and will be conducted by a trained psychologist trough
           in-person interviews in the Health Care Centre. Time requirements will be around 75
           minutes for the baseline assessment, and around 90 minutes for the follow-up assessments

        4. Implementation of the intervention by the experimental group: Once the baseline
           assessment is conducted, the individuals of the EG will start the multifactorial
           intervention. The memory training workshop is designed to stop or delay memory losses
           age-related and to promote personal autonomy enhancing mental and physical wellbeing.
           Concretely, it pretends to wider the knowledge about memory function, to improve memory
           process and to increase self-esteem and the quality of life by giving some strategies
           and some relational space. The intervention consists of twelve 90-minutes group sessions
           given once a week by a specialized psychologist. The groups are formed by around 15
           people. Each session has its own objectives, material and activities. The content of the
           intervention is based on memory training from different perspectives as cognitive and
           emotional aspects or social and individual skills.

        5. Standardization of Assessment: Standardization of data collection procedures will be
           ensured through a variety of training and quality-control procedures. Data collectors
           will be masked with regard to treatment group assignment. All data collectors will
           participate in an intensive 2-day training workshop which includes information about the
           study design, recruitment issues, and general research interviewing principles; detailed
           instruction in the administration of each test or measurement procedure; demonstrations
           of each test/measurement; and practice sessions with other data collectors. Furthermore,
           they will use an easy and friendly answer sheet specially designed for the study.
           Fulfilled sheets will be always reviewed by the fieldwork coordinator, who in case of
           missing data or possible mistakes will contact with data collectors to solve any doubt.
    
  