
    
      Background:

        -  Inhibitors of the chaperone protein Hsp90 are of current interest because of the central
           role that Hsp90 plays in the maturation and maintenance of numerous proteins, such as
           Her2, critical for tumor cell viability and growth.

        -  Disruption of Hsp90 function has been shown to cause degradation of multiple Hsp90
           client proteins, leading to inhibition of several key signaling pathways. This in turn
           results in inhibition of cellular proliferation.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SNX-5422 when administered twice a week
           for 28 days.

        -  Characterize the safety profile of SNX-5422 when administered twice a week for 28 days.

        -  Investigate the effects of SNX-5422 on Hsp90 client proteins using pharmacodynamic (PD)
           assays.

        -  Investigate the effects of SNX-5422 on tumor and lymphoma response using the National
           Cancer Institute (NCI) Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria)
           and standardized lymphoma criteria, respectively.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of SNX-2112 and its prodrug SNX-5422 in
           humans.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically documented solid tumors and lymphoid malignancies (lymphoma
           and CLL) whose disease has progressed following standard therapy, or who have no
           acceptable standard treatment options.

        -  Patients with no major surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy within 4 weeks prior to study
           enrollment, and who have recovered from toxicities from prior therapies to at least
           eligibility levels.

      Design:

      This will be a Phase I dose escalation study to determine the MTD and recommended Phase II
      dose of SNX-5422. SNX-5422 will be administered orally twice a week for 28 days in continuous
      cycles until disease progression occurs or the patient meets off-study criteria. Three to six
      patients will be enrolled at each dose level, and up to 6 additional patients at the MTD, for
      a minimum of up to 36 patients and a maximum of 60 patients.
    
  