
    
      Palliative antalgic oncological treatments concern a chronically-evolving disease patient
      with pain control problems, and are a complex problem from different points of view:
      logistic, clinical and scientific research. An increasing number of patients are afflicted
      due to the increased incidence of cancer in all its phases and the potential chronicity of
      the disease linked to new therapies.

      The use of palliative anti-radiation radiotherapy treatments involves up to 40% of patients
      in a Radiotherapy Center. Radiotherapy was used in the palliative treatment of symptomatic
      bone metastases to improve quality of life (QoL) of these patients. This is the easiest way
      to respond to problems of home care or long-term care (eg: Hospice). This need is
      particularly accentuated for patients with a more severe situation. To reduce the overall
      duration of the treatment, it is necessary to manage hypofractionated regulators (ie with
      dose fractionation which daily dispense a dose higher than 2Gy). In fact, hypofractionated
      regimes concern the gold standard for these clinical presentations.

      With the same pain control, multiple fractionation boards report better symptom control over
      time and are therefore very often preferred for patients with a prognosis> 6 months. On the
      other hand, the treatment regimen with 8 Gy in single therapy session is suggested as
      preferable for patients with a worse prognosis (ie less than 6 months of life expectancy).
      Evidence from literature suggests that palliative radiation therapy is effective in
      controlling pain even in the last weeks of the patient's life and therefore useful to improve
      the conditions of patients with a more severe prognosis.

      The identification of patients with the worst prognosis to which single-agent radiotherapy is
      reserved is another crucial aspect. Unfortunately, although clinically validated in
      scientific trials, the routine use of prognostic scores is rarely used in everyday clinical
      practice to characterize life expectancy and define the most appropriate treatment regimen.
      This aspect limits the effective personalization of palliative treatments of this type.

      Furthermore, the indications available in the literature do not specify a univocally shared
      standard of technical approach to radiant treatment. The Consensus Conference whose data have
      been reported by Chow et al. considers as potentially applicable both non-conformed
      techniques (e.g .: single back beam) and the most modern conformational techniques. The less
      conformed techniques have the defect of distributing in a more variable way the dose inside
      the target to irradiate and to save less well the organs at risk (OAR) with consequent
      increase of the risk of toxicity that could reduce the beneficial to the patient given by the
      reduction of pain from metastases.

      Finally, the prescription of the single 8 Gy radiotherapy session in daily practice is still
      not sufficiently widespread, as evidenced by international literature . Due to the peculiar
      characteristics of the patients who need these treatments, scientific research aimed at
      optimizing these therapies is a need for assistance and even ethics.

      This particular analysis, within the Umbrella Protocol, focuses on patients with
      uncomplicated and painful vertebral bone metastases, and is aimed at observing and recording
      the efficacy of treatment in a single 8 Gy session, applied in good clinical practice.
      according to available evidence.

      Particular attention is paid to applying a high degree of personalization of the treatment
      and a modern approach to the technology of performing the radiant treatment. The
      personalization of the treatment will be favored by the routine use of: i) a valid prognostic
      score for the expected survival, the Mizumoto prognostic Score (Mizumoto M, 2008), to
      identify patients with the worst prognosis to offer treatment in a single session. The use of
      the most advanced radiation dose administration technologies will be applied by choosing (in
      the spectrum of technologies applicable to these clinical presentations) the most modern
      modulated intensity radiotherapy (IMRT). IMRT allows to reduce the dose administered to the
      OAR and to concentrate the areas with the highest dose concentration (the so-called "hot
      spots") only within the evidence of disease (or "Gross tumor Volume" - GTV). Through the
      integrated simultaneous boost (SIB) method in IMRT, it is possible, in fact, to check the
      extent and location of the "hot zones" by specifying, through precise prescription, the
      maximum desired amount and the topographic limits to the inside of the target prescribed at
      the dose of 8 Gy, however doing "drop" the dose to the surrounding OAR.

      The hypothesis of the study is to observe the rates of pain control and the need to retract
      the patient, when applied to personalization of indications and maximum technological
      support. These results could be a basis of scientific evidence to further support the
      clinical orientation towards the use of the single fraction of radiotherapy with consequent
      improvement in the quality of life of these patients. Furthermore, such data will be able to
      feed further analyzes aimed at the cost / effectiveness of this approach.
    
  