
    
      For patients presenting with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), immediate and timely
      reperfusion treatment is essential. The optimal choice between primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PPCI) and intravenous thrombolytic agents depends upon the timeliness of
      effective delivery, as well as the total ischemic time. While PPCI is widespread available in
      the USA and Europe, limited resources and lack of infrastructure means that patients with
      STEMI in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) receive significantly less reperfusion
      therapy, and when they do, they are more prone to receive thrombolytic agents.

      Pharmacoinvasive strategy (PIs) exploits the widespread availability of fibrinolysis and its
      early administration to restore some degree of myocardial blood flow, coupled with the
      complete restoration of the culprit coronary artery patency that can be obtained with
      subsequent angioplasty. Several trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of PIs when
      compared with PPCI; however, real-world data is lacking. The aim of this study was to compare
      safety and efficacy of PIs with PPCI in real-world patients with STEMI presenting to large
      geographical area.

      PHASE-Mx study is a prospective, real-world registry including patients with STEMI finally
      treated at a large cardiovascular center. In brief, patients aged 18-99 years old with the
      diagnosis of STEMI whom received either PI or PPCI during the first 12 hours since symptom
      onset were included. Patients could have a first medical contact directly at the study center
      or in one of other 60 hospitals along the STEMI network. Patients with a discharge diagnosis
      other than STEMI were excluded. Four of the investigators recorded the study data at
      admission and during hospital stay. Main efficacy outcome will be the composite of
      cardiovascular death, cardiogenic shock, reinfarction or stroke. Main safety outcome will
      include rates of major bleeding.
    
  