
    
      Informal caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease and related dementia (ADRD) manage a
      complex spectrum of patient behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). BPSD
      are major contributing factors to caregivers' burden and adverse health outcomes, leading to
      an increase of unplanned hospitalizations and a decrease in quality of life. The National
      Alzheimer's Project Act recognizes the need for interventions that "enable family caregivers
      to continue to provide care while maintaining their own health and well-being." Furthermore,
      recommendations from 2015 and 2018 Alzheimer's Disease Research Summits include the
      application of technology to improve caregiving research and ADRD care

      This pilot randomized controlled trial, will test the feasibility and estimate the effect
      size of integrating mobile health technology BrainCare Notes (BCN) into an existing, fully
      operational, and self-sustaining clinical program (Aging Brain Care; ABC) and IU Health
      primary care physician clinics (IUHP). BCN is a mobile application (app) for informal
      caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's Disease and related dementia (ADRD). The BCN app
      delivers 24/7 psychoeducation and caregiver support, assessment of informal caregiver status
      and patients' behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), and engagement tools
      for self-management and communication. Over a 15 month accrual period, we propose to enroll
      from the ABC clinical program and IUHP 60 dyads consisting of an adult patient with ADRD and
      one (primary) informal caregiver. The intervention will continue for 6 months and final
      assessments will be completed at 6 months. Feasibility data will be collected throughout the
      study and assessed at the end of the study by computing: (a) recruitment rate; (b) data
      completion; (c) BCN usability; (d) BCN acceptance; and (e) BCN use. Caregiver burden and
      patient BPSD will be collected at baseline, 3, and 6 months and evaluated for changes from
      baseline to 6 months in each group. Means, standard deviations, and confidence intervals will
      be computed to test feasibility hypotheses. Mixed linear models will be used to test
      hypotheses comparing the two conditions at 6 months.
    
  