
    
      Introduction:

      This is a two-step, single center, prospective study evaluating the use of Dilapan-S for
      preinduction cervical ripening. Phase one of the study involves a pilot study to assess the
      best approach to imaging of the cervix following Dilapan-S placement. Placement of Dilapan-S
      will be in accordance to FDA guidelines and will be performed in the exact same manner in
      phase 1 and phase 2 of the study. The pilot study will be conducted on 4 patients (2:
      placement with gauze and 2: placement without gauze) who are scheduled for a medical or
      elective induction at Sentara Norfolk General's Labor and Delivery Unit. Consent for the
      study will be obtained on the Labor and Delivery Unit prior to the start of induction. After
      placement of Dilapan-S in accordance with FDA standards, the investigators plan to perform
      transabdominal, transvaginal, and transperineal ultrasound to determine the optimal route of
      cervical visualization in order to obtain individual Dilapan-S diameter measurements, in
      addition to, internal os cervical diameter, overall cervical length, and 3D cervical volume
      measurements. Safety of ultrasound examination during pregnancy has been proven for both the
      mother and fetus and given that the ultrasound will be limited to the cervix during
      measurements, no fetal ultrasound exposure is expected. The ultrasound methods that will be
      performed will follow the "As Low As Reasonably Achievable" ALARA principle set forth by the
      American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine (AIUM). Preparation and cleaning of the
      endovaginal probes and safe handling will be observed throughout the study. Each route of
      ultrasound will be performed on two patients with saturated gauze (with sterile water)
      placement at the time of Dilapan-S placement to determine route of optimal visualization.
      Similarly, each route of ultrasound will be performed on two separate patients without gauze
      placement at the time of Dilapan-S insertion to determine the route of optimal visualization.
      Ultrasound evaluation will be performed at approximately 3, 6, 8 and 12 hours post Dilapan-S
      placement to ensure that visualization is not changed during the Dilapan-S dilation. At each
      time point, each ultrasound route will take approximately 5 minutes or less to complete.

      Phase Two:

      After completion of the pilot study, and selection of optimal method to image the cervix with
      Dilapan-S placement, women who are scheduled for a medical or elective induction will be
      screened and consented at the Eastern Virginia Medical School (EVMS) Maternal Fetal Medicine
      office at Hofheimer Hall. After consent is obtained, a baseline bishop score, 2D and 3D
      transvaginal ultrasound to assess cervical length along with transabdominal estimated fetal
      weight will be obtained by the primary investigator within 72 hours of the scheduled
      induction at Hofheimer Hall in a scheduled research-only visit. Cervical dilation will be
      assessed by digital exam at the time of bishop scoring. Cervical length is to be assessed
      according to CLEAR guidelines. An ultrasound estimated fetal weight will be performed and
      based on the Hadlock formula.

      Women enrolled in the study will undergo induction of labor at Sentara Norfolk General
      Hospital. Women will be randomly allocated to 1 of 2 arms of the study. The first arm will
      assess the predetermined cervical measurements with placement of approximately 2 gauze that
      are saturated in sterile water during the initial Dilapan-S insertion. The second arm of the
      study will again assess the predetermined cervical measurements without placement of gauze
      during the initial Dilapan-S insertion. Insertion of Dilapan-S is to be performed by 4-5
      trained operators and will follow an EVMS-OBGYN approved protocol. Women will complete
      continuous cardiotocography monitoring for 20 minutes prior to the Dilapan-S (rod size 4 x 65
      mm) placement as per the manufacturer's instructions. At the time of placement, consent will
      again be confirmed, and contraindications reassessed. The number of rods to be placed will
      vary based on the patient's parity, but on average is generally 3-5 rods. Again, ultrasound
      evaluation will be performed at approximately 3, 6, 8 and 12 hours post Dilapan-S placement
      to measure the prespecified data collection points. At each time interval, each ultrasound
      route will take approximately 5 minutes or less to complete.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine, by ultrasound, the rate of cervical
      dilation using DILAPAN-S for pre-induction cervical ripening. The investigators hypothesize
      that DILAPAN-S will achieve its maximal rate of change in cervical dilation within the first
      six hours of placement. A secondary aim of the study is to determine whether rates of
      cervical dilation differ between patients who have gauze inserted with Dilapan-S and patients
      who do not have gauze inserted. The investigators hypothesize that the change in dilation
      across time points will be greater in the DILAPAN-S with soaked-gauze group compared with the
      Dilapan-S only group. The third aim of the study is to assess patient satisfaction scores and
      determine whether satisfaction scores differ between patients who have gauze inserted with
      Dilapan-S and patients who do not.

      Screening/recruitment/consenting:

      Patients who meet criteria for inclusion in the study will be approached for participation.
      Women scheduled for induction of labor at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital will be
      approached. Written informed consent will be obtained from the patients by the primary
      investigator and by the study collaborators. If patients agree to participate, women
      undergoing medical or elective induction of labor will have their preinduction cervical
      ripening portion completed with DILAPAN-S in accordance with FDA labelling. Coordination,
      management, and data collection is to be collected by the vested authors. IRB approval is to
      be obtained before the study is initiated.

      Results will be available to the manufacturer after statistical analysis is completed and
      will not be shared with the manufacturer during study execution. The manufacturer company
      will not be involved in data analysis and all data will be independently analyzed by EVMS
      Healthcare Analytics and Delivery Science Institute (HADSI). The results of this study will
      be presented at conferences or published in a peer-review journal.

      Demographic information will be obtained from the electronic medical record. The data will be
      kept on a password secured EVMS computer. An encrypted USB flash drive will be used to
      transfer data. The data will be identified and linked to the patient using the medical record
      number (MRN). During data analysis, all patient identifiers will be deleted.

      The PI will review the list of scheduled inductions at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital to
      determine if patients meet inclusion criteria. Once inclusion criteria is met, written
      informed consent will be obtained from the patient by the PI, study coordinator, or
      collaborator at the patient's next scheduled prenatal visit.The data collected will be kept
      on a password secured computer. An encrypted USB flash drive will be used to transfer data.
      The data will be linked via MRN, which is needed to access the demographic data and will be
      deleted when the data is analyzed.

      Study visits/follow-up:

      No study visits will be needed during the trial. The subject participation will be considered
      complete when the subject is discharged home.

      Withdrawals:

      Subjects who withdraw from the study after inclusion will be excluded from further follow-up.
      Data collected until the time of withdrawal will be analyzed

      Data monitoring:

      The PI, research coordinator, and collaborators will ensure that all aspects of data quality
      adhere to the study design. This will include monitoring for adherence to consent procedures,
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, valid abstraction, correct entry, timeliness and
      responsiveness to data queries. Data will be collected and stored with the participant ID
      code only. The master enrollment log linking patient identifiers with study ID numbers will
      be kept in a password protected database on the Ob/Gyn department's internal server. Several
      data collection forms will be used. Data on these forms will be devoid of personal
      identifiers and will be securely stored at the division offices. The research coordinator
      will be available to monitor the data and correct any discrepancies based on source documents
      if needed.

      Procedures to maintain confidentiality:

      Each subject will be assigned a study number with personally identifiable information deleted
      or removed. If needed, charts will be reviewed in the medical records area. Subjects'
      information will be de-identified and tagged with a number. Data will be collected and stored
      on a password-protected computer. Data will be collected in REDCap, or on paper form if
      REDCap is not available. REDCap data collection tool will be created by the PI in conjunction
      with EVMS HADSI and will reflect variables outlined in the study data dictionary.

      Sample Size and Recruitment Goals:

      The investigators plan to recruit a total of 50 participants for this study. This sample size
      was selected based on investigators' estimate of number of women likely to meet study
      inclusion criteria and choose to participate over a one-year time frame. 4 total patients
      will be counted in the first phase, and 40 total in the second phase with 6 patients
      accounting for a 12% attrition rate.

      Randomization:

      A total of 50 participants will be randomized for the study. Stratified block randomization
      with block size of 4 will be used to allocate participants on a 1:1 ratio to the two study
      groups (DILAPAN-S alone and DILAPAN-S with gauze). Randomization will be stratified by parity
      (yes/no). Randomization scheme will be generated by EVMS HADSI prior to the start of
      enrollment using SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC). Randomization of participants
      will be performed by study PI in REDCap at the time of the baseline visit after eligibility
      has been confirmed.

      Blinding:

      Due to the nature of the intervention, blinding of the participants and clinician researcher
      will not be possible.

      Statistical Analysis Plan:

      Descriptive statistics will be assessed for both study groups. Univariate analysis will be
      used to examine the distribution of maternal baseline variables and outcomes. Continuous
      baseline variables will be presented as mean (standard deviation) and categorical baseline
      variables will be presented as count (percent).

      To assess the rate of dilation across study time points, mean change (± SD) in cervical
      dilation and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated and plotted for each group. Cervical
      dilation over time will be modeled with best-fit equations.

      To assess whether there are significant differences in dilation between the two groups,
      general linear models will be used, controlling for baseline dilation, baseline bishop score,
      and parity. To assess whether there are significant differences in composite satisfaction
      scores between groups, general linear models will be used, controlling for baseline dilation,
      baseline bishop score, and parity. All hypothesis testing will be carried out at the 95%
      significance level, unless otherwise specified, with a p value of <.05 accepted as
      statistically significant. All statistical analyses will be performed in collaboration with
      the EVMS Healthcare Analytics and Delivery Science Institute (HADSI) using SAS version 9.4
      (SAS Institute, Cary, NC).
    
  