
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has forced worldwide government authorities to implement
      unprecedented restrictions to control its rapid spread and mitigate its impact. In response
      to the outbreak, Spain declared by royal decree (463/2020) a national emergency, with the
      exceptional measure of a Nationwide lockdown enforcing social distancing, quarantine of those
      exposed to the disease and home confinement of those who remain healthy allowing only
      essential outings. This home-confinement by restriction of movement of daily life activities
      and social distancing from loved ones may be a challenging and unpleasant experience for
      those who undergo it, experiencing social isolation and loneliness with health-related
      consequences. Vulnerable populations at higher risk are fragile community-dwelling older
      adults whose chronic conditions may be aggravated by the consequences of the confinement and
      in particular, people with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia.

      QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN. Researchers will report and review the process during the trial
      covering participant enrolment, consent, follow-up, policies to protect participants,
      including reporting of harm and completeness, accuracy, and timelines of data collection.

      STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES. Participants will be interviewed by telephone. Potential
      respondents will be participants of the SMART 4 MD (NCT03325699) and TV-AssistDem
      (NCT03653234) clinical trials, which all aim to assess the effects of ICTs to support
      dementia: using a tablet-based health application, an intelligent system and a TV-based
      assistive integrated service, respectively.

      Baseline assessments prior to the COVID-19 confinement (T0) of cognition, quality of life,
      depression, and technophilia of the PMCI/MD and caregiver burden will be compared with
      assessments carried out during the confinement measures (T1) and after the termination of the
      measures (T2). Additionally, perceived stress regarding the confinement situation will be
      measured at T1 and T2.

      Participants will not receive financial reimbursement for taking part in this trial.

      DATA DICTIONARY. All variables collected in this study are listed and described in an
      electronic Case Report Form (CRF), with associated guidelines, to ensure consistency in all
      gathered data. The following data will be collected in this trial:

      Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) Quality of Life-Alzheimer's Disease Scale (QoL-AD Scale)
      European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions 3 Levels (EuroQoL-5D-3L) Geriatric Depression Scale
      (GDS) Instrument for Measuring Older People's Attitudes Toward Technology (TechPH) Perceived
      Stress Scale (PSS) Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI-12)

      Other data: Sociodemographical data. Medical history - PMCI/MD only. Health
      perception-management: Change of living arrangements due to lockdown, presence of COVID-19
      symptoms in PMCI/MD and/or relatives, access to COVID-19 information, devices used
      (SmartPhone, Tablet, Computer, Smart-TV, other), understanding of the information and contact
      with healthcare and social resources to manage the situation. Ability to manage illnesses,
      medication, changes and/or cancellations of previous medical appointments, renewal of
      prescriptions and provision of supports for the purchase of medication and food.
      Coping-stress tolerance: Mental health and well-being self-perceived mood. Sleep-rest :
      Alterations in usual sleep patterns and use of additional medication. Leisure activities:
      including preferred physical, intellectual, recreational and social activities. Social
      support: social connectedness (telephone call, video call, texting...), devices used
      (SmartPhone, Tablet, Computer, Smart-TV, other)

      STATISTICS ANALYSIS PLAN. The flow of participants will be shown schematically with counts
      and percentages in a CONSORT diagram. All variables collected will be summarized at baseline
      and at follow-up. Statistics considered for presentation for continuous measures in summary
      tables will be the mean, minima and maxima, and standard deviation, and if the criteria of
      normality are not met, the median and the first and third quartiles. Categorical variables
      will be summarized using counts and percentages. The change in means in the study variables
      will be analyzed with respect to the results during the previous studies (SMART 4 MD and
      TV-AssistDem) with those currently collected using the ANOVA test of repeated measures or the
      non-parametric Friedman test if appropriate. The performance of a multivariate analysis of
      variance (ANCOVA) to introduce possible covariates will also be contemplated. A 95%
      confidence level will be used for all comparisons. The R version 3.6.1 program will be used.
      for all statistical analysis.

      PLAN FOR MISSING DATA. Each researcher is responsible for ensuring that any missing data will
      be reported as missing in the study database. Procedures can sometimes be considered when
      using statistical methods that fail in the presence of any missing values, or when in the
      case of multiple-predictor statistical models all the data for an individual would be omitted
      because of a missing value in one of the predictors.

      METHODS TO ENSURE VALIDITY AND QUALITY OF DATA. Accurate and reliable data collection will be
      assured by verification and cross-check of the CRF. Discrepancies and queries will be
      generated accordingly in the CRF for online resolution by the researcher. In addition, the
      CRF data will be reviewed on an ongoing basis for scientific plausibility.
    
  