
    
      Hypothesis:

      The intake of an oral nutritional supplement (ONS) specifically developed for malnourished
      hemodialysis patients enriched with functional nutrients (extra virgin olive oil, omega 3
      fatty acids, whey protein, antioxidants, carnitine, and with or without probiotics) vs.
      individualized diet recommendations might:

        -  Improve nutritional status (visceral proteins, muscular mass), functional capacity and
           quality of life.

        -  Reduce inflammatory and oxidative markers, and modulate the circulating levels of some
           miRNAs and the expression of its target genes on cells. miRNAs may be useful biomarkers
           to check the response to a nutritional intervention in undernourished hemodialysis
           patients.

      Aims:

      To evaluate:

        -  The clinical response after the nutritional intervention:

             1. Nutritional status: anthropometric measurements, handgrip strength measured by a
                jamar hand dynamometer, body composition assessed by bioelectrical impedance
                analysis (BIA), and a 5 days dietary record.

             2. Functional status assessed by the "Barthel" test, the "Short Physical Performance
                Battery" and the "International Physical Activity Questionnaire".

             3. Quality of life assessed by the "12-item short form health survey", and the
                presence of symptoms of depression and anxiety by the "Hospital Anxiety and
                Depression Scale".

        -  The physiological response after the nutritional intervention:

             1. Inflammatory markers.

             2. Oxidative markers.

             3. Gut microbiota.

             4. Circulating miRNAs and the expression of its target genes on cells.

      Study design:

        -  Randomized, multicenter, parallel-group trial with 3 groups, open to the intake of ONS
           or diet, but double-blind to the intake of probiotics.

        -  Study centers:

             1. Hospital Regional Universitario de Málaga (Spain).

             2. Hospital San Cecilio. Granada (Spain).

             3. Hospital Rey Juan Carlos. Móstoles, Madrid (Spain).

        -  One-hundred and twenty patients will be included. Eligible subjects will be invited to
           participate, and written informed consent will be obtained before the inclusion.
           Participants will be randomly assigned to one of these three groups:

             1. ONS with probiotics. Dietary and physical activity recommendations.

             2. ONS without probiotics. Dietary and physical activity recommendations.

             3. Dietary and physical activity recommendations.

        -  The study duration is 6 months, and comprises 4 visits (screening, basal, 3 months and 6
           months). Recruitment period: 12 months.

        -  Inclusion criteria: adult subjects (>18 y/o) undergoing hemodialysis more than 6 months
           previous at inclusion and at least one of these caloric malnutrition criteria: a)
           involuntary weight loss >5% in 3 months or >10% in 6 months; b) serum albumin < 3.5 g/dl
           or prealbumin <28 mg/dl; c) body mass index (BMI) < 23 kg/m2; d) muscular mass loss >5%
           in 3 months or >10% in 6 months.

        -  A nutritional examination that included anthropometric measurements, handgrip strength
           measured by a jamar hand dynamometer, body composition assessed by bioelectrical
           impedance analysis (BIA) and a 5 days dietary record; quality of life evaluation by the
           "12-item short form health survey"; the presence of symptoms of depression and anxiety
           (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale); assessment of functional status by the
           "Barthel" test, the "Short Physical Performance Battery" and the "International Physical
           Activity Questionnaire"; and blood and stool samples will be obtained for each
           participant in each study visit (except screening visit).
    
  