
    
      BACKGROUND INFORMATION:

      Emerging evidence exists supporting the use of nasally inhaled isopropyl alcohol swabs as
      anti-emetic therapy. Multiple studies report isopropyl alcohol inhalation as an effective
      treatment for post-operative nausea and vomiting, with no reported adverse events. This
      relatively inexpensive substance is widely available in most health care settings in the form
      of swabs used in the routine course of delivering care as an antiseptic skin cleanser. Two
      previous studies in the United States have evaluated the use of inhaled isopropyl alcohol
      swabs in alleviating nausea and vomiting in the emergency department setting. One study in
      2016 study by Beadle et. al. demonstrated superior nausea relief using inhaled isopropyl
      alcohol swabs compared to an inhaled placebo, while a 2018 study by April et. al.
      demonstrated superior nausea relief with isopropyl alcohol swabs compared with inhaled
      placebo and oral ondansetron.

      The 2016 study by Beadle et. al. has several important limitations. This was a single center
      military hospital study, which only measured nausea scores 10 minutes after isopropyl alcohol
      swab inhalation, and lacked other important outcomes such as the number of vomiting episodes,
      use of rescue anti-emetics, ED length of stay and admission rates. The 2018 study by April
      et. al. also has limitations. Mainly, alcohol swabs were used as often as required by
      participants, and the dosing frequency of inhalations was not measured. They also excluded
      patients who had a peripheral intravenous catheter inserted on arrival, which could suggest
      that patients with more severe symptoms of nausea and vomiting requiring intravenous
      anti-emetics were excluded.

      STUDY RATIONALE:

      The investigator's goal is to add to the current body of evidence on the use of isopropyl
      alcohol in alleviating nausea and vomiting in the emergency department, particularly by
      determining which dosing frequency of isopropyl alcohol inhalation yields the most effective
      nausea relief by randomizing patients to different inhalation frequencies. This may help to
      guide future triage protocols enabling isopropyl alcohol inhalation before provider
      evaluation to improve treatment of nausea and patient satisfaction. In the current state of
      emergency department overcrowding, the ability to adequately control a patient's symptoms at
      triage may help decrease a patient's length of stay, as well as the number of patients
      requiring beds. In addition, from a cost-savings perspective, alcohol swabs are a relatively
      inexpensive therapy as compared to many commonly administered anti-emetics.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of nasally inhaled isopropyl alcohol
      in alleviating nausea and/or vomiting in patients presenting to the emergency department with
      a chief complaint of nausea and/or vomiting. Specifically, this study will determine:

        1. Nausea relief: mean reduction in nausea scores using a self-reported nausea scale
           comparing the pre-intervention nausea score to the final nausea score at the study
           endpoint.

        2. Participant satisfaction: self-reported satisfaction scale measured at the study
           endpoint.

        3. Optimal dosing frequency: compare the reduction in nausea scores among participants
           inhaling isopropyl alcohol swabs every 10 minutes, every 20 minutes, and to participants
           receiving no intervention.

        4. Emergency department management: receipt of rescue anti-emetic medications and other
           medications (ie. analgesics, intravenous fluids).

        5. Participant disposition: emergency department length of stay and admission to hospital.

      OUTCOMES:

      The primary outcome reflecting the efficacy of treatment is the mean nausea score reduction,
      using a self-reported nausea score comparing the subject's pre-intervention score to the
      final nausea score at the study endpoint. Nausea scores will be measured using a
      self-reported 10-point verbal numeric scale ranging from 1-10, labeled "no nausea" at the
      left end (1) and "worse nausea imaginable" at right end (10). Nausea scores will be measured
      at baseline before intervention, 10 minutes post-intervention, 20 minutes post-intervention,
      30 minutes post-intervention, and then every 30 minutes for a total of two hours throughout
      the subject's emergency department visit.

      The secondary outcomes reflecting the efficacy of the study intervention are participant
      satisfaction scores, the receipt of any rescue anti-emetic medications, emergency department
      length of stay, and participant disposition. Satisfaction scores will be measured using a
      self-reported 5-point verbal numeric scale ranging from 1-5, labeled "very unsatisfied" at
      the left end (1) and "very satisfied" at the right end (5).

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This study will be a randomized controlled trial of eligible patients presenting to the
      emergency department with a chief complaint of nausea and/or vomiting. Study subjects will be
      randomized to one of three subject arms: 1) Nasally inhaled isopropyl alcohol swabs every 10
      minutes for a total of one hour; 2) Nasally inhaled isopropyl alcohol swabs every 20 minutes
      for a total of one hour; and 3) No intervention arm.

      A convenience sample of potential study subjects will be identified by the research team
      during periods when available to enroll subjects. Patients will be approached while in the
      waiting room or shortly after arrival to their assigned emergency department room, before
      arrival of their treating physician and before any treatment is provided.

      The allocation sequence will be generated using computer-generated random numbers using
      blocks of 6. Concealment will be performed using sealed, opaque envelopes.

      STUDY DURATION:

      Subject participation will be expected to end at the study endpoint, either after two hours
      of collection of nausea scores from the start of treatment or until there is administration
      of anti-emetics from the treating physician before the two hours is complete. There will be
      no further follow-up. Active study duration will be two hours for each study participant.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      The minimally clinically significant difference is assumed to be 3 points on a self-reported
      10-point verbal numeric scale ranging from 1-10. For α=0.25 and β=.80 using a t-test, the
      sample size required is 45 per participant arm (135 participants total). Imputation will be
      used to replace any missing data.

      STATISTICAL METHODS:

      All analysis will be done by the trial biostatistician. Participant baseline characteristics
      will be summarized with descriptive statistics with 95% confidence intervals. The primary
      outcome, i.e., mean reduction in nausea scores, will be analyzed using repeated measures
      linear regression analysis. Study arm, time and study arm by time will be included as fixed
      covariates and the correlation in repeated measures on the same subject over time will be
      modeled using a suitable covariance structure. Least square mean differences, together with
      95% Confidence Intervals, will be used to express the treatment effect, comparing each of the
      intervention arms to the control arm. Statistical significance of each pairwise comparison
      will be judged at the 2.5% level to maintain the overall level at 5%. A similar approach will
      be used for ED lengths of stay (with transformation to improve normality if necessary).
      Number of vomiting episodes and receipt of antiemetic drugs will be analyzed using Poisson or
      logistic regression as appropriate. All analyses will be intention to treat. There will be no
      interim analysis completed. Imputation will be used to replace any missing data.

      QUALITY CONTROL:

      The study will have a quality control monitoring process and study monitor plan in place to
      verify that all data are accurate and complete. An internal DSMB, free of competing
      interests, will monitor the study and will generate a site monitoring report to detail
      significant findings, deviations, deficiencies, plausibility, record completeness and any
      corrective actions to be taken. The investigator will permit trial-related monitoring,
      audits, REB review, and regulatory inspection(s) by providing direct access to source
      data/documents.
    
  