
    
      BACKGROUND Oral anticoagulants have seen large popularity due to their ease of administration
      and proven benefit in a variety of conditions. In an examination of patients in Manitoba,
      7.2% of the elderly population was being treated with warfarin therapy, a proportion which is
      likely similar across Canada. For atrial fibrillation, the dose of warfarin is titrated using
      INR as a guide to a target of 2.0-3.0, a therapeutic range with significant evidence of
      decreased thromboembolic events while minimizing the risk of major hemorrhage2. Other
      indications for anticoagulation therapy include presence of a mechanical heart valves, a
      history of deep vein thromboses or pulmonary embolism(s), or other pro-thrombotic conditions.

      Ever since the introduction of warfarin into routine clinical practice, maintenance of a
      therapeutic INR in patients has proven to be a difficult task, with patients only spending an
      average of 57-66% of the time within therapeutic range. As the majority of these patients in
      Canada are treated by primary care providers, busy family physicians must keep a watchful eye
      on INR values, which are constantly changing due to diets with varying amounts of Vitamin K,
      not to mention the effects of interacting drugs and other confounders.

      In an attempt to find alternative strategies for anticoagulation treatment several randomized
      control trials have been undertaken in the last two decades examining the idea of "Patient
      Self-Management" (PSM) of anticoagulation. In a scheme similar to diabetics monitoring their
      blood glucose values and altering insulin dosages, patients in these trials have been taught
      to self-test their INR values using home electronic devices and then adjust their warfarin
      doses accordingly. Data has been published showing improved control in therapeutic range and
      decreased complication rates of thromboembolic events and major hemorrhages. There was no
      significant decrease in mortality in the above studies, although most were not powered to
      detect this as sample sizes were small (49-737 participants). In 2006 a systematic review and
      meta-analysis of 14 randomized control trials (RCT's) was published involving 3049
      participants comparing "Patient Self-Monitoring" (ie. no adjustment of dose) and/or PSM to
      standard management Data from seven PSM studies was included which demonstrated a significant
      decrease in thromboembolic events, a non-significant decrease in major hemorrhagic events,
      and a significant decrease in mortality. Furthermore, it was shown that patients were more
      satisfied with PSM strategies. These data are reflected in the American College of Chest
      Physicians guideline entitled Pharmacology and Management of Vitamin K Antagonists, "In
      patients who are suitably selected and trained, PST [patient self-testing] or PSM is an
      effective alternative treatment model. We suggest that such therapeutic management be
      implemented where suitable".

      In an attempt to compare the success of anticoagulation control in all arenas, Walraven and
      associates examined 67 studies involving 50 208 patients with 57 154 patient-years from
      anticoagulation clinics, clinical trials, and community practises. Study investigators
      examined many variables which may have influenced differences in therapeutic control and
      concluded that study setting was the greatest predictor. They quoted the following rates of
      anticoagulation success: PSM 72%, RCT's 66%, anticoagulation clinics 66%, and community
      primary care clinics 57%. It was also shown that PSM was associated with a significant
      improvement in anticoagulation control.

      In considering the practise of family medicine in Canada, two facts regarding anticoagulation
      control are apparent: (a) family physicians shoulder the majority of the treatment
      responsibility; and (b) control is likely not optimal. PSM in RCT's have shown to improve
      therapeutic control in patients when compared to "usual care"5,7 and also to care from
      anticoagulation clinics in tertiary care hospitals. This improved control has shown to be
      associated with improved clinically relevant endpoints. Thus, it would be logical to suggest
      that implementing PSM strategies in Canadian primary care settings would have the greatest
      return. There are several problems with this logic though. Firstly, RCT's all involved
      extensive training sessions with nurse clinicians or specialized physicians at tertiary care
      centres to educate participants in the fundamentals of warfarin therapy and the adjustment
      regimes. These resources are simply not available for family physicians. Secondly, "point of
      care" electronic INR testing devices were provided to all patients, which would cost an
      average patient approximately $1000 with the added cost of testing strips.

      OBJECTIVE It is the purpose of this small study to determine the feasibility of implementing
      a PSM strategy in an average Canadian primary care practise.

      STUDY DESIGN The study will involve patients from a single family private practise in
      Chilliwack, BC. It will be carried out in a randomized, unblinded cross-over trial for a
      duration of eight months (four months per arm).

      All patients from the practise of interest will be considered for the study and will be
      evaluated for inclusion and exclusion criteria as well as desire to participate. Criteria for
      participation is based on the design of above mentioned studies which showed benefits of PSM.
      20 patients will then be randomized to two groups using a computer randomizer. Group A will
      be assigned to PSM for a duration of four months and then switched to physician-management
      for the remaining four months of the study. Group B will follow the opposing schedule.
      Patients in the PSM group will obtain their INR values from a community laboratory and then
      adjust their Warfarin dose. Dosage adjustments will be guided by dose adjustment nomograms
      (provided to patients) which are based on the recommendations of the BC Guidelines and
      Protocols Advisory Committee. Data from PSM will be compared to results from
      physician-management and also to accepted values for community anticoagulation control in the
      literature.

      INTERVENTION All patients considered for the study will be introduced to the idea of PSM and
      theory behind anticoagulation in a normal office visit with a physician of approximately half
      an hour. The consent form will also be explained and given to the patients. They will then
      return for a follow-up in approximately one week after considering the undertaking. If
      participation is desired and consent is obtained the patient will be randomized into either
      group A or group B. Patients of group A will have the task of managing their own warfarin
      therapy using the provided nomograms. Patients of group B will continue to be managed by
      their physician. In the second office visit patients will be told to which group they were
      randomized and if they are in group A they will then be instructed on how to use the warfarin
      adjustment nomograms provided. After four months the groups will switch to the alternate
      management strategy. This time those in group B will be instructed on how to use the
      nomograms during an office visit. Patients in both groups will use warfarin tablets of two
      dosage strengths, 1 mg and 5 mg. All INR testing will be done at the community laboratory and
      results will be made available to the patient for dosage adjustment, as well as the
      physician. The physician's office will be available for appointments and phone calls from
      study subjects to discuss and support the process at any time.

      RESULTS All INR results will be forwarded to the community physician's office and will
      thereby be recorded as data to determine the proportion of values in therapeutic range.
      Statistical calculations will be done according to accepted practices for analysis of
      cross-over studies by a researcher with experience in statistical analysis. Patients will be
      given a structured treatment-related quality of life survey after the before and after the
      PSM phases and will explore topics of general treatment satisfaction, self-efficacy, strained
      social network, daily hassles, and distress. The survey consists of 32 questions and has been
      previously described and validated.4 Other outcomes including office visits utilized for
      issues of PSM, and complications of sub- or supra-therapeutic coagulation will be recorded.
      Secondary outcomes are not expected to be significant due to the limited power of the study.
    
  