
    
      Study design and randomization:

      This is a prospective randomized head-to-head trial comparing the adenoma detection rate of
      LCI with NBI. Eligible patients are randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to undergo tandem
      colonoscopy with LCI (LCI group) or NBI (NBI group). Randomization will be carried out by
      computer generated random sequences and stratified according to endoscopist's experiences
      (experienced versus fellows) and indications of colonoscopy (symptomatic vs
      screening/surveillance). All procedures are performed with high-definition endoscopes and the
      LASEREO endoscopic system (Fujifilm Co, Tokyo, Japan) or the EVIS- EXERA 290 video system
      (Olympus Optical, Tokyo, Japan).

      Colonoscopy:

      Patients are instructed to take low-residue diet two days before colonoscopy. Oral
      polyethylene glycol lavage solution is used for bowel preparation (routine bowel
      preparation). The assigned endoscopic system will be used and the colonoscope will advance to
      cecum under WL in all patients. Cecal intubation is confirmed by identification of the
      appendiceal orifice and ileocecal valve or by intubation of the ileum. Once cecal intubation
      is performed, the colonoscope is withdrawn to the anus under LCI or NBI accordingly. All
      detected polyps will be removed during this examination. The withdrawal time of the first
      pass (minus the polypectomy site) will be measured by a stopwatch.

      The size (measured with biopsy forceps), location, and morphology of polyps are recorded by
      an independent observer. The Boston Bowel Preparation Scale score is evaluated during
      examination.

      Immediately after the first pass examination, a second examination will be performed by the
      same colonoscope and the same endoscopist. The colonoscope will be reintroduced to the cecum
      using WL and withdraw using the previously assigned method (ie LCI or NBI). Any polyp
      detected on second pass examination will be removed and the withdrawal time of the second
      pass will also be documented. All polyp specimens are clearly labelled for histological
      examination.

      Histologic examination All resected and biopsy specimens are fixed in 10% buffered formalin
      solution, and examined histologically by hematoxylin and eosin staining. The
      histopathological diagnosis is determined by experienced pathologists, who are blinded to the
      assigned endoscopic system, according to the World Health Organization (WHO)
      criteria.Advanced adenomas are defined as adenoma ≥10 mm in diameter or with villous
      histology in 25% or high-grade dysplasia (HGD), or carcinoma.
    
  