
    
      Menopause is the last step in the process of ovarian ageing. Decrease in follicle numbers
      dictates the onset of cycle irregularity and the cessation of menses. At the same time,
      decaying in oocyte quality contributes to the gradual decline in fertility. Endocrine changes
      mainly depend on the decline in the negative feedback by ovarian factors at the
      hypothalamo-pituitary unit. The declining antral follicle cohort(AFC) with age first results
      in gradually elevated FSH levels. The gradual decline in the size of AFC is best represented
      by decreasing levels of anti-Mullerian hormone. The identification of women who have severely
      decreased ovarian reserve is clinically relevant. Ovarian reserve tests have appeared to be
      fairly accurate in predicting response to ovarian stimulation in the assisted reproductive
      technology (ART) setting. The capacity to predict the chances for spontaneous pregnancy or
      pregnancy after ART appears very limited. As menopause and the preceding decline in oocyte
      quality seem to have a fixed time interval, tests that predict the age at menopause may be
      useful to assess individual reproductive lifespan like genetic studies, ovarian ageing
      mechanism studies and epigenetic studies.

      Heart disease remains a major cause of death among women in China. We focuses on physiologic
      endogenous sex steroid levels and heart disease especially for CAD among postmenopausal women
      with natural or surgical menopause. Now there are more and more reasons to seek evidence for
      associations of circulating estrogen or other endogenous sex steroid levels and CAD. In the
      future, we design a cohort study to confirm whether ovarian sex steroid hormonal changes is
      associated with CAD postmenopausal women, or there may be other components explaining the
      gender differences in CAD patterns.

      Premature ovarian failure(POF), is a disorder of infertility characterized by amenorrhoea,
      low estrogen levels and increased gonadotropin levels in women aged <40 years. POF is the
      result of premature exhaustion of the follicle pool or can be attributed to follicular
      dysfunction, for example, owing to mutations in the FSH receptor or steroidogenic cell
      autoimmunity. Moreover, advances in cancer therapeutics over the past decades have led to
      increasing survival rates for both paediatric and adult malignancies. Given the gonadotoxic
      effect of many cancer treatments, more women develop POF. Markers that predict whether women
      are at risk of POF would, therefore, aid in early diagnosis and fertility counselling.

      The history of past and present status has been taken in our research. Women on the process
      of natural aging and disease-induced ovarian aging are all included. The key factors that
      influence ovary aging may be identified by epidemiological and molecular biological research.
    
  