
    
      Method:

      Eligibility criteria were surgical residency not exceeding the first year of surgical
      training, a limited experience in MIS and informed consent to the study procedures including
      an anonymized publication of the study data. Limited experience in MIS was defined as camera
      navigation in laparoscopic cholecystectomies only.

      Fifty residents were enrolled and prospectively randomized to either three months of
      structured VR- training or no training. Every participant underwent a basic VR- skills
      assessment and a serial assessment of defined soft skills including self- efficacy, stress-
      coping and motivation prior to randomization.

      Basic VR- skills were measured within seven modules of the VR- simulator LapSim® (Surgical
      Science, Goteborg, Sweden) including "camera and instrument navigation", "coordination",
      "grasping", "lifting and grasping", "clip applying" and "diathermy cutting". Each module had
      to be performed in two levels of difficulty- medium and hard. Means of defined parameters of
      VR- performance were generated. Defined parameters of VR- performance comprised "time to
      complete task", "economy of instrument motion" and "tissue damage".

      Serial assessment of defined soft skills comprised standardized psychological paper- pencil
      questionnaires regarding self efficacy (GSE), stress coping (SVF 78) and motivation (QCM).

      Participants randomized to the intervention group had to pass sessions of 45 minutes each
      twice a week for three months. Participants randomized to the control group underwent no
      training at all.

      Three months after randomization, VR- performance was assessed likewise. Outcome measurement
      of VR- performance defined results derived from the most complex module "diathermy- cutting"
      as endpoint.

      The study was approved by the local ethics committee. Participation of the study was
      voluntary. Data were blinded to the investigators.

      The data were descriptively analysed using SPSS® software version 16.0 (SSPS®, Chicago,
      Illinois, USA). Spearman regression analysis was performed to correlate means of virtual
      laparoscopic performance and the results derived from serial psychological testing. The
      differences between the randomized groups were assessed by means of the non- parametric
      Mann-Whitney- Test regarding all parameters, laparoscopic performance as well psychological
      scores. Relation of means was carried out using the two- independent t- Test. The level of
      statistical significance was set at p < 0.050 (two-tailed).
    
  