
    
      Hypothermia had demonstrated potential benefits in myocardial infarction, organ
      transplantation, and cardiopulmonary bypass. The brain uses 2/3 of the oxygen it receives to
      support cerebral electrophysiological function, while the rest is used for maintenance of
      cellular integrity. Anesthetic drugs alter only the first portion, while temperature is the
      only agent known to affect both portions (the cerebral consumption of oxygen decreases 6-7 %
      per degree centigrade reduction in temperature).

      Although hypothermia is effectively used to protect the brain and myocardium from ischemia,
      studies report that rapid rewarming is correlated with brain injury. Therefore it is common
      practice to monitor the nasopharyngeal temperature and to keep the gradient between
      heat-exchanger and nasopharynx during rewarming at 2-3 °C.

      This study's main concern is that the infusion rate of glyceryl trinitrate may affect the
      rewarming rate of the body and the brain during te rewarming period. One possibility is that
      the increased vasodilatation resulting from glyceryl trinitrate may divert most of the heat
      to the body and protect the brain from overheating. The other possibility is that the
      increased partial pressures of carbon dioxide may render the brain more susceptible to the
      vasodilatatory actions of glyceryl trinitrate, which may cause the brain to overheat.

      This study will measure temperatures at several sites of the patient and the cardiopulmonary
      bypass machine:

        -  Nasopharynx: a probe inside the nasal cavity, located above the palate.

        -  Core temperature: a probe inside the esophagus, 12 cm distal from where the heart and
           breath sounds are heard best.

        -  Heat-exchanger: recorded as is supplied by the heat exchanger as the temperature of the
           water inside the heat exchanger.

        -  Returning blood: measured at the entrance of reservoir

        -  Blood leaving the oxygenator: measured at the outlet of the oxygenator

      All patients scheduled for cardiopulmonary bypass grafting surgery, and aortic arch surgery
      will be recruited.

      Data will be collected by an observer blinded to the glyceryl trinitrate dose used. Data
      management will be done via an electronic database including demographic data, anesthetic
      records, and bypass records of the patient. All data will be anonymized on a case-by-case
      fashion after the surgery. Data analysis will be performed using R statistical software.

      Any adverse events, including adverse drug reactions, and adverse patient outcomes associated
      with monitoring tools and patient management will be reported to the Ethics Committee. Should
      any change to the research protocol required, the Ethics Committee will be informed.

      Sample size for each sample is calculated (according to the primary outcomes of the study) as
      48 to detect a 20 % difference in time to reach optimal body temperature (expected mean 30 ±
      5 minutes, or a 0.3 °C difference in nasopharyngeal temperature when the esophageal
      temperature reached 37 °C.

      In case of missing data (such as due to equipment malfunction, inability to monitor the
      patient, data not reported, uninterpretable, or considered missing because of data
      inconsistency or out-of-range results), the participant will be excluded from the study.

      The statistical analysis will include descriptive statistics of patient demographics,
      comparison of both primary outcomes, and comparisons of adverse events.
    
  