
    
      methods This is a prospective, randomized, parallel-group, single sample study ,which was
      approved by the Ethics Committee of Children's Hospital affiliated to Xi'an Jiaotong
      University.The experiment is expected to be completed between December 2018 and March 2019 in
      Xi'an children's Hospital, signed consent will be obtained from the parents or the guardian
      of the child participating in the study.The inclusion criteria are: children aged between 0
      to 108 months, Weighed between 2 to 35 kg,with an American Standards Association (ASA
      )physical status Ι or Ⅱ, who are scheduled for elective surgery shorter than four hours under
      general anesthesia . In addition,the operation of supraglottic airway devices needs to be
      seamless during perioperative period. Children with below condition will be excluded form the
      experiment:a suspected difficult airway, a history of upper respiratory tract infection two
      weeks before operation ,being at risk of aspiration (such as non-fasting status ,
      gastroesophageal reflux disease and hiatus hernia),lung diseases, limited head-neck
      movements, and those refusing to participate.The children with symptoms bradycardia and
      conduction block shown on EEG are also excluded from this experiment.The children were
      assigned into four groups based on their weights : size 1 for 2-5kg ,size 1.5 for 5-12 kg,
      size 2 for 10-25 kg, size 2.5 for 25-35 kg . The required device is prepared according to the
      child's weight and using the the manufacturer's guidelines . The children's group allocation
      were operated by a researcher who do not participate in post anesthesia care unit or outcome
      assessment. All children involved in the experiment, the children's parents, and the data
      analyzer are blind to the device used. In preparation for surgery,children are fasted 8h from
      solid food with fat content, 6h from semi-solid food and liquid food ,4h for breast milk and
      2 h for clear water .Premedication is provided about 20 minutes before entering the operating
      room, by which children receive intranasal dexmedetomidine 1.5ug/kg, so that children can
      enter the operating room quietly. On arrival in the operating room, children were monitored
      using pulse oximetry, electrocardiography, non-invasive blood pressure, and capnography.
      General anaesthesia was induced with 100% oxygen 2-4 Liter(L)/min. Injection atropine
      0.01mg/kg、fentanyl 2 μg/kg 、 propofol 2mg/kg 、vecuronium bromide 0.1 mg/kg intravenously (IV)
      in turn.After loss of consciousness, children are promptly positioned supine with an adequate
      sized roll underneath the neck to establish optimal position.Achieving appropriate anesthesia
      depth,children are randomised to have inserted i-gel ,The jaw thrust maneuver are used to
      confirm anesthesia depth whether it is suitable for placing the laryngeal mask and
      facilitating its placement. We do not administer neuromuscular blocking during intraoperative
      period. Two anesthesiologists came to the hospital for working at least one year and
      experienced in inserting supraglottic airway devices in at least 200 pediatric patients. The
      device was inserted according to the manufacturer's recommendations .Device insertion was
      considered successful by observing bilateral chest wall movement,as well as a stable
      square-wave capnogram trace ,the lung breath sound with no audible leak .Three failed
      insertion attempts are considered failed insertion of the device, and patients were withdrawn
      from the study.Tracheal intubation was considered after failure of three times of laryngeal
      mask airway placement.

      Insertion time was measured from the moment a device was picked up until confirmation of the
      first wave on a capnogram，The ease of device placement was assessed using a subjective
      grading score of 1-4 (1: no resistance, 2: mild resistance, 3: moderate resistance, 4:
      inability to place the device) by the anesthesiologist. We also record the manipulations for
      improving device position, such as adjusting the insertion depth, conducting a jaw thrust
      maneuver, or flexion/extension of the head.

      Oropharyngeal leak pressure and fiberoptic view through the device were assessed.
      Oropharyngeal leak pressure was determined by closing the adjustable pressure-limiting valve
      to 30 centimeter water column(cmH 2 O) at the fresh gas flow rate of 3 L/min, switching the
      mechanical ventilation to manual ventilation, and reading the airway pressure on the monitor
      in the anesthesia machine which an audible leak on auscultation over neck was defined as OLP.
      The OLP was not allowed to exceed 30 cmH 2 O to avoid barotrauma, If mean airway pressure is
      higher than OLP or insufficient ventilation (lesser than 5 ml/kg) occurred during the airway
      maintenance, proper manipulations (pushing or pulling of device, extension or flexion of the
      head, jaw thrust) were performed. If appropriate manipulation does not solve the problem, the
      device should be removed and endotracheal intubation be performed. The anatomical position of
      the LMA in relation to the glottis was evaluated by placing a fiberoptic bronchoscope through
      the device .The fiberoptic view is classified into four grades by observing the fiberoptic
      views (grade 1: vocal cords not visible, grade 2: vocal cords and anterior epiglottis
      visible, grade 3: vocal cords and posterior epiglottis visible, grade 4: only vocal cords
      visible). The 8-12 French size gastric tubes are used for those groups. A well-lubricated
      gastric tube is prepared before inserted into the stomach through gastric port of airway
      device. The assessment of correct placement is through detection of injected air by
      epigastric auscultation or by aspiration of gastric content .A grading
      scale(1:easy,2:difficult,3：failure) is used for assessing the ease of gastric tube
      insertion.Easy is defined as placing the tube successfully in the first attempt,difficult is
      defined as placing the tube successfully within two attempts, failure is defined as inability
      to establish correct placement within three placements.Anesthesia was maintained using 2%~3%
      sevoflurane and remifentanil 0.2~0.4ug/kg•min.1 ug/kg fentanyl is added again before the skin
      incision and suture. At the end of surgery, the anesthetics are terminated. The patient was
      then moved to the postanesthesia care unit (PACU).We recorded heart rate, mean blood
      pressure, oxygen saturation, peak inspiratory pressure and complications during the induction
      and maintenance of anesthesia. At the conclusion of the surgery, when the tidal volume is >6
      ml/kg or end-tidal carbon dioxide(CO2) is less than 50 mmHg,we can stop the mechanical
      ventilation and keep the patient's spontaneous respiration. The LMA is removed when evidence
      of adequate emergence including spontaneous eye opening, grimacing using forehead and/or
      eyebrow, and purposeful movement. In addition,we also observed the complication such as
      coughing, bronchospasm, laryngospasm, desaturation (SpO 2 < 90%), regurgitation, aspiration,
      sore throat, blood-on LMA, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), breath-holding and teeth
      or lip injury during anesthesia maintenance and emergence . A blinded investigator assessed
      all patients in the PACU and conducted a ward visit or telephone interview 24 h after the end
      of surgery. In our study, the primary outcome is oropharyngeal leak pressure，the secondary
      outcome are the rate of successful insertion at first attempt, fiberoptic view，insertion
      time，ease of insertion，ease of gastric tube insertion。 We recorded complications including
      coughing, breath-holding, desaturation, laryngospasm or bronchospasm，blood-on LMA, sore
      throat, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), regurgitation, aspiration, teeth or lip
      injury.
    
  