
    
      This prospective study consisted of a six-month company-based workplace health promotion
      intervention trial with a 6- and 12-month follow-up after the start of the intervention.
      IMSS' researchers promoted participation in this study among affiliated companies located in
      Mexico City and recruited 2,002 workers from seven different worksites, including a cooking
      utensils factory, a government public health services department, a metalworking company, a
      pharmaceutical company, a plastic factory, and a printing company. Companies were selected on
      the basis of their willingness to engage in the study's activities and consented to be part
      of either a control (n = 991, baseline and follow-up surveys only) or an intervention group
      (n = 1011, surveys plus intervention). Employers were presented with the intervention first
      and if they did not agree to participate, the option to enter the study as a control company
      was offered second. A health risk assessment (HRA), including a questionnaire and biological
      measurements (i.e., anthropometric and physiological measurements, as well as blood glucose,
      total cholesterol, triglycerides, and LDL), was performed at baseline, 6 months, and 1 year
      after the beginning of the study for both control and intervention groups.

      IMSS researchers met in person with the directors of each company to introduce the
      intervention program and once they obtained authorization to perform the activities, nurses
      and social workers from the research team were in charge of promoting the intervention
      throughout the company. They held focus group meetings with workers during the workday,
      discussing the benefits of physical activity, healthy nutrition, and stress management. They
      also distributed flyers, displayed posters, and carried out one-on-one interactions whenever
      possible. As an incentive, they offered workers a complete and confidential physical
      examination, including blood work for free. They collected all data during the day shift and
      remained in each of the companies for about a week in order to enroll as many participants as
      possible but no further efforts were made to reach workers on sick leave or disability.
      Workers voluntarily participated.

      Experts such as occupational physicians, nurses, psychologists, nutritionists, and sports
      medicine specialists designed the HRA questionnaire at IMSS. It included items on demographic
      and organizational characteristics, behavioral and biological risk factors for cardiovascular
      disease, and personal history of diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and other
      self-reported medical conditions as doctors' diagnosis. The questionnaire was distributed
      among participating workers who completed it at home and submitted it to the research team on
      the day of their physical evaluation.

      The physical examination included anthropometric (i.e., height, weight, waist circumference,
      and skinfold measurements to assess body fat, muscle, and bone mass), physiological
      measurements (such as heart rate, blood pressure, maximum oxygen intake), and a finger-stick
      cholesterol and glucose screening. These measurements and the survey information were used to
      determine the prevalence of individual cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) such as age,
      income, gender, cardiorespiratory fitness, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia.
    
  