
    
      Studies have shown that cognitive performance, especially in the elderly is limited due to
      chronic pain. In a recent study, significantly less brain activity in various regions of the
      brain (the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), insula and operculum, dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex and orbitofrontal cortex) was detected in patients with unilateral primary
      coxarthrosis compared to a healthy control group. After eliminating the pain by the
      implantation of a total hip replacement, a significant increase in brain activity in the
      affected areas was observed in these patients. Whether this observation is accompanied by an
      effect on cognition, is not known and will be investigated in the proposed study. The purpose
      of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of a hip arthroplasty for chronic pain,
      caused by a unilateral primary Coxartrhrose, regarding the cognitive performance. It is based
      on the hypothesis that the combination of chronic pain along with relative immobilization
      causes impairment of cognitive performance. The total hip replacement reduces pain, increases
      the mobility level and finally improves the cognitive performance.

      The main issue concerns the short and mid-term influence of hip replacement on cognitive
      performance in the perioperative care continuum in comparison to a control group that does
      not have chronic pain. To objectively quantify the everyday activity, there are a variety of
      instruments, without a currently gold standard. Therefore, in addition the investigators use
      objectified measurement parameters with the aid of a pedometer (GARMIN vivofit) on every
      three measuring time points (before surgery, 3 months after surgery, 6 months after surgery).

      Standardized neuropsychological assessment methods are used to assess the cognitive
      performance. To assess the degree of mobility, health status and the physical activity
      standardized questionnaires are used.

      Primary hypothesis: After implantation of an artificial hip replacement and reduction of
      experienced pain patients with primary coxarthrosis indicate an improvement of cognitive
      performance 3 and 6 month after surgery compared to the pre-surgical status. In addition, the
      investigators measure how severe the cognitive performance is reduced compared to a healthy
      control group prior to surgery and to what extend the cognitive performance is reversible in
      the aftermath.
    
  