
    
      This Registry will collect family medical history and establishes a collection of specimens
      from PPB patients and their parents for future research. Primary goals of the biology
      research are (1) to identify new scientific ways to learn about PPB and the best way to treat
      it in the future and (2) to establish a collection of PPB biologic specimens for future
      research.

      Background: PPB is a rare cancer of the lung presenting in early childhood, mostly from birth
      to age ~72 months. PPB occurs within the lung or between the lung and the chest wall. There
      are three forms of PPB called Types I, II, and III PPB. Children with Type I PPB require
      surgery and sometimes chemotherapy. Children with Types II and III PPB, require surgery,
      chemotherapy and sometimes radiation therapy. Because there has never been a consensus as to
      the best treatment for PPB, the Registry will provide treatment guidelines. It is the goal of
      the Treatment and Biology Registry that by offering specific regimens the Registry will be
      able to prospectively review and analyze the regimen for the first time.

      Design:

        -  Diagnostic central pathology review will be required for patients who will be
           prospectively evaluated.

        -  This Treatment Registry will offer surgery and chemotherapy regimen guidelines, and
           optional radiation therapy guidelines for prospectively enrolled patients.

        -  The Treatment and Biology Registry will create a PPB biologic specimens reference bank
           for tumor.

      Methods:

        -  For Type I PPB, surgery is necessary. Some doctors use chemotherapy after surgery. If
           chemotherapy is used the Registry will suggest that it be combination chemotherapy with
           vincristine, dactinomycin, cyclophosphamide (VAC ).

        -  For Types II and III PPB patients surgery is necessary, followed by chemotherapy. The
           Registry will suggest that subjects receive combination chemotherapy with Ifosphamide,
           Vincristine, Actinomycin-D and Doxorubicin (IVADo). Second look and possible 3rd look
           surgery may be required. Radiation therapy is recommended only for residual disease
           after maximum surgery.

      Analysis: Statistical data analysis will include only centrally confirmed cases. Additionally
      only patients with PPB Type II or Type III who were enrolled and treated with IVADo as per
      the regimen will be compared to historical controls. No statistical analysis is planned for
      patients with Type I PPB. Future treatment will be compared to the IVADo regimen in order to
      measure improvements.
    
  