
    
      Recurrent FSGS is a risk factor for graft lost: Recurrence of FSGS can occur rapidly, within
      minutes of transplantation, and can lead to immediate onset of proteinuria and graft
      dysfunction. Recurrent FSGS is definitively diagnosed with a kidney biopsy. Early kidney
      biopsies in recurrent FSGS often demonstrate only extensive foot process effacement with the
      classic focal sclerosis appearing only after months of proteinuria. Recurrent FSGS is the
      single most important cause of graft failure in patients with FSGS. Patients with recurrent
      FSGS have significantly decreased graft survival compared to patients without recurrence and
      often require multiple kidney transplants in their lifetime. A number of clinical risk
      factors for recurrent FSGS have been identified including prior recurrence, Caucasian race,
      rapid progression of primary FSGS to ESRD within 3 years, mesangial hypercellularity on
      primary biopsy and living donor transplant, however these findings are inconsistent among
      various small studies. 3 A recent study from Europe identified late steroid resistant FSGS
      (nephrotic syndrome that is initially responsive to steroids, then later resistant) as a
      strong risk factor for recurrence. These findings have been replicated in our recent
      retrospective study of a North American cohort from the Midwest Pediatric Nephrology
      Consortium (N=116) that showed risk of recurrent FSGS was 70.6% in children with late steroid
      resistant FSGS compared to 35.8% risk in children with initial steroid resistant FSGS
      (manuscript in preparation). Genetic risk factors for late steroid resistant FSGS are
      unknown. In the same study Investigators identified native kidney biopsy findings that may
      predict risk of recurrence. Unfortunately, an individual's risk of recurrent disease cannot
      be predicted accurately prior to transplant. Thus, patients with FSGS have a high risk of
      recurrent disease post-transplant that is difficult to predict and patients have poor kidney
      transplant outcomes.

      Plasmapheresis is utilized as a treatment for recurrent FSGS once it occurs: Several
      therapies for recurrent FSGS have been attempted with varying degrees of success but there
      remains no proven treatment for recurrent FSGS post-transplant. 7-10 The demonstration of a
      possible causative circulating factor by Savin et. al. 11 galvanized the field to attempt
      plasmapheresis to remove 'the permeability factor' as a therapy for recurrent FSGS.
      Therefore, recurrent FSGS is most often treated with plasmapheresis to remove the circulating
      factor and this is effective in a subset of patients. The results of uncontrolled single
      center case reports and series suggest a benefit from plasmapheresis 12-14 although graft
      loss from recurrent disease remains unacceptably high. Patients who do not respond to
      plasmapheresis have rapidly progressive chronic kidney disease. These patients have been
      treated with alternate agents such as rituximab, abatacept, or high dose cyclosporine with
      variable responses.15-17 Ideally, therapies will be identified to prevent recurrent FSGS
      before it occurs. Prevention of recurrent FSGS will lead to longer kidney transplant survival
      and reduced health care costs.

      No treatments are available to prevent the recurrence of FSGS after transplant: Since 2005,
      there have been 3 published studies that have utilized a variety of protocols of
      plasmapheresis for the prevention of recurrent FSGS with inconsistent results. 18-20 The
      University of Minnesota pediatric transplant program has utilized pre-emptive plasmapheresis
      in children at risk for recurrent FSGS since 2006. In a recent review of our data, the
      incidence of recurrent FSGS post-transplant was not significantly different in patients who
      had undergone pre-emptive prophylactic plasmapheresis versus historic controls who had not
      (31% vs. 23%, p 0.5) (manuscript in press). Although this is a retrospective study, the data
      seems to suggest that plasmapheresis alone is not effective for preventing recurrence of
      FSGS. In addition, as stated above, the benefit of plasmapheresis in the treatment of
      recurrence is reported. 12-14 Thus, plasmapheresis with additional preemptive strategies to
      prevent recurrent FSGS are needed.

      Rituximab has been used to treat recurrent FSGS and is a promising novel therapy to prevent
      recurrent disease. Rituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against CD20 on B cells that
      leads to B cell depletion that has been used successfully for the treatment of primary
      steroid sensitive nephrotic syndrome as well as steroid sensitive and resistant FSGS. 21,22
      Rituximab may act in FSGS via alterations in B-cell/T-cell interactions leading to changes in
      cytokine secretion or co-stimulation. Alternately, rituximab may have a direct effect on
      podocyte structure and function as it has been found to bind directly to the sphingomyelin
      phosphodiesterase acid-like 3b protein on the surface of podocytes. 23 Recent systematic
      reviews on the use of rituximab in the treatment of post-transplant FSGS (either with or
      without plasmapheresis) demonstrate partial or complete remission in ~60% of treated
      patients.15,24 The use of preemptive rituximab has been reported to be effective in
      preventing recurrent FSGS in 4 patients at very high risk due to prior graft loss from
      recurrent disease, however randomized controlled trials have not been performed. 25 Given the
      effectiveness of rituximab in the treatment of some patients with both primary and recurrent
      FSGS and the report of successful preemptive use of rituximab in high risk transplant
      patients, treatment with Rituximab in patients with FSGS prior to kidney transplant is a
      promising novel therapy to prevent recurrent disease. Preventing recurrent FSGS, rather than
      treating it once it has already occurred, is likely to minimize graft injury and prolong
      graft life, therefore preemptive strategies are needed.
    
  