
    
      The investigators propose a pragmatic clinical trial to evaluate whether the IMPACT model
      will reduce hospital admissions and emergency room visits. All patients who meet the
      eligibility criteria will be randomized to be invited for assessment in IMPACT or be followed
      in usual care. Each FHT will generate a list of eligible participants drawn from their EMR.
      Participants will be randomly selected from this list and patients will be invited for an
      IMPACT assessment. Using data collected at each FHT by a trained chart abstractor on a
      monthly basis, all hospital admissions and emergency room visits will be counted. As well,
      all health service utilization for both intervention and control group will be collected. The
      investigators will compare the proportion of patients admitted to hospital or seen in the
      emergency room between the intervention and control group for the one year time period. For
      the secondary objectives of the study, patient and care givers in the intervention group will
      be asked to complete the Caregiver Strain Index (a standardized and validated instrument)
      both before the IMPACT intervention and up to 6 months later. The investigators will adapt an
      existing survey to measure health care professionals' experiences in providing care in an
      inter-professional team for seniors with complex chronic illness. The Dimensions of Teamwork
      Survey, will be administered at each FHT at the beginning of the study and at the end of the
      intervention period in order to assess team function and stability of team function. Lastly,
      interviews with patients, caregivers, and healthcare professionals will be conducted to
      explore satisfaction with the IMPACT experience and subsequent care as well as self-efficacy
      in managing their care. The interviews will be audio-recorded and professionally transcribed.
      Key themes emerging from the qualitative data will be identified. Preliminary findings will
      be subjected to a process of member checking/respondent validation to ensure accuracy of
      interpretation.
    
  