
    
      Background:

      Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) presents a clinical challenge because it is aggressive and
      incurable with chemotherapy. Therefore novel treatment approaches are needed.

      MCL has overexpression of NF-kappa B (NF-kappa B), a transcription factor that affects cell
      growth and survival, and cyclin D1 that affects cell cycle and growth. These proteins appear
      to be involved in the pathogenesis of MCL.

      Bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor that inhibits NF-kappa B and cyclin D1, has demonstrated
      activity in patients with relapsed or refractory MCL.

      Dose-adjusted-etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin-rituximab
      (EPOCH-R) has excellent activity in MCL, with a complete response (CR) rate of 92%, but
      patients eventually relapse.

      Objective:

      Determine the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of dose-adjusted
      etoposide, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide with vincristine, prednisone, and
      rituximab,bortezomib (DA-EPOCH-RB) followed by bortezomib maintenance versus observation.

      Eligibility:

      Diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma.

      No prior treatment except for local radiation or a short course of steroids for control of
      symptoms,

      Age greater than or equal to 18 years old.

      Adequate major organ function unless impairment is due to lymphoma.

      Study Design:

      To assess the clinical activity and biological effects of bortezomib, patients will initially
      receive one cycle of bortezomib alone with sequential tumor biopsies for microarray analysis.

      All patients will then receive Dose-adjusted (DA)-EPOCH-RB for 6 cycles, and if they have at
      least a PR, this will be followed by randomization to either immediate bortezomib maintenance
      x 18 months, or to observation, followed by bortezomib if progression occurs. This study has
      as a primary goal, to describe progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival of early
      bortezomib maintenance versus observation following induction with bortezomib followed by
      DA-EPOCH-RB. Important secondary goals are to assess response and toxicity to bortezomib
      alone or DA-EPOCH-RB, to evaluate time to progression after receiving bortezomib following
      progression on an observation arm, and to assess the biological effects of bortezomib on
      untreated MCL.
    
  