
    
      Infantile onset diabetes mellitus is not uncommon metabolic disorder in children, with rising
      in the incidence in the last few years. Infants with onset of diabetes mellitus at age less
      than one year are likely to have transient or permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus or rarely
      type one diabetes, all infants with onset of diabetes at less than one year of age need to
      undergo genetic evaluation for monogenic diabetes as is most commonly due to activating
      mutations in either of the genes encoding the two subunits of the adenosine
      tri-phosphate-sensitive potassium channel (potassium channel, inwardly rectifying subfamily J
      member 11 and adenosine tri-phosphate-binding cassette, sub-family C, member 8) as those
      patients will respond to therapy with sulphonylurea lead to good glycemic control and
      management of other comorbid factors. Evaluation with auto-immune antibodies may be warranted
      in infants with onset of diabetes in late infancy as the chances of type 1 diabetes
      presenting in late infancy has been reported in the literature.

      Type 1 diabetes mellitus is one of the most common endocrine and metabolic conditions in
      childhood.

      Data from large epidemiological studies worldwide indicate that on an annual basis, the
      overall increase in the incidence of type one diabetes is around three percent.

      There is increase in incidence of type one diabetes mellitus throughout the world especially,
      marked in young children, Registries in Europe suggest that incidence of type one diabetes
      mellitus were highest in the youngest age-group (0-4 years).

      The underlying pathophysiological mechanism of the disease is cellular-mediated autoimmune
      destruction of the pancreatic beta-cells.

      The triggers for the autoimmune attack are not fully understood, but it is now widely
      accepted that both environmental and genetic factors contribute to it.

      The strongest gene for type one diabetes mellitus, is located in the major histocompatibility
      complex Class II region on chromosome 6, at staining region 6p21.

      Environmental factors can influence expression of type 1 diabetes and this can be suggested
      by the identical twins, when one twin has type 1 diabetes, the other twin only has it 30%-50%
      of the time.

      It has been reported that only 10% of those who are genetically predisposed to type one
      diabetes actually develop the disease; however, that percentage appears to be changing and
      environmental factors may play an increasingly important role in determining risk.
    
  