
    
      A minimum of 30 pediatric practice sites will be randomized to the iREACH intervention arm or
      to the control arm.

      Primary Objective To determine the effectiveness of iREACH in increasing adherence to the PPA
      Guidelines among pediatric clinicians.

      Secondary Objective To determine the effectiveness of iREACH in decreasing the incidence of
      peanut allergy by age 2.5.

      Exploratory Objectives

        1. To determine allergists' adherence to the PPA Guidelines

        2. To identify common barriers/facilitators for PPA Guideline adherence among pediatric
           clinicians and caregivers

        3. To determine caregiver adherence to the PPA Guidelines

      All pediatric clinicians within each participating practice (n≈200 total) will be assigned to
      the arm to which their practice is randomized. The trial will be conducted over an 18-month
      period. During this time, approximately 500 high-risk infants and 10,000 low-risk infants are
      expected to be seen for 4- and 6-month well child care visit (WCC). The primary outcome,
      pediatric clinician adherence to the PPA Guidelines, will be assessed using EHR data for each
      infant following the 6-month WCC.

      Data for the secondary outcome will be obtained by a combination of EHR data extracted after
      the infant's 6-month WCC and data collected from caregivers. EHR data extraction will be
      performed to obtain data from the infant's 9-, 12-, 15-, 18-, 24-month WCC and any sick
      visits and allergist progress notes entered from 4-30 months of age. Caregivers' data will be
      collected via surveys of caregivers of children seen for 4- or 6-month WCC visits during the
      study period. Caregivers will be recruited and asked to provide informed consent at the time
      of the child's first birthday and questions will be asked to determine the incidence of
      peanut allergy. A follow-up survey will be sent to caregivers after the child's second
      birthday.

      Data for exploratory outcomes will be obtained through EHR data extraction and surveys of
      pediatric clinicians and the caregivers of infants seen for 4- or 6-month WCC. Pediatric
      clinicians in the intervention arm will be asked to provide informed consent and will
      complete three surveys over approximately 21 months. Pediatric clinicians in the control arm
      will be asked to provide informed consent following completion of data collection for the
      primary outcome and will complete one survey. Finally, caregivers, through the two surveys
      conducted at the time of their child's first and second birthdays, will provide information
      for exploratory outcomes.
    
  