
    
      Atrial fibrillation is the most frequent chronic arrhythmia with an increasing prevalence in
      developed and developing countries. Estimated number of individuals living with chronic
      atrial fibrillation is 33 million globally. In developed and developing countries, the number
      of elderly individuals increases steadily and the incidence varies from 0.21 to 0.41/1000
      person-years depending on regional differences. Approximately half of atrial fibrillation
      cases are permanent (chronic), 25% are paroxysmal (ending within one week), and 25% are
      persistant atrial fibrillation (ending for a week, spontaneous or intervention).

      Symptoms and signs of atrial fibrillation vary between individuals, and the clinical picture
      appears in a wide range of conditions ranging from asymptomatic events to thromboembolic
      events or patients with severe heart failure. The most common symptoms are; palpitations,
      fatigue, exercise intolerance, and systemic thromboembolic events in patients who do not
      receive appropriate anticoagulant treatment. Long-term follow-up, especially in persistent
      and permanent atrial fibrillation patients results in preserved ejection fraction heart
      failure and right heart failure. Prevention of thromboembolic events is the most important
      approach. Patients with paroxysmal, persistent and permanent atrial fibrillation have to take
      life-long oral anticoagulation therapy if they are at high risk for developing thromboembolic
      events. In patients with oral anticoagulant therapy, the risk of bleeding increases and
      hemorrhagic events are seen, ranging from life threatening asymptomatic blood loss to lethal
      cerebral hemorrhage.

      Atrial fibrillation is considered as a chronic inflammatory disease. Both in general
      population and in patients with cardiac diseases, inflammatory mediators can alter atrial
      electrophysiology and structure, and thereby increase the tendency to develop atrial
      fibrillation. Enormous number of studies showed a clear association between inflammatory
      markers and thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation.

      Anemia is a frequently encountered problem in atrial fibrillation patients with a prevalence
      of 12.3%. Existing studies suggested an association between anemia and thromboembolic events
      in atrial fibrillation. However, current evidence supports that it is a marker for increased
      risk of bleeding after anticoagulant therapy, and two bleeding risk scores (ATRIA and
      HEAMORRHAGES) included presence of anemia as a component of risk assessment.

      Despite of a clear association between anemia and unfavorable events in atrial fibrillation,
      none of the studies determined the type anemia in these patients so far. In a preliminary
      single center study, with relatively limited number of cases (n = 101), it is shown that
      47.6% of patients with atrial fibrillation had ID according to the criteria used for heart
      failure patients. B12 (9.9%) and folic acid (12.9%) deficiencies were less frequent Again in
      the same study, the prevalence of ID was found to be twice as frequent as the paroxysmal
      atrial fibrillation group in the permanent atrial fibrillation group, suggesting that ID is
      associated with high sensitive C-reactive protein and N-terminal proBNP levels. The
      validation of this study findings in a larger, non-retrospective case-group and the clinical
      determinants of ID in patients with atrial fibrillation will be useful in the clinical
      evaluation of patients and in planning possible treatment alternatives.
    
  