
    
      This protocol will specifically target identified organizational barriers by implementing the
      CASPAR system as a site-wide Quality Improvement Initiative (QI Initiative) study and
      enrolling seven sites in Bucks and Montgomery Counties in Pennsylvania and in the Southern
      New Jersey region who (1) were the most active sites in participating in the focus groups and
      provided feedback that led to the development of the new Quality Improvement protocol, (2)
      want to focus organizational effort and attention on improving treatment planning and
      problem-services matching, (3) met additional inclusion criteria (detailed below). They are
      all located within Bucks and Montgomery Counties in Pennsylvania and within a 70 mile radius
      of Atlantic City, New Jersey.

      Executive directors at all invited programs will sign a Letter of Agreement (LoA) with
      Treatment Research Institute (TRI) that as an organization they will support their counselors
      in attending training, providing individualized treatment plans as well as monthly
      individualized sessions dedicated to problem-service matching; will add items necessary to
      their assessment to make sure it is equally comprehensive as the Addiction Severity Index
      (ASI), and will allow TRI to recruit clients for follow-up to evaluate the effectiveness of
      the QI Initiative implementation. The LoA will detail all site-specific expectations, along
      with benefits to the program, including free counselor and supervisor training (along with
      Certified Addictions Counselor (CAC) and Certified Alcohol Drug Counselor (CADC) credits),
      free software, and monetary compensation, $2,000 for site participation in Phase I of the
      study and $3,000 for site participation in Phase II of the study. Directors will also be
      provided with a detailed Director Information Sheet outlining aspects of the Quality
      Improvement Initiative outlined in the LoA.

      TRI staff will provide counselors and supervisors with the treatment planning training as
      well as the CASPAR Resource Guide software and training on its use. These activities will be
      initiated as an organization-wide Quality Improvement Initiative, and as such, will be
      implemented with all counselors at each program. No data will be collected from the
      counselors, nor will we discuss or report on client outcomes grouped by counselor.

      This will be a 2-Phase project. TRI staff will recruit up to 6 eligible clients per counselor
      prior to providing the CASPAR training and up to 6 additional clients after providing
      training. Based on current data from the sites, we expect a minimum of 36 counselors to be
      involved in the Quality Improvement Initiative.

      Update June 1st 2009 - Based on current recruitment levels achieved and analysis needs, we
      are projecting recruitment of approximately 320 subjects.

      We will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of this enhanced protocol by addressing the
      same aims and using primarily the same client instruments previously approved by this
      Institutional Review Board (IRB, some have been modified, see full discussion below). We will
      compare client outcomes before (Phase I) and after the individualized treatment planning and
      problem-service matching components are introduced (Phase II). As before, we expect to see
      pre-post differences in problem-treatment plan matching, treatment plan-service matching, and
      in the number and appropriateness of services clients receive; we also expect to see pre-post
      differences in client outcome such as treatment attendance, treatment retention,
      breathalyzer, and urinalysis results, the same measures and outcomes in the original design.
    
  