
    
      RATIONALE OF STUDY

      The vacuum-formed retainers are widely preferred today but there is limited research on the
      effects of the retainers on microbial colonisation, which can have an impact on the oral
      health. There is possibility that a rough surface finishing of the vacuum-formed retainers
      may lead to increased microbial colonisation. Therefore, there is a need for us to
      investigate if the vacuum formed retainers made on 3D reconstructed models may produce
      increased surface roughness which then can lead to increased microbial colonisation and later
      impacts the oral health.

      Primary Objective :

      1. To determine the association between different surface roughness of vacuum- formed
      retainers and microbial colonisation.

      Secondary Objectives :

        1. To compare the surface roughness of vacuum-formed retainers constructed on conventional
           models and 3D reconstructed models.

        2. To compare the microbial colonisation on vacuum-formed retainers with different
           roughness as constructed on conventional models and 3D reconstructed models.

        3. To compare the microbial colonisation between upper and lower vacuum-formed retainers
           with different surface roughness.

        4. To compare the microbial colonisation on vacuum-formed retainers with different surface
           roughness between full time wear and part time wear.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION

      Sample size calculation is done based on a type 1 error frequency of 5% and the power of the
      statistical test is set at 80%. This is based on a study done by Farhadian et al, 2016 on
      Streptococcus colonisation on orthodontic retainers. The total number of participant needed
      for the trial was 27 with a minimum of 9 participants per group. With an anticipated 20% drop
      outs, a total number of 36 patients will be recruited.

      Methodology

      Patients who are currently undergoing fixed appliance treatment at Faculty of Dentistry,
      University of Malaya will be screened for their progress of treatment and whether they are
      ready for debond. During screening, patients who fit the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be selected and given a patient information sheet and a detailed explanation of the
      clinical trial. Voluntarily participant will then be recruited into this study and informed
      consent will be obtained. A total number of 36 participants will be recruited for this
      clinical trial.

      Participants will be drawing lots to obtain their study number. Then, the orthodontic
      resident will have to check the group allocation with the orthodontic consultant.

      During the first appointment, debond procedure will be done according to the standard
      protocol. Three sets of impression will be taken for the construction of study model,
      construction of the standard retainers and also for the research purpose. The standard
      retainers will then be issued on the same day of debond (T0). Participants will be instructed
      to wear the retainers full time except during brushing, cleaning of the appliance and during
      meals.

      Participants will be reviewed one week post debond (T1). During this appointment, the
      standard retainers will be taken and kept by the orthodontic resident. The first
      interventional retainers will be issued and participants are advised to wear the retainers
      full time / 24 hours except during meals, brushing and cleaning of the appliance.
      Participants will be given a new retainer box to keep their retainers as well as a new
      toothbrush for cleaning their appliance. A pamphlet that contains detailed information on the
      care of retainers will also be provided to every participant. Participants will be reminded
      regularly to wear their retainers full time / 24 hours for three months.

      Participants will be reviewed again 3 months post debond (T2). During this appointment, the
      first interventional retainers will be taken and kept by the orthodontic resident. Then the
      second interventional retainers will be issued and participants are advised to wear the
      retainers for 10 hours only. Participants will also be given a new retainer box to keep their
      retainers as well as a new toothbrush for cleaning their appliance. Analysis of the first
      interventional retainers will then be carried out. Participants will also be reminded
      regularly to wear their retainers for 10 hours only for 3 months.

      Participants will be reviewed again 6 months post debond (T3). During this appointment, the
      second interventional retainers will be taken and kept by the orthodontic resident. Then the
      standard retainers will be issued back and participants are advised to continue wearing the
      retainers for 10 hours only. Analysis of the second interventional retainers will then be
      carried out.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Statistical Analysis will be done using SPSS software version 21. P < 0.05 will be set as the
      level of significance.

      i. One way analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to compare the surface roughness and
      microbial colonization on vacuum-formed retainers constructed on conventional models and 3D
      reconstructed models.

      ii. Paired Sample T-Test will be used to compare the microbial colonization between the upper
      and lower vacuum-formed retainers with different surface roughness as well as between full
      time wear and part time wear.

      iii. Correlation will be used to determine the association between surface roughness of
      vacuum-formed retainers and microbial colonization.
    
  