
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The results of this investigation helped to shed substantial light on the controversial
      relationship between triglycerides and coronary heart disease, a topic of great importance to
      preventive cardiology. Additionally, important methodological information was obtained in the
      study of interactions and precision of variables in epidemiologic analysis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were three components to the study: 1) an analysis of several existing cardiovascular
      databases for evidence of a significant association between coronary heart disease and
      specific lipid interactions involving triglycerides; 2) an analysis of these databases to
      investigate the role of measurement precision on the association between elevated
      triglyceride levels and coronary heart disease; and 3) a survey of both expert lipidologists
      and community clinicians to examine current practices related to screening for and treatment
      of elevated triglyceride levels for the purpose of reducing coronary heart disease risk. Five
      databases were used in the first two components of this study. These data sets included those
      of the Lipid Research Clinics Prevalence and Mortality Follow-up Studies; the Lipid Research
      Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial; the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial; the
      National Heart, Lung, and Blood Type II Coronary Intervention Study; and the Coronary Drug
      Project. For the first component, detailed statistical analyses of all databases were
      performed, specifically examining the role of lipid interactions involving triglycerides and
      their association with coronary heart disease. For the second component, more precise
      estimates of each subject's lipid levels were recalculated using the multiple lipid
      measurements already available in each database. Each dataset was then analyzed for evidence
      of an independent relationship between triglycerides and coronary heart disease and to
      validate the theoretical findings suggesting that measurement imprecision may explain the
      difficulty of detecting an independent triglyceride-coronary heart disease association. The
      public health implications of the current state of knowledge surrounding triglycerides were
      assessed with survey research techniques in the third component.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  