
    
      The use of ceramic laminate veneers as opposed to metal-ceramic or all-ceramic full-coverage
      crowns is a minimal invasive treatment option in reconstructive dentistry. Since their
      retention relies solely on adhesion, durable adhesion of resin luting cements to both the
      enamel/dentin and the cementation surface of the ceramic is crucial. Luting cements used in
      conjunction with phosphoric acid etching followed by adhesive application on enamel show
      reliable adhesion with mean bond strengths up to 40 MPa. Also, etching the intaglio of glass
      ceramic veneers with hydrofluoric acid followed by silane coupling agent application delivers
      bond strength values similar to or higher than to enamel. Even after long-term water storage
      and thermocycling aging conditions, promising results were reported with resin-ceramic
      adhesion. Ceramic laminates are indicated not only to restore malformed, malpositioned, or
      discolored teeth where mainly the substrate is the enamel and/or dentin but also in
      situations where resin composite restorations are present on the tooth to be restored. In
      case of secondary caries, severe marginal or surface changes, it may be necessary to remove
      such restorations. On the other hand, degradation of polymers in the aggressive oral
      environment may decrease the free radicals available on the resin surface that may eventually
      decrease the adhesion of resin cements to such composites. However, limited information is
      available on the survival of ceramic laminates on such existing composite restorations where
      mainly fractures and marginal defects were reported. Defects were especially noticed at the
      locations where the existing fillings were present. In fact, today, advances in surface
      conditioning methods and adhesion promoters enable durable composite-composite adhesion.
      Among numerous other methods, several studies reported increased composite- composite bond
      strengths after conditioning the composites with alumina or alumina-coated silica particles
      followed by silanization. The process of silanization promotes the wettability of the
      substrates and further reacts with the glass particles present on the composite surface
      forming covalent bonds. Composite- composite bond strength simulating aging after silica
      coating and silanization was reported to deliver significantly higher bond strengths (46-52
      MPa) than conditioning the composite substrate with phosphoric acid and adhesive resin
      application only (16-25 MPa). Unfortunately, the previous clinical studies did not report
      application of any surface conditioning method prior to cementation of ceramic laminates. In
      clinical practice, the clinical dilemma is whether or not to remove the existing composite
      restorations with no indications of caries or acceptable surface degradation that could be
      refinished and repolished. Alternatively, full-coverage crowns are indicated on teeth with
      large composite restorations that require more tissue removal yielding to preparations in
      dentin that is a substrate less favorable to bond onto than enamel. The objective of this
      prospective clinical study is to evaluate the performance of ceramic laminate veneers bonded
      onto either intact teeth or to teeth with existing composite restorations with no indications
      of caries, ditching, or marginal staining. The null hypothesis tested is that the presence of
      existing composite restorations would not decrease the survival rate of ceramic laminate
      veneers compared to those bonded onto intact teeth.
    
  