
    
      The birth plan (BP) is the written expression of the preferences of the pregnant woman about
      the management of her birth, in those cares in which there are equally effective and safe
      alternatives. In Spain, it was introduced into the National Health System when the "Normal
      Birth Attention Strategy" was developed, and in Catalonia when the Department of Health
      published the "Protocol to the natural assistance of normal childbirth", all with the purpose
      of responding to the demand of women to participate actively in their birth. Its main purpose
      is to promote decision-making not influenced by the emotions that arise during the birth
      process and to provide a communication vehicle between the future parents, the care provider
      and the hospital team. In addition, it allows pregnant women to understand their personal
      values, needs and concerns in the process of birth. The preparation of the BP can help the
      pregnant woman to have real expectations of childbirth, make her involved in the decision
      making process, thus increasing control over the birth process and having a satisfactory
      experience with the experience of childbirth .

      Studies on the impact of the birth plan in reference on the satisfaction of women in
      childbirth, on obstetric outcomes and on the perception that women and professionals have of
      them, are scarce and inconclusive. Observational studies related that the use of BP was
      associated with an increase in: normal birth, late clamping of the umbilical cord, the
      realization of skin with skin and less use of epidural analgesia. In addition, there are
      researches with quantitative and qualitative methodology in which they relate the fulfillment
      of the BP with a greater satisfaction of the women, a greater fulfillment of the expectations
      and a better control of the delivery. However, others studies they do not relate it to a
      higher delivery satisfaction. There is also disparity between the views of midwives and women
      on the utility of the effect of BP on obstetric outcomes In 2016 a survey carried out in
      Catalonia on the satisfaction of women in the care of the maternity process showed that the
      overall level of satisfaction with the care received was high, 8.30 out of 10. However, women
      only refer who received sufficient information in pregnancy, delivery and postpartum in
      67.2%, 64.2% and 57.6% respectively.

      Of the different models of care relationship, the deliberative model focuses on joint
      collaborative work between patient and professional, in which the dialogue has a central role
      and shared decision-making (SDM) is present in said model . There is a large bibliography on
      the definition of SDM, as well as the elements that should be present in this process.
      According to Epstein et al, clinical decision making should be approached from the creation
      of a collaborative relationship with the patient and family using the best available
      evidence, consistent with the values, objectives and capacities of the patients. The use of
      decision support tools, such as support material, can help health professionals to provide
      information and advice on options during pregnancy and to support women in shared
      decision-making.
    
  