
    
      Alcohol use causes an estimated 88,000 deaths yearly and is the third leading cause of
      mortality in the U.S. Unhealthy alcohol use, a spectrum from risky drinking to alcohol use
      disorder (AUD), impacts 27% of adults, with high cost to the health care system.
      Evidence-based guidelines exist for identification and treatment of unhealthy alcohol use,
      and evidence supports the effectiveness of medication-assisted therapy (MAT). Primary care is
      recognized as an ideal context for the implementation of screening and treatment processes.
      Despite the evidence, significant gaps exist in uptake into practice.

      Practice facilitation has emerged as a key method for assisting practices in implementing
      organizational changes and improvements. However, in-person practice facilitation is
      time-intensive and costly, and virtual facilitation has not been as effective as in-person.
      E-learning modules can provide a structure for quality improvement in a clinical area. A
      pilot using e-learning combined with virtual practice facilitation was very successful from
      the perspectives of both practice facilitators and practices. We believe that virtual
      practice facilitation using e-learning modules to focus the content and process has great
      potential as a less costly and equally effective method compared to in-person facilitation.

      In this "Facilitating Alcohol Screening and Treatment (FAST) Colorado" proposal, we will
      perform a cluster randomized trial to examine the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption,
      Implementation, Maintenance (RE-AIM) and relative value of two approaches to supporting
      primary care practices to implement PCOR findings to improve their identification and
      treatment management of unhealthy alcohol use among adults, including screening, brief
      intervention, medication assisted therapy, and referral to treatment. This trial will
      investigate the superiority from an effectiveness perspective of: a) a virtual practice
      facilitation intervention, with a practice facilitator working with practices in virtual
      one-on-one or group sessions utilizing alcohol use e-learning modules to guide and focus the
      process and content, compared to b) a virtual practice facilitation intervention, with a
      practice facilitator working with practices in virtual one-on-one or group sessions without
      utilizing alcohol use e-learning modules. We will identify key practice characteristics and
      other contextual factors that impact the response of practices to the two practice
      interventions. We will compare the adaptability, trialability, and scalability of the two
      interventions in order to plan dissemination of the findings to key local, regional, and
      national stakeholders, including sharing ongoing lessons learned and resources with other
      programs supporting practice transformation.
    
  