
    
      Endodontically treated teeth commonly present with extensive tooth structure loss due to
      caries, trauma, prior restorative treatment, and the endodontic access. These structural
      deficiencies lead to an increase in cusp deflection, crown fractures, microleakage, and
      decreased sensory feedback during function which greatly increases the possibility of tooth
      fracture.As a result, endodontically treated teeth require a full cuspal coverage restoration
      to prevent microleakage, restore function, and provide cuspal protection against tooth
      fracture. The most common restoration for endodontically treated teeth is core build-up, with
      or without a post, and full coverage crown.

      This process requires multiple appointments with many technical steps ultimately leading to
      more chair time, treatment cost, and potential iatrogenic damage to the tooth. An alternative
      treatment is the endocrown, which utilizes the internal walls of the pulp chamber for
      macroretention and incorporates the core and crown in a monolithic restoration. The
      restoration is fabricated utilizing chairside CAD/CAM technology and is adhesively bonded to
      the tooth with resin cement. The EndoCrown restoration is more conservative relative to tooth
      structure loss, less expensive, and requires less chair time to complete when compared to
      conventional treatment while having comparable clinical longevity in molar teeth.

      This investigation will be a longitudinal clinical trial to study the association of
      preparation design on the internal and marginal adaptation of the resulting restorations and
      the long-term clinical performance of chairside CAD/CAM endocrown restorations. Advanced
      lithium disilicate chairside CAD/CAM endocrowns (CEREC Tessera/Dentsply Sirona) will be
      adhesively bonded using a selective enamel etch technique with a universal adhesive (Prime
      and Bond Elect/Dentsply Sirona) and a dual cure resin adhesive cement (Calibra Ceram/Dentsply
      Sirona). All restorations will be followed over five years of clinical service.
    
  