
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease resulting from mutations in a 230 kb gene on
      chromosome 7 known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).
      Patients with CF manifest pathological changes in a variety of organs that express CFTR. The
      lungs are frequently affected, the sequelae being chronic infections and airway inflammation.
      The principal goal of treatment of patients with CF is to slow the chronic deterioration of
      lung function.

      This study is a Phase 2 study to evaluate the longer term safety, tolerability and efficacy
      of 560 mg once daily dose of Arikayce™ administered for 6 cycles over 18 months. Each cycle
      comprises 28 days of treatment followed by 56 days off treatment.

      All study patients will receive study drug by inhalation via a PARI® eFlow nebulizer. All
      study patients will be followed for safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), clinical, and
      microbiologic activity for 28 days post completion of study treatment.

      The original TR02-105 study was a Phase 2a study of safety and tolerability of 28 days of
      daily dosing of two dose cohorts (280 mg and 560 mg) of Arikayce™ versus placebo. Study
      subjects were randomized to receive either study drug or placebo (1.5% NaCl) by inhalation
      via a PARI® eFlow nebulizer. Cohort 1 (280 mg) completed 28 days of daily dosing with
      Arikayce™ and 14-day post-dosing safety evaluation by the Safety Committee before initiation
      of enrollment in Cohort 2 (560 mg). Cohort 2 completed 28 days of daily dosing, and a 14-day
      post-dosing safety assessment by the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) to evaluate
      safety data. All study patients were followed for safety, PK and clinical and microbiologic
      activity for 28 days post completion of study treatment. Details of the original study are
      provided at ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT00777296.

      DSMB has recommended the amendment of the main study to evaluate safety and efficacy of
      additional cycles of treatment with Arikayce™. All patients who were randomized in the main
      study, were compliant with the study protocol, and continue meeting study eligibility
      criteria can be consented to participate in the open-label extension to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and efficacy of 560 mg once daily dose of Arikayce™ administered for 6 cycles
      over 18 months. Each cycle comprises 28 days of treatment followed by 56 days off treatment.

      Clinical laboratory parameters, audiology testing, clinical adverse events and pulmonary
      function will be evaluated for all study subjects in order to determine the longer term
      safety, tolerability, and efficacy of Arikayce™. Serum specimens will be collected at
      periodic intervals to assess PK for safety. Additionally, sputum samples will be collected to
      determine changes in bacterial density. Pulmonary function testing and Cystic Fibrosis
      Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) measurements will be assessed at selected time points
      throughout the study. Arikace™, Arikayce™, Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation (LAI), and
      Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension (ALIS) may be used interchangeably throughout this
      study and other studies evaluating amikacin liposome inhalation suspension.
    
  