
    
      The EMPOWER study will implement a cluster randomised controlled trial (cRCT) to examine the
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of MHFA in the workplace on help-seeking behaviours of
      employees, with embedded qualitative, process and social impact evaluations . In order to
      best answer questions regarding effectiveness, mechanisms and acceptability/feasibility, a
      design combining a RCT with a qualitative component will be adopted. The qualitative
      component will assess the efficiency, utility, usability, feasibility, acceptability as well
      as the mechanisms underlying the intervention. This registration details the trial element of
      EMPOWER only.

      Data will be collected from employees working in eligible UK organisations expressing an
      interest to MHFAE in undertaking MHFA training. Organisations expressing an interest
      (directly to MHFAE), who are willing to take part in the study will be asked to contact
      Graham Durcan (Centre for Mental Health) for detailed information about the study. If willing
      to take part, organisations will sign a written agreement and their contact details will be
      sent to the research team. The research team will email the lead contact, detailing what will
      happen next, asking for company demographics and requesting organisations send a standard
      email to ALL employees providing information about the study with a link to the survey for
      completion of baseline measures. Consent will be sought, using Qualtrics, before completing
      the online survey. One, two and three weeks later the research team will send the
      organisation lead another standard email, to be sent to all employees, as a gentle reminder
      to complete the survey. After this period, participants who have not completed the survey
      will be treated as lost to follow-up.

      Organisations will be assigned randomly to the intervention or control arm after completing
      baseline measures, using computer-generated random numbers through Random.org:

      https://www.random.org/randomness/. An independent researcher not associated with the study
      will generate the random sequence and communicate this via email to the research team. The
      unit of randomisation is organisation and randomisation of organisations will be stratified
      by size of organisation, with three strata being defined22, small (< 50 employees), medium
      (50-249 employees) and large (> 250 employees).

      To optimize completion of follow-up measures, at each follow-up point the research team will
      send organisations up to four weekly email reminders to ask employees to complete measures.

      Participant data will be exported from Qualtrics into SPSS version 22 by the research team
      (and any hard copies entered manually), stored on a password-protected network drive, will be
      accessible only to research team members and will only be linked directly with their
      participant ID code. Any hard copies of data will be destroyed by confidential waste disposal
      fifteen years after the research findings have been published. Electronic copies of data will
      be stored in two archives. In both cases, only anonymous data will be archived at London
      South Bank University archive and a national data repository.

      Data monitoring will be conducted by the Trial Steering Committee (TSC) comprising a
      trialist, statistician and health economist and will act as Data Safety Monitoring Board
      (DSMB). The TSC will oversee the conduct of the trial independently of and on behalf of the
      project funders and sponsors and ensure it is carried out with reference to good practice.
      The TSC will have ultimate responsibility for deciding if the trial should be stopped on
      grounds of efficacy. The TSC is a sub-group of the project Expert Reference Group (ERG) set
      up by the funders, and will audit the trial conduct through reports submitted to it by the
      researchers on a three-monthly basis'

      We anticipate little risk to participants in the study. The Senior Manager in each company
      will be asked to report to the CI in writing any adverse or untoward incidents that occur
      because of the study. The CI will assess each adverse event and decide on an appropriate
      course of action. In case of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), i.e. those causing serious injury
      or death, the CI will notify the Ethics Committee and the TSC as soon as possible after being
      notified. A TSC within the ERG consisting of members independent of the investigators, their
      employing organisations, funders and sponsor will monitor trial progress and conduct and will
      have ultimate responsibility for deciding if the trial should be stopped on the grounds of
      safety.

      The sample size calculation is based on a simplification of the proposed analysis model.

      To be able to detect a change of two additional help seeking resources11, with 80% power at
      the 0.05 alpha level, assuming that the mean in the control group is 1 and in the
      intervention group 3 with a common standard deviation of 8, 506 participants are required,
      increasing to 596 allowing for 15% attrition at 6 months. Pilot data indicates a response
      rate of 40% across organisations and an average cluster size of 72 employees (calculated from
      organisations currently signed up) therefore approximately 29 employees per organisation
      (cluster size). With 24 clusters, 12 organisations per condition, and assuming an intraclass
      correlation coefficient (ICC) equal to 0.01 (ICC's are lower for participant outcomes as
      opposed to process variables, when cluster size is large and when estimates are adjusted by
      participant baseline characteristics21) a minimum target sample size is 763, rounded up to
      800, 400 per condition

      All outcomes will be described with the appropriate descriptive statistics: mean and standard
      deviation for continuous outcomes (or medians and interquartile range for skewed data), and
      counts and percentages for dichotomous and categorical outcomes.

      The analysis of the primary outcome will estimate the mean difference (with 95% confidence
      intervals) in the Actual Help-Seeking score at 6-month follow-up between the intervention
      (MHFA) and standard care groups using a mixed effects repeated measures model (which assumes
      incomplete outcome data to be missing at random). The model will incorporate demographic and
      other baseline covariates as fixed effects. The dependent variable will be the count of help
      sources on the Actual Help-Seeking questionnaire. The independent variable will be 'time
      point'. The effect size of the intervention will be estimated as the exponentiated
      coefficient for the interaction term between time-point (baseline versus 6-months follow-up)
      and intervention status (MHFA versus control group). A random effect of participant will be
      included in the model to adjust for the repeated measures on participants. 'Employing
      organisation' will be included as a higher level random effect (with participants nested in
      employers). Statistical significance will be at the 5% level.

      Secondary outcomes will be analysed using an appropriate generalised linear model, for
      example binary logistic regression for dichotomous outcomes and ordinal logistic regression
      for ordered categorical outcomes. All models will be adjusted for employing organisation and
      baseline score (where applicable).

      Age, gender, level of education, ethnicity, nature and frequency of and MHFA interventions
      directly experienced will be included in the primary analysis as covariates.

      The missing at random assumption for primary outcome data will be assessed further in
      sensitivity analyses. Treatment effects will be estimated under varying assumptions of data
      being missing not at random using pattern-mixture models. A complete case analysis will also
      be conducted.

      Graham Durcan from The Centre for Mental Health (CMH) has oversight of the project management
      on behalf of the funders. The Chief Investigator [CI] (Callaghan) has overall responsibility
      for the research.

      A Research Management Group (RMG), which the CI will chair, comprising all authors, will
      advise and assist on the project's management. The RMG meets every 6 weeks.

      An Expert Reference Group (ERG), a group of independent research experts and lay people and
      the CI, will provide subject matter expertise to the funders and work with the CMH and London
      South Bank University's representatives to guide and oversee the impact of the research. The
      ERG meets quarterly for the entirety of the project's duration.
    
  