
    
      A Study of Mesenchymal Stem Cells as a treatment in Patients with Acute Respiratory Distress
      Syndrome caused by COVID-19 is a pilot phase, open label, non-randomized study, with a single
      study center.

      The current pandemic caused by the novel virus SARS-CoV-2 has lead to a health care crisis
      affecting hospitals, hospital workers and health care structure globally. Many countries are
      dealing with a disrupted infrastructure in health care and imminent economic downfall to an
      extent that has not been seen in recent years. COVID-19 has lead to a large number of deaths
      in several countries, and Mexico has not been an exception. Availability of supplies,
      hospital space and equipment for mechanical ventilation are running critically low, and it
      has been a challenge for hospitals coping with severe clinical symptoms in COVID-19. This
      disease is characterized by pneumonia, fever, cough and occasional diarrhea, and the severity
      has been largely attributed to the high affinity of the virus to Angiotensin-Converting
      Enzyme 2 (ACE2) as the main receptor, and the Type II Transmembrane Serine Protease TMPRSS2
      as the main host protease that mediates S protein activation on primary target cells in the
      lung and small intestine.

      Many agencies and professional societies are working worldwide in developing treatment
      guidelines to care for patients with COVID-19, since the present treatments are supportive
      but not yet curative, therefore these guidelines are based on scientific evidence and expert
      opinion, the use of an array of drugs approved for other indications, as well as multiple
      investigational agents that are being studied. Lately, Remdesivir, a novel small-molecule
      adenine nucleotide analogue antiviral drug that has shown efficacy against Ebola virus in
      rhesus monkeys has shown improvement in patients with oxygen support. The focus of the
      research for a cure of COVID-19 has been centered on the individual's response in an
      immunological context, where an over activation of the immune response can cause a production
      of a large quantity of inflammatory molecules resulting in a cytokine storm with severe
      physiological consequences. The cytokine storm induces an increase in inflammatory proteins
      that results in edema, improper oxygen exchange, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS),
      other organ damage and secondary infection. In recent studies, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)
      have proven to decrease the hyper inflammatory response in the lungs, leading to a steady
      recovery in patients with ARDS. The use of umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs)
      may prove a potential effective measure for the treatment of the cytokine storm induced by
      COVID-19.

      A step forward in a treatment strategy for the novel virus infection in humans would be
      critical for treating COVID-19 and especially ARDS-induced severe pneumonia, which is
      currently depleting resources around the world. Because efforts to control lung injury via
      pharmacological agents have been unsuccessful, mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based therapy is
      being investigated, based on the characteristics of MSCs to self-renew in a limitless manner
      and their multipotency.

      Furthermore, MSC-based therapies have demonstrated in the past of having sufficient promising
      effects in experimental treatment of ARDS via inhibition of alveolar collapse, collagen
      accumulation, and cell apoptosis in lung tissue. Recent studies found that administrating
      allogeneic MSCs in patients with ARDS resulted in no pre-specified adverse events, including
      hypoxemia, cardiac arrhythmia, and ventricular tachycardia. MSCs are currently attracting
      interest due to source potential, a high proliferation rate, and a painless procedure that is
      free of ethical issues. Selection of a starting dose of approximately 100 million cells has
      been chosen to approximate the standard dosage of cells employed in prior clinical studies.
      This dosage may be adjusted depending on the data generated during the conduction of the
      study.

      MSCs play a positive role mainly in two ways, namely immunomodulatory effects and
      differentiation abilities. MSCs can secrete many types of cytokines by paracrine secretion or
      make direct interactions with immune cells, leading to immunomodulation. The immunomodulatory
      effects of MSCs are triggered further by the activation of TLR receptor in MSCs, which is
      stimulated by pathogen-associated molecules such as LPS or double-stranded RNA from virus,
      like the HCoV-19.

      There are many pilot studies conducted with MSC transplantation to explore their therapeutic
      potential for HCoV-19 infected patients, in many of them the pulmonary function and symptoms
      of patients were significantly improved days after MSC transplantation. Thus, in this study
      we intend to prove the intravenous transplantation of MSCs as safe and effective for
      treatment in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia, especially for patients in severe condition.

      Primary Objective: To determine the feasibility and safety of intravenously administered MSCs
      in patients with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess preliminary response in respiratory performance in patients with ARDS.

      To assess overall survival of patients. To determine mortality rate at 14 days post
      treatment. To assess clinical and radiological improvements in patients.

      Number of Subjects to be studied: 10

      Endpoints

      Primary Endpoint:

      Evaluate Respiratory distress symptoms based on Berlin definition (RR; Oxygen saturation at
      rest; Arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) / Fraction of inspiration O2 (FiO2)).

      Determine the degree of ground-glass opacity and pneumonia infiltration in imaging studies
      (X-ray or CT).

      Evaluate clinical improvement based on APACHE II Score. Determine mortality rate at 2 weeks
      post treatment.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Adverse events related to MSC infusion (description, timing, grade, seriousness, and
      relatedness) Hematological decompensation (based on CBC, SQ and metabolic panels) Objective
      response rate Progression free survival, overall survival, and best overall response rate
      Determine if any infusion reactions/toxicity occurs

      Clinical and radiological parameters will be assessed at Baseline, 2, 4 and 14 day
      post-treatment, and there will be a 3 month follow-up by telephone contact.
    
  