
    
      Anticoagulation is one of the supporting pillars of chronic hemodialysis (HD) (1). The
      optimal anticoagulant regimen provides full anticoagulation of the extracorporeal circuit
      with minimal systemic effects and comes at an affordable cost. Unfractionated heparin (UFH)
      has been the standard of care for many years. In several countries, UFH has gradually been
      replaced by low molecular weight heparins (LMWH). LMWH are easy to use as they can be
      administered as a bolus injection and reduce membrane fibrin and platelet deposition (2,1).
      Both UFH or LMWH provide adequate anticoagulation of the extracorporeal circuit, at the price
      of systemic anticoagulation. Apart from bleeding, the administration of unfractionated
      heparins has also been associated with dyslipidemia, hypoaldosteronism and hyperkalemia,
      thrombopenia, osteoporosis, pruritus, and hypersensitivity reactions.

      Several alternative anticoagulation regimens have been proposed including heparin coating of
      the dialyzer membrane and regional citrate anticoagulation. Regional citrate anticoagulation
      is performed by infusing citrate into the arterial line of the dialysis tubing to reduce
      ionized calcium concentrations to very low levels (4,1). Ionized calcium concentrations are
      restored by calcium supplementation prior to reinfusion of the blood into the patient. Most
      often, calcium repletion is by calcium infusion into the venous line. Alternatively, a
      conventional calcium containing dialysate will restore calcium concentrations and, although
      the anticoagulant effect is blunted in the venous line, gives acceptable results (5). A
      previous study suggested that regional citrate anticoagulation is superior to heparin-coated
      polyacrylonitrile dialyzers (AN69ST; Nephral 300ST, Gambro) and resulted in in significantly
      greater instantaneous urea nitrogen clearances (3).

      While generally safe and adequate, regional citrate anticoagulation requires additional
      actions during preparatory phase (preparation of citrate and calcium infusion pumps) as well
      as during the treatment (measurement of ionized calcium). These additional actions result in
      additional costs.

      Recently, acetate-free citrate-containing dialysate concentrates were introduced into
      clinical practice. Besides the advantages of acetate-free dialysate, this provides a modest
      local anticoagulant effect inside the dialyzer. Citrate-containing dialysate allowed to
      reduce heparin dose while maintaining extracorporeal circuit patency and dialyzer clearances
      (6).

      The investigators questioned whether combination of citrate-containing dialysate and
      heparin-coated dialyzer membranes is equally effective as conventional regional citrate
      anticoagulation.
    
  