
    
      Introduction Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of typical atrial flutteru is the most successful
      method for treatment of atrial flutter. The acute (peri-procedural) efficacy is more than
      95%. (1) Typical atrial flutter circuit uses the area between inferior caval vein and
      tricuspid anulus, so a RFA of typical flutter is performed by providing a linear lesion from
      inferior caval vein to tricuspid valve (this area is called as cavo-tricuspid isthmus). The
      recurrence of atrial flutter after ablation, which are caused by non-transmural RF lesion,
      are in less than 10% of cases. (2) During atrial flutter ablation, typically three
      electrophysiological catheters are used. Two catheters are diagnostic (one 10-pole inserted
      into coronary sinus and the other 20-pole inserted in the right atrium with the distal tip
      laterally from the cavo-ticuspid isthmus). The third is ablation catheter, inserted in the CT
      isthmus. The location of all three catheters is monitored by fluoroscopy and by the EP
      signals on catheters. Also the ablation catheter during the ablation is monitored by
      fluoroscopy and by the signals on the catheter.

      Despite its high efficacy, the RFA of atrial flutter can be sometimes very difficult. The
      most difficulties are done by anatomical differences in patients. (3, 4) In the area of CTI,
      the rudimentary Eustachian valve can be present, which can hide the effective ablation of the
      CI tissue. Moreover, deep pouches can be present in the TI area, which, if unrecognized, can
      present the area of insufficient ablation. Both of them, Eustachian valve or pouches, are not
      visible by fluoroscopy. In rare cases, a complete block in the CTI are is not achieved,
      typically due to some anatomical difficulties. Furthermore, this anatomical obstacles can
      lead to prolonged fluoroscopy time (to find the location of conduction in CTI rea), more RF
      energy delivery and prolonged procedure time. Longer ablation time increases the risk of
      ablation (such as right atrial perforation). Next possible anatomical obstacle is the right
      coronary artery which can effective prevent sufficient ablation due to its cooling effect.
      (5) Intracardiac echocardiography (ICE) is done by using intracardiac echo probe. The probe
      is inserted in the right atrium, which allows the visualizing of the CTI area. (6, 7) ICE is
      used for AF ablation in some centers, but its effect has never been validated in the
      randomized study. The aim of our study is to assess whether routine use of ICE can lead to
      decrease fluoroscopy time, decrease need for RFA delivery (i.e. number of ablations) and a
      decrease procedure time. On the other hand, the safety endpoint will be to assess whether a
      routine use of ICE is not associated with higher rate of complications. We hypothesize, the
      use of ICE will shorten fluoroscopy, ablation and procedural time without increased number of
      complication

      Patients and methods:

      Consecutive patients indicated due to standard criteria (i.e. according to the guidelines of
      the European Society of Cardiology) for atrial flutter ablation will be enrolled. Exclusion
      criterion will be the absence of written informed content and a history of recent femoral
      vein thrombosis (< 6 months).

      Randomization: 1 to 1 for ICE vs. non ICE RF ablation will be done routinely, as it is done
      in the center. In the Ice group, ICE probe will be inserted through the left femoral vein in
      the right atrium TH ICE will be used for the visualization of the anatomy of CTI area and the
      visualization of the catheter during RF delivery. In case of the non-ICE group, RFA will be
      done without ICE catheter, as it is done routinely now. In both groups, the diagnostic
      catheters (10-pole CS and 20-po in the RA) and ablation catheter will be the same. In the
      non-ICE group, the location of the catheters will be assessed by fluoroscopy and by signals
      on catheters. At the end of ablation, total fluoroscopy time, the number and length of
      ablation and the duration of procedure will be calculated. On the day and two weeks after the
      procedure, the bleeding complication will be assessed.

      End-points: the major end-points will be: 1) total procedure duration (min) 2) fluoroscopy
      time 3) the number of ablations 4) the total duration of RF energy delivery. Major safety
      end-point will be complication from left femoral ICE access.
    
  