
    
      Background: Venipuncture and PIVC insertion are the most common procedures performed in the
      pediatric emergency department. They are painful procedures, and frequently no local
      anesthesia is provided. The American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Pediatric Emergency
      Medicine and Section on Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine has recommended that local
      anesthesia be provided, but a variety of barriers exist which have prevented implementation
      of this recommendation.

      Specific Aims: To measure and compare pain associated with venipuncture and peripheral
      intravenous catheter insertion among pediatric emergency department patients randomized to
      treatment with one of three different pain-reduction strategies: J-Tip速 jet injection of 1%
      buffered lidocaine, J-Tip速 jet injection of sterile saline, or application of 4% lidocaine
      topical cream.

      Methods: This study is a partially blinded, placebo controlled, randomized controlled
      clinical trial in the pediatric emergency department. The comparison of J-Tip速 jet injection
      of 1% buffered lidocaine to J-Tip速 jet injection of sterile saline is double blinded, while
      the comparison of jet injection to 4% lidocaine topical cream is not blinded. Forty-four
      patients per group will be enrolled, and a VAS self-reported measurement will be recorded for
      the pain of venipuncture or PIVC insertion following the appropriate treatment. As well,
      success of the procedure and complications of treatment will be recorded.

      Results: Pain scores will be analyzed by pairwise comparisons using a t-test and pooled
      comparisons using ANOVA. Demographics will be assessed to determine baseline differences
      among the three groups. Chi square and regression analysis will be performed on demographic
      differences to determine significance if necessary. Final pain results will be reported as
      mean, standard deviation, and p-value. Demographics will be reported as number, percent of
      patients, and p-value (if a difference exists).
    
  