
    
      cross-sectional study involving a sample of FCS and MCS patients in 1:1 ratio. The study was
      run in seven academic reference centers in France. Adult patients with documented history of
      fasting TG > 10 mmol/L (885 mg/dL) were recruited. Patients had to be genetically
      characterized or MCS patients had a MCS score ≤ 9 [11]. Group sample sizes of 19 FCS and 19
      MCS have been calculated to achieve an at least 80% power to detect a 40% difference in the
      frequency of abdominal pain assuming that 90% of FCS patients would complain about abdominal
      pain.

      The study protocol was approved by a nationally appointed ethics committee (Comité de
      Protection des Personnes - Ile de France 5) under number 18040. The study protocol complied
      with the ethical guidelines of the Declaration of Helsinki and the French Bioethics Law
      Jarde. The data management complied with the CNIL requirement. Each patient was informed
      about the aims and constraints of the study and signed a non-opposition form prior to any
      study procedure.

      Health Burden assessment The French IN-FOCUS study was designed to capture current and
      retrospective data in FCS or MCS. Patients were called by the participating centers and were
      proposed to answer a paper questionnaire or to connect to a web-based questionnaire The
      questionnaire was divided into sections specifically assessing various domains of their
      experience: demographic data, signs, symptoms and complications of the disease, healthcare
      circuit, management, relationship with healthcare providers, and burden of the disease on
      daily life. (Details are available as supplementary material S1). The questionnaire focused
      on symptoms because the interest of quality of life assessment tools is debated in rare
      diseases with episodic manifestations. Indeed, most of these tools refer to a limited recall
      period.

      Data analysis The statistical analysis was performed by Soladis (Lyon, France) using the
      Statistical Analysis System (SAS) software 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA). Continuous
      variables were summarized by the number of observed data, mean, standard deviation (SD),
      median, first and third quartiles. Categorical variables were described as numbers and
      percentages calculated on the number of observed data. FCS and MCS subjects were compared
      using Student's t test or U Mann-Whitney's test. Categorical variables were compared by the
      chi squared test or the Fisher's exact test. Tests were two-sided and the significance
      threshold was set at 5%. No adjustment of the Type 1 error risk was made for multiplicity.
      Impact of history of AP was evaluated in a multivariable model (logistic regression for
      binary variables, ordinal logistic regression for ordinal variables) including the type of
      disease (FCS or MCS), history of AP and the interaction between these two predictors.
    
  