
    
      Oxygen therapy is the first-line treatment in management of acute respiratory failure (ARF).
      Different oxygen delivery devices have become available over recent decades, either low-flow
      systems (nasal cannula, simple facemask, non-rebreathing reservoir mask) or high-flow systems
      (Venturi mask) . The choice of a specific device in management of ARF is based on the
      severity of hypoxemia, the underlying mechanisms, the patient's breathing pattern and
      tolerance .

      Critically ill patients often require high-flow devices to meet their oxygen needs .
      Tachypneic patients with ARF, have a peak inspiratory flow rate that is usually high and
      often exceeds the oxygen flow delivered by the traditional oxygen devices . Using
      conventional devices, oxygen flow is limited to no more than 15 L/min. Meanwhile, the
      required inspiratory flow for patients with respiratory failure varies widely in a range from
      30 to120 L/min. The difference between patient inspiratory flow and delivered flow is large
      with conventional oxygen devices leading to patient discomfort . Moreover; high respiratory
      rate can generate significant entrainment of room air in the mask and dilution of the
      inspired oxygen with an insufficient oxygen concentration. The suboptimal humidification of
      the inhaled oxygen provided by standard bubble humidifiers and the limited and unknown
      inspiratory oxygen fraction (FIO2) delivery are additional drawbacks of these devices .

      Since the 90's, noninvasive ventilation (NIV) has been largely used with strong level of
      evidence in cardiogenic pulmonary edema and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      exacerbation. NIV improves gas exchange and reduces inspiratory effort through positive
      pressure. However, good tolerance to NIV is sometimes difficult to achieve due to frequent
      leaks around the mask, possibly leading to patient-ventilator asynchrony and even to
      intubation. It may have other deleterious effects such as delayed intubation by masking signs
      of respiratory distress, or barotrauma by the high tidal volume potentially generated under
      positive pressure .

      To ensure good results, an appropriate interface is more important than the ventilation mode
      . Oronasal masks, nasal masks, and hoods are most commonly used for NIV. Oronasal masks are
      usually tried first because they ensure the effects of NIV better than other interfaces.
      Unfortunately, it is not comfortable, and many patients find it hard to tolerate. It is also
      associated with a relatively high incidence of air leakage. Also, skin lesions at the nose
      induced by long-term use of this device may result in frequent treatment interruptions and
      discontinuation.

      High-flow nasal oxygen therapy (HFNO) is an innovative high-flow system that allows for
      delivering up to 60 liters/ min of heated and fully humidified gas with a FIO2 ranging
      between 21% and 100% [.

        -  HFNO delivery systems: main technical characteristics: - The administration of HFNO
           requires the following: high pressure sources of oxygen and air, an air-oxygen blender
           or a high-flow 'Venturi' system (which permits delivery of an accurate FIO2 between 21%
           and 100%), a humidifying and heating system for conditioning the gas to optimal
           temperature (37 ºC) and humidity (44mg H2O/ liters), a sterile water reservoir, a
           non-condensing circuitry, and an interface . The two most widely marketed HFNO systems
           are the Precision Flow by Vapotherm and Optiflow by Fisher & Pykel Healthcare Ltd.

        -  Physiological effects of HFNC: - Gas from an air/oxygen blender that can generate a
           total flow of up to 60 L/min is heated and humidified with an active humidifier and
           subsequently delivered through a heated circuit. High flow of adequately heated and
           humidified gas is considered to have a number of physiological effects

             1. Washout of nasopharyngeal dead space: Washout of upper airway dead space from the
                delivery of a large amount of oxygen can improve the efficiency of ventilation and
                enhance oxygen delivery . HFNC is the only noninvasive respiratory support that
                does not increase dead space. With an oxygen mask, especially at low flow, carbon
                dioxide is rebreathed .

             2. Warming and humidification of secretions: Warming of inspired oxygen and heating it
                to core temperature is more effective at high flow rates (typically >40 L/minute)
                than low flow rates. Thus, HFNC is better at heating and humidifying inspired
                oxygen than conventional high-flow systems such as Venturi masks or nonrebreathers
                (flow rate typically 10 to 15 L/minute) or low-flow systems (flow rates typically
                <10 L/minute) . Increased humidification results in increased water content in
                mucous, which can facilitate secretion removal and may also decrease the work of
                breathing and avoid airway desiccation and epithelial injury

             3. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) effect: Several studies in adults have
                shown that, similar to infants and neonates, HFNC increases nasopharyngeal airway
                pressure that peaks at the end of expiration (ie, "PEEP effect") . This "PEEP
                effect" can potentially unload auto-PEEP, decrease work of breathing, and enhance
                oxygenation in patients with alveolar filling diseases such as congestive heart
                failure or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). As flow increases,
                nasopharyngeal pressure increases (ie, a dose effect) . The CPAP effect is greatest
                with the mouth closed. In general, every increase of 10 L/minute of flow yields
                approximately 0.7 cm H2O of airway pressure when the mouth is closed and 0.35 cm of
                H2O when the mouth is open.

             4. Small pliable nasal prongs: HFNC nasal prongs are generally soft and pliable.
                Consequently, several studies have reported improved patient comfort with HFNC when
                compared with conventional low-flow oxygen delivered through nasal cannula or
                high-flow oxygen delivered through a face mask .

             5. High flow rates: High flow rates result in minimal entrainment of room air when
                HFNC is used; this results in more accurate delivery of oxygen. Patients in
                respiratory distress generate high inspiratory flow rates that exceed flow rates of
                standard oxygen equipment, resulting in entrainment of room air and a reduction in
                the delivery of the set FIO2. The rate of flow in HFNC generally exceeds that of
                the patient, entraining very little room air and resulting in an FIO2 that is more
                reliably delivered . High flow rates have also been shown to result in an improved
                breathing pattern by increasing tidal volume and decreasing respiratory rate .

             6. Reduction of work of breathing: The HFNO system may significantly reduce the energy
                requirement (metabolic work) associated with gas conditioning. By providing high
                gas flows, HFNO reduces the resistance of the upper airway and then decreases the
                resistive breathing effort .
    
  