
    
      The proposed study will be a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the primary study
      hypothesis that structured counseling immediately before a first trimester vacuum aspiration
      procedure will result in more women choosing a highly effective contraceptive method compared
      to women receiving routine care.

      The study population consists of pregnant women seeking a first trimester suction procedure
      in a single Medicaid-based practice in New York City. We need 125 participants in both the
      control group and the intervention group for a total of 250 participants. The inclusion
      criteria for enrollment in the study are (1) age greater than or equal to 18 years,(2)
      seeking contraception, (3) Spanish or English speaking, (4) access to a telephone, and (5)
      willing to participate in the study. We recognize that patients may be anxious about their
      scheduled procedure. Information about the procedure will be available to all patients in our
      clinic to inform and help alleviate anxiety.

      After being consented, all participants will complete the baseline questionnaire.
      Participants will then be randomized in a 1:1 ratio.

      Those randomized to the control group will proceed to routine care. Routine care consists of
      contraceptive counseling by the clinician performing the vacuum procedure. The clinician will
      evaluate the medical eligibility of each participant for FDA-approved contraceptive methods
      as part of routine care. Every clinician in the practice is a faculty member, fellow, or
      resident physician training under faculty supervision.

      Those randomized to the intervention group will engage in structured counseling with the
      research coordinator, and then proceed to routine care. The structured counseling will take
      place while the participant would normally be waiting for care. We will pay attention to
      ensure that study participation does not prolong the clinic visit.

      Structured counseling consists of a bilingual research coordinator going through the 2005
      Decision Making Tool (D.M.T.) for family planning clients and providers developed by the
      World Health Organization(W.H.O.). Samples of each FDA-approved method will be present during
      the structured counseling session for participants to directly see and touch as desired. The
      link to this freely available counseling tool in English and Spanish is
      www.who.int/reproductivehealth/publications/dmt/index.html.

      For our study, we modified the original version to include only FDA-approved contraceptive
      methods available in the United States suitable for a post-abortion population. Information
      about methods not available in the United States(NETEN injections, monthly injections and
      norplant) was removed. Information about new FDA-approved methods available in the United
      States (contraceptive patch, contraceptive ring, levonorgestrel IUS, and etonogestrel
      implant),but not previously included, was added. Information about methods not appropriate
      for post abortion patients (lactational amenorrhea and fertility awareness) was removed. We
      performed all modifications with the full support and cooperation of Sarah Johnson, technical
      officer in the Department of Reproductive Health and Research at the World Health
      Organization. We have attached our modified version with this application.

      All FDA-approved methods will be available to participants on the day of their scheduled
      procedure for immediate initiation. Participants choosing an intrauterine device or implant
      will be able to have them placed that day.

      Participants choosing depot medroxyprogesterone acetate will be able to have the injection
      that day. Participants choosing the pill, ring, or patch will receive a one month supply and
      continuing prescription that day. All participants will receive condoms and information about
      emergency contraception.

      At the end of the visit, we will perform a brief secondary questionnaire. We will ask
      participants to indicate their chosen FDA-approved method and identify if the method was
      initiated that day.

      Follow-up will take place at three months and six months with phone calls to obtain data from
      participants about the contraceptive method adopted and the contraceptive method use since
      enrollment.
    
  