
    
      The investigators are evaluating a service called peer-delivered Whole Health Coaching to
      understand how it can help Veterans with PTSD. This project has two main goals: (1) determine
      how peer-delivered Whole Health Coaching can help Veterans with post-traumatic stress
      disorder and (2) learning about feasibility of implementing this service in Veterans Health
      Administration primary care settings. The investigators are also evaluating feasibility of
      the research methods in this trial to learn how to improve future studies on this topic.

      Whole Health Coaching is a service designed to improve health and wellness. It is a variation
      of integrative health coaching and is being used in Veterans Health Administration medical
      centers. In Whole Health Coaching, Veterans will work with coaches to develop a personal
      health mission, develop specific goals and action steps, and then adjust their plan as
      needed. Coaches provide guidance and support throughout the process. In this project, a peer
      support specialist working in primary care will be the coach. VA Peer Support Specialists,
      "peers", are Veterans recovering from a mental health condition trained to help other
      Veterans improve their health.

      All participants will receive peer-delivered Whole Health Coaching. Participants will be
      randomly assigned a start date for their first session with the Peer Whole Health Coach
      between 4 and 13 weeks after they start the study. The information provided during this time
      prior to the first session helps us understand how participants do on their own without the
      service. The research components include interviews and questionnaires about health and
      wellness, goals, and experiences with the service. Veterans who participate in the study will
      complete short questionnaires twice a week for 6 months and have four longer appointments
      where more questions will be asked. Participants will also be given the opportunity to
      provide feedback on the service.
    
  