
    
      This was a multicenter, randomized (patients are assigned different treatments based on
      chance), open-label, single dose small study. During the 36 hour study period, concomitant
      analgesic (pain) medications and physical therapy were recorded in the patient's case report
      form. The study duration for each patient was 36 hours after a single dose of OROS
      hydromorphone HCI had been administered. After surgery, eligible patients had to tolerate
      liquids, swallow a tablet, and have audible bowel sounds. Before OROS hydromorphone HCI was
      administered, all analgesic medications were discontinued and patients with a pain score of
      2(moderate pain) or 3 (severe pain) upon movement were eligible to enter the study and
      receive a single oral dose of OROS hydromorphone HCI. Patients had to have stable heart
      rates, blood pressure, respiration, oxygen saturation greater than or equal to 94% and
      patients who had undergone regional anesthesia had to have motor and sensory recovery from
      nerve blockade. Qualifying patients were given OROS hydromorphone HCI between 6 and 48 hours
      after completion of the surgical procedure. Patients were randomized into 3 groups (OROS
      hydromorphone HCI 8, 16, and 32 mg). The precise time of OROS hydromorphone HCI
      administration was considered time zero. To maintain consistency, dosing was to occur between
      6 am and 2 pm, if possible. Following study drug administration, patients could be given
      rescue medication of oral hydromorphone immediate-release tablets (2 or 4 mg) for
      breakthrough pain as needed. Oxygen saturation, vital signs, pain relief ratings, and pain
      intensity ratings at rest and upon movement were obtained at 2-hour time intervals during the
      first 8 hours following study drug administration, and at 4 hour intervals from 8 to 36 hours
      following study drug administration. The study concluded 36 hours after dosing, at which time
      a global evaluation of pain relief was obtained from each patient. One single dose of OROS
      hydromorphone HCI (8, 16, or 32 mg) administered orally at the beginning of the 36 hour
      study.
    
  