
    
      Diaphragmatic herniation is a common medical problem characterized by protrusion of the
      abdominal viscera directly through (95% of cases), or adjacent to (5% of cases), the
      esophageal hiatus. Individuals suffering from these so-called hiatal and paraesophageal
      hernias experience symptoms such as regurgitation, heartburn, early satiety, and in extreme
      cases, respiratory compromise or visceral strangulation and ischemia. Unless the hernia is
      small, these symptoms are generally refractory to medical management and require surgical
      correction, with approximately 40,000 antireflux surgeries being performed each year in the
      United States. The hernia repair procedure, which may be performed in either a laparoscopic
      or open fashion, involves reduction of the intrathoracic viscera back into the abdominal
      cavity and closure of the diaphragmatic defect. Generally, this closure of the hernia can be
      accomplished primarily, using nonabsorbable suture to approximate the edges of the defect.
      Unfortunately, the recurrence rate for this type of repair is unacceptably high and ranges
      from 10-40%. Furthermore, in the instance of a particularly large hernia, the edges of the
      defect may be too far apart to be primarily brought together, necessitating the use of other
      strategies such as relaxing incisions or patches to bridge the gap. Although the precise
      recurrence rates of these complex repairs is not clear, it is expected that they are even
      higher that for those diaphragmatic hernias that can be closed primarily.

      The genetic and biologic factors that predispose individuals to forming hernias are not well
      understood. Several smaller series have suggested that ventral and inguinal hernia formation
      may be due to weakness of the abdominal wall, possibly secondary to defects in collagen
      deposition and metabolism. Certain studies have shown higher ratios of Type III collagen
      (immature) to Type I collagen (mature), at both the protein and mRNA level, in patients with
      abdominal hernias as compared to those without. Furthermore, other reports indicate that
      these differences in the levels of mature collagen might be due to underlying differences ion
      the expression of certain matrix metalloproteinase (MMPs), which are largely responsible for
      collagen remodeling. MMPs -1, -2, -3, -9, and -13 have been shown to be upregulated in
      connective tissue injury, and alterations in both MMP-2 and fibrillar collagen can interfere
      with normal wound healing. Furthermore, Bellon et. al. have shown an overexpression of MMP-2
      in fibroblasts in patients with direct inguinal hernias, and Zheng's group detected MMP-13
      overexpression in tissue samples from patients with recurrent inguinal hernias. So far, no
      studies have addressed the role of collagen deposition and MMPs in the formation of hiatal
      and paraesophageal hernias. Preliminary work at our institution has, however, shown a greater
      than 50% reduction in the elastin content of the phrenoesophageal and gastrohepatic ligaments
      ("PEL" and "GHL", respectively) of those patients with a hiatal hernia compared to those
      without herniation. Additionally, the elastic fibers in the PEL and GHL frequently displayed
      fragmentation and distortion despite the lack of a visible inflammatory response. (J.A. Curci
      and N.J. Soper, unpublished results) Nevertheless, neither our early work, nor any of the
      studies from outside institutions have looked at ways of screening patients (i.e. via blood
      sampling) to detect those at a higher risk for such hernia occurrence. Currently, new
      MMP-inhibitory drugs are being studied as methods to potentially block or slow the
      development of other MMP-dependent conditions such as abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Along
      these lines, if patients with a genetic/biologic predisposition to hernia formation could be
      readily identified, then this presents a potential point of medical intervention in
      preventing future hernia development.

      Research procedures:

      Patients to be enrolled in the study will be standard referrals to our group from primary
      care physicians or other specialists who feel that surgical correction of a diaphragmatic
      hernia or achalasia is necessary. Additionally, patients referred to our practice for weight
      reduction surgery will also be considered eligible for enrollment.

      Consent to participate in the study will occur at the time of consent to the surgical
      procedure and will be obtained by the PI and other attending surgeons within the minimally
      invasive surgery group. This will occur in the surgeon's office/clinic, or in the hospital if
      the patient is an in-house consult, several days to weeks prior to the scheduled surgery.

      Following the informed consent process, patients will be appropriately placed in either the
      study or control group. At the time of surgery (hernia repair, bariatric procedure, or
      esophageal myotomy), a 30 ml venous blood sample will be drawn and stored for later testing
      and analysis. The appropriate standard surgical procedure will then be performed as per
      surgical attending judgment, however, during the operation, a small (approximately 1 cm2)
      piece of tissue will be excised from each of 3 anatomic sites: 1) the left diaphragmatic
      crus, 2) the PEL, and 3) the GHL. After removal from the abdomen, these tissue samples will
      be divided into 2 pieces to be set aside for further testing at a later time.

      This excised samples represent a minute amount of tissue when compared to the overall size of
      the diaphragmatic crura and surrounding ligamentous attachments, and their removal is not be
      expected to cause any foreseeable problem for the patient. In fact, hiatal hernia repair
      often necessitates dissection of much larger crural and connective tissue pieces than this in
      order to obtain complete reduction of the abdominal viscera out of the chest and subsequent
      closure of the hernia defect. Following removal of these small tissue samples, the hernia
      repair, esophageal myotomy, or gastric bypass/banding will then be completed in a standard
      fashion.

      Inclusion Criteria: Any patient undergoing paraesophageal hernia repair, esophageal myotomy,
      laparoscopic gastric bypass, or laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding.

      Exclusion Criteria: Pregnant females, minors, prisoners
    
  