
    
      The aim of this open-label multicentre study is to estimate the effect of an early therapy
      intensification based on potent antiretroviral combination including enfuvirtide(FUZEON®) on
      survival in patients with HIV-1-related progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML).

      To demonstrate that the observed rate is significantly superior to 45%, the inclusion of 24
      patients is necessary. At last, 30 patients will be recruited towards the risk estimated at
      25% of invalid inclusion.

      Patients will be included on the following criteria : HIV-1 documented by Western Blot,
      clinical and radiological (MRI) evidence of active LEMP with clinical evolution (or
      deterioration) for less than 90 days, documentation of PML diagnosis for less than 30 days at
      the inclusion, informed consent (patient or confidence surrogate if decision making
      incapacity). Exclusion criteria will be the following: age less than 18-year-old ;
      concomitant opportunistic infection of the central nervous system; pregnancy - feeding;
      co-infection by the HIV2; history of immunotherapy (interleukin 2, alpha-interferon) or of
      treatment by FUZEON®; history of treatment by cidofovir; contra-indication to receive FUZEON
      ®.

      An independent committee will meet regularly to estimate the validity of PML diagnosis in
      included patients.

      The duration of the treatment by FUZEON® is 6 months in association with a combination of two
      or more antiretroviral molecules which will be pursued during the next 6 months. These
      molecules will be chosen according to the past treatment of the patients. A combination
      including efavirenz, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tenofovir/emtricitabine (under the shape of
      TRUVADA®) will be proposed to the naïve patients. For the pretreated patient(approximately a
      quarter of the inclusions), antiretroviral therapy will be chosen in every case on the basis
      of the therapeutic history and of the viral genotypes of resistance. Such association will
      contain at least two antiretroviral molecules, issued from two different families among the
      three following ones (nucleoside inhibitors of the reverse transcriptase, non-nucleoside
      inhibitors of the reverse transcriptase, protease inhibitors).

      The projected duration of the period of inclusion will be 18 months. A total duration of 2.5
      years is projected.

      Evaluation criteria of the ANRS 125 trial are the following. Clinical: rate of survival and
      functional score (Modified Rankin Outcome Scale) to M12. Virological: evolution of the JC
      viral load in the CSF ; and percentage of patients with JC virus clearance of the CSF to M3
      and M6. Immunological: evolution of T CD4 and T CD8 subpopulations. Evolution of the anti-JC
      virus specific T cell (CD4 and CD8) responses. Pharmacological: dosage of the concentration
      of enfuvirtide in the CSF compared with the plasma.
    
  