
    
      Total joint arthroplasty (TJA) is a commonly performed surgical procedure that can result in
      considerable postoperative pain which can limit social and functional recovery and a return
      to quality of life. Traditionally, pain control following TJA has been conducted with
      parenteral and oral narcotics. Recently, a number of studies have demonstrated the efficacy
      of multimodal analgesia following a variety of surgical procedures.1-2 These multimodal
      regimens vary and consist of any number of medications including narcotics, non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatories, anti-epileptics, and peripheral nerve blocks among others. These
      multimodal regimens have been associated with a reduction in the use of opioid analgesics,
      leading to fewer opioid-associated adverse events.3-5 One of the newest modalities introduced
      on the market is liposomal bupivacaine, trade name Exparel. The advertised advantage of
      liposomal bupivacaine compared with bupivacaine HCL is a longer duration of analgesia owing
      to gradual release from the liposomes. Liposomal bupivacaine is employed in a periarticular
      injection at the conclusion of TJAs to aid in post-operative pain control.

      Patients receive a periarticular injection of liposomal bupivacaine intra-operatively during
      TJA. At the conclusion of the procedure, a specialized intra-articular drain (OrthoPAT®) is
      placed. The OrthoPAT® perioperative autotransfusion system collects the patient's blood in
      the immediate postoperative period and then allows for it to be transfused to the patient
      while on the floor.

      A potential risk, although low, is the concern for bupivicaine toxicity. Toxicity from
      bupivicaine is associated with central nervous system issues (seizures) and cardiac toxicity.
      Toxicity is dose dependent and recommended levels should not exceed 400mg/24 hr period. With
      autotransfusion, there is a theoretical concern that blood, potentially with increased levels
      of bupivicaine, could be reinfused into the vascular system and create toxicity.
    
  