
    
      This study examines the following outcomes:

        1. To examine outcomes of posttraumatic growth and benefit finding (PTG) in children with
           cancer/cancer survivors in comparison to a population of children without history of
           serious illness.

        2. To examine outcomes of posttraumatic stress (PTSS/PTSD) in children with cancer/cancer
           survivors in comparison to children without a history of serious illness.

        3. To examine predictors of child posttraumatic stress and posttraumatic growth from
           medical variables, life events history, family environment, and child personality
           variables.

        4. To apply an accelerated longitudinal design to examine trajectories of both pathological
           outcomes such as posttraumatic stress (PTSS) and positive outcomes such as
           challenge-related growth (CRG) in children with cancer/cancer survivors in comparison to
           a population of children without a history of serious illness. Additional observations
           will be obtained at 1-, 3-, and 5-years post study entry.

        5. To examine outcomes of PTG and PTSS/PTSD in parents of children with cancer/cancer
           survivors in comparison to parents of healthy children. Parental PTSS/PTSD and PTG will
           be examined both as outcomes and as predictors of child outcomes.

        6. To examine predictors of parent PTSS/PTSD and PTG from demographic and medical
           variables, life events history, and parent personality variables.

        7. To determine the sensitivity/specificity of measures of PTSS in screening for PTSD based
           on diagnostic interview.

        8. To examine the validity and reliability of a new measure of child personality, the Child
           and Adolescent Five Factor Inventory (CAFFI).

        9. To examine emerging social developmental outcomes in this longitudinal cohort.

       10. To develop an electronic version of the study measures and to compare data obtained
           electronically (on desktop or laptop computer), with data obtained on paper for
           comparability in reliability and outcomes obtained.
    
  