
    
      All patients with active ulcerative colitis who present to the Outpatient department or the
      emergency services of PGIMER shall be screened. Those patients who have acute severe
      ulcerative colitis shall be assessed for inclusion into the study. Patients who fulfil the
      eligibility criteria will be randomised into two groups.

      Group A will include patients in the intervention arm. They will be given intravenous
      antibiotics for three days. Injection ceftriaxone 1 gm will be prepared by reconstitution of
      the crystallized powder form in 100 ml of normal saline. This preparation will then be
      infused slowly over thirty minutes, after intradermal testing for hypersensitivity. Inj
      ceftriaxone 1gm IV will be given twelve hourly. Injection metronidazole 500 mg is available
      from pharmacies in solutions of 100 ml. It will be infused slowly over thirty minutes, three
      times per day, after intradermal testing for hypersensitivity. Both the drugs will be given
      for five days. In addition, they will receive the standard of care mentioned below.

      Group B will include patients from the placebo arm. They will be given the standard of care
      as mentioned below. In addition, they will be infused 0.9 % saline of similar quantity,
      colour, and from similarly shaped bottles, for three days after sensitivity testing with the
      saline.

      Detailed history and examination shall be done for all the patients. History regarding the
      stool output, any systemic symptoms, prior treatment history and history regarding any
      precipitant for the acute episode shall be taken. Examination will include vitals (pulse
      rate, blood pressure, temperature), general physical examination as well as an abdominal
      examination. All patients will undergo blood investigations on all three days. This includes
      a complete blood counts, kidney function tests, serum electrolytes, albumin, C-reactive
      protein, osteopontin, blood culture. Stool routine microscopic examination, fecal
      calprotectin, stool assay for clostridium difficile toxin will be done. X ray abdomen will be
      done on all three days to monitor the diameter of transverse colon. Patients will undergo an
      unprepared sigmoidoscopy with minimal air insufflation and mucosal biopsy. Biopsies will be
      taken for histological examination. Procalcitonin, fecal calprotectin and CRP shall be
      repeated on day 3 of admission.

      All patients will be prescribed the standard treatment for acute severe colitis, which
      includes intravenous steroids (Inj Hydrocortisone 100 mg IV QID or Inj Methyprednisolone 60
      mg iv OD), anticoagulation, (Inj Unfractionated heparin 5000 IU S/C BD), intravenous fluid
      supplementation and correction of electrolytes. Patients will be allowed orally and will be
      prescribed a diet of 25-30 kcal /kg/day.
    
  