
    
      Currently, there is no "cure" for spinal cord injuries (SCI). Although the scientific
      understanding of central nervous system (CNS) regeneration has advanced greatly in the past
      twenty years, there are still many unknowns with regard to inducing successful regeneration,
      especially with chronic SCI. A more realistic approach, based on currently available
      knowledge, to improve the quality of life for a large proportion of the paralyzed population
      may be to develop treatments that elicit partial functional recovery based on neuroplastic
      potential of spared neural pathways. In this scenario, acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH)
      enhances the inherit capacity for neuroplasticity and strengthens surviving synaptic inputs
      onto spinal motorneurons, which trigger functional recovery following SCI in rats and humans
      AIH-induced neuroplasticity has been extensively studied in phrenic motor nuclei (C3-C5)
      through phrenic nerve recording preparations (Mitchell, 2007). Briefly, moderate AIH (3,
      5-min hypoxic episodes; PaO2 35-45 mmHg; 5-min intervals) elicits phrenic long term
      facilitation (pLTF), a type of memory present in the cervical spinal cord. The mechanism of
      AIH-induced pLTF is that episodic hypoxia activates raphe serotonergic neurons that project
      to phrenic motor nuclei. Spinal serotonin release during hypoxic episodes subsequently
      activates serotonin type 2 (5-HT2) receptors coupled to Gq protein on or near phrenic motor
      neurons, and initiates intracellular cascades that underlie pLTF . pLTF requires spinal 5-HT2
      receptor activation , new synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and
      activation of its high-affinity receptor tyrosine kinase (TrkB) followed by ERK MAP kinase
      signaling. Although downstream signaling events from ERK are less clear, it is speculated
      that glutamate receptors are phosphorylated, increasing glutamatergic transmission and
      perhaps insertion within phrenic motor neurons, thereby establishing LTF.

      Longer time domains of AIH, for example, daily acute intermittent hypoxia (i.e. dAIH, 10
      episodes per day, 7 days) have shown to strengthen synaptic pathways to spinal motorneurons
      and increase respiratory and locomotor recovery after cervical SCI in unanesthetized rats.
      This functional improvement is accompanied by increased BDNF and TrkB levels within cervical
      (C7) motor nuclei innervating the forelimb. Although the detailed mechanisms of the
      functional recovery in somatic thoracic or lumbar motorneurons have not been verified, it has
      been proposed that the same serotonin-dependent mechanisms facilitate motor output in
      respiratory and non-respiratory motor nuclei.

      The use of dAIH to improve limb function in humans with incomplete, chronic SCI has shown
      promising results. A single presentation of AIH (15, 1-minute episodes of 9% O2 alternating
      with 1-minute of 21% O2) in incomplete, chronic (>1 year) spinal cord injury patients,
      classified as C or D according to the International Standards for Neurological Classification
      of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI), increases the ability to voluntarily generate plantar
      flexion 4 h post-hypoxia. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design
      study, the impact of daily AIH (15 episodes per day, 90 sec 9% O2, 60 sec normoxic interval,
      5 consecutive days) combined with walking training was studied in 19 chronic, incomplete SCI
      patients (ISNCSCI D). Daily AIH alone increased walking speed 18% three days after treatment
      (10 m walk test); whereas dAIH combined with walking training improved both walking speed and
      distance (37%) after 5 days and 1 week post-dAIH. Importantly, no changes in cognitive
      function was observed after dAIH, suggesting that this moderate dose of AIH is safe in
      humans.

      Although dAIH (5 consecutive days of AIH) has demonstrated beneficial effects in incomplete
      SCI patients, its effect last only up to one week; therefore, is important to design extended
      protocols maintaining the initial functional effect of dAIH over time. Repetitive AIH (rAIH)
      consisting of AIH three times per week (3×wAIH) for 10 weeks have demonstrated to increase
      respiratory function and maintain the increased functional effect elicited by dAIH in
      unanesthetized rats. Moreover, rAIH increases the expression of key molecules involved in
      AIH-induced spinal plasticity in unanesthetized rats. Therefore, repetitive AIH may represent
      a safe and effective strategy to enhance functional recovery after chronic incomplete spinal
      cord injuries.

      The protocol of intermittent hypoxia proposed in this project corresponds to a moderate dose
      of intermittent hypoxia, which is the equivalent of climbing a mountain at 5000 meters
      altitude. Abundant literature has demonstrated that moderate AIH (≥ 9% O2, < 15 cycles/day)
      have several multi-systemic beneficial effects: reduces arterial hypertension, strengthens
      innate immune responses, reduces inflammation, reduces body weight, increases aerobic
      capacity, improves glucose tolerance, increases bone mineral density, enhances spatial
      learning and memory, rescues ischemia-induced memory impairment, reduces symptoms of
      depression, improves post-ischemic recovery of myocardial contractile function, and increases
      respiratory capacity in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Moreover, moderate repetitive
      AIH improves respiratory and somatic function after SCI, without adverse consequences such as
      hypertension, neuronal cell loss and/or reactive gliosis or systemic inflammation. Therefore,
      the potential beneficial effects of AIH are not only limited to spinal cord injuries but
      include a wide scope of clinical conditions.

      Combinatorial therapies, one of them being an activity-based training, can augment plasticity
      after incomplete SCI. In rats with incomplete SCI, dAIH combined with ladder walking leads to
      near complete recovery of ladder walking ability. Moreover, dAIH and overground walking
      improve walking speed and distance in incomplete SCI patients ISNCSCI D. Research studies in
      animals and humans have found that retraining after SCI using the intrinsic physiologic
      properties of the nervous system can facilitate the recovery of function. This potential for
      retraining is based on activity-dependent plasticity driven by repetitive task-specific
      sensory input to spinal networks.

      The most prominent and well-developed activity-based therapy (physical rehabilitation) to
      date is locomotor training. The fundamental principles of locomotor training are built on the
      premise of robustly approximating the sensorimotor experience of walking through repetitive
      practice including: 1) maximize load bearing by the lower extremities and minimize load
      bearing by the upper extremities, 2) optimize the sensory cues for walking, 3) optimize the
      kinematics (i.e., trunk and extremities) for each motor task, and 4) maximize recovery
      strategies and minimize compensatory mechanisms. The fundamental mechanisms supporting this
      intervention have been derived largely from studies conducted in spinalised animals.
      Specifically, treadmill training increases axonal regrowth and collateral sprouting proximal
      to the lesion site in mice (Goldshmit et al., 2008), phosphorylation of Erk1/2 in the motor
      cortex as well as the spinal cord injury area (Oh et al., 2009), expression of brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the spinal cord, ameliorates muscle atrophy in moderate
      contused SCI rats, and alters properties of spinal motor neurons. Body weight-supported
      treadmill training (BWSTT) is based on optimizing sensory inputs relevant to step training,
      repeated practice, and possible optimization of neuroplasticity. Uncontrolled studies in
      acute and chronic SCI patients show within-subject improvements in walking ability using
      BWSTT. Investigators propose that BWSTT therapy provide a behavioral therapy that
      independently supports positive outcomes.

      AIH combined with body weight-assisted training represents a simple and safe,
      non-pharmacological method for enhancing neuroplasticity in the spinal cord and thus,
      improving walking function in patients with incomplete spinal cord injuries. At the cellular
      level, both BWSTT and AIH increase the expression of BDNF. BDNF has a wide repertoire of
      neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties in the CNS and the periphery; namely, neuronal
      protection and survival, neurite expression, axonal and dendritic growth and remodeling,
      neuronal differentiation and synaptic plasticity such as synaptogenesis in arborizing axon
      terminals, and synaptic transmission efficacy. Thus, BWSTT may serve as a catalyst in tandem
      with repetitive AIH that when combined develop an even better response.

      Currently, there are no approved therapies for chronic SCI; therefore, the approach
      represents a promising new strategy to enhance function in patients with sub-acute and
      chronic SCI, where the potential for further functional gains is limited.

      Investigators propose a triple blind (patients, outcome assessors and stadistician)
      randomized, placebo-controlled study testing the combined effect of intermittent hipoxia and
      body weight-supported treadmill training in incoplete spinal cord injury patients.
    
  