
    
      HIV-infected patients commonly develop autonomic neuropathy (HIV-AN), which is a
      heterogeneous disorder characterized by varying degrees of both sympathetic and vagal
      dysfunction. We hypothesize that the vagal component of HIV-AN contributes to chronic
      inflammation, both directly via loss of cholinergic activity, and indirectly via effects on
      the GI tract, and that these effects will be treatable using the acetylcholinesterase
      inhibitor pyridostigmine. The autonomic nervous system controls the inflammatory response to
      lipopolysaccharide (LPS) via the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. This pathway is
      mediated by the vagus nerve, and is therefore likely impaired in HIV-AN with vagal
      dysfunction. Vagal dysfunction also causes slowed GI transit, which could exacerbate
      LPS-driven inflammation by promoting bacterial overgrowth. However, the anti-inflammatory
      impact of cholinergic pathways is almost completely unstudied in HIV, despite the known
      importance of inflammation in HIV disease progression. Therefore, in this exploratory pilot,
      we seek to establish associations between vagal dysfunction, GI motility and inflammation in
      virally suppressed, CART-treated individuals with HIV-AN.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine whether vagal dysfunction is associated with immune activation
      in CART-treated participants with HIV-AN, and if so to estimate the extent to which this
      association is mediated by GI effects (i.e. slowed motility, bacterial overgrowth, microbial
      translocation) versus direct effects of vagal dysfunction.

      Specific Aim 2: In a subset of participants who have both vagal and GI dysfunction, to
      investigate whether 8 weeks of pyridostigmine: a) reduces immune activation, and b) improves
      GI motility; and if the immune effect depends on the GI effect.

      To achieve these aims, participants with HIV-AN and GI symptoms will be assessed for: vagal
      dysfunction (heart rate variability); GI dysmotility (gastric emptying scintigraphy); small
      intestinal bacterial overgrowth (breath testing); microbial translocation (LPS and sCD14);
      and immune activation (IL-6 and CRP). Participants meeting threshold criteria for both vagal
      and GI dysfunction will then be treated with pyridostigmine for 8 weeks, after which GI and
      immune measures will be reassessed.

      Objectives Specific Aim 1: To determine whether vagal dysfunction is associated with immune
      activation in HIV-infected participants treated with combination antiretroviral therapy
      (CART), and if so to estimate the extent to which this association is mediated by GI effects
      (i.e. slowed motility, bacterial overgrowth, microbial translocation) versus direct effects
      of vagal dysfunction.

      Specific Aim 2: In a subset of participants who have both vagal and GI dysfunction, to
      investigate whether 8 weeks of pyridostigmine: a) reduces immune activation, and b) improves
      GI motility; and if both effects are present to determine whether the immune effect depends
      on the GI effect.
    
  