
    
      The plan for this study involves the non-therapeutic administration of a radiopharmaceutical,
      N-13 ammonia or F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose, one to two doses, during the tumor ablation
      procedure. The perfusion PET scan is a diagnostic imaging test. The tumor ablation procedure
      is performed according to our standard clinical practice and is not itself a research
      activity. The use of N-13 ammonia or F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose to image liver perfusion with a
      PET scanner is the research portion of the procedure. The patient will receive one or two
      doses of N-13 ammonia (10 mCi (millicurie)/dose) for intraprocedural assessment of ablation
      results. Not more than two doses will be administered and one or both doses will be
      administered on the day of the tumor ablation procedure only. The ammonia perfusion scan will
      not be used to change or modify the ablation procedure.

      After the screening procedures confirm that that the participant is eligible to participate
      in the research study:

        -  Ammonia Perfusion PET: The participant will be scheduled for the tumor ablation
           procedure as part of the participant's routine care. If the participant decided to take
           part in this research study, then the participant will have one or two ammonia perfusion
           PET scans during the ablation procedure to see if the ablation was successful or not as
           compared to standard CT scanning. The ammonia perfusion PET scans are the research part
           of the participant's procedure. The rest of the participant's procedure is not research.
           The participant will receive one or two doses of the radioactive tracer called N-13
           ammonia. This tracer is administered through the same IV (thin tube placed in a vein)
           used by the Anesthesiologist to give the participant routine medications that relax the
           participant, prevent pain, and allow the participant to sleep during the procedure. This
           tracer does not treat the participant's tumor in any way. Instead, the tracer may allow
           the radiologist to better see how much of the participant's tumor was destroyed.

        -  Photographs: Photographs may be taken during the procedure. Care will be taken to ensure
           these do not reveal the participant's identity.

        -  Clinic visits: The investigators routinely see patients after tumor ablation procedures
           within one to two weeks after the procedure and then every three months after the
           procedure for one to two years, and as needed in the future. Accordingly, the clinic
           visits are routine and not an added research commitment.
    
  