
    
      Acute appendicitis presents one of the most common surgical illnesses which affect
      approximately 7% of the western population. In the Czech Republic, 11664 patients were
      hospitalized and operated for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis (K35-K38) during 2016. It
      might seem that the procedure of appendectomy will be guided by a clear algorithm for its
      frequency, but it is not so. Because of acute appendicitis, appendectomy may be performed via
      laparotomy or laparoscopy (minimally invasive surgery). During laparoscopic appendectomy
      (L-APPE), there are no clear recommendations regarding trocar placement, methods of dividing
      appendicular mesenteriolum, methods of appendicular stump closure or appendicular stump
      sinking.

      The proposed clinical study is focused on the issue of the appendicular base interruption
      during L-APPE. At the present, there are several technical modifications of appendicular
      stump closure - by means of endoloop (the suture loop from absorbable fiber), endostapler or
      using Hem-o-lock clips. The performed literature search revealed that evidence-based medicine
      data regarding the optimal way of appendicular stump closure are insufficient. That is why
      the investigators have decided to conduct a prospective randomized single-center clinical
      study aimed to compare different technical modifications of appendicular stump closure during
      L-APPE. Within a study period, all patients undergoing L-APPE at the University Hospital
      Ostrava will be randomized to one of the technical modifications of appendicular stump
      closure.

      The aim of the project (CAS study) is to compare medical and economic outcomes of patients
      undergoing L-APPE with different methods of appendicular stump closure (endostapler, endoloop
      and Hem-o-lock clips). The operative time, intraoperative and postoperative complications
      will be the primary outcome measures of the study, economic outcomes will be the secondary
      outcome measures.
    
  