
    
      Anemia is a common clinical situation in oncology. It contributes to the asthenia and thus to
      the decrease in the quality of life of the patient. In addition, it is considered an
      independent pejorative prognostic factor according to a literature review of 2001. An
      appropriate management of the latter is therefore paramount. To do this, it is necessary to
      successfully define its origins.

      In 2014, RET-he was studied for the first time in the cancer patient. This analysis showed
      that there is a good negative predictive value of RET-he for a cut-off of 32 PG, i.e., that
      above this value the iron deficiency is unlikely. Iron deficiency anemia was defined by
      hemoglobin below 11 g/dl, serum iron less than 40 Μ g/dl, and TSAT less than 20%. However,
      this study had some limiting factors. First, patients were not separated according to cancer
      pathology: solid tumors versus malignant hemic. In addition, previous treatments, such as the
      administration of ASE, iron and/or globular pellets, have not been taken into account. The
      number of patients with anemia and iron deficiency was limited (n = 23). Despite these
      different biases, this study is the first to demonstrate the interest of this parameter in
      the management of anemia in the patient in oncology.

      In total, the data are consistent with the potential interest of the hemoglobin content of
      reticulocytes in the diagnosis of martial deficiency. This is why the purpose of this project
      is to establish a RET-He study in anaemic patients with a solid tumor to determine if this
      endpoint could be included in a diagram of the management of anemia in oncology, particularly
      for To detect subpopulations (responder patient or not to iron IV) in patients with a
      functional martial deficiency.

      Patients will be included as they are taken care of in the facility. A delay of about 3
      months is necessary for the information to be complete and validated. The file will be taken
      out at regular intervals to inform the patient's follow-up.

      The establishment of the therapy to correct anemia (administration of iron IV (associated or
      not to an ASE) is the responsibility of the referring physician or other prescriber doctor by
      delegation.

      The different follow-up points for each patient will be the standard assessments made
      according to the NCCN recommendations:

        -  Assessment 1: between J21 (= 3 wk) and J35 (= 5 wk) after the introduction of a
           treatment (= J0) : the blood test must include at least one NFS and reticulocytes with
           RET-He (carried out in the ICO laboratory). This assessment will allow an intermediate
           evaluation of the effectiveness of the treatment by the doctor in order to envisage a
           possible implementation under ASE.

        -  Assessment 2: between J36 (= 6 wk) and J84 (= 12 wk) after the introduction of a
           treatment (= J0). The blood test must include at least one NFS (carried out in the ICO
           laboratory).

      An exclusion from the protocol will be carried out in a second step if the patient receives a
      globular pellet transfusion between the initial blood test and the assessment 1. The results
      of the assessment 2 will not be taken into account if the patient has a transfusion between
      the assessment 1 and the assessment 2.
    
  