
    
      Background:

        -  Patients presenting de novo with metastatic bladder cancer, or developing visceral
           metastatic disease after local treatment, are incurable with currently available
           therapeutic modalities.

        -  Only a small number of chemotherapeutic agents have been tested and very few have some
           single agent activity in the treatment of metastatic urothelial carcinoma. However most
           (>100) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved anticancer agents have yet to be
           tested in this disease.

        -  Novel approaches to the development of genomic predictors of chemosensitivity that do
           not require clinical trials for their identification are urgently needed in order to
           identify agents that are clinically effective when either repurposed or discovered de
           novo specifically for urothelial carcinoma. Such repurposing of an FDA approved
           anticancer agent in order to advance therapy from one cancer to another would require
           only minimal clinical development, saving billions of dollars and reducing the time
           required to reach routine clinical practice.

        -  Our established extramural-intramural National Cancer Institute (NCI) collaboration
           pulls together significant expertise in biomarker development and clinical trial design
           in bladder cancer. The innovation of this group lies not only in the novel scientific
           approaches i.e. CoeXpression ExtrapolatioN (COXEN) under investigation, but also in the
           successful creation of a cohesive multi-institutional research collaboration dedicated
           to improved clinical outcomes in bladder cancer patients.

        -  COXEN uses molecular profiles as a Rosetta Stone for translating drug sensitivities of
           one set of cancers into predictions for another completely independent set of cell lines
           or human tumors. The COXEN methodology has been scrutinized and deemed methodologically
           sound by peer review. The ability of COXEN to predict drug effectiveness in patients a
           priori, from purely in vitro assays, is unique as no other tool currently either in
           practice or in development provides similar results.

      Objectives:

      - To determine the feasibility of using the Co-eXpression ExtrapolatioN (COXEN) model in
      making a real-time treatment decision (within 3 weeks) in patients with advanced urothelial
      carcinoma.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have a histologically confirmed diagnosis of metastatic, progressive
           urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, urethra, ureter, or renal pelvis.

        -  Patients must have progressive metastatic disease defined as new or progressive lesions
           on cross-sectional imaging.

        -  Patients must have at least:

             -  One measurable site of disease (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
                Tumors (RECIST) criteria)

             -  Or, appearance of one new bone lesion

        -  Patients must have been previously treated, as defined by treatment with at least one
           prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimen or agent. Patients may have received any number of
           prior cytotoxic agents.

        -  Archival tumor tissue must be available for enrollment.

        -  Tumor amenable to biopsy will be mandatory for this study.

        -  18 years of age or older

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status <2 (Karnofsky >60%)

      Design:

        -  This will be a pilot single-arm, open-label study using the COXEN score to select the
           best next therapy from a list of 75 FDA approved anti-neoplastic drugs, in patients with
           metastatic bladder cancer who have progressed despite treatment with cytotoxic
           chemotherapy. Combinations of the listed agents may also be utilized provided that phase
           1 data are available.

        -  The COXEN algorithm requires a multi-step process (pathology, tissue processing,
           messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) profiling, bioinformatics, etc.) and is potentially
           labor intensive and time intensive.

        -  Given the disease state of patients eligible for this protocol, using this algorithm to
           select a treatment would only be a worthwhile process to undertake if it can be
           demonstrated that a very high fraction of patients are likely to obtain the benefit from
           the procedure.
    
  