
    
      This study is a multi-center cross-sectional survey and diagnostic test led by the National
      Clinical Research Center for Digestive Disease (Shanghai) (Department of Gastroenterology,
      Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University), which is conducted at about 200
      digestive endoscopy centers nationwide in China, with the expectation of including 25,000
      patients (200,000 screening and 5,000 adenoma resection). The basic characteristics of
      patients, bowel preparation method and quality, and related information of colonoscopy are
      recorded in detail. According to the research purpose, the whole project can be divided into
      three sections.

        1. Screening section: All patients receive FIT test and colonoscopy, whose age, sex, family
           history, smoking history, body mass index (BMI), and diabetes history of the patients
           are collected by researchers through pad, equipped with a specially designed database
           and app. Using colonoscopy results as the gold standard, the screening value of the APCS
           score and FIT test for the Chinese population is explored, and the optimal screening
           strategy of colorectal cancer for the Chinese established initially.

        2. Resection section: During the polypectomy, for all pathologically confirmed or
           NBI-predicted adenomas with size<10mm, 1-2 biopsies were randomly performed on the edge
           after resection to determine the completion rate of the polypectomy.

        3. Identification and classification section: For Patients regardless of cancer screening
           or polypectomy, if there is polyp, observation of narrow band imaging (NBI) with or
           without magnification is required, with 4 white light and NBI images collected and
           reserved, respectively. If there is magnifying endoscopy, another 4 endoscopic images of
           magnification are also required. Endoscopists are invited to predict the pathology of
           polyps according to the NBI International Colorectal Endoscopic (NICE) classification
           principle and endoscopic images, and upload the pathological results and endoscopic
           images within 2-4 week after colonoscopy.
    
  