
    
      The inclusion criteria were age older than 18 years and undergoing TLIF for degenerative
      lumbar disc disease, spinal stenosis, or spondylolisthesis. Those who had spinal fracture,
      spinal infection, spinal tumor, and a history of previous spinal surgery; and those who were
      lost to follow-up or failed to complete the questionnaires were excluded.

      Patients eligible for the study were selected by an independent research assistant. The study
      was explained, and informed consent was obtained from patients before the surgery. Using a
      randomization sequence, the patients were assigned to the brace or no brace group. The
      attending surgeons and patients were blinded before the surgery.

      Patients in the brace group were instructed to wear a rigid brace (Knight-Taylor [chairback]
      brace) full-time for 12 weeks, except when bathing or lying in bed. Patients in the no brace
      group were instructed to wear a soft corset for 2 weeks, after which it was weaned off. All
      patients started wearing the brace or corset during their first ambulation out of bed
      following drainage tube removal after the surgery.

      The success of interbody fusion was evaluated by computed tomography (CT) at the 6-month
      postoperative follow-up using the Brantigan-Steffee-Fraser (BSF) classification6.
      Radiographic fusion (BSF-3) was defined as bone bridging at least half of the fusion area
      with at least the density originally achieved at surgery. Radiographic locked pseudarthrosis
      (BSF-2) was indicated by lucency visible in the middle of the cage with solid bone growing
      into the cage from each vertebral end plate. Radiographic pseudarthrosis (BSF-1) was
      indicated by collapse of the construct, loss of disk height, vertebral slip, broken screws,
      displacement of the cage, significant resorption of the bone graft, or lucency visible around
      the periphery of the graft or cage.

      Perioperative complications, such as wound infection, epidural hematoma, intraoperative dural
      tear, nerve root damage, and implant dislodgement, were recorded, as were the reoperations
      and medically related complications within 6 months. The implant-related complications, such
      as screw loosening, cage migration, or broken screws, detected using plain radiograph at each
      follow-up and CT scan at the latest follow-up were also recorded. Pedicle screw loosening was
      defined as a radiolucent zone around the screw on a CT scan at the 6-month follow-up

      Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS (version 22.0, IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA).
      Categorical data were compared using chi-square or Fisher's exact test. Continuous data were
      compared using the independent t-test. The two-tailed significance level was set at p <0.05.
    
  