
    
      Study design: observational pilot study. Approximately one hundred, participants (25 in each
      of group, A to D), will be enrolled at a single clinical site.

      Study question: Do participants who have chronic or acute viral infections i.e. untreated
      HIV, HIV-HCV with treated HIV and untreated HCV, untreated HCV monoinfection or untreated HBV
      monoinfection, have a significant excess of activated lymphocytes as measured by D1+D2 on the
      XN WDF channel using the XN-20 analyser?

      Objectives:

      Primary: To assess whether participants who have chronic or acute viral infections have a
      significant excess of activated lymphocytes measured by the Sysmex-XN 20 analyser.

      Secondary: To compare, the absolute numbers and percentages of lymphocytes subsets as
      measured in the Sysmex-XN 20 analyser to the percentages of these cells when measured using
      standard laboratory methods i.e. flow cytometry.

      Primary Outcome Measure(s): Percentage of lymphocytes measured in area D1+D2 of the XN WDF
      and W1/W2 ratio from the WPC channel.

      Secondary Outcome Measure(s ):

        1. % lymphocytes in the D1 area of the XN WDF channel;

        2. % lymphocytes in the D2 area of the XN WDF channel;

        3. % lymphocytes in the D0 area of the XN WDF channel;

        4. correlation between CD4+ T-cells (as measured by standard flow cytometry) and the D1+D2
           area on the XN WDF channel;

        5. correlation between CD8+ T-cells (as measured by standard flow cytometry) and the D1+D2
           area on the XN WDF channel;

        6. correlation between CD4+ T-cells (as measured by standard flow cytometry) and the W1/W2
           area on the XN WPC channel;

        7. correlation between CD8+ T-cells (as measured by standard flow cytometry) and the W1/W2
           area on the XN WPC channel;

      Exploratory:

      Association of uncontrolled viral infection and the following as measured on the XN-20
      platform

        -  % of lymphocytes mainly synthesizing antibodies with high fluorescence intensity
           (AS-Lymph);

        -  absolute and % lymphocytes reacting to infection with high fluorescence intensity
           (RE-Lymph);

        -  % reactive monocytes

        -  Neutrophil reactivity intensity;

        -  Neutrophil granularity intensity;

        -  Immature platelet fraction;

        -  Comparison of the blood film (DI-60 Review) and selected WBC subset read outs from the
           XN-20.

        -  Review of WDF lymphocyte cloud positional information using -
           HFLC/LY-X/LY-Y/LY-Z/LY-WX/LY-WY/LY-WZ.
    
  