
    
      The goal of the screening visit is to confirm that the Subject/Healthy Control is willing to
      participate in the study and that they meet the eligibility criteria for the study.

      The screening visit will include:

      i. Obtaining signed informed consent /assent to screen for eligibility
      (Consent/Assent-Subject, Consent/Assent-Control).

      ii. Reviewing the subject/control for eligibility (per inclusion/exclusion criteria).

      Subjects will be identified through several pathways: 1) Patients with confirmed IBS or IBD
      in existing site databases who have previously consented to be contacted for future IBS
      studies or those approached in clinic with a recent confirmed diagnosis of IBS/IBD and
      consent to participate and 2) patients with self-reported IBS or IBD who contact the site
      coordinator or who are identified in clinic with an unsubstantiated diagnosis of IBS/IBD.

      Subjects with a confirmed diagnosis of IBS or IBD and who have given prior consent to be
      contacted, will be prescreened by phone or in person. All others will be invited to a
      screening visit and the study rationale and design will be explained. Interested subjects
      will be asked to provide informed written consent. Eligibility will then be confirmed and
      subjects will complete the questionnaires and provide the necessary samples at this and a
      follow-up visit if necessary.

      Subjects who do not meet the diagnostic criteria for IBS or IBD and wish to have the
      diagnosis confirmed, will be advised to see their family physician for any necessary
      diagnostic testing. A letter to the family physician will be provided stating that the
      patient had been approached about the study and that the diagnosis of IBS/IBD could not been
      made due to an absence of testing and/or failure to meet the predefined criteria. Patients
      will also be informed if they fail to meet other eligibility criteria that would exclude them
      from the study.

      When eligibility for subjects and healthy controls has been confirmed, the following
      questionnaires will be answered and samples obtained:

        -  Blood samples

        -  Metabolomic urine sample

        -  Stool sample (metagenomics, metabolomics, fecal calprotectin (FCAL) and β-defensins)

        -  Demographic questionnaire

        -  Quality of life questionnaire (EQ-5D for adults)

        -  Food Frequency Questionnaire

        -  Psychological questionnaires (pediatric for ≤ 17 years, adult for those > 17 years)

        -  Optional on-line additional psychological questionnaires for adults

        -  Disease specific questionnaires (UC, CD and IBS - UC and CD further divided into
           pediatric for ≤ 17 years, adult for those > 17 years)

        -  General gastrointestinal symptom questionnaires (Short for Leeds Dyspepsia
           Questionnaire, PROMIS diarrhea, PROMIS abdominal pain, PROMIS constipation and PROMIS
           bloating).

        -  Workplace productivity questionnaire.
    
  