
    
      Upon arrival, all participants will be asked to read the study information again and sign to
      confirm their informed consent. They will also be asked to complete the sociodemographic data
      (SDD) questionnaire.

      During the experiment there will be three points of questionnaire-assessment. The following
      questionnaires will be used: expectancy will be assessed with the Expectancy of Relief Scale.
      Expectancy of Relief Scale is adapted to the scaling of the primary outcome. Expectancy has
      been measured in previous studies. It should detect if participants expectancy changes after
      the intervention phase. Further, it would also be interested to examine if the presence or
      absence of a dog has an impact on expectancy.

      Furthermore, following each pain stimuli participants will be asked to complete two short
      questions on pain intensity and unpleasantness. Pain intensity and unpleasantness are adapted
      to the scaling of the primary outcome. Subjective pain intensity and unpleasantness are
      commonly assessed pain dimensions in heat pain paradigm studies. Intensity entails the
      cognitive dimensions of pain, whereas unpleasantness comprises the affective dimension of
      pain. Also, after each pain stimuli participants will complete the Counselor Rating
      Form-Short (CRF-S) to assess they perception of the experimenter.

      After pain measurement, there will be a final assessment, using the credibility and
      effectiveness of the placebo analgesia expectation (CMQ; adapted Version of the Context Model
      Questionnaire), as well as the CRF-S and a short questionnaire on participants attitude
      towards dogs and pets (AAPL questionnaire). Study factors, dependent variables and schedule
      of the study are represented in Tables 1 and 2.

      Before starting with the experimental procedures all participants will be introduced to the
      TSA-II de-vice and the study procedure. All participants will be assigned to a baseline
      assessment of heat tolerance and threshold. Participants will be randomized to the four
      experimental conditions (see below) followed by experimentally induced pain using an
      established and standardized heat pain paradigm: Heat stimuli will be administered to the
      right volar forearm using a 30x 30-mm Peltier device (Medoc, Ramatishai, Israel; TSA-II)
      placed at 2/3 of the distance from wrist to elbow. Heat pain threshold will be determined by
      the methods of limits. Temperature will be increased from the baseline (32°C) at a rate of
      0.5°C /s. Participants are instructed to press the button to determine the turning point from
      perceiving warmth to the perception of pain. When the pain threshold has been reached, the
      device will resume from its baseline (32 °C) with a rise of 0.5 °C/s. This procedure will be
      repeated three times (Locher et al., 2017). Pain threshold will be defined as the average of
      the three measurements. Pain tolerance will also be determined by the method of limits:
      Participants will be asked to stop the increasing heat stimulus at the moment they cannot
      stand the heat any longer. Three measurements will start at 32 °C, with a rise of 0.5 °C/s.
      Heat tolerance will be defined as the average of the three measurements. Pain threshold will
      always be measured prior to pain tolerance in order to minimize interference between pain
      threshold and tolerance. After pain induction, participants will complete in the CMQ and the
      CRF-S questionnaires to detect how they perceive the experimenter. All instructions will be
      conveyed in a standardized manner to ensure that the participant-experimenter relationship is
      comparable in terms of friendliness and attention across all four conditions.

      Experimental conditions:

        -  Placebo condition (PL): Participants will receive verbal information that they are
           receiving an analgesic cream (i.e. ""Antidolor, containing Lidocain "), which has been
           shown to produce significant pain reduction in previous clinical trials. However, they
           will receive an inert cream.

        -  Animal-assisted placebo condition (AAPL): Participants receive the same verbal
           information as in the PL condition. Additionally, they will be told that a dog will be
           present during the experiment to examine whether animals can be present during
           experimental studies or if they are too big of a distraction. Prior to the pain
           assessment, participants are allowed to greet the dog. The intensity of interaction will
           be documented and be rated on a scale from 1-5 (1=very low degree of interaction, 5=very
           high degree of interaction). During the experiment the dog will be lying in the room
           with some distance to participants to avoid further physical interaction. The dog will
           always be lying at the same spot. Therefore, the distance between participant and dog
           will always be the same. However, participants will still be able to see the dog.

        -  Dog only condition (DO): Participants will be told that a dog will be present during the
           experiment to examine whether animals can be present during experimental studies or if
           they are too big of a distraction. Prior to the pain assessment, participants are
           allowed to greet the dog. The intensity of interaction will be documented and be rated
           on a scale from 1-5 (1=very low degree of interaction, 5=very high degree of
           interaction). During the experiment the dog will be lying in the room with some distance
           to participants to avoid further physical interaction. During the experiment the dog
           will be lying in the room with some distance to participants to avoid further physical
           interaction. The dog will always be lying at the same spot. Therefore, the distance
           between participant and dog will always be the same. However, participants will still be
           able to see the dog. After the introduction of the dog, participant will have the verbal
           information that the applied cream only moisturizes the skin to allow accurate pain
           measurements.

        -  No Dog condition (ND): Participants will participant will have the verbal information
           that the applied cream only moisturizes the skin to allow accurate pain measurements.

      After the intervention, pain induction will then be performed for a second time (test phase)
      and participants complete the CMQ, CRF-S and AAPL questionnaires. Finally, participants will
      be fully debriefed about the real aims of the experiment (delayed informed consent). The
      expected study duration will be 70 minutes.
    
  