
    
      BACKGROUND

      Major depressive disorder imposes catastrophic health and economic impacts in Malawi, and
      throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Depression is a leading cause of disability in Malawi. Yet,
      best evidence suggests that over 90% of individuals with the condition receive no treatment
      (1). The cost of inaction is liable to have wide-ranging impacts. In terms of health,
      depression-when untreated-typically observes a recurrent trajectory across the lifespan, and
      is associated with significant depreciation in quality of life. Depression also indirectly
      impacts other health outcomes, including HIV outcomes such as adherence to antiretroviral
      therapy and health-seeking behavior. In terms of social ecology, depression affects
      interpersonal relationships, engagement in household activities, and labor force
      participation. The World Economic Forum has estimated a $30 trillion loss over a twenty-year
      span due to neglected treatment of neuropsychiatric conditions, largely due to lost labor
      force participation (2).

      Integrating depression care into Neno's HIV platform represents a cost-effective, scalable
      solution in Neno District, Malawi, consistent with best practices. Over the past 10 years,
      Malawi has enrolled over a million individuals in antiretroviral therapy. Current enrollment
      levels stand at 580,000. This has been achieved by introducing a framework of HIV care
      delivery, the basis of which is a network of 706 HIV clinics throughout the country. Over
      this same timeframe, HIV has evolved from an acute condition with poor prognosis, to a
      chronic condition with vastly improved survival rates. Given this context, the HIV system is
      a strategic point of entry for screening and treating depression, as it represents a
      leveragable chronic care system. In Neno District, HIV facilities have already transitioned
      into an integrated chronic care platform for treating conditions like diabetes, hypertension,
      asthma and epilepsy. Likewise, community health screenings, routine in Malawi, could be
      leveraged to screen for depression.

      Overarching Objective. Evaluate a clinical model of screening and treatment for depression in
      terms of 'real world' effectiveness and cost-effectiveness at reducing depression in Neno
      District.

      Objective 1. Determine the implementation strategy effectiveness-in terms of improved
      depression (PHQ-9), daily functioning (WHODAS), and overall health (EQ5D)-of introducing a
      stepped model of depression care (behavioral therapy and antidepressant therapy) among adults
      receiving integrated chronic care in Neno District, Malawi between July 1, 2021-June 30,
      2025.

      Objective 2. Determine the cost-effectiveness the stepped model of depression care
      (behavioral therapy and antidepressant therapy) among adults receiving integrated chronic
      care in Neno District, Malawi between July 1, 2021-June 30, 2025.

      Objective 3: Assess positive externalities associated with depression care, including
      improved wellbeing among household members of treated patients, and improved physical health
      outcomes among patients receiving depression care.

      Objective 4: Inspect mediators and moderators of improved depression care, including a dose
      effect from level of treatment received (number of behavioral therapy sessions), reduced
      internalized mental health stigma, and improved perceived social support.

      RATIONALE

      The framework strategically addresses the bi-directionality of depression and HIV outcomes. A
      broad literature throughout sub-Saharan Africa has outlined the impact of HIV-including
      HIV-related stigma, reduced quality of life and ability to maintain employment-on elevated
      depression levels (3). Depression, in turn, predicts HIV-related outcomes such as adherence
      to ART. As such, targeting depression care among a population that includes HIV+ individuals
      in Malawi should yield significant benefits in terms of HIV-related outcomes. Outside
      sub-Saharan Africa, there is increasing evidence that integrative health services represents
      stronger value for money than stand-alone models.

      Research examining the benefits and costs of treating neuropsychiatric conditions, including
      depression, suffers two key limitations. First, evaluations have only measured
      individual-level, direct treatment effects. This approach under-appreciates the social
      ecology of mental health: that individuals are typically situated within families, and
      families within communities. From this lens, neuropsychiatric disorders have shown adverse
      effects-in terms of burden of care and emotional wellbeing-on household members. Previously,
      the investigators showed that, when individuals' mental health improves through treatment,
      indirect benefits are observed among household members (4). Likewise, measurement limited to
      direct treatment effects overlooks indirect benefits to overall health, including for
      comorbid conditions such as HIV, that may result from mental health intervention. A second
      shortcoming is that evaluations have focused on measuring costs of standalone interventions,
      which are costlier than those that leverage existing systems. For instance, interventions for
      youth have often integrated within school systems to lower costs. In Malawi, the national HIV
      system-already transitioning to an integrated chronic care platform in Neno District-holds
      potential to treat depression at lower costs by building on established systems of
      longitudinal care.

      In terms of historical objectives, a preponderance of mental health evaluations in
      low-resource settings has stopped at the point of measuring effectiveness, rather than
      cost-effectiveness, with a few exceptions by project members. The consequences are marked: In
      settings of financial constraint such as Neno District, Malawi, resources allocated to a
      particular program necessarily means resources allocated away from another. As such,
      assessing intervention costs are fundamental for determining scalability. A collaborative
      care model of treatment for depression and comorbid conditions such as HIV and diabetes has
      the potential to overcome resource constraints, which cost-effectiveness analysis would
      demonstrate.

      The investigators will evaluate an evidence-based stepped care model of depression treatment
      integrated into Neno's HIV system, assessing health outcomes and cost-effectiveness,
      inclusive of direct and indirect benefits. Partners In Health (PIH), in collaboration with
      the Malawian Ministry of Health, has operated in Neno District-home to 165,000 Malawians-for
      12 years. The investigators proposed to integrate a stepped care model for
      depression-combining antidepressant therapy (ADT) with group-based Problem Management Plus
      (PM+), the elements of which have been successfully instituted by the research team in
      low-resource settings, ranging from Rwanda to Haiti. The proposed study will evaluate a model
      that trains clinical staff situated in clinics to screen and diagnose depression, and
      administer PM+ among those with a diagnosis of moderate or severe depression. Over five
      weekly 1.5-2.5 hour group sessions, the behavioral intervention combines empirically-based
      treatment components such as psychoeducation, strategic problem solving, and behavioral
      activation (5). This will be coupled with antidepressant therapy (ADT) among those with
      severe depression.

      To assess intervention benefits, the investigators will measure patient outcomes for
      depression every 3 months-including baseline, post-intervention, 6-months, and 12-months
      follow-up-as well as markers of comorbid conditions: including viral load and ART adherence
      among those are HIV+ (71% of the sample) as well as other disease-specific outcomes such as
      systolic blood pressure for hypertensive patients (17% of sample) and hemoglobin A1C for
      diabetic patients (2% of sample)-supported by an electronic medical records system.
      Importantly, to quantify indirect benefits of depression care, the investigators will also
      interview household members at baseline and 6-months follow-up to evaluate burden of care,
      including emotional distress and missed days of work. The investigators will convert direct
      and indirect benefits to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).

      METHODS

      Design of Study. We will implement a stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial of an
      evidence-based intervention for depression care within Neno's HIV system, currently
      undergoing transition to a chronic care platform, examining depression symptoms and outcomes
      of comorbid conditions, inclusive of HIV, across 14 facilities rolled-out clinic-wide in five
      steps over 15 months (6). This design is a gold standard experimental approach aligned with
      PIH's clinical goal to implement depression care permanently throughout Neno District, and is
      a methodological framework on which we have unique expertise, including locally.

      Place of Study. This study will take place in Neno District, a catchment area of 165,000
      Malawians, where 12,186 are enrolled in integrated chronic care-including for HIV. Five-year
      retention in ART in Neno District is 80%, while five-year mortality is close to 15%. The
      viral suppression rate is 83%. These figures signify Neno as high performing but also
      underscores significant room for improvement-particularly among the most vulnerable, such as
      those with depression. As such, we do not anticipate a ceiling effect for measuring HIV
      outcomes among those concurrently enrolled in depression care. This is also true for other
      chronic conditions: e.g. only 60% of hypertensive patients currently have controlled systolic
      blood pressure (<140 mm Hg). Successes to-date have been achieved through modest human
      resource investments such as CHWs, suggesting replicability nationally. This has been
      supported by the investigators' past cost-effectiveness analyses.

      Target Population. The investigators intend to recruit at least 420 adults with depression
      for participation in this study, beginning July 1, 2021 and continuing through June 30, 2025.
      This number is based on the sample size needed for us to determine the effectiveness of the
      depression treatment, as well as the prevalence of depression in Malawi: At each ICC clinic,
      200-1,800 patients are seen on a quarterly basis. The investigators anticipate 10%-12% of all
      patients (n=12,186) will screen positive for depressive symptoms, and 6% will be diagnosed
      with moderate/severe depression. Prior studies in Malawi have found acceptance of research
      study participation is 90% or higher. In addition, the investigators will be conducting
      interviews with 210 households among half of participants-in order to determine whether the
      intervention improves quality of life within households.

      Sampling Techniques and Tools. The full study period is January 1, 2021 through June 30,
      2025. The first six months will be preparation. Beginning July 1, 2021, all adults attending
      integrated chronic care clinics will be screened for depression symptoms using the PHQ-2 by
      existing clinical officers. Consistent with the prior screening literature, those with a
      score > 2 will complete remaining questions of the PHQ-9; and a score >9 will trigger
      administration of the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) by a trained
      counselor. Those with PHQ-9<10 (no/mild depression) will receive a psychoeducation session,
      but will not be enrolled-based on limited availability of health professionals and need-based
      prioritization. Those with moderate/severe depression (PHQ-9>9, corresponding to diagnosis of
      major depression) will be eligible for cohort enrollment. Screening, diagnosis and enrollment
      will occur continuously across all facilities over the full trial period; those who meet
      diagnostic criteria will be enrolled. Treatment will be rolled-out progressively: patients in
      each cluster's cohort will be initiated into the intervention: Three facilities will begin
      treatment immediately (Step 1), with remaining facilities will initiate treatment at three-
      (Step 2), six- (Step 3), nine- (Step 4) or twelve-months (Step 5) later. The stepped-wedge
      approach enables all facilities throughout Neno District to implement the model, as such
      maintaining equipoise. Assessment of patients on outcome measures will occur at every 3
      months.

      Sample Size Determination. The investigators assume n=30 enrollees per facility (total
      n=420), based on depression prevalence in Malawi. The investigators further assume loss to
      follow-up of 15%, based on intervention trials that the investigators have conducted in
      similar settings. To account for clustering, the investigators calculated detectable
      differences using an intracluster correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.05 within treatment
      group and 0.01 within rollout step, based on depression treatment studies in multiple
      developing countries, including the investigators' pilot work. Based on this, the
      investigators find n=420 enrollees to be sufficient (power > 0.80; (alpha=.05; 2-tailed) for
      detecting a clinically meaningful standardized effect size of 0.5 (Cohen's d) for primary
      outcomes, including accounting for cluster autocorrelation. This is not separated by modality
      (though the investigators will explore this): it is to assess overall effectiveness of the
      stepped care model.

      Data Collection Techniques and Tools. Over the 15-month roll-out period, primary outcomes
      (PHQ-9, WHODAS, EQ5D) will be measured at three-month intervals among all participants from
      point of enrollment, consistent with the three-month increments between steps (see above).
      Three-month increments will coincide with treatment initiation, post-intervention, 6 months
      and 12 months follow-up. In the event an enrolled individual no longer meets criteria at
      treatment initiation, the individual will leave the cohort and not be eligible for treatment
      but will continue to be evaluated every three months for future eligibility. Given that
      screening, diagnosis and enrollment will occur at all facilities over the full trial period,
      the investigators expect any reduction in patients enrolled in the cohort due to lagged
      treatment initiation will be offset by newly-identified individuals over this same period.
      This is consistent with an open cohort design for stepped-wedge trials. Ultimately, this
      approach enables all facilities to implement the model, maintain equipoise, and create
      control sites by randomizing roll-out sequence. Measurement intervals are consistent with
      best practices in outcomes tracking, including past trials. Interviews with household members
      will be conducted at treatment initiation and 6-month follow-up, among 210 randomized
      households.

      Data Analysis. Analysis will assume a mixed-effects longitudinal regression framework, which
      the team has implemented in similar contexts. To account for nesting of patients within
      treatment groups and clusters, as well as time points (autocorrelation), patient, patient
      group and cluster will be incorporated as random effects, while cluster assignment and
      covariates are included as fixed effects-using STATA's MIXED command. The investigators will
      run sensitivity analyses to test if data are missing at random (MAR), and examine stigma and
      social support as moderators, as well as potential mediation using causal mediation analysis.

      Effectiveness. The investigators will use linear mixed-effects regression analysis to test
      differences between study arms on change in primary outcomes. Models will adjust for patient
      demographics, as well as stigma and social support. Analysis will assume an intention-to-
      treat (ITT) framework, with and without multiple imputation analysis. In addition to ITT, the
      investigators will perform a 'completers only' analysis to exam outcomes among those who
      adhered to treatment, and examine dose response.

      Cost-effectiveness. Health measures will be converted to QALYs using the EQ5D-3L cross-walk
      between domain-specific outcomes. This approach has been utilized and published on
      previously. QALY estimates will be related to base case and treatment cost estimates. For
      formal CEA, the investigators will use a gold standard Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)
      simulation-based approach in TreeAge, from a societal perspective. For sensitivity analyses,
      the investigators will vary discount rates from 0-5%, based on health-adjusted life
      expectancy. Unit of interest is the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of cost per
      QALY, comparing the cost of integrated chronic care before and after introduction of the
      depression treatment.

      PROTOCOL

      Evidence-based treatment of depression. Drawing from a manual-driven framework of enhanced
      Problem Solving Therapy (PST) known as Problem Management Plus (PM+), developed by the WHO
      for low-resource settings, the investigators will implement a gold standard, stepped approach
      to treatment for depression. The model will follow a group format, based on three
      considerations: this lowers costs of human resources, which is essential when considering
      national scalability; it provides peer support during treatment; and it is culturally
      appropriate for the setting. These considerations have been sources of advocacy for the group
      model by WHO. In settings where group format has been implemented, results have been
      comparable to individual format. Local counselors will administer PST in five 1.5-2.5 hour
      sessions, with 6-8 participants per group, consistent with WHO guidelines. Among those with
      PHQ-9>15, antidepressant therapy (ADT) will be offered following WHO mhGAP procedures.

      Depression screening. The investigators will screen patients ages 18+ enrolled in ICC clinics
      in Neno District, beginning the first quarter of Y2. Screening, diagnosis and enrollment into
      the treatment cohort will occur continuously across facilities, administered by data clerks
      and counsellors trained on the PHQ-2 and PHQ-9, respectively (6). Screening will also occur
      every 3 months among individuals in the active cohort to determine current treatment
      eligibility status. The PHQ-2 assesses frequency of depressed mood and anhedonia, and has
      been implemented throughout Africa. Use of PHQ-2 as a first step has will save time: the
      investigators are screening 12,186 adults. The selected threshold allows high sensitivity.
      Patients who screen positive with the PHQ-2 (score >2; range: 0-6) will immediately receive
      remaining PHQ-9 questions, on which a score > 9 (range: 0-27) represents a possible
      depressive disorder. Those with PHQ-9<10 will receive a psychoeducation session from the
      clinical officer, using a manual on which they have been trained. Those with PHQ>9
      (moderate/severe depression) will be referred to a counselor to administer the diagnostic
      protocol.

      Depression diagnosis. Counselors will review PHQ-9 scores and administer the
      Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) to diagnose depression: 5 of 9 symptoms
      present and functional impairment. All patients will be evaluated for suicide risk and
      whether immediate intervention is warranted. If so, they will be referred to the supervising
      physician at the health facility, triggering an emergency protocol. Patients will be assigned
      to one of three categories: mild, moderate and severe depression. Those with a negative
      diagnosis will not be eligible for the intervention, and will undergo PHQ-2 screenings at
      subsequent visits for eligibility. Those with a positive diagnosis and PHQ-9>10 will be
      eligible. Those with PHQ-9 10-14 will be offered PST alone. Those with PHQ-9>15
      (moderate-to-severe depression) will be offered PST and ADT as joint treatment, with the
      alternative to choose a single modality. Pregnant women with severe depression will also be
      eligible for ADT. Best evidence, including recent systematic reviews, does not find increased
      risk for mother or infant with appropriately administered ADT, and there are significant
      potential benefits of improved wellbeing of the mother.

      Psychoeducation and treatment selection. Counselors will inform patients on availability of
      PST and ADT, outline potential benefits and risks, provide an overview of the study, and
      acquire informed consent. Those who decline care will be offered psychoeducation and referred
      to available resources. Among those who elect PM+, the first PM+ session will also
      incorporate in-depth psychoeducation. Patients with a PHQ-9 score of 10-14 will be provided
      the option of ADT but recommended PM+ instead, given that behavioral therapy has established
      efficacy and avoids potential side effects of ADT. Patients with PHQ-9 > 15 will also be
      given the options of PST, ADT, or both, and recommended both. At facilities randomized to
      administer the intervention immediately, patients will be informed of date, time and location
      of their first PM+ session.

      Problem Management Plus (PM+). Counselors (n=8) will receive intensive training in Year 1 by
      to administer PM+ using a manualized approach. Training and supervision are described below.
      PM+ is a WHO-enhanced framework of Problem Solving Therapy (PST) for implementation by lay
      personnel in low-resource settings like Neno, designed to be conducted in five weekly 1.5-2.5
      hour sessions. Elements of PM+, including sequential problem solving, have been applied by
      the research team in numerous settings with marked success, including in Lilongwe. This
      district-wide randomized trial leveraging Neno's existing infrastructure would represent a
      critical evidential support for WHO's agenda to expand the model globally. Modules include:
      psychoeducation, managing problems, behavioral activation, social support strengthening, and
      stress reduction.

      Antidepressant Therapy (ADT). The investigators expect 20-25% of study participants-i.e.
      those who meet diagnostic criteria-to have moderately severe or severe depression and opt to
      enroll in ADT. Fluoxetine, a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), and
      amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), are part of Malawi's national formulary.
      Neno District has a robust supply chain, which will reduce stock-out. Potential side effects
      of ADT are modest but include nausea, insomnia, and nervousness and will be communicated to
      participants prior to initiation. There is modest evidence ADT may increase risk of
      suicidality; this risk will be stated in informed consents, counselors will be trained to
      identify this risk, and will be formally assessed during outcome assessments, with the
      potential to trigger protocol for suicidal ideation. Benefits of ADT often outweigh risk of
      harm and negative impact of untreated depression. Fluoxetine is typically the first drug of
      choice because it is better tolerated.

      Dosing Algorithm: Daily dose will commence at 20 mg of fluoxetine, or 25 mg of amitriptyline.
      Dose increments and levels are the same for each drug. At monthly follow-up visits, a dose
      increment or medication change may be considered based on measures of treatment response and
      side effects, using the Antidepressant Side Effect Checklist. This algorithm-based process
      will be repeated bi-weekly until the patient is fully responding to treatment for a period of
      three months (PHQ-9 < 5). Dose escalations of more than one increment and medication changes
      will be reviewed with the doctor-in-charge.

      MEASUREMENT

      Primary Outcomes. Measures will include surveys, laboratory assays, pharmacy data, and data
      abstracted from medical charts and the Depression Care Registry. Survey measures that have
      not been translated into Chichewa in the course of prior research will be translated using
      standard translation, back-translation methods, and will be administered at each assessment,
      unless otherwise noted.

      Depression symptoms. Depression symptoms will be measured with the PHQ-9, which has been
      translated previously and locally-validated. The investigators have elected to use PHQ-9
      because it has been implemented throughout sub-Saharan Africa, including Malawi, where the
      scale has shown high sensitivity responding to treatment, as well as concurrent and
      predictive validity. It contains nine four-point ordinal response items on topics such as
      hopelessness, psychosomatic response (e.g. sleeplessness, loss of appetite) and anhedonia.

      Functional impairment. Functional impairment including aspects of daily functioning,
      correspond to DSM diagnostic criteria. The investigators will evaluate this using the 12-item
      WHO Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0 (WHODAS). The WHODAS has been validated in a diverse
      range of sub-Saharan African contexts, including Malawi, and covers topics like completing
      household chores, concentrating, and maintaining relationships.

      Overall health. A health profile will be generated for each individual using the EQ-5D-3L,
      previously validated in Malawi. This survey determines patients' overall health at time of
      interview and offers a cross-walk to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).

      Secondary Outcomes. Secondary outcomes will constitute those measuring indirect benefits and
      costs of treatment. Indirect benefits will be incorporated into cost-effectiveness estimates
      by internalizing improvements among comorbid conditions such as HIV and hypertension, as well
      as reduced household burden of care.

      ART adherence. ART adherence will be measured in terms of whether HIV+ enrollees have
      returned to an IC3 for antiretrovirals (ARVs) within the past three months, an approach
      considered more reliable than self-reports. This interval overlays with clinical protocols
      throughout Malawi in terms of the duration for which ARVs are supplied.

      Viral load. Viral load will be measured as part of HIV+ patients' clinical assessment
      pre-intervention, post-intervention, 6- and 12-month follow-up, consistent with ongoing care
      at IC3s. This is considered a key metric for determining treatment plans and is highly
      sensitive to compliance with prescribed ART regimens.

      HIV disease staging. Staging will be evaluated every three months among HIV+ enrollees,
      consistent with IC3 visits. This approach to tracking disease progression is commonly used in
      low-resource settings.

      Chronic care outcomes. Chronic care outcomes on hypertension, type-2 diabetes, and epilepsy
      will be abstracted from electronic medical records. Systolic blood pressure and adherence to
      antihypertensive medication (measured by medicine pickups) will be measured among those with
      hypertension. Among those with type-2 diabetes, adherence to quarterly visits and A1C (or
      random blood sugar) levels will be abstracted. Among those with epilepsy, the investigators
      will catalog number of reported seizures in past quarter, and adherence to antiepileptics as
      measured by quarterly medicine pickups.

      Household burden of care. Lastly, household burden of care will be evaluated with household
      members using a locally-adapted version of the Burden Assessment Schedule (BAS), previously
      implemented by the team. The survey assesses dimensions of emotional and functional burden of
      care, including missed work, guilt and worry.

      Mediators and Moderators. Analyses will also include three mediators/moderators assessing
      potential pathways by which depression treatment leads to alleviation of depression symptoms,
      including enhanced social support, reduced HIV and depression-related stigma, and performance
      of psychosocial counsellors as quantified by fidelity to PM+ protocols.

      Perceived social support. Social support strengthening is a focus of PM+. This will be
      measured with the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS), previously
      validated, to assess support before and after care.

      Perceived stigma. Self-perceived stigma is associated with HIV status and depression,
      including in Malawi. The investigators will adapt the AIDS-Related Stigma Scale (ARSS) and
      Internalizing Stigma of Mental Illness (ISMI) scale in Year 1 of the project-both designed
      for use in community-based settings in sub-Saharan Africa.

      PM+ fidelity. Fidelity checklist scores will be generated for each counsellor by a lead
      clinical officer or supervisor. Research has shown that fidelity protocols are predictive of
      patient outcomes in the context of depression care.

      Household Interviews. Adult household members of participants-one per household-will be
      identified for participation based referral by the study participant and/or
      self-identification as a social support in close contact with the study participant. This
      individual will be informed that the research team is conducting a broad study on the
      relationship between individual and household health. Household interviews will chiefly
      comprise a subset of the battery administered to participants: specifically, the PHQ-9,
      WHODAS, and EQ-5D-3L (primary outcomes). In addition, household members will complete the
      BAS, as described above.

      Process Evaluation. In the final year of the project, the investigators will conduct
      qualitative interviews to assess provider and patient experiences on their perceived effects
      of the intervention, as well as implementation barriers and strategies used to solve them.
      The goal is to identify key lessons learned, and to ready the intervention tools for scale-up
      at end of study.

      Provider experience: In Year 5, the investigators will interview 10 clinical officers who
      prescribed ADT, as well as psychosocial counsellors who led PM+ sessions as well as diagnosed
      patients. In addition to discussing perceived strengths and weakness of the intervention and
      its implementation, the investigators will also discuss the training and supervision process,
      as well as provider job satisfaction and burnout.

      Patient experience: A random sample of 20 participants (10 male, 10 female) will be
      interviewed after their final study assessment to assess their experiences with the
      intervention - including logistical aspect of participation, impact on personal mental health
      and wellbeing, as well as changes in relationships at the household level.
    
  