
    
      Introduction :

      Oral antineoplastic agents know a full development in particular targeted therapies. Their
      adverse events (AE) lately detected can lead to non compliance or treatment discontinuation
      which can be at the origin of disease progression. They can also lead to hospitalization or
      recourse to emergency department associating to cost for the society.

      Hypothesis :

      A coordinated intervention of cancer network in relation with primary healthcare
      professionals, would improve safety of care's patient treated with oral antineoplastic agent
      by preventing serious AEs through rapid detection.

      Primary objective :

      The primary objective is to estimate the effect of coordinated intervention of cancer
      network, in terms of number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for AE, within the
      first 6 months after oral neoplastic agent introduction.

      Secondary objectives :

      The secondary objective is to estimate the effect of coordinated intervention of cancer
      network, within the first 6 months after oral neoplastic agent introduction, in terms of
      number of hospitalization for AE, number of consultation for AE, number of early or
      unforeseen recourses to hospital for grade 1 / 2 AE, number of AE per detection grade, AE
      maximal grade, AE all grade, disease progression, the global survival (death for any causes
      and for AE), drug dose-intensity taken by the patient during his treatment, number of
      recourses to the health care system, quality of life, patient's satisfaction, medical
      economic evaluation

      Primary outcome :

      The main outcome is the number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for AE.

      Secondary outcomes :

      The secondary outcomes are all deaths and deaths from AE, number of hospitalization for AE,
      number of consultation for AE, number of early or unforeseen recourses to hospital for grade
      1 / 2 AE, disease progression, drug dose-intensity taken by the patient during his treatment,
      number of recourses to the health care system, number of AE per detection grade, AE maximal
      grade, AE all grade, quality of life, patient's satisfaction, medical economic
      evaluationMethodology, design :

      A comparative, controlled, not randomized, multicenter, prospective, "quasi-experimental"
      study, allows estimating evolution of patients according to the existence of a cancer network
      in their residence place.

      Number of needed subjects: 440 patients.

      Total duration of the study: 27 months. Inclusion Period: 21 months. length of participation
      period for one patient: 6 months. Number of participating centers: 21. Average number of
      inclusions a month by center: 4.
    
  