
    
      After eligibility has been confirmed, participants are instructed in performing the exercise
      which will be heel raises. Participants will be asked to complete the exercise standing with
      the forefoot on a step. The toes are maximally extended by placing a towel underneath them.
      The participant is instructed to perform a heel raise to maximal plantar flexion in the ankle
      joint and afterwards to lower the heel to maximal dorsiflexion. Supporting oneself for
      balance by touching the hands on a wall or a rail is allowed. The participants are instructed
      in performing the exercise with a load as heavy as possible but no higher than 8RM and for as
      many sets as possible. If the participants feel they can perform more repetitions than their
      load corresponds to (e.g. 10 repetitions when the load is supposed to be 8RM) an external
      load consisting of a backpack with books or water bottles to add weight will be used.
      Participants are asked to start performing the exercise as soon as they feel ready but not
      before 24 hours after the injection.

      Participants will receive patient education on what is known about the condition in terms of
      risk factors and aetiology, the pathology, activity modification, and the rationale for why
      the combination of heavy slow resistance training and an US-guided corticosteroid injection
      could lead to recovery. They will be told that compliance to the exercise programme is very
      important and that compliance to the exercises is associated with their recovery. They are
      also informed about other types of evidence-based treatments however, they are asked to
      refrain from seeking other treatments during the course of the study. A silicone heel cup
      will be given to all participants and they are asked to use the heel cup as much as possible.
      If the participant already uses an insole or any other type of foot orthosis they will be
      allowed to continue wearing this if they do not want to use the heel cup. Participants are
      asked not to progress the method used to achieve 8RM when they start to do the exercise after
      the injection until Week 3 of the exercise program. If standing on both feet was sufficient
      to achieve 8RM at baseline, the participant must not perform the exercise single-legged after
      the injection regardless of any pain reduction afforded by the injection.

      Participants receive an ultrasound-guided corticosteroid injection between 5 and 8 days after
      baseline. A 21-gauge, 40 mm needle is connected to a 2.5 cm3 syringe filled with 1 ml
      Triamcinolonhexacetonid (Lederspan, Meda) + 1 ml Lidocain 10 mg7ml (Xylocain, AstraZeneca).
      The skin is cleansed with Chlorhexidine alcohol 0.5 % (Medic). The needle is inserted with a
      medial approach under ultrasound-guidance aligned to the long axis of the ultrasound
      transducer. The injection is placed anterior to the plantar fascia insertion on the calcaneal
      bone in the region of maximal fascia thickness. If participants are not categorised as
      improved based on the Global Rating of Change after the 8 weeks of exercise they will be
      offered to receive a second injection and are advised to continue performing the exercise.
      These participants will have an additional follow-up 8 weeks after the second injection.

      All statistical analyses will be performed according to a pre-established analysis plan.
      STATA ver. 14 will be used as statistical software.

      Feasibility outcomes To conclude that the combined interventions are feasible the following
      three criteria will need to be met: i) ≥10/20 rate the combined interventions as
      "acceptable". The rationale for choosing this criterion is that the effect of the combined
      interventions has yet to be established and effective treatment could justify the use of an
      intervention that is slightly uncomfortable or considered slightly unacceptable by patients
      (e.g. chemo therapy is a very uncomfortable treatment but is tolerated and accepted by
      patients because of the potential effective outcome). Any dropouts after the injection will
      be dichotomized as "unacceptable". ii) based on the self-reported training diaries ≥15/20
      participants will need to have performed ≥20/27 possible training sessions; and iii) ≥15/20
      participants will need to have started performing the exercise ≤7 days after the injection.
      Weekly recruitment rate will be reported using descriptive statistics.

      Explorative quantitative outcomes Any changes in FHSQ, IPAQ, and PSEQ will be examined using
      a one-way repeated measures ANOVA, with time (baseline assessment, 4 weeks, or 8 weeks) as
      the independent factor, and FHSQ, IPAQ or PSEQ, respectively, as the dependent variable.
      Changes in plantar fascia thickness from baseline assessment to the 8-week follow-up and the
      difference in mean daily heel pain from before to after the injection will be examined using
      paired t-tests. GROC will be reported using descriptive statistics.

      If any participant decides to drop out before having received the injection a new participant
      will be recruited.
    
  