
    
      End - stage liver disease patients scheduled for liver transplantation will be enrolled. They
      will receive normal standard of care. The VOT assessment using a non-invasive, integrated
      research device (InspectraTM StO2 Vascular Occlusion test (VOT) Research Device Hutchinson
      Corp Minn, MN, USA) and 15 mm Inspectra thenar sensor probe. An integrated blood pressure
      cuff is placed on the right arm and inflated to a pressure sufficient to produce arterial
      inflow occlusion (50mmHg above systolic pressure). The cuff remains inflated until a StO2
      value of 40% is achieved. During the inflation and deflation, various StO2 parameters are
      measured and recorded at designed time point.

      Specific VOT parameters of interest:

        -  Baseline StO2 (reflective of perfusion/metabolism ratio)

        -  Ischemia slope (partly reflective of basal O2 consumption)

        -  Ischemia area (partly reflective of basal O2 consumption)

        -  Time till 40% ischemic threshold (partly reflective of basal O2 consumption)

        -  Recovery slope (biphasic and reflective of shear stress and endothelial vasoreactivity)

        -  Recovery area (reflective of endothelial vasoreactivity)

        -  Hyperemia area (reflective of endothelial vasoreactivity and tissue metabolic rate) To
           determine effect of core versus peripheral temperatures, a conventional skin
           thermocouple will be placed under adhesive patch used to secure NIRS optodes in position
           on thenar eminence

      Data collection

        1. Demographic data: a)age, b)sex, c)diagnosis, d)Model of End-stage Liver Disease (MELD)
           score, Body Mass Index (BMI)

        2. Clinical parameter : the investigator will collect clinical data including VOT
           parameters (from above), hemodynamics parameter, chemical parameters and medications
           used in specific time frame :

             -  time frame

                  1. pre-operative (for base line data)

                  2. pre-anhepatic phase (15 min. before the inferior vena cava (IVC) clamps)

                  3. anhepatic phase (30 min. after the IVC clamps),

                  4. reperfusion phase (30 min. after the release the IVC clamps),

                  5. immediately post operation (at the skin closure)

             -  hemodynamics : SpO2 (Pulse oxygen saturation), MAP (mean arterial pressure), HR
                (heart rate), CVP (Central venous pressure), PAP (Pulmonary artery pressure), CI
                (Cardiac output index), PCWP (Pulmonary artery wedge pressure), SVRI (Systemic
                vascular resistance index), PVRI (Pulmonary vascular resistance index), temperature

             -  chemical : Hb, Platelets, INR (international normalized ratio) (PT : Prothrombin
                time), PTT (partial thromboplastin time), Lactate, base excess

             -  Medications : Volatile agents, Vasopressors (Concentration at recorded time points)

      Then we will compare the dynamic changes of StO2 parameters in different time points (as
      mentioned) and compare to the hemodynamics and chemical parameters.
    
  