
    
      Several studies have investigated the use of balance and gait training and have demonstrated
      significant improvements in walking speed with trained stroke survivors. The inherent risks
      associated with balance and gait training requires the therapist to be vigilant with
      providing safety and support during challenging tasks. As a result, consumers are not
      challenged to their furthest limits and therapists put an inordinate amount of physical
      effort into safety control. KineAssist® Design, LLC in collaboration with Rehabilitation
      Institute of Chicago, developed the KineAssist® Balance and Gait Training System
      (KineAssist®). The KineAssist® is a novel device that allows full freedom of motion for the
      trunk and pelvis during gait and balance tasks, with additional postural control to enhance
      balance stability. These functions are available while the device follows the individual
      overground with minimal interference. The availability of postural control during complex and
      omnidirectional movement tasks allows the clinician to guarantee consumer safety and body
      weight support while at the same time provide graded task challenges to the fullest limits of
      the consumers capabilities. This KineAssist® is revolutionary in that it is the first device
      that is fully interactive and responsive to the movements and intentions of both the consumer
      and the therapist during overground challenging balance and gait activities.

      Accordingly, the long-term objective of this research is to test the efficacy of robotically
      enhanced, progressive gait and balance training for improving walking outcomes post-stroke.
      The following two aims are designed to test whether the KineAssist® provides a more
      challenging training environment than is typical with physical therapy, and then compares
      walking outcomes as a result of long-term (6 weeks) training.

      Aim: Using a randomized controlled research design, compare walking outcomes resulting from
      gait and balance training with standard physical therapist interaction versus training with
      the addition of a KineAssist®t.

      Overall, these studies are an important advance for the development of effective clinical
      interventions for individuals with impaired locomotor ability post-stroke. This study will
      provide critical information on physiological effects and clinical outcomes and provide
      important evidence for the use of this new class of robotic technology that accommodates both
      the clinician and the consumer in stroke rehabilitation.
    
  