
    
      Aim The aim of the study is to compare the effect of Oral chemotherapeutic drugs (Thalidomide
      and Capecitabine) in comparison with supportive therapy in the treatment of advanced
      Hepatocellular carcinoma in a randomized controlled trial.

      Setting The study would be conducted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
      Delhi, a tertiary care teaching hospital, in the departments of Gastroenterology and
      Radiodiagnosis.

      Diagnostic criteria

        -  Cirrhosis of liver- Diagnosis will be founded on the basis of clinical, biochemical,
           imaging and endoscopy findings.

        -  Hepatocellular carcinoma- when any one of the following is present

             1. Two imaging modalities (dual phase CT (DPCT)/ contrast enhanced MRI) showing
                arterialization of the hepatic mass

             2. AFP more than 400ng/ml along with arterialisation on one imaging modality (DPCT/
                contrast enhanced MRI)

             3. Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC)

      Definitions

      Advanced HCC-(BCLC D) Liver mass (solitary or multiple)with vascular involvement with any of
      the following

        -  extrahepatic disease

        -  distant metastasis

        -  PST score >2

      Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLS) staging is based on the BCLC classification (Llovet JM
      et al. Lancet 2003). Liver cancer is staged into BCLC A- D according to this classification.

      Tumor response: Based on DP contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) done every 1, 3, 6
      months after starting oral chemotherapy the response will be graded into the following-
      Complete response (CR): Tumor resolved completely Partial response (PR): Tumor size decreased
      >50% (product of 2 large diameters) Minor response (MR): Tumor size decreased 25 - 50% Stable
      disease (SD): Tumor size + 25% No response (NR): No change Disease progression Fresh lesions
      or recurrence

      Patient tolerance Grade 1: no side effects Grade 2: moderate side effects Grade 3: severe
      side effects Grade 4: life threatening side effects

      Performance status (PST score) PST score of 0-4 would be assessed on the following basis 0-
      No cancer related symptoms. Normal life style

        1. Minor symptoms related to cancer. Capable of non-strenuous activity.Fully ambulatory and
           capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Confined to bed
           less than 50% of waking hours

        2. Capable of only limited self-care. Confined to bed more than 50% of waking hours.

        3. Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed.

        4. Dead

      Sample Size Earlier studies have shown 1-year response rate of 10% for doxorubicin and 25%
      response rate for thalidomide. Combining these two drugs, 25% response rate is taken in the
      oral chemotherapy group, 37 patients are needed in each group. (Total 74 pts)

      Randomization

        -  Patients will be randomized after the confirmation of diagnosis and obtaining written
           consent

        -  Sequences will be generated by the Statistician

        -  Randomization will be done by drawing consecutively numbered opaque sealed envelopes

      Follow up Clinical follow up

        -  All patients would be followed up in the Liver clinic monthly unless their clinical
           condition warrants earlier follow up

        -  Liver function tests/ complete blood count would also be done at each visit and Alpha
           fetoprotein (AFP) (if elevated earlier) every six months

        -  Patient tolerance, child's status would be estimated.

        -  Side effects to the drugs would be noted.

      Imaging follow up

        -  At one month, a dual phase CT would be done to ascertain the response to therapy and the
           need to repeat the procedure. Subsequently, the DPCT would be done at 3 and 6 monthly
           intervals in the arm receiving oral chemotherapy.

      Duration of follow up- one year after starting chemotherapy
    
  