
    
      BACKGROUND: Because of their potent antiviral effects, protease inhibitor (PI)-containing
      antiretroviral regimens (ARV) have become one of the cornerstones of HIV treatment. Success
      with their use has however been dampened by increasing emergence of resistant viral gene
      mutation with consequent treatment failure. Since the availability of newer antiviral agents
      with activity against resistant viral strains are limited, clinicians are increasingly
      resorting to ritonavir (RTV) enhanced dual PI therapy to treat salvage patients.

      In the presence of RTV, the metabolism of concomitantly administered PIs by the cytochrome
      P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) isoenzyme is inhibited; higher plasma and tissue drug levels are maintained
      with less variability. The enhanced pharmacokinetics result in prolonged suppression of viral
      replication including strains with moderate phenotypic resistance leading to improved
      therapeutic outcomes. RTV enhanced dual PI therapy offers additional advantages as
      combinations of PIs with different and non-overlapping mutation patterns would be expected to
      delay emergence of viral resistance, coupled with the notion that the selection of resistance
      to two or more agents may require a greater number of mutations than that required to
      overcome a single PI. Furthermore, these combination regimens often result in reduction in
      pill burden, food restrictions, and may be associated with more tolerable side effect
      profiles.

      For these reasons, RTV enhanced indinavir (IDV) and fos-amprenavir (fos-APV) combinations
      appear promising for salvage therapy as these two agents are pharmacokinetically enhanced by
      RTV, and have unique resistant mutation profiles when compared with other PIs. Additionally,
      since clinically limiting interaction is known to occur between fos-APV and
      lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r), the interactions between IDV, fos-APV, and RTV may be different
      in a manner that could be clinically beneficial in salvage therapy. Importantly, we will
      evaluate IDV/fos-APV/RTV at a dose of 800/700/100 mg bid as we anticipate that fos-APV may
      lower IDV concentrations similarly to lopinavir (LPV), although likely to a lesser extent;
      such that a dual benefit of enhanced efficacy and improved tolerability could be achieved.
      The pharmacokinetic profile of this combination regimen therefore merits evaluation to allay
      concerns of clinically important drug-drug interactions before introduction into clinical
      practice.

      AIMS: The aim of this pilot study therefore is to evaluate the impact of the addition of
      fos-APV on the pharmacokinetic parameters (plasma trough concentrations (Cmin), the peak
      concentrations (Cmax), the elimination half-life (t1/2β), and the area under the
      concentration-time curve (AUC12)) of IDV and RTV at steady state in HIV infected patients.

      METHODS: Fifteen HIV-infected subjects already being treated with IDV/RTV containing ARV
      therapy (800/100 mg bid) will be recruited from the Grady Infectious Disease Clinic (IDP).
      Initially, blood samples will be collected at time 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours for
      a baseline 12-hour pharmacokinetics study of RTV and IDV. Fos-APV 700 mg bid will be added to
      this regimen for 5 days. At the end of which blood samples will be collected at time 0, 1, 2,
      3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours for IDV, RTV and APV pharmacokinetic parameters.

      Pharmacokinetic Analysis: Plasma concentrations of IDV, APV, and RTV will be determined with
      sensitive and validated reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The
      Cmax, Cmin, t1/2β, and AUC12 of these PIs will be determined using non-compartmental
      pharmacokinetic methods.

      Statistical Analysis: IDV and RTV pharmacokinetic indices before and after the addition of
      fos-APV will be compared using a non-parametric two-sided paired t-test.
    
  