
    
      Urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) is a serine protease whose physiologic function is
      to catalyze the conversion of plasminogen to the active proteolytic form, plasmin, for
      participation in processes which require tissue remodeling such as wound healing,
      embryogenesis and inflammatory responses. uPA is among numerous tissue proteases also found
      in association with neoplastic disease, playing a pathologic role in tumor growth and
      metastasis. The activity of uPA can be neutralized by a specific inhibitor, plasminogen
      activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1) which forms inactive complexes of 1:1 stoichiometry with
      the plasminogen activators. Through inhibition of uPA and tPA, PAI-1 inhibits plasmin; the
      inhibitory effect should limit the extent of extracellular matrix protein degradation and
      reduce activation of MMP's and angiogenic growth factors such as VEGF. However, tissue
      overexpression of PAI-1 correlates with more aggressive clinical behavior of the malignancy.
      In fact, the upregulation of PAI-1 may be a cellular attempt to return to homeostasis, which
      is disrupted by activation of uPA or other factors. Upregulation of PAI-1 may be an indicator
      that uPA or some other pathway is contributing to an aggressive phenotype. Co-expression of
      uPA and PAI-1 in primary breast tumor tissue is associated with a greater risk of
      locoregional and distant recurrence, a poorer response to adjuvant hormonal or chemotherapy,
      and a shorter survival. Elevation of circulating PAI-1 in patients with metastatic breast
      cancer is associated with a shorter survival.

      We hypothesize that uPA activation is in part responsible for the clinical progression of
      malignancy. Inhibition of uPA is therefore a rational strategy for the control of advanced
      breast cancer. Aprotinin is a safe and effective protease inhibitor of both uPA and plasmin.
      Aprotinin is approved for the treatment of septic shock, and for the prevention of blood loss
      in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. In patients undergoing cardiopulmonary
      bypass surgery, Aprotinin blunts the acute increase in fibrinolytic activity caused by uPA,
      and decreases the expression of counter-regulatory PAI-1. In several in vivo tumor models,
      Aprotinin inhibits tumor growth, invasiveness, and metastasis. Limited experience in patients
      with cancer suggests prolongation of survival in patients treated with a single or multiple
      doses of Aprotinin. We hypothesize that Aprotinin would delay disease progression by
      decreasing the chronic activation of uPA and PAI-1, and that delay of tumor progression would
      correlate with inhibition of laboratory measures of fibrinolysis.

      This is a Phase I trial. Patients with metastatic breast cancer will receive escalating doses
      of Aprotinin in one of four dose cohorts, ranging from 2.0 x 106 KIU to 6.0 x 106 KIU. Three
      to six patients will be entered at each dose cohort, and the maximum tolerated dose will be
      defined as the highest dose at which fewer than 33% of patients experience a dose limiting
      toxicity. A total of nine patients will be entered at the maximum tolerated dose. The extent
      of disease will be assessed radiologically at baseline, and again at 6, 12, 18, and 24 weeks
      after treatment with Aprotinin. Coagulation parameters, including PT/PTT, D-Dimer, FDP's,
      uPA, and PAI-1 will be assayed at baseline, and at several intervals out to 30 days after
      treatment with Aprotinin.
    
  