
    
      This is a randomised, double-blind, cross-over study to evaluate the patient preference of
      pazopanib versus sunitinib in patients with locally advanced or metastatic RCC who have
      received no prior systemic therapy for advanced or metastatic RCC. Approximately 160 eligible
      patients will be stratified based on the ECOG performance status (0 vs. 1) and number of
      metastatic sites of disease (0 and 1 vs. 2+).

      The study consists of two 10-weeks treatment periods with a two-week wash-out period between
      the treatment periods. Patients will receive pazopanib and sunitinib treatment sequentially.
      At the end of the second treatment period, patient preference and disease assessment are
      evaluated and the patients are unblinded. Further treatment is at the discretion of the
      physician. Further treatment with pazopanib is available within the study. Patients requiring
      other treatments will complete the study at this point.

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive blinded (overencapsulated) study drug:
      either 800mg pazopanib orally for 10 weeks followed by 50mg sunitinib orally for 10 weeks or
      50mg sunitinib orally for 10 weeks followed by 800mg pazopanib orally for 10 weeks. A
      two-week washout period will separate the treatment periods (the medical monitor should be
      consulted if ongoing AEs need to be resolved and the wash-out period needs to be extended).
      The regimen for sunitinib is 4 weeks of treatment followed by 2 weeks off treatment. To
      maintain the double-blind during the two weeks off drug for patients on sunitinib ('Treatment
      Holiday'), patients will be taking matching placebo. No study drug will be taken during the
      wash-out period in either arm.

      Following the two-week wash-out period and disease assessment, all patients are planned to
      cross over to the second treatment. Patients will be informed of their disease assessment
      result and any patient that wishes to come off study at this point due to a very significant
      response, defined as more than a 50% reduction in tumour size (or complete response if
      non-measurable disease), will have the option to be unblinded to continue with whichever
      treatment they were on, however each patient case will need to be discussed with the medical
      monitor prior to unblinding. Patients who were on sunitinib will leave the study and continue
      treatment outside the study. Patients who were on pazopanib will continue on pazopanib within
      the pazopanib open-label part of the study. Conversely, should a patient have a very
      significant response and wish to cross over or complete the study, this must be documented in
      the patients notes.

      Patients crossing over with progressive disease will follow the same visit schedule and
      assessments and investigators will have the option for these patients to be unblinded or not.
      The patients' preference will be collected and analysed but will not contribute to the
      primary, but an exploratory analysis because of the bias caused by progressing on the first
      treatment. Even if unblinded, patients may continue to receive the second treatment and may
      receive open label pazopanib after the second treatment within the study if they did not
      progress on pazopanib.

      Patients who withdraw from treatment due to unacceptable toxicity or progression during the
      first treatment period will cross-over directly to the second treatment following a 2-week
      wash-out period.

      Actual further treatment at the end of the study will be at the discretion of the
      investigator taking into account both disease assessments results, laboratory results and the
      patient preference. Choice and rationale for continuing treatment will be documented.

      Patients who did not progress on pazopanib and who prefer to continue with pazopanib may
      continue on pazopanib and will be followed up for safety until the patient comes off
      pazopanib due to disease progression, toxicity, death or patient choice, which ever is the
      earliest.

      Those patients that may benefit from further treatment with sunitinib for the same reasons as
      above will receive it off study and will not be followed up, as will patients who receive any
      other treatment.

      Patients are permitted to receive supportive care throughout the study including transfusion
      of blood and blood products, treatment with antibiotics, anti-emetics, anti-diarrhoeal
      agents, analgesics, erythropoietin or bisphosphonates, when appropriate. The study treatment
      will continue until the end of the two treatment periods or unacceptable toxicity or consent
      withdrawal or death, whichever occurs first.

      The patient preference will be ascertained prior to the second disease assessment result
      being shared with the patient to avoid bias.
    
  