
    
      Individuals with advanced cancers often experience significant symptom burden including pain,
      fatigue, and psychological distress, all while facing acceptance of the meaning of their
      advanced disease. Evidence-based behavioral interventions have been developed to alleviate
      this multiple symptom burden but are understudied and the treatments that are available are
      often not easily accessed by patients most in need in community-based settings. The current
      study examines the feasibility and acceptability of an open trial of mindfulness-based
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy intervention delivered via telephone to men and women age 21 and
      older with a diagnosis of advanced cancer. Potential participants (N=35) will be recruited
      via letter from their oncologist at community-based clinics (N=18) and those served at the
      Duke Cancer Institute in Durham who live more than 60 miles away (N=17). Following informed
      consent, participants will be asked to complete assessments (e..g., examining their pain,
      anxiety, depression, fatigue, and engagement in valued activity). They will then receive 4
      weekly 50-minute telephone sessions with a study therapist and practice skills learned in
      session at home. After completing the 4 sessions, they will complete a post-treatment
      assessment. Data analyses will examine the feasibility and acceptability of the study by
      assessing participant engagement, and will examine changes in key psychological variables
      (e.g., pain, anxiety, depression, fatigue, and valued activity) from baseline to
      post-treatment. There is minimal risk related to confidentiality of data and the possibility
      of feeling uncomfortable in the study. All study contacts will be conducted by trained study
      staff and supervised by the PI; a licensed clinical psychologist. Participant tracking data
      will be stored online via REDCAP and accessed only by study staff, participant assessment
      data will be collected and stored online via REDCap, and audio recordings of study telephone
      sessions will be stored on Duke servers.
    
  