
    
      The investigators specific research questions: (1) Which motor-cognitive parameters
      measurable by wearable sensors (e.g. gait, balance, frailty index, etc) are linked to
      specific diseases (e.g. COPD, CHF) (2) Which motor-cognitive parameters are most responsive
      to identify changes in patients ambulatory performance related to Tele-rehabilitation

      The investigators will recruit a minimum of 15 per clinical condition with a maximum of 150
      per clinical condition in subjects suffering from different disorders, which may impact
      motor-cognitive. Targeted disorders: COPD and CHF. Other chronic illness may also be
      recruited such as Diabetes, Peripheral Arterial Disease, Morbus Parkinson, Cancer,
      Neuropathy, Frailty, Mild Cognitive Impairment, Depression, and patients undergoing major
      surgical intervention. Fifteen or more people with the same disorder would form a group.

      The investigators will measure motor-cognitive performance from each subject. For this
      purpose several sensors will be attached to the body using elastic straps. Each subject will
      be asked to dedicate approximately 1 hour of their time for each visit. A series of health
      related questionnaires will be used to evaluate the quality of life, clinical problems,
      cognition, and pain intensity levels, respectively. Medical history (from the subject's
      chart) and demographic information will be obtained.

      This study consists of Core and Ancillary Measurements. Core Measurements (Motor cognitive
      test) will be performed during all visits whereas Ancillary Measurements may not be required
      for anyone.

      If the subject is undergoing tele-rehabilitation intervention, which may also benefit
      functional status (e.g. improvement in balance), the investigators will re-examine
      motor-cognitive performance using the test described above to evaluate the sensitivity of the
      proposed test in tracking outcomes in response to the intervention or predict outcomes based
      on baseline assessments. Specifically, depending on the type of intervention and frequency of
      standard of care visits for follow-up at the clinic, the investigators may re-assess
      functional performance at each follow-up standard of care visit, upon the availability of the
      subject. Please note that the number of follow up visits will not exceed 12 visits over the
      course of 12 months.
    
  