
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the added efficacy obtained by the association of trastuzumab (Herceptin®)
           with everolimus as preoperative therapy of primary HER2-positive breast cancer as shown
           by increased clinical tumor response rate.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the inhibition of the two pathways, RAS/RAF/MAP kinase and
           PI3-kinase/AKT/mTor.

        -  To evaluate whether the pre-treatment molecular characteristics of tumor and serum or
           their modifications early in the treatment are predictive of clinical response.

        -  To compare the frequency of pathological complete response achieved in the two groups
           after 6 weeks of treatment.

        -  To determine disease-free survival at 3 years.

        -  To evaluate safety and tolerability of the two treatment regimens.

        -  To analyze the possible relationships between treatment toxicity and constitutional gene
           polymorphisms linked to the administered agents.

        -  To analyze the possible relationships between response and molecular pharmacodynamic
           assessments, including proteomics (blood samples), Bio-Plex protein array (tumor), and
           IHC (tumor).

        -  To analyze the drug levels and pharmacokinetic assessments of everolimus and trastuzumab
           (Herceptin®).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV once weekly for 6 weeks. Patients
           then undergo surgery.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive trastuzumab as in arm I and oral everolimus once daily for 6
           weeks. Within 24 hours after completing everolimus, patients undergo surgery.

      Blood and tumor samples are collected periodically during study for pharmacogenomic,
      proteomic, and pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  