
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is a cancer originating from the antibody-secreting plasma cell and
      characterized by abnormal accumulation of clonal plasma cells in bone marrow. In Europe, 3.8
      new cases of MM and 2.2 deaths per 100,000 individuals (age-standardized rate) due to MM were
      estimated in 2012.

      Treatment options for myeloma patients have markedly improved during the last decades.

      For frontline treatment, high-dose myeloablative chemotherapy followed by reinfusion of
      autologous peripheral blood stem cells has been a standard of care since 1996. Introduction
      of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib and the immunomodulatory drugs thalidomide and
      lenalidomide led to improvement in remission rates and survival in newly diagnosed patients.
      However, high-dose chemotherapy remains essential for achievement of long-lasting remissions
      even in the era of novel agents.

      While high-dose melphalan chemotherapy (HDT) plus autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT)
      remains a standard in eligible, medically fit subjects, defining an optimal pre- and post HDT
      approach is subject to rapidly evolving novel-compound based options. In 2010, a group from
      the U.S. presented results on the combination of lenalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone
      (VRd) in newly diagnosed patients with an overall response rate of 98%, however without
      systematic consolidation by HDT. The next-generation proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib is more
      active and very well tolerated in terms of peripheral neuropathy and gastrointestinal adverse
      effects. A randomized phase III trial in pretreated myeloma patients found the triple regimen
      of carfilzomib and lenalidomide/dexamethasone (Rd) to be superior to standard-Rd in terms of
      depth of response; progression-free survival (PFS) and, most importantly, overall survival
      (OS). At the 2015 annual meetings of the American Society of Clinical Oncology as well as the
      European Society of Hematology, this regimen (KRd) was found to be exceptionally effective in
      a phase 2 trial when given in newly diagnosed patients in a prolonged fashion: patients
      received four KRd induction cycles prior to HDT. The latter was followed by an additional 4
      consolidation and 8 maintenance cycles with KRd, followed by lenalidomide maintenance
      thereafter. The most appealing effect was the high rate of deep remissions: stringent
      complete response (sCR) rate increased from 22% following 4 x KRd and HDT to more than 80%
      following all 18 cycles. Notably, the vast majority of patients in sCR also were negative for
      minimal residual disease (MRD) as assessed by 10-color flow cytometry. MRD negativity
      probably has a major impact on long-term disease control as was recently shown in a French
      prospective trial investigating in the combination of VRd prior and post HDT followed by
      lenalidomide maintenance.

      Of the next-generation compounds, the monoclonal antibodies (moAbs) have recently attracted a
      lot of interest in MM. The anti-SLAMF7 directed moAb elotuzumab has completed phase III
      trials in MM patients. One phase III trial in MM patients with one to three prior lines of
      therapy compared elotuzumab-Rd with standard Rd. The triple combination was shown to
      significantly prolong PFS in this patient cohort with a greater proportion of patients in at
      least very good partial response (VGPR) when compared to subjects on Rd. Notably, the rate of
      infusion-related reactions with this specific moAb was very low, with an overall rate of 10%
      in premedicated patients and only 1% of Grade 3 severity. Grades 4/5 infusion-related
      reactions were absent and only 1% of patients on elotuzumab discontinued for infusion-related
      reactions. Of particular interest is the observation in this trial, that response and PFS
      were independent of cytogenetic high-risk features, i.e., deletion of chromosome 17p and
      translocation t(4;14). This effect distinguishes elotuzumab from most, if not all, other
      drug-based approaches.

      The investigators assume that incorporating the moAb into the KRd triple induction regimen
      should result in an even higher rate of deep (negative for MRD in conjunction with at least
      very good partial response [VGPR] as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group
      [IMWG]) with these responses occurring independently of cytogenetic risk. Due to potential
      interference of elotuzumab with serum immune fixation,the investigators chose VGPR rather
      than complete response (CR) to exclude false-positive immunofixation results. Furthermore the
      investigators hypothesize that combining elotuzumab with lenalidomide should prolong PFS
      further.
    
  