
    
      Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be
      done even if it turns out that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had
      some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about your health, current medications, and
           any allergies. This is part of regular cancer care.

        -  Physical exam, your doctor will examine your body, including measuring your height,
           weight, and vital signs (blood pressure, body temperature, pulse rate and breathing
           rate). This is part of regular cancer care.

        -  Blood tests (approximately 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to check how well your
           organs are functioning. This is part of regular cancer care.

        -  Blood pregnancy test will be performed for women who can become pregnant. About 1
           teaspoon of blood will be drawn for the blood pregnancy test. This is part of regular
           cancer care.

        -  Performance status, to see how you carry out your daily activities. This is done by
           talking with you. This is done as part of regular cancer care.

      If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will
      begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able
      to participate in this research study.

      After the screening procedures confirm that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study:

      Your primary oncologist will decide what chemotherapy you receive.

      Before beginning preoperative chemotherapy (baseline):

      Before beginning chemotherapy, you will undergo tests or procedures for the research study.
      Some of these tests and procedures are part of regular cancer care and some are being
      performed as part of the research study only.

        -  FDG-PET/CT scan: Pictures of your organs will be taken using a PET (Positron Emission
           Tomography) scanner. At the same time, a CT (computed tomography) scan will be
           performed. FDG, a radioactive substance similar to glucose (or sugar), will be injected
           into your vein using a needle prior to performing the PET/CT scan. After the injection,
           you will be asked to sit quietly for one hour to let the FDG absorb into the body. After
           this hour, you will be asked to lie flat on your back for up to 50 minutes while the PET
           and CT images are being taken. This FDG-PET/CT scan is part of regular cancer care. If
           you have had this test within 14 days of study enrollment, you may or may not have to
           have this test repeated.

        -  MRI Scan: MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) scans of the breast will be taken. You will
           receive an injection of a dye before the MRI. You will be asked to lie flat on your back
           in the scanner for up to 30 minutes for pictures to be taken. This MRI scan is part of
           regular cancer care. If you have had this test within 14 days of study enrollment , you
           may or may not have to have this test repeated.

        -  89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT Scan: More pictures of your organs will be taken using a PET
           (Positron Emission Tomography) scanner. At the same time, a CT (computed tomography)
           scan will be performed. 89Zr-bevacizumab will be injected into your vein using a needle.
           You will be observed for approximately 1 hour after the injection of 89Zr-bevacizumab.
           It takes 3 to 4 days for the 89Zr-bevacizumab to be absorbed into the body. Therefore,
           the research PET and research CT scans (89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT) will be performed 3 to
           4 days after the 89Zr-bevacizumab is injected into your vein.

        -  This 89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT scan is part of research (in addition to the FDG-PET/CT
           scan) and is not part of regular cancer care.

        -  Vital signs, including heart rate, blood pressure, temperature, and respiratory rate,
           will be performed immediately before and then approximately 5, 30, and 60 minutes after
           injection of 89Zr-bevacizumab and just before 89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT imaging. This is
           part of research.

        -  Blood pregnancy test will be performed for women who can become pregnant. About 1
           teaspoon of blood will be drawn for the blood pregnancy test. If your blood pregnancy
           test to determine if you could be in the study was done longer than 24 hours before the
           injection of 89Zr-bevacizumab, it will be repeated.

        -  Blood tests (approximately 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to check how well your
           organs are functioning. This is part of regular cancer care.

        -  Tumor biopsies: Prior to starting your treatment, a radiologist will use breast MRI or
           ultrasound imaging to localize an area of your tumor in the breast for a research
           biopsy. The biopsy procedure is done in an outpatient setting using a done using a
           needle to obtain tissue. A local anesthetic will be given to minimize any pain; however,
           after the procedure you can expect some discomfort and possible bruising. This biopsy is
           part of research.

      After 2 cycles of preoperative chemotherapy: Two to five days prior to starting your third
      cycle of chemotherapy, study tests and procedures will be performed. Some of these tests and
      procedures are part of regular cancer care and some are being performed as part of the
      research study only.

        -  FDG-PET/CT scan: The procedure is the same as that is described above. This FDG-PET/CT
           scan is part of research.

        -  MRI Scan: The procedure is the same as that is described above. This MRI scan is part of
           research.

        -  89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT Scan: The procedure is the same as that is described above. This
           89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT scan is part of research.

        -  Vital signs, including heart rate, blood pressure, temperature, and respiratory rate, is
           the same as that is described above. This is part of research.

        -  Blood pregnancy test will be performed for women who can become pregnant. This test is
           the same as that is described above. This is part of research.

        -  Blood tests (approximately 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to check how well your
           organs are functioning. This is part of regular cancer care.

        -  Tumor biopsies: The procedure is the same that is described above. This biopsy is part
           of research.

      After the completion of preoperative chemotherapy: Within 1-2 weeks after completing
      preoperative chemotherapy, study tests and procedures will be repeated to determine how well
      your cancer responded to the treatment. Some of these tests and procedures are part of
      regular cancer care and some are being performed as part of the research study only.

        -  FDG-PET/CT scan: The procedure is the same as that is described above. This FDG-PET/CT
           scan is part of research.

        -  MRI Scan: The procedure is the same as that is described above. This MRI scan is part of
           regular cancer care.

        -  89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT Scan: The procedure is the same as that is described above. This
           89Zr-bevacizumab-PET/CT scan is part of research.

        -  Vital signs, including heart rate, blood pressure, temperature, and respiratory rate, is
           the same as that is described above. This is part of research.

        -  Blood pregnancy test will be performed for women who can become pregnant. This test is
           the same as that is described above. This is part of research.

        -  Blood tests (approximately 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to check how well your
           organs are functioning. This is part of regular cancer care.

      Surgery: After completing preoperative chemotherapy, your primary oncologist and surgeon will
      determine if you are eligible to undergo breast surgery. Breast surgery is part of regular
      cancer care. During your surgery, tissue from your tumor will be removed and tested for how
      well your cancer responded to treatment. This is part of regular cancer care. If there is
      enough tissue available after the tissue has been tested for how well your tumor responded to
      treatment, some tissue will be taken for research. If you are not able to undergo breast
      surgery, then you will have a tumor biopsy similar to before starting and after 2 cycles of
      chemotherapy.
    
  