
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study tested the hypothesis that motivational intervention would yield greater reduction
      in smoking-related indices, compared to a usual care comparison condition. The study also
      predicted that the motivational intervention would differentially impact on cognitive and
      behavioral mediating mechanisms that accelerate behavior change and maintenance. Finally, the
      study tested the hypothesis that the motivational intervention would yield greater reduction
      in household exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS), and therefore would also result
      in a significantly reduced number of children's respiratory illnesses.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study utilized a community health center that served a low SES population in Rhode
      Island. The population was approximately 40 percent Hispanic and 45 percent Caucasian.
      Subjects were randomized to two intervention conditions:(1) a motivational intervention, that
      utilized self-help, telephone counselor calls, and motivational interviewing to provide
      feedback about children's health status and household concentrations of nicotine; (2) usual
      care, which included provision of self-help materials only. A repeated measures design was
      used (baseline, 3- and 6-month follow-ups). Outcome measures included household nicotine
      concentrations, movement through the stages of readiness to change, smoking cessation
      attempts, point-prevalence abstinence rates, and children's health status.

      Several important public health priorities for research in lung health and prevention were
      targeted in this study, including: (1) reduction of ETS exposure among children from low
      income families, a group that has had a particularly high prevalence of chronic ETS
      exposure;. (2) development and evaluation of an intervention that was specifically tailored
      to match the characteristics of smokers who were low in motivation to quit smoking, a group
      that constituted 80 percent of the lower SES smoking population, yet that had been largely
      ignored in smoking research; (3) smoking intervention with an underserved, low-income and
      ethnic population that had poor access to standard approaches to smoking cessation and a
      particularly high smoking prevalence (household smoking prevalence = 60 percent); and (4)
      assessment of the impact of reductions in household ETS exposure on the respiratory health of
      children in the context of a longitudinal study.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  