
    
      Menopause is a natural event that generally occurs in women between the ages of 45 and 55.
      During menopause, the body starts producing less estrogen and progesterone until menstruation
      eventually stops. Estrogen and progesterone are involved in many important functions in a
      woman's body, and the drastic decline of these hormones in menopause leads to significant
      changes in the body. Along with such changes, postmenopausal women are at a higher risk than
      premenopausal women for certain health problems, such as CVD. Previous studies have revealed
      that alterations in the breakdown of fatty acids in cardiac muscle play a key role in a
      variety of cardiac disorders. In studies involving human skeletal muscle, estrogen has been
      shown to increase the breakdown of fatty acids, while progesterone lessens this effect. This
      study will determine in postmenopausal women whether estrogen increases the heart's ability
      to break down fats for energy use and whether progesterone decreases this effect. This study
      will also analyze ovariectomized mice to determine if the candidate specific estrogen
      receptor modulators (SERMs) raloxifene and tamoxifen increase the heart's ability to use fats
      as energy and whether the increase is similar to that seen with estrogen. Study investigators
      will also create estrogen receptor knock-out mice (mice with estrogen receptors removed) to
      further explore the roles of estrogen and SERMs in heart metabolism.

      Participation in this double-blind study will last up to 1 month and will include three study
      visits. During Visit 1, participants will undergo three standard clinical evaluations. The
      first evaluation, a medical screening, will include a medical history exam and blood tests to
      measure estrogen and progesterone levels, liver and kidney function, cholesterol levels, and
      blood sugar and insulin levels. For the second evaluation, participants will undergo a body
      composition study to measure total body fat and muscle content using a dual-energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA) scan. During the third evaluation, participants will undergo an
      electrocardiogram (ECG) and an echocardiogram (ECHO), each performed immediately before and
      after walking on a treadmill. The ECG will measure electrical activity of the heart, and the
      ECHO will involve imaging the heart with an ultrasound.

      Visits 2 and 3, occurring 3 days apart, will each include two imaging tests of the heart: a
      positron-emission tomographic (PET) scan and a resting ECHO. Throughout both tests an ECG and
      blood pressure cuff will be used to monitor heart rhythm and blood pressure, respectively.
      During the PET scan, participants will lie flat in an imaging machine for three 45- to 60-
      minute intervals. Blood will be drawn and radioactive tracers will be injected via
      intravenous lines placed in the arms. The ECHO test will also be done during the PET scan.

      Between Visits 2 and 3, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two hormone
      replacement therapy (HRT) regimens: estrogen plus placebo or estrogen plus progesterone. All
      participants will wear a patch containing estrogen and take a pill of either placebo or
      progesterone for the 3 days leading up to Visit 3. All participants will be asked for
      permission to store a sample of their blood for up to 10 years to be used in future research
      studies.
    
  