
    
      On March 11th, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared coronavirus disease
      (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory virus coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) a pandemic. As
      of March 22, 2020 there have been over 267,013 confirmed cases and 11,201 deaths in 185
      different countries or regions; it is quickly overwhelming health care systems worldwide to
      detrimental effect. Even with current moderate interventions imposed, estimates predict that
      10-18% of the Canadian population will be infected with the virus by its peak in July. Health
      care workers (HCWs) remain a critical line of defence in the fight against this pandemic and
      maintaining their health is not only an important social responsibility of the government,
      but it is also of vital national interest to treat and control others infected with this
      virus or sick with other disease.

      Estimates from China indicate that HCWs make up 3.8% of cases, while in Italy it is reported
      to be much higher - 8.3%. Early numbers from front-line workers in Italy suggested up to 20%
      of HCWs become infected with COVID-19, and these rates are approximately 3 times higher than
      the general population. When HCWs become sick, not only do they risk dying, but they also
      must take weeks away from work limiting the ability of the health care system to function.
      The fear associated with becoming ill also causes higher rates of missed work and higher
      rates of burnout, as seen with previous outbreaks. It is also now clear that asymptomatic
      transmission of COVID-19 not only occurs, but may even be the most important factor in spread
      of the virus. HCWs may therefore become vectors of viral spread to those who are the most
      vulnerable in other areas of the hospital. Preventing HCWs from acquiring SARS-CoV-2 should
      therefore be of the utmost importance to national interests.

      Repurposing drugs already known to be safe and tolerable in humans provides a major advantage
      in a pandemic where time is critical. Of candidate drugs, chloroquine (CQ) and its derivative
      hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), have shown some promise. Originally an anti-malarial medication, CQ
      exerts direct antiviral effects by inhibiting pH-dependent steps of the replication of
      several viruses, including coronaviruses. It also has immunomodulatory effects, suppressing
      the release of TNFα and IL-6, which are involved in the inflammatory complications of several
      viral diseases. In vitro data has shown that CQ potently blocks virus infection at low
      micromolar concentrations with a high selectivity index. CQ is also widely distributed
      throughout the body, including the lungs, after oral administration. An early clinical trial
      of more than 100 COVID-19 patients in China reported that CQ was superior to placebo in
      inhibiting pneumonia, improving lung imaging, promoting viral seroconversion, and shortening
      the disease course, although data was not released. Based on those results experts in China
      recommended CQ 500mg twice daily for ten days in all patients with COVID-19. HCQ has also
      been shown to also have anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity in vitro and may actually be more potent. It
      has a better safety profile than CQ (during long term use), and allows a higher daily dose,
      with fewer concerns of drug-drug interactions. Preliminary clinical data also suggests that
      HCQ may lead to significantly faster viral clearance in COVID-19 patients as assessed by
      nasopharyngeal swab (70% vs. 12.5%, p=0.001).

      Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) offers the ability to protect front-line HCWs from illness,
      decrease nosocomial spread of SARS-CoV-2, and prevent loss of work force due to illness.
      Rigorous testing of HCQ for this purpose is critical at this time. The investigators
      therefore aim to conduct the first randomized placebo-controlled trial of HCQ to prevent
      COVID-19 infections in emergency departments (ED) as they prepare for escalating rates of
      COVID-19 in Toronto, Canada.
    
  