
    
      The investigators will perform a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled
      proof-of-concept Phase 2 clinical trial of the effect of abaloparatide for the treatment of
      lumbar degenerative disc disease. Adults with clinically significant lumbar degenerative disc
      disease who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria and sign informed consent with be
      randomized in a 2:1 ratio to study drug:placebo.

      The study team physicians will review pertinent laboratory data, medication history, and
      problem lists in the potential research participant's medical record to ensure eligibility
      for the study. The investigators will also contact the potential research participants by
      telephone to explain the study in further detail and elicit information not available in the
      medical record that would affect the potential participant's eligibility to participate in
      the study.

      Potential research participants who meet the study criteria and are interested in
      participating in the study will have an appointment arranged at the Johns Hopkins Orthopedic
      Clinic. At the study visit, a study team physician and research coordinator will review the
      study and consent the research participants.

      Research participants who provide informed consent will have age, sex, and ethnicity
      recorded, undergo a focused history and physical exam, and have any necessary blood samples
      collected for inclusion/exclusion criteria. The focused history will include the age of onset
      of symptoms, age at diagnosis of degenerative disc disease, mechanism of injury, treatments
      utilized, and the research participant's current perception of his or her disease control.
      The focused physical exam will include inspection and palpation of the affected sites to
      assess for pain and mobility of the spine. Research participants will be asked to rate
      current pain attributed to degenerative disc disease on a Likert scale pain level and asked
      to fill out the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS-29) and have spinal x-rays and an MRI of the lumbar spine
      obtained.

      One hundred nine people who meet the study criteria and provide informed consent will be
      randomly assigned to 2 groups (abaloparatide:placebo) in a 2:1 fashion (n=73 abaloparatide;
      36 placebo).

      Participants will be taught how to self-administer a injection of the study drug.
      Participants and the study doctor will not know if the participant is receiving abaloparatide
      or placebo as the study drug. Participants will inject the study drug daily for 3 months.

      Blood and urine samples will be collected 2 weeks after study initiation to evaluate clinical
      safety.

      Physical exams, health questionnaires, and MRI scans will be performed at 3-, 6-, and
      12-month follow-up visits.

      The trial will be blinded for all the investigators acquiring and analyzing the data.
    
  