
    
      PURPOSE OF STUDY

      The patient understand that she has cancer of the breast. The patient understand that is
      offered the opportunity to participate in a registry study to collect data on the FDA
      approved device,Partial Breast Brachytherapy Applicator. Partial Breast Brachytherapy is a
      treatment method that works by delivering radiation from inside the breast directly to the
      tissue where cancer is most likely to recur. The Partial Breast Brachytherapy Applicator is a
      device that has tiny catheters or wires that fit inside the lumpectomy cavity (the space left
      after the tumor is removed). Radioactive sources (seed) are placed within the device by a
      computer controlled machine. This radioactive source will deliver the radiation therapy to
      the breast

      A registry is an observation database. Participation in this registry does not require any
      additional or different procedures or drugs other than those you would normally receive for
      breast cancer. Registry databases are used to identify trends in medical care that help the
      medical community identify optimal care for different diseases.

      PROCEDURES

      If the patient agree to take part in this registry, data will be compiled on the safety and
      performance of the Partial Breast Brachytherapy Applicator based on the information collected
      about the treatment and follow up visits.

      POTENTIAL RISKS AND DISCOMFORTS

      There is no medical risk to the patient if she takes part in this registry, as she will
      continue to receive the same medical care as provided by her medical team.

      POTENTIAL BENEFITS:

      It is not possible to state that the patient will benefit from this study. The information
      obtained from study may be used scientifically and may possibly be helpful to others.

      ALTERNATIVES TO TREATMENT

      The patient participation is voluntary and she may choose not to participate in this study or
      she may stop at any time. The patient choice will not affect doctors from providing care. The
      patient will not lose any benefits if she choose not to participate or if you withdraw from
      this study. She is free to seek care from a doctor of her choice at any time.
    
  