
    
      Uterine fibroids, or leiomyomas, are common benign tumors in reproductive-age women. While
      many women with fibroids are asymptomatic, 20-50% of women may have bulk symptoms, such as
      pelvic pressure, urinary or gastrointestinal symptoms, and/or heavy menstrual bleeding (3-4).
      Heavy menstrual bleeding can lead to severe anemia requiring treatment, which has negative
      health and economic consequences (4). Fibroids are also associated with infertility and
      recurrent pregnancy loss (3). Symptom character and severity depend on fibroid size and
      location, and they can have a significant effect on women's quality of life.

      Fibroid growth is dependent on estrogen and progesterone, thus common medical management of
      symptoms uses hormonal agents, such as oral contraceptives, selective progesterone receptor
      modulators, GnRH agonists, and intrauterine devices (3). Nonhormonal medical methods include
      tranexamic acid, an antifibrinolytic agent that reduces menstrual blood loss, and
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which reduce blood loss and improve pain relief (3).
      Medical management is generally the first treatment strategy for symptomatic fibroids, but
      definitive treatment is via a hysterectomy. A hysterectomy is the most common surgical
      treatment of fibroids, but for women who desire to preserve the uterus, other surgical
      options are available (4, 5). A myomectomy removes fibroids employing either hysteroscopic,
      laparoscopic, abdominal approaches, or a combination of these methods. Another option for
      fibroid management is uterine fibroid or uterine artery embolization (UFE/UAE). This
      minimally invasive procedure uses a catheter to inject permanent particles inside uterine
      arteries to occlude the blood supply to the fibroid(s). Both myomectomy and UAE have high
      patient satisfaction rates. Both modalities also carry the risk of necessitating future
      interventions if symptoms are not controlled or if fibroids recur (5). Patients who undergo
      UAE have a slightly higher risk of further interventions compared to myomectomy (5).

      For women who do not desire any type of surgical intervention or the UAE procedure, a new
      type of medical treatment has become available. Oriahnn, produced by AbbVie, is a combination
      of elagolix, an oral nonpeptide GnRH antagonist, and add-back therapy with estradiol and
      norethindrone (1, 4). It is administered at a total daily dose of 600mg: 300mg elagolix with
      add-back therapy in the morning and 300mg elagolix alone at night (4). Elagolix results in
      rapid, reversible suppression of gonadotrophin and ovarian sex hormones, and was first
      approved for treatment of endometriosis-associated pain (4). The side effects of elagolix are
      related to the creation of the hypoestrogenic state and are mitigated with add-back therapy
      (4). The dose and formula in Oriahnn showed a significant decrease in menstrual blood loss
      compared to placebo with a favorable safety profile but has never been compared to any other
      treatment for fibroids (4). It is FDA-approved for a treatment duration of 24 months (1).
    
  