
    
      Pelvic congestion syndrome (PCS) is a recognized and frequent cause of Chronic Pelvic Pain
      (10% to 30%). It is defined as the presence of chronic symptoms, which may include pelvic
      pain, perineal heaviness, urinary urgency and postcoital pain, caused by reflux and / or
      obstruction of the gonadic and / or pelvic veins, and that may be associated with vulvar,
      perineal and lower limbs varicose veins.

      There is no standard approach to managing PCS. According to expert recommendations, therapies
      should be individualized according to the patient's symptoms and needs.

      Medical treatment options include progestagens, danazol, combined oral hormonal
      contraceptives, phlebotonics such as hisperidine-added diosmin, non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists

      Currently, the only accepted chronic medical treatment is the association of non-steroidal
      and phlebotonic anti-inflammatories, but they have shown a poor symptomatic benefit in
      reducing pain.

      Surgical treatment has evolved over time mainly in the hands of laparoscopic techniques,
      currently the endovascular option is the most widely accepted for presenting excellent
      long-term results with abolition of pain in up to 90% at 2 years.

      HYPOTHESIS

      Endovascular treatment of pelvic congestion syndrome is better in terms of pain control and
      quality of life compared to drug treatment.

      General objective

      Compare the efficacy and safety of endovascular treatment with sandwich technique (controlled
      release coils and 2% polidocanol foam) associated with diosmin-hisperidine and ibuprofen
      medical treatment and only the best chronic medical treatment available diosmin-hisperidine
      and ibuprofen for 3 months, in women of active gynecological age carrying pelvic congestion
      syndrome in public assistance in Montevideo, Uruguay.

      Specific objectives

      • Compare pain in patients undergoing endovascular treatment with the best

      medical treatment.

        -  Evaluate the persistence of pelvic varices in patients undergoing endovascular treatment
           of SCP.

        -  Compare the Female Sexual Satisfaction Index in both groups.
    
  