
    
      Appropriate empiric antibiotic therapy is crucial for reducing mortality in septic patients.
      Pathophysiological changes associated with the septic process, i.e. changes in volume of
      distribution (Vd), protein binding and drug clearance (Cl), lead to pharmacokinetic (PK)
      alterations that may influence the efficacy of the drug. As a consequence, antibiotic plasma
      concentrations are variable and hard to predict in this patient population. Optimal dosing
      and exposure can therefore be a challenge and standard antibiotic dosing regimens may result
      in subtherapeutic concentrations and therapeutic failure. Appropriate dosing is also
      essential in order to maximize bacterial killing and minimize development of antimicrobial
      resistance.

      Piperacillin/tazobactam is a β-lactam-β-lactamase inhibitor combination with
      extended-spectrum antibacterial activity, which is often used for empirical treatment of
      severe infections. The antibacterial activity is time-depentent, i.e. the activity is related
      to the time for which the free unbound drug concentration is maintained above the minimum
      inhibitory concentration (MIC) (fT>MIC). By maximizing T>MIC, therapeutic impact increases
      and the risk of drug resistance development is reduced (7). For β-lactams, a fT>MIC of at
      least 50% is associated with clinical efficacy. However, higher targets may be needed for
      maximal bactericidal effect in critically ill patients. Piperacillin/tazobactam is by
      standard practice administered as intermittent bolus infusion (IB). However, prolonged
      infusion, both extended infusion (IE) and continuous infusion (CI) is believed to optimize
      drug exposure and has a PK advantage compared to IB.

      Patients with known or suspected sepsis or severe sepsis, treated empirically with
      piperacillin/tazobactam 4g/0,5g (Tazocin®) every eight hour (q8h) were eligible for the
      study. Piperacillin/tazobactam (4g/0,5g) was administered intravenously (i.v.) as a 3-minute
      bolus infusion . Serial blood samples were collected over one dosing interval for up to three
      consecutive days if piperacillin/tazobactam treatment was maintained.

      The free concentrations of piperacillin in sera were assessed using ultra high performance
      liquid chromatography (UHPLC).

      Clinical MIC breakpoints according to the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility
      Testing (EUCAST) for Pseudomonas aeruginosa were used to evaluate the following PK/PD
      targets: 100% f T>MIC and 50% fT>MIC.

      There was no intervention in the study.
    
  