
    
      Transplantation remains the most successful treatment for end-stage organ failure, but the
      need to administer life-long immunosuppression (IS) to prevent rejection limits patient
      survival. Liver transplantation is the only transplantation setting in which a sizeable
      proportion of patients spontaneously develop "operational tolerance", a phenomenon defined by
      the maintenance of stable graft function in the absence of destructive immune responses
      without the need of IS. Unfortunately this phenomenon preferentially develops in elderly
      recipients and several years after transplantation. To maximize the benefit derived from IS
      discontinuation there is a need to find strategies to intentionally induce tolerance in young
      recipients in whom accumulated IS toxicity has not yet occurred. Our studies have revealed
      that successful IS discontinuation is associated with a transient intra-graft immune
      regulatory response with preferential accumulation of regulatory T cells (Tregs). This
      suggests that short-term enhancement of Treg numbers and/or function at the time of IS
      withdrawal may facilitate the acquisition of tolerance in patients who are not predisposed to
      spontaneously develop it. IL-2 is a cytokine that is essential for the optimal development,
      survival and function of Tregs. Several clinical studies have shown that low-dose IL-2
      preferentially expands Tregs and is safe and efficacious in patients with autoimmunity or
      GVHD. In these studies, Treg frequency increased up to 2 to 8-fold without significant
      changes in the number of effector T cells. Our objective is to investigate if administration
      of a short-course of low dose IL-2 to liver transplant recipients facilitates the
      discontinuation of IS. We propose to conduct a phase II, safety and efficacy, prospective,
      single-arm clinical trial in which liver recipients <50 years old and 2-6 years after
      transplantation will receive IL-2 and gradually discontinue their IS medication.
    
  