
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a serious chronic condition affecting over 14 million Americans, but the prevalence
      rates are higher in certain populations (e.g. 10 percent in inner-cities and 30 percent among
      the homeless vs. 5 percent in a general population of whites). African Americans and
      Hispanics from the Northeast are twice as likely to die from asthma as whites. African
      Americans are four times as likely to be hospitalized for asthma and are five times more
      likely than whites to seek care for asthma at an emergency department. Reasons for these
      higher rates are not certain, and most likely result from an interaction of risk factors such
      as environmental exposures, genetic predisposition, access to appropriate medical care,
      socioeconomic status, and cultural health practices. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute supports a variety of activities to address the pressing public health problems
      posed by asthma. However, progress in reducing disparities has been disappointingly slow.
      Separate, independent research projects have generated important clues for understanding the
      nature and scope of the problem. A more coordinated, interdisciplinary and comprehensive
      approach to research is needed to take advantage of these clues, move the science further and
      faster, and increase our capacity to improve health outcomes among minority and economically
      disadvantaged populations. Cooperative centers of research that foster partnerships among
      minority medical centers, research intensive institutions, and the communities in which
      asthma patients live will promote such advancement.

      The Request for Applications for the Centers for Reducing Asthma Disparities was released in
      October, 2001. The objective of the program is to promote partnerships (called Centers)
      between a minority serving institution (MSI) that may not have a strong research program and
      a research intensive institution (RII) that has a track record of NIH-supported research and
      patient care. The purpose of the partnership is to conduct collaborative research on asthma
      disparities (i.e. greater prevalence of asthma, higher rates of morbidity due to asthma, and
      lesser access or use of quality medical care among minorities and poor).

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The center has four research projects designed to collaboratively investigate factors
      associated with the disproportionate burden of asthma experienced by inner-city,
      African-American children and adults. This includes studies that will evaluate both the
      underlying genetic factors that may contribute to the observed excess risk in
      African-American communities, as well as studies of provider-patient communication designed
      to assess intervention strategies for remediating this risk. In addition, an essential goal
      of the Howard/Hopkins Center for Reducing Asthma Disparities will be to create a culturally
      sensitive training environment that is truly reciprocal, and designed to both enrich and
      enhance the research potential and asthma management capabilities of both participating
      institutions.

      Research project 1 will create and validate a culturally sensitive and simple to administer
      Asthma Communication Instrument for use in describing asthma symptoms. Research project 2
      will develop a tripartite communication mechanism between the patient, the patient care
      provider, and an asthma counselor. Research project 3 deals with the genetics of cockroach
      allergy. Research project 4 will develop a complementary mouse model to address the role of
      the genetics of cockroach sensitization as it pertains to asthma disparities.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  