
    
      This proposed intervention is the first randomized clinical trial comparing the effects of
      onaBoNT-A prostate injection versus alpha adrenergic antagonist medication for LUTS
      associated with BPH. Up to this point, clinical studies using onaBoNT-A in the prostate has
      been limited to patient's refractory to -1 adrenoceptor blocker therapy. The study will
      directly compare onaBoNT-A against -1 adrenoceptor blockers as frontline therapy in a male
      Veteran cohort suffering from moderate to severe LUTS. Besides its obvious efficacy in
      patients' refractory to -1 adrenoceptor blocker therapy, onaBoNTA injection has several
      potential advantages over oral agents. Focal prostate injection has been shown to be safe and
      obviates the systemic side effects observed with -1 adrenoceptor blockers (i.e. orthostatic
      hypotension, sexual dysfunction). In addition, most clinical studies demonstrate a durable
      response to onaBoNT-A treatment exceeding 12 months. Although this study is of modest length
      (i.e. total 4 years), significant results could drive paradigm shifts in how LUTS associated
      with BPH is treated, even with regards to frontline therapy.

      Although sophisticated molecular techniques (i.e. LCM with Microarray Analysis) have been
      used by other investigators to characterize gene profile changes with BPH and LUTS, this will
      be the first study examining gene profile changes in drug na ve BPH View Protocol Record
      patients following treatment with the -1 adrenoceptor blocker Tamsulosin or onaBoNT-A. This
      study is important because scant knowledge exists on the true mechanisms by which -1
      adrenoceptor blockers like Tamsulosin or onaBoNT-A improve patient urinary tract symptoms and
      quality of life. It is clear, however, that nerves not only regulate prostate growth and
      function but also account for LUTS that drive patients to seek therapy. This investigation
      will utilize onaBoNT-A as a biological tool to identify potential novel mechanistic pathways
      for future investigation that will push the development of targeted therapy to benefit those
      patients refractory to all pharmacologic treatment. Potential inflammatory pathways or neural
      sensory signaling alterations induced by BPH, which are modified by onaBoNT-A or Tamsulosin
      to improve symptoms via gene profile changes, can be explored by expert laboratories in the
      Texas Medical Center. This is a highly collaborative project utilizing expertise across
      departments that will foster translational work from the laboratory to the patient. Although
      not the primary goal of this study, the investigators will also search for possible
      biological markers with prognostic value that could be confirmed in a future multi-center
      trial.

      The primary objective of this Phase 2 clinical research study is to compare the efficacy of
      200 U onaBoNT-A injected into the prostate versus oral tamsulosin for the treatment of lower
      urinary tract symptoms caused by BPH in male Veteran volunteers at the MEDVAMC. The secondary
      objective is to determine the impact of tamsulosin and onaBoNT-A on the pathologic parameters
      and RNA profiles of epithelium and stroma in BPH tissues.

      Volunteers will be randomized into two groups with one receiving ona-BoNT-A injection into
      the prostate and an oral placebo pill taken once daily and the other group will receive a
      placebo injection and an oral tamsulosin pill once daily.

      Volunteers will make five clinic visits and be contacted by telephone twice.
    
  