
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1988, the leading cause of death in AIDS patients was respiratory mechanisms might have
      played a significant role in its pathogenesis.

      The project was part of an Institute-initiated study on AIDS-Associated Heart Disease in
      Adults. The concept was approved by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council in
      September 1987. The Request for Applications was also released in September 1987. Awards were
      made in July 1988.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The prevalence study was one of three subprojects with the common failure due to chronic
      opportunistic pulmonary infection, primarily Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Drugs such as
      azidothymidine (AZT) and trimetrexate showed some effectiveness in prolonging the lives of
      some AIDS patients. With increased survival, it was believed that cardiac diseases might well
      become an important complication of AIDs. Reports described a syndrome of rapidly progressive
      cardiomyopathy associated with AIDS. The etiology of AIDS-associated cardiomyopathy was yet
      unknown although immunologic theme of the immunopathogenesis of AIDS-associated
      cardiomyopathy. The other two subprojects dealt with immunopathology studies in
      endomyocardial biopsies and autopsy tissues and serologic studies. The AIDS Clinical Research
      Center at Johns Hopkins Hospital served as the source of patients. All patients underwent
      serologic testing and echocardiography at time of entry and at six and twelve months. The
      screening electrocardiogram identified 40 to 50 patients per year with AIDS-associated
      cardiomyopathy. Approximately 30 patients per year had no contraindications for
      endomyocardial biopsy. Comprehensive tissue studies and cellular immune studies were
      performed on the cohort and autopsies, if possible. Immunohistochemical techniques and in
      situ hybridization of biopsy and autopsy material were used to determine if AIDS-associated
      cardiomyopathy was associated with HIV infection of the heart or with some other viral or
      opportunistic non-viral infection. Indirect immunofluorescence and a Western immunoblotting
      assay using patient sera determined the prevalence of heart autoimmunity.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  