
    
      The role of children and adolescents in the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 remains highly unclear
      and has been a key question since the early days of the pandemic. It has important
      consequences for policy decisions, especially concerning the opening of the schools, sport
      facilities and intergenerational contacts. However, the information on true infection rate
      and seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 is not known in children in Switzerland (and globally), as
      testing was limited to risk groups and those with SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus disease 2019
      (COVID-19) related symptoms. In addition, indications for testing were not uniform and
      handled heterogeneously. Hence, it is not known whether children are less frequently infected
      or simply less symptomatic.

      This study builds up a system to monitor the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in children and
      adolescents who attend school in the canton of Zürich, Switzerland. The investigators aim to
      assess children of randomly selected primary and secondary schools during the first weeks of
      re-entering school from all districts of the canton of Zurich in June and July 2020, after
      the temporary closure due to COVID-19 pandemic, and again in October/November 2020 and
      February/March 2021. A follow-up capturing health status, symptoms and behaviors over time is
      important, since it is currently under investigation whether persons may be at risk for
      reinfection. Thus, a longitudinal assessment is crucial to determine the extent and duration
      of immunity.

      In addition, the seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in the parents of the participating children
      will be tested in August/September 2020, to examine clusters of infections in households.
      Seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in school personnel will be tested in August/September 2020 and
      subsequently in October/November 2020 and February/March 2021, to examine temporal changes in
      the seroprevalences in the whole school community.

      This study complements the ongoing coordinated efforts of seroprevalence studies in adults in
      Switzerland, through the Swiss School of Public Health (SSPH+) coordinated CORONA IMMUNITAS
      studies.
    
  