
    
      It is known that dorsal proprioceptive signals, one of the necessary components in providing
      lumbopelvic motor control, are decreased in individuals with chronic low back pain (CLBP) and
      respiratory dysfunction. Diaphragm, which is an important postural control muscle, plays an
      important role in the correct reception of these signals. Electromyographic and
      ultrasonographic measurements in healthy subjects showed that the diaphragm was activated for
      anticipatory automatic adjustments before shoulder flexion, adjusted the transdiaphragmatic
      pressure and shortened the neck before motion began. In CLBP, diaphragm motility decreases
      significantly due to fatigue in the diaphragm. This makes it difficult to perform
      anticipatory automatic arrangements, leading to postural instability and respiratory
      dysfunction. Although various methods have been emphasized in the treatment of CLBP, one of
      the treatments with the highest level of evidence is tailor-made exercises. Exercises to
      improve lumbopelvic region muscle performance and proprioception have been reported to be
      effective in alleviating clinical symptoms in individuals with CLBP. Proprioceptive
      neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) techniques are frequently used in the treatment of CLBP. PNF
      techniques reduce the load on vertebral bodies when performed in supine, side-lying, and
      sitting positions. It has been reported that performing a PNF trunk pattern in a sitting
      position is effective for treating CLBP and it improves muscle endurance, flexibility, and
      functional performance. PNF lower extremity pattern training in a supine position is
      effective for abdominal muscle activation. There is also an improvement in pain, functional
      disability, and fear-avoidance belief by applying the PNF coordination pattern in a standing
      position. While the diaphragm effect was emphasized in individuals with CLBP, no studies
      examining the effect of PNF techniques used on CLBP treatment on diaphragm muscle thickness
      were found. In addition, studies investigating the effect of PNF techniques on pain,
      functional disability index, range of motion and waist muscle endurance were found to be
      insufficient. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of PNF
      techniques on related variables in individuals with CLBP.
    
  