
    
      This will be a 3-month prospective study of clinicians who have ordered the Genecept assay
      and the psychiatric patients for whom the test was ordered. Clinicians who order the Assay
      for a patient who has been indicated as having a diagnosis of depression will receive an
      invitation to participate in this study as well as an informational patient study brochure
      with the test kit. The patient's treating clinician will be prompted to discuss the study
      with the patient. Clinicians and patients can view a website containing additional
      information about the study as well as the informed consent document.

      Potential subjects and clinician study participants will be consented online using a secure
      electronic method. Study staff will be available by phone and by email to answer any
      questions related to the study and the informed consent documents and process. Clinicians and
      patients can choose to participate independently of each other so that if one party declines
      to enroll, the other may still participate. Whether or not they choose to participate,
      patients must consent to allow their clinicians to provide responses about their treatment.

      All subjects and participants will receive a username and password with which to access the
      secure study portal for completion of study surveys. Subjects and participants will receive
      sms and email reminders when surveys are due.

      At baseline, clinician study participants will supervise DNA sample collection and will be
      prompted to complete a brief survey containing questions about the patient's psychiatric
      history and severity of illness, current treatment regimen and the treatment intentions of
      the clinician prior to receiving genetic results. After receiving the results of the Assay,
      clinician study participants will again be prompted to complete an online study survey
      containing questions related to the impact of the Genecept Assay on treatment and diagnosis
      decisions. The subject will continue with treatment as determined by the clinician study
      participant. At 3 months from baseline, clinician study participants will again be asked to
      complete an online survey with additional questions related to subsequent changes to the
      patient's treatment regimen and illness severity since receiving/implementing the results of
      the Assay.

      The subject will also be prompted to complete surveys at baseline, 1 month from the receipt
      of the genetic results and 3 months from the receipt of the genetic results. These surveys
      include questions about the patient's psychiatric symptoms, quality of life and medication
      side effects. The 3 month patient assessment will also include a satisfaction questionnaire.
    
  