
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the prevalence, severity, and interference due to physical and psychological
           symptoms experienced (over a 4 to 5 week period) by patients with invasive primary
           breast, lung, prostate, or colorectal cancer who are being followed on an outpatient
           basis at ECOG institutions.

      Secondary

        -  Determine if the number of symptom-related interventions are related to the providers'
           perception of symptom severity.

        -  Determine whether physical symptoms are more commonly prioritized and treated compared
           to psychological symptoms.

        -  Determine the percentage of patients who experience a significant reduction in
           moderate-to-severe symptoms and characterize the determinants of symptom relief.

        -  Determine the focus and scope of interventions chosen by oncologists to improve the
           symptom control of patients seen in outpatient clinics.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease type, prevalence according to gender, race/ethnicity, age, and type of treatment.

      Patients complete the M.D. Anderson Symptom Assessment Inventory and other questionnaires,
      rating the symptoms most frequently found in this patient group and how much these symptoms
      interfere with mood and activity-related domains, on day 1 and again between days 28-35.

      At the same time points, a healthcare provider (treating physician, nurse, or physician
      assistant) completes the Revised Edmonton Staging System for Cancer Pain questionnaire,
      assessing the patient's cancer pain on the basis of mechanism of pain, incidental pain,
      psychological distress and addictive behavior, and cognitive function, for clinical prognosis
      on pain control.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,310 patients and their physicians will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  