
    
      Study design:

      This is a 12-week double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial of memantine add-on to
      concurrent antipsychotic therapy for clinically stable patients with first episode
      schizophrenia.

      Study procedures:

      Patients will be recruited from the outpatient clinic of the study hospital. We will hold
      information campaigns to encourage referrals once the clinical trial procedure is set.
      Patients will be assessed for eligibility based on the criteria detailed below. Written
      informed consent will be obtained from eligible subjects or the subjects' parents if they are
      younger than the age of 18 years. Baseline clinical and neuropsychological assessments will
      be done at first. Patients will receive a single dose of memantine 5 mg to test if any
      allergic reactions to those who have never used it before. And then they will be randomized
      into 3 groups: the first group receives a target dose of memantine 10 mg/day, the second
      group receives a target dose of memantine 20 mg/day, and the third is a placebo control
      group. Both the participants and the clinicians are blinded to the agents and dosage they are
      taking. The dose titrating schedule for medication groups will be 5 mg/day for the first week
      with an increment of 5 mg per week to reach their designated targeted dose. So the10 mg
      add-on group will reach their target dose by the beginning of the second week and the 20
      mg/day add-on group will reach their target dose by the beginning of the fourth week.
      Participants will be scheduled to return visit on week 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 for dispense of
      medication and clinical assessments. By the end of the 12-week trial, they will receive all
      clinical and neuropsychological assessments again.

      To use the least resources and to make most use of the information, as well as take into
      account of attrition, we plan to recruit 40 patients for each group with a total of 120
      participants.
    
  