
    
      This is a multicenter (two centers), prospective study to test the accuracy of FIT for CRC
      detection in patients with severe IDA and its potential value for prioritizing colonoscopy.

      An appointment with a gastroenterologist will be scheduled for patients with IDA referred for
      upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or colonoscopy. The gastroenterologist will check the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible patients will sign the informed consent to carry
      out the following procedures:

        1. Blood analysis to rule out celiac disease (anti-transglutaminase IgA antibodies and
           IgA).

        2. A quantitative fecal immunological test (FIT: OC-Sensor ®) will be provided.

        3. An appointment for colonoscopy and gastroscopy will be provided after completion of the
           FIT in all patients. During gastroscopy, duodenal biopsies from the second portion of
           the duodenum and duodenal bulb will be taken to rule out celiac disease. Biopsies from
           the stomach will be also taken to assess helicobacter pylori infection.

        4. In patients with severe anemia colonoscopy and upper endoscopy will be prioritized (<20
           days) (primary outcome).

        5. Patients with colonoscopy and gastroscopy without significant lesions, will be scheduled
           for the performance of a capsule endoscopy.

        6. Endoscopists will be blind for the FIT results.

        7. the following information will be collected: consumption of acetylsalicylic acid, non
           steroidal anti inflammatory drugs, oral anticoagulants, corticosteroids and proton pump
           inhibitors (PPI). In the case of patients receiving treatment with PPIs, they will be
           removed 15 days before the completion of the FIT and not resumed until the performance
           of the upper endoscopy.

      The hypothesis of the study is that one-time FIT is a useful tool for increasing the
      efficiency of colonoscopy and can be used to prioritize outpatient colonoscopy in patients
      with IDA. In order to calculate the sample size required for the study, the investigators
      have assumed that FIT is positive in 25% of cases with iron deficiency anemia and 20% of them
      would have an advanced colorectal neoplasia at colonoscopy whereas only 10% of advanced
      colorectal neoplasias would be found in the remaining 75% patients with a negative FIT.
      Considering a type I error (alpha) of 5%, a power of 80% and a percentage of losses of 15%,
      550 patients will be necessary to include. The investigators estimate that approximately 15%
      of these patients (n=83) will have severe anemia.
    
  