
    
      Neonates undergoing emergency abdominal surgery frequently require stoma formation. Reversing
      (closing) these stomas with a second operation is an essential part of the infant's recovery.
      The timing of this closure is highly variable around the United Kingdom (UK) and the best
      time remains unclear. Current evidence is of low methodological quality and presents mixed
      conclusions: determining the best time has significant potential benefits for: (i) infant
      health outcomes (short-term e.g. avoiding complications and long-term e.g. growth and
      neurodevelopment); ii) families (e.g. reduced Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) stay); and
      iii) healthcare providers (e.g. reduced costs). Ideally, a clinical trial to compare early
      and late closure would be conducted but this is likely to be challenging and may not be
      feasible or acceptable to parents and clinicians.

      Aims and objectives:

      This study aims to answer the question, 'is it feasible to conduct a clinical trial comparing
      'early' vs. 'late' stoma closure in neonates?' It has a series of specific objectives which
      incorporate: (i) describing current UK practice; (ii) establishing whether or not a clinical
      trial (and exactly what form of trial) is acceptable to parents and clinicians; and (iii)
      establishing the design of a potential trial, including defining the intervention ('early vs.
      late') and the population of infants to be included, how infants should be recruited and what
      information should be collected (outcomes).

      Methods:

      The study will use a mixed-methods approach comprising three parallel workstreams (WS). WS 1
      will be a national survey of clinician perspectives of neonatal stoma closure. WS 2 will use
      an observational cohort study, interviews, questionnaires and focus groups. WS 3 will analyse
      three existing large databases (National Neonatal Research Database (NNRD), Health Episode
      Statistics (HES) and British Association of Paediatric Surgeons Congenital Anomalies
      Surveillance System (BAPS-CASS)).

      The findings of these WS will be combined and presented at a final, trial design meeting
      where conclusions about trial feasibility will be reached and if appropriate, an outline of a
      trial protocol agreed.

      Anticipated impact and dissemination:

      The principal impact will be determining whether or not a definitive trial can go ahead: if
      the study demonstrates that a trial is feasible then the investigators will use their
      findings to design a trial that is acceptable to parents and clinicians; that includes the
      most appropriate infants; that measures outcomes important to parents and clinicians and
      ultimately, answers the question: when is the best time to close an infant's stoma? Findings
      will be disseminated at national meetings of relevant professionals, through social media
      (including patient groups), to funding bodies and in open access publications.
    
  