
    
      Background. Research suggests that vitamin C is potentially lifesaving in the intense
      inflammatory cascade such as that associated with COVID-19. Inflammation and oxidative stress
      are among the main mechanisms underlying COVID-19-associated acute hypoxemic respiratory
      failure. Previous evidence had also already established that a dysregulated inflammatory
      cascade may distinguish patients who transition from a relatively mild viral pneumonitis to
      acute respiratory distress syndrome and multiorgan failure. As such, adjunct immune
      modulation therapies may improve outcomes of COVID-19 patients who are hospitalized. Numerous
      preclinical studies have shown that, in addition to direct scavenging of oxygen radicals,
      vitamin C limits their production and restores endothelial function.

      As the majority of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 are not critically ill, avoiding
      clinical deterioration and subsequent intensive care unit admission is a high priority.
      Participation in research should be offered before patients become critically ill, at which
      time many perceive that treatment may be too late. It is important to ensure that as many
      COVID-19 patients as possible are offered the opportunity to participate to research since
      that is generally the only means to access investigational therapies. The proposed trial will
      address this gap, by evaluating the efficacy of intravenous vitamin C in hospitalized
      patients with confirmed COVID-19.

      Objectives. The overarching objective, which is identical to the objective of the parent
      LOVIT trial (NCT 03680274), is to determine whether intravenous vitamin C, compared to
      placebo, reduces morbidity and mortality in patients hospitalized with COVID-19. To ascertain
      the volume of distribution, clearance, and plasma concentration over a course of 96 hours of
      intravenous vitamin C 50 mg/kg of weight every 6 hours or matching placebo (pharmacokinetic
      (PK) substudy).

      Methods. Patients will be randomly assigned to vitamin C (intravenous, 50 mg/kg every 6h) or
      placebo (0.9% NaCl or dextrose 5% in water) for 96 hours. Study personnel at the clinical
      sites will document the composite of death or persistent organ dysfunction at day 28. Daily
      assessments will occur for organ function, on days 1, 3, 7 for inflammation, infection, and
      endothelial injury biomarkers, at baseline for vitamin C level, and at 6 months for mortality
      and HRQoL. The LOVIT-COVID Trial will be conducted in Canadian and possibly international
      sites. For the PK substudy: Blood samples will be drawn around the 8th dose at time 0 and
      then after administration at times 1h, 2h, 4h and 6h (the 6h level will be immediately prior
      to the next dose). The PK substudy will be conducted with 100 participants in some of the
      participating centers.

      Relevance. A growing body of evidence suggests that vitamin C, an inexpensive and readily
      available intervention, is potentially lifesaving in sepsis and may also be beneficial in
      COVID-19. LOVIT-COVID will constitute rigorous assessments of the effect of vitamin C
      monotherapy on patient-important outcomes. If proven effective, vitamin C could be used
      worldwide and drastically change outcomes in high- and low-income settings alike.
    
  