
    
      The study is limited to those patients who have completed 24 months in our single-center
      open-label trial of inotersen for amyloid cardiomyopathy (NCT037028289). Patients must have
      an estimated glomerular filtration rate of greater than 30 and a platelet count greater than
      130,000. They will have either wildtype or mutant transthyretin cardiomyopathy. It is
      anticipated that up to 17 patients will be eligible for the study, age 65-85 years.

      Research design:

      After completion of the 24 months in the inotersen study, patients will undergo their final
      visit and assessment. This will include an echocardiogram, lab work, 6-minute walk test,
      cardiopulmonary exercise testing and, in those without a pacemaker, a cardiac MRI. If the lab
      work from the end of study confirms eligibility for the new study, patients will be offered
      the option of continuing with the TTR-lowering drug, ION-682884. After informed consent the
      patient will be supplied with prefilled syringes containing ION-682884 and the first
      injection administered. They will return for follow up visits at six weeks, 12 weeks, three
      months, and six months thereafter. At each six-monthly visit they will undergo the same
      testing as they had in the inotersen study, namely laboratory measurements, 6-minute walk
      test, cardiopulmonary exercise testing, echocardiogram and, unless contraindicated, cardiac
      MRI. The patients will remain in the study for an open-ended period of time until study
      ending criteria occur (reduction in the glomerular filtration rate to less than 30 or
      platelet count with a significant fall) or until the drug is FDA-approved or the manufacturer
      or principal investigator terminates the study.

      Because ION-682884 is an antisense oligonucleotide similar to inotersen and because inotersen
      has been associated with thrombocytopenia and worsening renal function, patients will have
      weekly lab draws done in their own home for safety monitoring. These bloods will be used to
      measure platelet function every week, and renal function every other week. This is currently
      mandated by the Food and Drug administration in the double-blinded study of ION-682884 but
      the frequency of blood draws may be decreased overtime depending on the interim safety
      analysis results from that study and FDA evaluation of that data.
    
  