
    
      The proposed study will recruit 288 healthy breast cancer survivors (1-15 years post
      diagnosis, currently free of cancer), in two strata: 144 BrCa survivors with stable
      lymphedema (defined in section D.2.), and 144 without lymphedema. The women with lymphedema
      will be 1-15 years post diagnosis. The women without lymphedema will be 1-5 years post
      diagnosis. The difference in timing is due to the timing of the onset of lymphedema. Because
      90% of all lymphedema cases are likely to occur by 5 years post treatment, it would be of
      greater value to evaluate the safety of strength training for women without lymphedema during
      the time frame when lymphedema is most likely to develop.

      Randomization will be balanced by timing since diagnosis and other factors. Participants will
      be randomly assigned within lymphedema strata, to the exercise intervention group or the
      control group. Participants will be recruited in groups (a total of 8 waves) and randomized
      to either a strength-training group or control group. All outcome measurements will occur at
      baseline and 12 months later; additionally, all participants will undergo arm volumetry
      circumference measures, and a subset of arm function tests (range of motion, pain, grip
      strength) every 3 months.

      Protection and safety of all participants All participants will be given access to trained
      lymphedema specialists throughout study participation, paid for by the study, for evaluation
      and treatment of lymphedema. Participants without lymphedema will all participate in an
      educational session led by Dr. Schmitz and co-developed by Ms. Benson and Ms. Oatman to
      ensure all participants enter the study with a clear understanding of lymphedema.

      Each participant with lymphedema will undergo a clinical evaluation to review lymphedema
      related measures and to assess current management strategies as part of the baseline and
      12-month measurement visits. The protocol to standardize the content of these evaluation
      sessions will be developed in the first twelve months of the study. Participants with
      lymphedema, who wear a compression garment, will receive two free garments as part of
      participating in the study. Arm volumes, circumferences, extra-cellular water in the arm and
      a subset of arm function tests (range of motion, pain, grip strength) will be monitored
      quarterly in all participants and monthly in treatment group participants. All participants
      will be encouraged to request more frequent arm volumetry and/or circumferences and/or
      extra-cellular water in the arm measures if they believe they have had or are concerned about
      a change of symptoms. Any participant, regardless of group assignment, who experiences the
      onset or a flare-up of lymphedema will be seen by a trained lymphedema specialist for
      evaluation and treatment, paid for by the study. Clinical experiences of Ms. Oatman and Ms.
      Benson suggest that 10% of the participants with lymphedema will experience a flare-up over
      12 months of participation.

      For purposes of this study, a flare-up will be defined as a 5% increase in inter-limb
      discrepancy in volume or circumference at the point of greatest visible difference.as
      persistent pain/achiness/fullness (in the trunk and/or arm), persistent puffiness (visible),
      or change of color that does not resolve within three days of rest, and that requires 5 or
      more days of combined decongestive therapy to resolve. Further, for the purposes of this
      study, onset of lymphedema will be defined as follows: among women not diagnosed with
      lymphedema prior to study entry, a > 10% inter-limb discrepancy in volume or circumference a
      the point of greatest visible difference OR swelling or obscuration of anatomic architecture
      on close inspection OR pitting edema. as a 2 cm or 200 ml or greater difference between the
      arm treated for breast cancer compared to the unaffected arm in a woman not diagnosed with
      lymphedema prior to study entry. By these actions and the careful training of the fitness
      trainers, we will monitor all participants carefully with regard to onset or worsening of
      lymphedema symptoms.

      The intervention group will receive social, behavioral support and research staff contact
      time to encourage them to increase their activity level to include two weekly
      strength-training sessions over 12 months. For the first three months, the exercise sessions
      will be supervised and conducted in small groups of 4, to teach the specifics of the
      protocol. Thereafter, participants will continue the same exercise protocol on their own or
      in groups of their choosing. Treatment group participants will be held accountable for
      completing workouts through exercise logs and reminder calls from research staff.
      Participants in the treatment group will undergo assessments of arm volumes and
      circumferences , as well as a subset of arm function tests (range of motion, pain, grip
      strength) monthly.

      The control group will undergo all outcome measures at baseline and 12 months, and a few
      measures at 3 and 6 months. The outcome measures include assessments of arm circumferences,
      extra-cellular water in the arm, and volumetry, as well as a subset of arm function tests
      (range of motion, pain, grip strength), and will be asked to neither make purposeful changes
      in diet nor to begin strength training until the final measures are completed 12 months
      later. After completion of the final measures, control group participants will have the
      option to participate in the same intervention offered to treatment group participants,
      including a 1-year membership to the YMCA, Sisters in Shape gym, or Pottruck Health and
      Fitness Center.
    
  