
    
      Despite considerable, replicated evidence of the efficacy and effectiveness of cognitive
      behavioural therapy, there is an insufficient number of professionals (e.g., psychologists,
      psychiatrists) in North America to provide evidence-based psychotherapy to all who need it.
      Seminal work from Statistics Canada has emphasized the need for greater access to
      psychotherapy in Canada. Moreover, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a greater need
      for resources that are scalable to help a large portion of the public to manage anxiety and
      attendant psychological distress. One promising avenue to increase the availability of
      evidence-based mental healthcare relies on technological developments, such as
      smartphone-enabled apps, to disseminate principles derived from existing evidence-based
      psychotherapies. The internet and smartphones provide a novel format to provide information
      and relevant skills to a large number of users. Recent research indicates that internet-based
      variants of cognitive behavioural therapy may be efficacious treatments for anxiety and
      depressive disorders among other conditions. Critically, internet-based treatments are
      scalable; resources can be provided to many people instantaneously to help them in crises,
      such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Further study is needed to identify who may benefit from
      internet-based treatment or require psychotherapy in a more traditional format. For example,
      whereas mental health professionals receive extensive training in assessment and case
      formulation to adapt treatments to individuals, internet-based resources are fixed. However,
      their fixed nature allows internet-based resources to offer a range of tools for users to try
      in a process of finding those that benefit them in particular situations. Moreover, the
      ability to access resources on demand presents a unique benefit of internet-based treatments
      that may support goals of traditional psychotherapy formats to generalize skills into
      individuals' daily lives. Anxiety disorders are also frequently comorbid with myriad other
      psychological and psychiatric conditions. Existing treatments for other conditions are often
      complicated by the presence of a comorbid anxiety disorder, which may be associated with
      poorer prognosis. Whereas traditional psychotherapy formats consider how to organize
      treatment for multiple comorbid conditions, internet- and smartphone-enabled resources may
      help individuals manage concurrent anxiety to support traditional treatment in addressing
      comorbid conditions. For example, anxiety disorders are often comorbid with substance use
      disorders; internet- and smartphone-based resources for anxiety disorders may, therefore,
      supplement existing treatments for substance use disorders for some individuals.

      In recent years, there has been a proliferation of smartphone-based apps advertised to help
      users' mental health and wellness. While many of these apps may use principles of
      evidence-based treatments, the efficacy, effectiveness, or clinical utility of most apps has
      not been empirically supported. Overall, internet-based mental health resources may provide
      useful help to people for whom traditional psychotherapy is not yet available or to augment
      existing treatment such as through helping to generalize therapeutic skills into one's daily
      life. However, further research is needed to understand for whom and in what contexts
      internet- and smartphone-enabled resources are helpful. The present study will examine the
      utility of one such smartphone enabled app, MindShift, developed by Anxiety Canada in
      consultation with Canadian and American experts in evidence-based psychotherapy for anxiety
      disorders. Specifically, the main aim of the present study is to evaluate the effectiveness
      of the MindShift app to help users manage anxiety and related psychological distress as
      compared to anxiety and distress prior to app use. Two secondary, exploratory aims of the
      present study are to examine possible moderators that indicate for whom or in what contexts
      use of the MindShift app is particularly helpful. Specifically, the research team will
      examine person-specific and contextual moderators of change over time. For example, the
      person-specific moderator of baseline anxiety severity may demonstrate a non-linear
      association with change in anxiety severity over time, which would indicate that the
      smartphone-based resource is more helpful for individuals in a given range of baseline
      anxiety severity (e.g., low to moderate) while other treatment formats should be considered
      for individuals with severe baseline anxiety. Similarly, differences in the rate of anxiety
      symptom change over time will examine whether use of the app is associated with greater
      reductions in anxiety and distress when used alone or as an adjunct to traditional
      psychotherapy or pharmacotherapy. Finally, by examining comorbid conditions and concurrent
      treatments as moderators of change in anxiety severity over time, the present study will
      provide some of the first indications of whether use of the MindShift smartphone app to
      manage anxiety supports existing treatments for conditions frequently comorbid with anxiety
      disorders.

      Adult participants 18 years of age and older will be recruited from Canada and the United
      States of America using a variety of online platforms and list serves. Following informed
      consent, participants will complete baseline assessment of anxiety symptom severity,
      depressive symptom severity, daily functional impairment, quality of life, alcohol use, use
      of illicit psychoactive substances, stress associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, and
      demographic information. Following baseline assessment, participants will be instructed in
      downloading the MindShift app to their personal mobile phone running either iOS or Android OS
      software. Participants will then use the MindShift app as they choose for the 16-week
      duration of the study. Finally, participants will be asked to complete follow-up assessments
      2, 4, 8, 12, and 16 weeks following baseline assessment. Follow-up assessments will assess
      anxiety symptom severity, depressive symptom severity, functional impairment, and quality of
      life satisfaction on the same measures administered at baseline.
    
  