
    
      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is the standard of care for treatment of locally advanced
      breast cancer (LABC) and inflammatory breast cancer, and is recently being used in earlier
      stage breast cancer. The ideal outcome of NACT is pathological complete response (pCR), which
      itself has shown to be associated with improved disease-free survival. However, pCR is
      currently determined at the time of the surgery when the patient has received the whole cycle
      of the treatment. Early detection of non-responders to NACT could be used to halt ineffective
      treatment and start a new chemotherapeutic regimen in order to achieve better tumor response
      and overall survival. Current techniques to monitor response to NACT based on tumor size
      changes include mammography, physical examination, ultrasonography and MRI. Clinically
      assessing tumor size has been shown to be only moderately useful for chemotherapy response
      prediction in these patients because tumor shrinkage is a late marker of effective treatment.
      Metabolic activities and microstructure changes induced by NACT can be determined using
      functional imaging methods such as PET-CT, contrast enhanced MRI and diffuse optical
      spectroscopy. However, the application of these methods is limited due to high cost and
      intravenous injection of exogenous contrast agents. Limited studies have shown the potential
      of ultrasound elastography to be useful in predicting and monitoring response to NACT in
      breast cancer tumors based on tumor stiffness. Harmonic Motion Imaging (HMI) is a novel
      ultrasound elastography technique that applies an oscillatory force locally and at different
      depths in the tissue, in order to determine the characteristics of the resulting localized
      harmonic motion using high precision tracking methods. Highly localized harmonic motion can
      be noninvasively generated by ultrasonic beams deep inside the tissue and estimated at high
      precision, by using RF signals and cross-correlation methods. In addition to not being
      burdened by the drawbacks encountered by existing techniques, due to the highly localized and
      harmonic nature of the response, the motion characteristics can be directly linked to the
      local tissue stiffness. In this study, the investigators propose to compare the changes in
      the measurements provided by HMI and pathological response rate, between baseline, during
      treatment and end of the treatment to assess whether HMI can early predict the tumor response
      to neoadjuvant therapy.
    
  