
    
      OVERVIEW:

      This is a prospective randomized cohort study assessing the use of directed high-dose nasal
      steroids for improving olfactory function after endoscopic sinus surgery for chronic
      rhinosinusitis. Up to 70 subjects will be prospectively enrolled from patients visiting the
      Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery clinics at the University of North
      Carolina (UNC) Hospitals.

      VISIT 1/PRE-OPERATIVE VISIT

      Visit 1 will be the day of enrollment or the pre-operative visit. During this encounter,
      subjects will complete the Rhinosinusitis Disability Index (RSDI), Rhinosinusitis Outcome
      Measure 31 (RSOM-31), Sinonasal Outcome Test 22 (SNOT-22), University of Pennsylvania Smell
      Identification Test (UPSIT), Phenyl-ethyl-alcohol (PEA) tests and will also have their
      Lund-Kennedy scores recorded. Additionally, all subjects will undergo a pre-operative
      (standard of care) head CT which will be scored with the Lund-Mackay system. This standard of
      care head CT will be billed to the subject's insurance.

      VISIT 2/POST-OPERATIVE VISIT(POV) 1

      Visit 2 will occur at "post-operative visit 1" or 4-6 weeks after surgery. During this
      encounter, subjects will complete the RSDI, RSOM-31, SNOT-22, UPSIT, PEA tests and will also
      have their Lund-Kennedy scores recorded. Additionally, all subjects will undergo
      post-operative (standard of care) head CT. This standard of care head CT will be billed to
      the subject's insurance. Subjects who do have quantitative improvement in olfaction (as
      determined by UPSIT category score) will be considered part of the "improved" group and will
      simply be followed without an intervention. Subjects who do not have quantitative improvement
      in olfaction will be randomized (with a random number generator) into a "treatment" or an
      "observation" group. Subjects within the treatment group will be given a 12-week course of
      directed high-dose nasal steroid irrigation. Pharmacies will bill the subjects' insurance for
      the medication. Subjects will be instructed to perform irrigation twice daily using ½
      budesonide respule, 0.5 mg/2mL, applied directly to the nasal mucosa as described previously.
      Subjects will be given written instructions on how to perform nasal irrigation with this
      medication. Subjects randomized to receive medication will be given medication diaries and
      asked to document medication compliance and side effects.

      PHONE INTERVIEW (1-2 WEEKS AFTER TREATMENT)

      Subjects randomized to the treatment arm will be called 1-2 weeks after initiation of
      budesonide treatment to assess medication compliance and side effects. Subjects will be asked
      to review their medication diaries when answering questions about compliance and side
      effects. As detailed in the data safety monitoring plan, the PI will be alerted if any
      subjects are experiencing moderate-severe adverse events or any unexpected side effects.

      VISIT 3/"SURVEILLANCE" VISIT

      Visit 3 will be a surveillance visit somewhere between post-operative visit 1 (at 4-6 weeks)
      and post-operative visit 2 (at 3-4 months). Only patients in the treatment arm will have this
      visit. During this visit, subjects will be asked about medication compliance and asked to
      demonstrate irrigation technique with nasal saline. Medication diaries will be reviewed and
      assessed for compliance and concerning side effects. These diaries will be collected for
      future review by the independent data safety reviewer.

      VISIT 4/ POST-OPERATIVE VISIT (POV) 2

      Visit 4 will occur at post-operative visit 2 or 3-4 months after surgery. During this
      encounter, subjects will complete the RSDI, RSOM-31, SNOT-22, UPSIT, PEA tests and will also
      have their Lund-Kennedy scores recorded. Subjects in the "non-improved" arm (regardless of
      whether they were randomized to receive nasal steroids) will have an additional (for research
      purposes only) head CT. This research only head CT will be provided free of charge by the
      Department of Otolaryngology's CT scanner.

      Medication diaries will be reviewed and assessed for compliance and concerning side effects.
      These diaries will be collected for future review by the independent data safety reviewer.
    
  