
    
      Background: Friedreich's ataxia (FA) is a progressive, autosomal recessive, multisystem
      degenerative disease for which there is currently no effective treatment. Recent studies have
      suggested that lipid-soluble antioxidants lead to a modest reversal of cardiomyopathy in
      patients with FA. It is possible that antioxidants may also prevent the progression of
      neurodegeneration.

      Objective: This will be a 6 month phase 2 double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to assess
      the safety and efficacy of idebenone administered to adolescents and children with FA.

      Study Population: We aim to enroll 48 subjects composed of children (ages 9-11) and
      adolescents (ages 12-17) with FA divided evenly among 4 treatment arms (placebo, low,
      intermediate, and high dose idebenone).

      Design: Our primary objective is to examine the change in the level of oxidative stress by
      measuring the oxidative marker 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine from baseline and after 6 months of
      treatment with placebo or varying doses of idebenone. Following informed consent and assent,
      patients will undergo an initial medical history and physical followed by specific
      neurological, functional, and cardiac testing over a two-day outpatient visit. Patients will
      provide blood and urine samples for safety laboratory and biochemical analysis. Each patient
      will be randomized to one of 4 treatment arms and will be provided with a 6 month supply of
      study drug or placebo which will be administered three times a day. Patients will have
      follow-up laboratory monitoring after 1 and 3 months and at the end of the study.
      Additionally, patients will also have an EKG, vital signs, including orthostatics, and a
      physical examination performed after 1 and 3 months by their primary care physician. Patients
      will return after 6 months for follow-up exam, testing, and laboratory monitoring over a
      two-day outpatient visit.

      Outcome Parameters: The primary endpoint in this phase 2 trial is the change in the level of
      the oxidative stress marker 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine. Secondary endpoints include types and
      frequency of adverse events, if any, compliance with the dosing regimen, and measurements of
      the following: International Cooperative Ataxia Rating Scale (ICARS), Friedreich's ataxia
      Rating Scale (FARS), force control, gait analysis, quantitative sensation testing, fine motor
      control, health related quality of life score (SF-10), functional capacity, aerobic capacity,
      left ventricular wall mass, noninvasive measures of systolic and diastolic ventricular
      function, metabolic markers, markers of mitochondrial DNA damage, and gene expression
      profiling.

      Future Directions: We hope that the results of this phase 2 study will assist us in
      developing a multi-center, double-blinded, placebo-controlled phase III trial.
    
  