
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) encompass a group of non-progressive, non-contagious motor conditions
      that cause physical disability in human development. It is not infrequently to note
      concurrent impairment in sensory, intelligence, vision and auditory in those patients. Many
      studies have documented Cerebral palsy is associated with a variety of neuromotor disorders
      that frequently affect the speech production system. The speech function impairment varied
      widely due to different severity of diseases involved. The investigators hypothesize such
      impairment of speech function may affect degree of social participation and eventually the
      quality of life (QoL).

      The investigators study aim in this project include: (1) to find the differences in speech
      function in normal developed children and in children with CP with different severity; (2)
      the relationship between speech function and QoL in children with CP; (3) to seek the
      predictable factor involving motor speech function in children with CP from the framework of
      International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health - Children and Youth
      Version (ICF-CY).

      This will be a 3-year longitudinal project recruiting 110-130 children in total. The
      investigators will have children with CP (n=60~80) and normal (n=50) from 2-12 years old
      under consent of their family. The investigator's study will be based on structure of ICF-CY.
      In the first year, basic clinical assessments including motor, mental, vocabulary, motor
      speech function, general development, and subjective questionnaires on adaptation,
      participation, development and quality of life will be collected. During the second to the
      third year, all measurements will be repeated in the end of 6- and 12-month to follow the
      performance of children with CP and those with normal development.

      The anticipated outcomes of this study are: (1) to observe the longitudinal change of speech
      function and QoL in children with CP. (2) Using ICF-CY items in rehabilitation services to
      describe the speech function and participation of social life for children with CP. (3)To
      identify the influencing factors and predictors of motor speech function for children with
      CP.
    
  