
    
      The increase in diabetic population of the world, is among the top ten causes of death; with
      diabetes always a top cause of death. Diabetes is always related with other major causes of
      death, (e.g. in cerebral vascular disease, cardiovascular disease and renal disease).

      The eating habits and patterns of diabetic patient are the main causes for poor glycemic
      control. In epidemiological studies, high fiber rand low sugar dietary intake can
      significantly reduce the incidence of diabetes.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of high fiber sugar-free biscuits in
      regulating blood glucose in pre-diabetic subjects.

      The study will be conducted in three periods:

      Period-I:

      The recruitment of 60 pre-diabetic subjects:

      Subjects of blood glucose levels "Impaired fasting glucose; IFG": fasting blood glucose ≧ 100
      mg / dL, < 126 mg/dL or "Impaired glucose tolerance; IGT": 2 hours postprandial blood glucose
      ≧ 140mg/dL, < 200 mg/dL or clinically judged to be mild or moderate diabetes mellitus (HbA1c
      < 9%) .

      In addition to perform pre-test, all subjects also need to complete nutrition counseling and
      nutrition education .

      All 60 subjects are randomly selected into two groups, Group-1,30 subjects, (Placebo group,
      normal fiber and normal sugar biscuit group) , Group-2, 30 subjects, (Experimental group,
      high fiber and sugar free biscuit group)

      Blood samples will be collected from all 60 subjects to investigate:

      HbA1c, Blood sugars(Fasting and 2 hours after meal), Insulin, Fructosamine,
      SGOT,SGPT,ALK-P,TOTAL PROTEIN, Albumin, Globulin, Ketone, Bun,Creatinine,
      Cholesterol,TG,LDl,HDL, WBC,RBC,Hgb,Hct,M.C.V.,MCH,MCHC,Platelet.

      The period-II:

      Duration: 8 weeks Group-1,30 subjects, (Placebo group, normal fiber and normal sugar biscuit
      group), All 30 subjects consume 3 serving of Low-fiber, normal sugar biscuits daily.

      Group-2, 30 subjects,(Experimental group, high fiber and sugar free biscuit group) All 30
      subjects consume 3 serving of high-fiber, and sugar free biscuits(containing 16 grams of
      fiber) daily.

      Post-period:

      Blood samples of all 60 subjects will be collected to compare with period-I and period-II at
      the first day of 9th week.

      Report of expectation:

      The purpose of this study is to help the pre-diabetic subjects to reduce the risk of becoming
      diabetic through the consuming of high fiber and sugar free biscuits and nutrition education.
    
  