
    
      Rofecoxib is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.

      Patients in this study will take a certain amount of rofecoxib by mouth either once or twice
      a day during treatment with radiation therapy. They will continue to take rofecoxib for 6
      months after the end of radiation therapy. Different dose levels will be given to different
      patients based on a statistical dose escalation (increase) program run on a computer called
      the Continuous Reassessment Method. At least 3 patients will be treated on each dose level
      starting at the lowest level. All patients are required to fill out a medication diary,
      documenting the dose of rofecoxib they are taking and the time they take it.

      Patients will receive radiation therapy once a day, five days a week for six weeks.

      During treatment, patients will have a weekly exam, including blood work and urine tests. The
      blood work will include liver and kidney function tests as well as coagulation (blood
      clotting) tests.

      Patients will be taken off study if intolerable side effects occur, including bleeding and/or
      severe allergic response.

      During the 6 months after completion of radiation, while patients are still receiving
      rofecoxib, monthly medical histories, physical exams, blood tests, and urine tests will be
      performed. Patients will have a MRI at 1, 3, and 6 months after completion of radiation
      therapy.

      The first year after completion of rofecoxib therapy, patients will be interviewed and
      examined with blood and urine tests and MRI every 3 months. During 1-3 years following
      completion of rofecoxib therapy, this will be repeated every 6 months. After 3 years
      following completion of rofecoxib, follow-ups will occur yearly.

      This is an investigational study. Rofecoxib is currently approved by the FDA for use in
      adults only. A maximum of 30 patients will take part in this study at UTMDACC.
    
  