
    
      Urinary tract infections (UTI) occur frequently following surgery for urinary incontinence or
      pelvic organ prolapse (POP), with reported incidence up to 48%. This high rate is frequently
      attributed to intraoperative factors, such as manipulation of the genitourinary tract and
      instrumentation of the bladder and urethra, as well as an approximately 50% rate of short
      term postoperative catheterization following urogynecologic surgery. As American women have a
      20% lifetime risk of surgery for POP or urinary incontinence, the absolute number of women at
      risk for urinary infectious morbidity associated with these procedures is quite high.

      The substantial risk of UTI following POP or incontinence surgery, combined with the
      well-established risk associated with catheterization, leads many practitioners to prescribe
      oral antibiotics to women undergoing catheterization in the postoperative period. However,
      there is minimal Level I evidence to support or refute this practice. The Infectious Disease
      Society of America (IDSA) Guideline acknowledges that prophylactic antibiotics have been
      shown to reduce UTI rates among patients using short term postoperative catheterization in
      randomized trials. However, they recommend against routine antibiotic prophylaxis use due to
      concerns regarding anti-microbial resistance, cost, and potential for adverse effects, even
      among high risk groups including women undergoing urogynecologic surgery. This recommendation
      is based on expert opinion, given a paucity of trial data to guide clinical care.

      Nitrofurantoin is a commonly used antibiotic for UTI prophylaxis during catheterization, is
      well-tolerated with few adverse effects, and is known to have a very low rate of associated
      resistance. After decades of use, it remains active against the most common UTI pathogens
      that have gained resistance to other antimicrobials. For example, in the 2013 Magee-Womens
      Hospital Adult Antibiogram, 98% of E-coli specimens were sensitive to Nitrofurantoin, which
      has been consistent since at least 2007. The drug has a half-life of 20 minutes and 40% is
      concentrated in and excreted into the urine in a therapeutically unchanged form. Thus it has
      minimal impact on vaginal and bowel flora. Nitrofurantoin has been shown to reduce the
      incidence of positive urine cultures and symptomatic UTIs in women with a suprapubic catheter
      after pelvic organ prolapse and/or urinary incontinence surgery. No trials have evaluated
      nitrofurantoin prophylaxis for women using short term indwelling catheters or CISC following
      urogynecologic procedures.

      Given the large number of women at risk for urinary infectious morbidity associated with
      short term catheterization for acute urinary retention following POP and/or incontinence
      surgery, and the paucity of data on the impact of antibiotic prophylaxis in this setting, we
      propose to demonstrate the efficacy of nitrofurantoin prophylaxis through an
      adequately-powered, placebo-controlled trial. Secondary outcomes will include adverse events
      associated with nitrofurantoin use, and incidence of nitrofurantoin resistant bacterial
      isolates from urine culture.

      Primary Aim: To determine if extended release nitrofurantoin administered daily to patients
      using indwelling or clean intermittent self-catheterization (CISC) after pelvic organ
      prolapse and/or urinary incontinence surgery will decrease the incidence of symptomatic and
      culture proven urinary tract infection (UTI) when compared to placebo in a randomized,
      double-blind trial.

      Secondary Aim(s): To determine how nitrofurantoin antibiotic prophylaxis administered to
      patients using an indwelling catheter or CISC after pelvic organ prolapse and/or urinary
      incontinence surgery affects frequency of adverse events related to daily nitrofurantoin
      exposure, and frequency of urine cultures positive for nitrofurantoin-resistant isolates.

      The Null Hypotheses: Nitrofurantoin antibiotic prophylaxis administered to patients using an
      indwelling catheter or CISC after pelvic organ prolapse and/or urinary incontinence surgery
      does not change the incidence of symptomatic and culture proven urinary tract infection (UTI)
      compared with placebo.
    
  