
    
      Background

      The research has a caring science approach, which has the patient in focus, with the general
      aim to describe care that strengthens and supports health. Further, a health care science
      approach recognizes the patient's suffering as a motivation for care.

      In this study a non-urgent patient is a patient with illness, injury or ill-health suitable
      for the health care received in PC. The PC is able to take care of problems that not urgent
      and unlikely to require admission. The problem should not need specialized service in an ED,
      such as facilities, urgent intervention, rapid and/or complex diagnostic and could equally be
      managed at the PC.

      For increased survival, reduced risk of complications and ability to quickly return to a
      functional life, it is important that there is a coherent chain of care. The EMS with the
      Prehospital Emergency Nurses (PEN:s) is an important part of many treatment chains, fast
      tracks and pathways, for example for patients with stroke, heart attack, hip fracture and
      geriatric care.The care model the EMS currently follows, means that virtually all patients
      transported to ED regardless of medical need and seriousness, which is consistent with
      current medical guidelines. Studies shows that around 25 % of patients arriving to the ED
      should have been treated at another level of care for having the right care. There is also a
      connection between increased mortality and overloading in the ED.

      The need for emergency care is large and tends to increase, particularly in the elderly
      population (≥ 65 years). For resources to be utilized effectively, the health care has to be
      given at the level of care that is most appropriate. This requires that different providers
      that all have a responsibility for the patients can think outside the box, based on the
      individual patient's need of care. In addition, assumes cooperation and coordination to
      enable organizational change, which can provide good care from the patient's perspective.

      The numbers of care seekers tend to rise and health care resources must be used more
      efficiently to cope with the increasing patients. Today the healthcare providers, the Country
      Council, the PC and Community Care, don't collaborate with each other, although they all have
      a shared responsibility. According to health care prioritization decisions, witch control the
      need of care and time to care. For resources to be utilized efficiently, care is provided at
      the care level that is most appropriate. However this cannot be achieved today, because of
      the regional guidelines.

      The problem exists nationally and studies show that it is also an internationally problem,
      and as the number of care seekers increases, the problem tends to grow. Studies explain that
      a lot of patients could go to the PC. And some means that one third of the patients should
      have their care at another level than ED.

      A new model with extended prehospital emergency care, which not has been tried before, means
      that assessment of the patient's condition and the need for continuing care is made at
      collection point, if the patient's medical condition make this possible. The health care
      model called "Care at the right care level" (CRC), means that the assessment and treatment
      interventions are implemented, and decisions on further treatment is planned in consultation
      with the general physician (GP) in the patient's PC. Decisions on continuing care can, for
      example, implicate that the patient receives a visit time to the GP immediately or later, or
      run directly to the ED.

      Aims The overall aim is to investigate if it is possible for the Prehospital Emergency Nurse
      (PEN) to triage non-urgent patients to optimal care level in the the Primary Care (PC).

      Issues:

        -  How do patients experience trust to the healthcare?

        -  Is the new care model medical safe?

      Study 1

      Title: Swedish emergency medical services' identification of potential candidates for primary
      healthcare. Resubmitted June 2015, Scandinavian Journal of Primary Health Care.

      The aim is to investigate if it is possible to isolate and identify the patient group and
      their care needs, which can be triaged at the primary care instead of to the ED.

      Study 2

      Title: Patients with suspected primary healthcare problems using the emergency medical
      services - Developing a questionnaire to measure patient trust in healthcare. In manuscript.

      The aim is to developing an instrument for measuring patient's confidence to the health care.

      Study 3

      Title: Care at the right care level - an intervention study. Ongoing from April 2013.

      The aim of the study is to investigate if it is possible to triage less sick or injured
      patients to another level of care with the same medical safety and that they still have the
      same confidence to the healthcare.

      Study 4

      Title: Prehospital emergency care for patients with primary care needs - Patients'
      experiences

      The aim of the study is to describe the patient's lived experiences of being treated in the
      new caring model.

      Ethical considerations

      In the interventions study (study 3), there will be a risk that the patient need a secondary
      transport from the Healthcare Center to the ED. To reduce that risk the PEN always take a
      contact with the physician at the Primary care clinic, when the patient in the CRC-project is
      randomized to The Primary care. It is also always a risk that the patient feels depended and
      feels duty to participate in the study. So it is important that the PEN provides correct
      information about the free will. Except the above mentioned ethical considerations no other
      are aspected to arise. The benefit is considered high, while the risk is considered small.

      Hypothesis

      With the CRC-model the patients receive optimal health care and feel the same trust to the
      healthcare as the traditional healthcare.

      Primary and secondary endpoints.

      The primary endpoint is the proportion who received optimal care and experiencing the same
      trust in the care than to the traditional care.Secondary endpoints are correct preliminary
      assessment/final diagnosis without secondary transport.

      The relation between the studies is logical. To do an intervention study, it is necessary to
      know witch patient´s is possible to include. And the PEN needs a decision support for their
      help to triage right patient to right level of care (study 1). For evaluating if patients
      still feel the same confidence to the healthcare, a measuring instrument is needed, and it
      also has to be validated (study 2). To know if it is possible to triage the non-urgent
      patient group to the Healthcare Center, the investigators have to try the intervention, and
      evaluate the project (study 3). To get a deeper understanding for the patients and his
      relatives experiences of obtaining the new healthcare model, interviews will be done (study
      4).
    
  