
    
      Mycophenolate sodium (Myfortic®) is an antiproliferative immunosuppressant used in renal
      transplantation. Mycophenolate sodium is formulated as an enteric coated tablet that releases
      mycophenolic acid (MPA) which in turn inhibits inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH).
      Through inhibition of IMPDH, the de novo pathway of purine synthesis, which T and B
      lymphocytes rely on for proliferation, is blocked. The pharmacokinetic profile of
      mycophenolate sodium has mainly been studied in combination with cyclosporine and steroids.
      There is little information on the pharmacokinetics of mycophenolate sodium in combination
      with tacrolimus and currently no published information in steroid withdrawal. All current
      published data on the pharmacokinetics of MPA have been in patients receiving chronic
      corticosteroids as part of their immunosuppression regimen. As immunosuppression
      minimization, and especially corticosteroid withdrawal, become more popular it is important
      to understand how mycophenolate sodium and its metabolites behave in a two-drug maintenance
      immunosuppression regimen. The study will assess the pharmacokinetic profile of mycophenolate
      sodium in patients on tacrolimus dose adjusted based on levels, and a steroid withdrawal
      protocol.

      Renal transplant patients will act as their own controls in a randomized crossover design
      with pharmacokinetic profiles occurring at two different time points. Immunosuppression will
      consist of induction therapy with maintenance immunosuppression consisting of tacrolimus plus
      mycophenolate sodium. Corticosteroids will be withdrawn per institutional protocol within the
      first week post transplant.

      Approximately 3-4 weeks post transplant, patients that met enrollment criteria and have
      consented to participate in the study will be instructed to take 720 milligrams of
      mycophenolate sodium orally twice daily for one week either separated from food by two hours
      (fasting state) or with a meal (fed state). After one week, patients will be admitted for
      approximately 24 hours where they will continue to receive mycophenolate sodium with or
      without food. During this period, blood samples will be drawn at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
      9, 10, 11 and 12 hours following the dose to evaluate levels of mycophenolic acid (MPA) and
      mycophenolic acid glucuronide (MPAG). After 24 hours, patients will be discharged with
      instructions to take mycophenolate sodium in the opposite manner (fed or fasting state) than
      they had the week before. At the end of the second week the patients will return for a second
      PK evaluation with blood collection at the same time points following mycophenolate sodium
      dosing.
    
  