
    
      Background / Rationale:

      Despite the existence of evidence-based guidelines, there is a gap between evidence-based
      recommended best medical practice and actual practice. In previous work, we used hypertension
      as a model to study the translation of research regarding clinical blood pressure targets and
      drug choice into primary care practice through computer-based implementation of clinical
      practice guidelines. In collaboration with experts in guideline-automation at Stanford Center
      for Biomedical Informatics Research (BMIR) (formerly known as Stanford Medical Informatics,
      SMI), we developed an innovative clinical decision support system: ATHENA-CDS-HTN
      (hypertension) also known as ATHENA-HTN. ATHENA-HTN is a knowledge-based CDS that uses
      knowledge bases (KBs) of clinical knowledge of hypertension encoded into computable formats.
      Clinical data from an electronic health records system is processed with the knowledge in the
      KB by an execution engine (also known as a guideline interpreter) that generates
      patient-specific outputs with conclusions about the current state of the patient with respect
      to the guidelines as shown in the patient's electronic health record data and also generates
      detailed recommendations for next steps in clinical management of the patient's hypertension.
      The system is designed to take account of multiple data elements in the patients' clinical
      data including co-morbid diagnoses that are relevant to hypertension and its treatment, other
      medications currently prescribed, history of adverse drug reactions/events, and selected
      laboratory values relevant to hypertension and its management. In previous work, we had
      demonstrated that deploying this CDS system in VA primary care clinics was feasible and that
      clinicians found the system usable and useful, as shown by their actual extensive use of the
      system and their response to a questionnaire survey. The current project was funded by the
      Department of Veterans Affairs Health Services Research and Development (HSR&D), under a
      special funding initiative for Quality Enhancement Initiative (QUERI) projects designed to
      improve care for hypertension by collaboration with a Veterans Integrated Service Network
      (VISN) to implement programs to encourage use of established best-practices for managing
      hypertension according to evidence-based guidelines available at the time of the study. These
      studies were known as "VISN Collaboratives". The studies did not involve any new drugs or new
      uses of established drugs, but rather encouraging use of established drugs recommended in
      standard evidence-based guidelines for care. The focus of the study was implementation of
      existing known best practices in managing hypertension, using the CDS as a vehicle to bring
      information to the point-of-care, with detailed individualized recommendations about patients
      presented to the primary care provider at the time the provider sees patients in scheduled
      outpatient primary care clinic visits.

      Objective(s):

      Our objectives in this VISN Implementation Collaborative included: (1) implement
      evidence-based guidelines for hypertension in a CDS system by upgrading the ATHENA-HTN
      knowledge-base (KB) to the most recent guidelines; (2) deploy the CDS system in 5 medical
      centers within VISN 1 to generate individualized recommendations to primary care clinicians
      caring for patients in outpatient clinics; (3) evaluate the implementation including the
      organizational aspects.

      Methods:

      In Phase 1 we plan to update the KB and conduct offline testing; to revise the M (formerly
      known as MUMPS) program that extracts patient data daily from VistA to extract additional
      data elements; to streamline the system architecture to make it easier to implement in
      multiple sites; to work with the site-PIs to obtain IRB approval at 5 implementation sites in
      VISN 1 plus the coordinating site at VA Palo Alto; to improve the user interface design; to
      identify and resolve issues in implementing new information technology in multiple different
      VA medical centers (VAMC) with different Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS)
      implementations and different methods of distributing computer access to clinicians; to train
      the site PIs in use of the system; and perform baseline data analysis to inform the
      randomization. In Phase 2 we plan to recruit primary care providers from the participating 5
      medical centers in VISN 1; randomize clinics to ATHENA-HTN intervention or usual care; deploy
      the system for intervention providers; train intervention providers in use of the system; and
      conduct a 12-month clinical trial of the system.

      Status:

      The project has been completed. We completed Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals at
      all five medical centers. We updated the knowledge base of computable knowledge regarding
      hypertension and conducted offline testing. Our system was deployed to all five medical
      centers. While we were preparing for deployment of the CDS, one site changed from a
      rich-client environment to a thin-client environment for the medical center computers; we
      developed new code to run the system in a thin client environment. The previous programming
      computed recommendations of the CDS based on clinical data available the night before the
      clinic visit (in order to pre-compute advisories for faster display during clinic); in this
      project we developed software code to obtain automatic blood pressure updates for the day of
      visit if these were entered by clinical staff at the time of the visit. VA Palo Alto staff
      worked with staff at each VAMC to validate clinical data extraction at each site. We
      developed code for a clinician to select, optionally, for blood pressure write-back to VA
      VistA so that if clinicians entered to our CDS a blood pressure measurement that they had
      just taken so they could view updated recommendations based on the repeat blood pressure they
      would not also have to enter that blood pressure separately to electronic health record. We
      recruited primary care providers (clinicians) at each of 5 medical centers to participate in
      the project. One of the 5 medical centers completed the installation of the ATHENA-HTN
      system, but did not continue with the intervention period, so the intervention included 4
      rather than 5 medical centers. Our site-principal investigators and project coordinator
      trained intervention providers on use of the system by offering short phone calls for
      training or in-person introduction, and by making the system available for a short period of
      time for familiarity. Records of patients seen by the clinicians in this training period were
      excluded from analyses. We completed a 6-8 month intervention period for the clinical trial
      at the 4 participating medical centers. Our random allocation was at clinic level, where a
      clinic is a substation of a medical center (station). Before initiating data analyses, we
      prepared a detailed data analysis plan.
    
  