
    
      Epilepsy is a disorder of the brain that is associated with disabling seizures. It affects
      100,000 children in the UK, 25-30% of whom will be classed as drug resistant.3 In these
      children, there is increasing evidence that resective epilepsy surgery in appropriate
      candidates can lead to seizure freedom and improve quality of life and cognitive outcomes.4-6
      However, about 30% of children do not achieve seizure freedom following epilepsy surgery and
      data suggests that these figures are not improving over time despite increasing use of
      intracranial evaluation via stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG). 7

      The planning of where to place SEEG electrodes currently relies on an expert
      multidisciplinary team consisting of neurologists, neurophysiologists and neurosurgeons.
      Information from multiple sources, mainly the patient's magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan
      and video-electroencephalography (EEG) recording, are used to generate hypotheses about the
      location of the clinical seizure onset zone (SOZ). Using this information, between 5-18
      electrodes are implanted and the recordings continue for 5-15 days in hospital. In a
      retrospective review of 75 SEEG cases, a focus was identified in about 77% of cases which
      means that the focus is sometimes missed.

      This prospective single arm pilot study to aims assess a new automated lesion detection
      algorithm, MELD, designed to identify focal cortical dysplasias (the most common pathology
      associated with focal epilepsy in children) on otherwise 'normal' MRI scans.1 This algorithm
      was developed in-house by collaborators in this grant application. In our subsequent
      retrospective study of 34 SEEG patients, the algorithm colocalised with the SEEG-defined SOZ
      in 62% of all patients with a cortical SOZ and 86% of all patients with a histologically
      confirmed focal cortical dysplasia.2 Importantly, there were 3 patients whose SOZ was thought
      to be missed on SEEG who had MELD-identified lesions that were not implanted. In order to
      improve the algorithm, investigators have subsequently launched an international multicentre
      collaboration (https://meldproject.github.io//) to increase the number of lesion positive and
      control scans available to train the algorithm, improving its sensitivity, specificity and
      accuracy. This project has gathered over 550 lesional and 350 control scans, which will be
      used to train the algorithm. The prospective MAST Trial is therefore the ideal next step in
      the evaluating the utility of the MELD algorithm in identifying abnormal areas of the brain
      that could be responsible for seizures.
    
  