
    
      The incidence and mortality rates for invasive cervical cancer in minority, low-income, and
      less educated women exceeds that for white, higher income, and better educated women. In
      southern California the incidence and mortality rates for cervical cancer are nearly twice
      that of non-Latina white women. Our preliminary work supports and extends the extant
      literature, noting that quality of life can be significantly disrupted among cervical cancer
      survivors, with qualitative differences in how Latina women experience cancer survivorship.
      However, there is a paucity of literature on interventions designed to assist cervical cancer
      survivors manage illness-specific stress and improve health behaviors. Our current NIH-funded
      work suggests that a six session psychosocial telephone counseling (PTC) intervention can
      improve QOL and decrease psychological distress, with accompanying intervention-induced
      neuroendocrine and immune parameter modulations which may be related to disease endpoints. In
      primary support of these significant biobehavioral findings, the project herein proposes to
      accomplish the following Specific Aims:

        1. Test the efficacy of PTC for cervical cancer survivors, compared to usual care.

        2. Evaluate the longitudinal immune and neuroendocrine parameters in cervical cancer
           patients who have received PTC, compared to usual care.

        3. Examine the longitudinal relationship between PTC associated modulations of QOL measures
           and biologic parameters (immune and neuroendocrine).

      To achieve these aims the investigators will randomize patients ascertained through the two
      SEER cancer registries to PTC (N=125) or usual care (N=125), stratifying on English or
      Spanish language preference. Assessments will occur at baseline (9-20 months post diagnosis),
      and three and nine months post enrollment/baseline. Assessments will include evaluation of
      QOL (overall QOL, psychological distress, coping, social support, sexual functioning), health
      behaviors, neuroendocrine parameters dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, growth hormone [DHEA-S,
      cortisol, GH] and immunologic parameters (natural killers [NK] cell activity, IL-5,
      interferon, human papillomavirus (HPV) E6/E7 peptides, IL-15, IL 10). This project has
      significant public health relevance for an important unstudied cancer survivor population,
      many of whom are poor and underserved. If effective, an intervention which could improve
      quality of life (QOL) and health behaviors, and enhance neuroendocrine and immune responses
      for women with cervical cancer could have significant implications toward disease recurrence
      or survival.
    
  