
    
      [Background]

        1. Shared decision making between patients and physicians when breast cancer patients
           encounter decision making in the initial treatment process has already been included in
           the recommendations for breast cancer treatment in each country. However, in the
           follow-up stage using various imaging tests after the initial breast cancer treatment,
           the evidence of decision making is very poor and the patient who understands this well
           and actively participates in the process of deciding the follow-up strategy are almost
           none.

        2. Major guidelines including NCCN, ASCO and ESMO recommend surveillance with routine
           imaging such as sonography and mammography, and does not recommend advanced imaging
           tests for asymptomatic patients. These guidelines are based on two prospective
           randomized trials conducted in 1994. Despite many international medical recommendations,
           many institutions around the world are increasingly using distant metastasis tests in
           belief of improving the survival rate through early detection of distant metastasis and
           of improving the emotional stability of doctors and patients.

        3. In this study, clinical impacts of shared decision making in strategy of surveillance
           for asymptomatic patients on quality of life would be investigated by prospective
           randomized pragmatic trial. Additionally, oncological results would be analyzed and real
           world data of patients preference would be gathered

      [Study design] Prospective, single-institutional, randomized pragmatic trial

      [Statistical considerations] With 5% significance level and 90% power, 132 patients are
      needed in each group. Assuming a 28% drop out rate, 368 patients need to be recruited.

      [Randomizations] Web-based randomization would be conducted stratified to subtypes.

      [Objectives]

        1. Primary objective

           - QoL (when enrollment, after 1 and 2 year - FACT-B score)

        2. Secondary objectives

             -  Depression - anxiety scale (HADS score)

             -  Recurrence-free survival

             -  Patients' preference for surveillance in SDM group

             -  Cross over rate in SDM group
    
  