
    
      Cholesterol-lowering drugs such as statins are currently used to lower cholesterol levels and
      prevent cardiovascular events. Statins have, however, received substantial scientific
      attention as cancer-inhibiting drugs. Previous findings were recently supported in a
      large-scaled study again demonstrating the beneficial effects of statins on breast cancer
      outcome this time nested within a large, international, randomized clinical trial of modern
      adjuvant cancer therapy. Given the compelling evidence supporting a protective effect of
      statins on breast cancer recurrence, calls for prospective clinical trials have been
      expressed. In this trial - the MASTER trial - we hypothesize that the addition of statin
      treatment to the current breast cancer treatment will improve the prognosis of women with
      early breast cancer. Thus, the primary objective of the MASTER trial is to determine the
      clinical efficacy of the statin - atorvastatin - as measured by invasive disease-free
      survival among patients with primary breast cancer.

      The trial is nationwide throughout Denmark and a total of 3,360 women are to be included in
      the trial. Women eligible for the trial have been diagnosed with an estrogen receptor
      positive breast cancer and are candidates for systemic cancer therapy, either prior to or
      following breast surgery. Upon eligibility and signed informed consent, trial participants
      will be randomized in a 1:1 manner to either standard treatment and atorvastatin 80 mg/day or
      standard treatment and placebo. The randomization is blinded. The treatment with atorvastatin
      or placebo will continue for two years unless side effects are experienced and further
      treatment with atorvastatin or the placebo is deemed inadequate. The standard treatment will
      of course continue as planned. The trial participants will follow the standard clinical
      routines in terms of follow-up and in addition they are asked to fill in questionnaires, i.e.
      regarding potential side effects or new events or diagnoses, up to ten years following
      inclusion. Potential breast cancer recurrences are hereby identified and a follow-up of at
      least 61/2 years will be required for the trial the demonstrate the estimated clinical
      difference between the randomized groups of patients.
    
  