
    
      APS is an autoimmune disorder that causes an increased risk for developing a venous or
      arterial thromboembolism, as well as recurrent miscarriages. APS frequently occurs in people
      with lupus, and is referred to as secondary APS in this case. Many people who have APS,
      however, do not have another autoimmune disorder, and their disease is referred to as primary
      APS. APS may be a genetic disorder, and identifying the gene(s) that predisposes an
      individual to develop it could lead to a better understanding of the disease, as well as
      improved therapies. This study will use a genetic strategy to identify potential risk factors
      for the development of APS by recruiting people with APS who have family members who are
      either affected by the syndrome or who have another autoimmune disorder. The results of the
      genetic testing will be compared among the following two groups of families: people with APS
      who also have one or more of their family members affected specifically by APS; and people
      with APS who also have one or more of their family members affected by another type of
      autoimmune disorder, such as lupus or rheumatoid arthritis.

      Participants in this study will perform a pre-screening questionnaire over the phone to
      determine relevant clinical diagnoses and collect a brief family history of autoimmune
      disorders. Eligible participants will receive an enrollment package in the mail. If possible,
      participants will then report to the study site to supply a detailed family and medical
      history and provide a blood sample for analysis for antiphospholipid antibodies and
      preparation of genomic DNA. If participants are unable to attend the study visit, the
      interviews will be conducted over the phone. Those who are unable to attend the site visit
      will receive a blood enrollment kit in the mail, and these participants will report to a
      convenient location for phlebotomy services. Participants who have already provided blood
      samples for the APS Collaborative Registry (APSCORE) may not have to provide another sample
      for this study. Information collected for statistical analysis will include the following
      data: demographic information; co-morbid conditions and chronic risk factors; lipid profile;
      history of recurrent infections, renal failure, and cardiovascular disease; height and
      weight; details of any medications and supplements currently being taken; venous and arterial
      thromboembolic events; and any history of adverse pregnancy outcomes.
    
  