
    
      This is a phase II, single-arm study of Yttrium-90 (Y-90) radioactive resin microspheres in
      the treatment of colorectal adenocarcinoma metastatic to the liver in patients who have had
      progressive disease through first line combination chemotherapy or have otherwise failed
      first line chemotherapy due to toxicity. Expected enrollment at University of California, San
      Diego (UCSD) is approximately 34 subjects.

      The dose of Yttrium-90 radioactive resin microspheres is calculated based on body surface
      area (to estimate normal liver volume), percentage of total liver represented by the targeted
      lobe, and percentage of the lobe that is occupied by tumor, corrected for percentage lung
      shunt. The prescribed dose, calculated by the nuclear medicine physician, will be delivered
      by the interventional radiologist using the standard delivery system with frequent
      fluoroscopic monitoring to assure ante grade blood flow immediately after treatment.
      Additional current standard practice includes obtaining a nuclear medicine scan of the
      patient immediately after each therapeutic Yttrium-90 microspheres administration to prove
      delivery of the agent to the targeted portion of the liver and absence of either
      extra-hepatic Yttrium-90 delivery or free Yttrium-90.

      Blood samples will be obtained one week after the first treatment with microspheres. If the
      patient has bi-lobar disease and the results of lab tests meet protocol specified criteria,
      the dose will be repeated in the initially-untreated lobe. If the lab tests do not meet
      protocol specified criteria (i.e. study inclusion/exclusion criteria), the treatment will be
      deferred for fourteen days and labs repeated. If they are then within parameters, the patient
      will receive the second dose. If they are not within parameters, the patient will proceed to
      chemotherapy.

      Patients will remain off chemotherapy after their final microspheres treatment for a minimum
      of three weeks. Second line treatment options include FDA approved anti-neoplastic agents
      used in colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver with the exception of bevacizumab and
      capecitabine, which has been less rigorously studied with relation to Yttrium-90 radioactive
      microspheres and therefore will not be used. When patients are found to have progressive
      disease while receiving second line chemotherapy, they will then undergo a comprehensive
      clinical, laboratory, and imaging assessment and enter the follow-up phase in which they are
      assessed every five to seven months until death or withdrawal of consent.

      A contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) will be performed pre microsphere treatment (within 14
      days), post microsphere treatment (2 weeks, 4 weeks, 8 weeks and 12 weeks post the
      microsphere treatment). If patients require two treatments with microspheres, they will be
      evaluated 2, 4, 8 and 12 weeks post the second treatment.
    
  