
    
      This proposal responds to PA-07-111, "Behavioral & Integrative Treatment Development Program"
      issued by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Based on promising pilot data, we propose to
      test the efficacy of a 9-session Motivational Interviewing (MI) manual for treating
      methamphetamine (MA) dependence (Galloway, Polcin, Kielstein, Brown & Mendelson, 2007;
      Polcin, Galloway, Palmer & Mains, 2004; Polcin, Brown & Galloway, 2005). (See Appendix A for
      a copy of the Intensive and Standard Manuals and Appendix B for our papers describing the
      rationale for its structure). The study builds upon a progression in our work from initial
      conceptualization of a more intensive model of MI (Polcin, et al., 2004), to development of
      the "Higher Dose Motivational Enhancement Therapy Manual" (Polcin, et al., 2005), to
      presentation of very promising stage 1 pilot data (Galloway, et al, 2007). The proposed study
      represents a logical next step in this research program.

      In a meta-analysis of MI studies, Burke, Arkowitz & Menchola (2003) found that higher doses
      of MI were associated with better outcome. Based on this finding, they called for new studies
      to compare the effectiveness of standard low dose and more intensive MI. This proposal
      responds to that call. To date, no direct comparisons between high and low intensity MI have
      been published, and we are not aware of any intensive manuals other than the one presented
      here.

      Our proposal addresses the aims of the NIDA Program Announcement (PA-07-111) well because the
      announcement calls for innovations and refinements of behavioral therapies for understudied
      populations. Clients with MA dependence are specifically identified as an understudied
      population in need of behavioral therapy trials. MA use is rampant in the Western U.S. and is
      growing in other parts of the country as well as oversees (Anglin et al., 2007; Rawson &
      Condon, 2007). Studies have shown MA dependent individuals frequently present serious medical
      and psychiatric conditions that complicate treatment efforts (Rawson, et al., 2000, 2004).
      Based on excellent retention of clients during our pilot testing (see Pilot Study outcomes in
      the Preliminary Studies section), we hypothesize intensive MI will be particularly useful in
      improving high treatment dropout rates and low engagement among MA dependent clients.
      Behavioral interventions are particularly needed because there are currently no evidence
      based pharmacological protocols for treating MA dependence (Vocci & Appel, 2007).

      In this proposal, our "standard" MI condition is a single session of manual based MI (Martino
      et al., 2006) plus eight hours of health/nutrition education using a structured educational
      format (Harris, 2003, 2006). A copy of both MI interventions can be found in Appendix A and a
      draft version of the nutrition/health intervention can be found in Appendix D. Our
      "intensive" MI condition refers to our 9-session manual intervention. As detailed in the
      Preliminary Studies Section, the development of our manual, methods for stage 1 pilot
      testing, and procedures for training therapists have followed recommendations made by
      Rounsaville, Carroll, and Onken (2001) and Carroll et al. (2006). As a stage 2 behavioral
      trial, the study includes an assessment of dose-response relationships and has a high
      likelihood of illuminating potential mechanisms of action within a single data collection
      site. Positive findings here will lead to stage 3 applications examining the effectiveness of
      the intervention in community-based settings using multi-site designs that would allow
      broader generalization.

      MA dependent participants will be recruited from the New Leaf outpatient treatment program in
      Lafayette, California. This data collection site has a history of successfully recruiting MA
      dependent clients into research protocols (e.g., Galloway, et. al., 2000; Rawson et. al.,
      2004). In addition to receiving one of the MI interventions, all participants will receive
      standard outpatient treatment offered at New Leaf.

      The specific aims and hypotheses are detailed below. In addition to comparing treatment
      conditions on outcome measures, in an overlaid naturalistic design we will build upon MI
      research examining mediators of outcome conducted by Moyers, Miller & Hendickson (2005). We
      propose to assess the impact of a modified definition of feedback on the therapeutic alliance
      and in turn on MA use. Our definition of feedback includes providing objective information
      and personalized feedback to clients, but we add to this our construct of supportive
      confrontation (Polcin, 2006a; Polcin, Galloway & Greenfield, 2006; Polcin, Galloway, Bostrom
      & Greenfield, 2007; Polcin & Greenfield, 2006). This concept entails providing warnings to
      the client about potential harm that might result if action is not taken to address problem
      areas. Supportive confrontation is an integral part of feedback in our MI interventions and
      we provide data in our Preliminary Studies (see the Measuring Confrontation during Recovery
      subheading) indicating that this type of confrontation is experienced as supportive, accurate
      and helpful (e.g. Polcin et al., 2006). We also suggest that our findings are consistent with
      the work of Moyers, et al. (2005), who found some confrontational interventions were
      associated with an enhanced therapeutic alliance when they were delivered from therapists
      with a high degree of skill. To avoid destructive interactions that Miller, Benefield and
      Tonigan (1993) found to be counterproductive (e.g., argumentation) therapists will "roll with
      resistance" when encountering clients who react defensively or reject confrontational
      statements.

      Aim 1. To compare MA use and retention in treatment among clients receiving intensive and
      standard MI.

      Hypothesis 1.1: The intensive MI condition will demonstrate longer retention in treatment,
      fewer days of MA use, and fewer positive urine tests than the standard MI condition during
      the first 9 weeks of treatment.

      Hypothesis 1.2: The intensive MI condition will demonstrate fewer days of MA use and fewer
      positive urine tests than the standard MI condition at the 2-, 4-, and 6-month follow-ups.

      Aim 2. To compare Addiction Severity Index (ASI) scales among clients receiving intensive and
      standard MI.

      Hypothesis 2.1: ASI scores for clients in the intensive condition will be significantly lower
      than scores in the standard condition at 2-, 4-, and 6-month follow-ups.

      Aim 3. To assess whether feedback enhanced with supportive confrontation directly impacts
      outcome and impacts outcome indirectly through a stronger therapeutic alliance.

      Hypothesis 3.1: Higher Frequency/Extensiveness and Skill Level of Feedback enhanced with
      supportive confrontation will decrease MA use.

      Hypothesis 3.2: Higher Frequency/Extensiveness and Skill Level of Feedback enhanced with
      supportive confrontation will enhance the therapeutic alliance, which will in turn impact MA
      use.

      Exploratory Analyses

        1. We will make repeated measures comparisons between the two treatment conditions for use
           of alcohol and other drugs in addition to MA. These will include self-report measures as
           well as urine screens and breathalyzer results.

        2. We will compare intensive and standard MI on services utilization, which assesses use of
           additional formal treatment and informal recovery services such as self-help groups.

        3. We will compare longitudinal measures of motivation between the two conditions and
           assess whether higher motivation is associated with better outcome. 4) We will compare
           HIV risk behaviors among clients receiving intensive and standard MI.
    
  