
    
      The TONIST-study

      Acronyms:

      APU Acupuncture, APR Acupressure, CReDECI Criteria for Reporting the Development and
      Evaluation of Complex Interventions in Healthcare, CG control group, IG intervention Group,
      PONV Postoperatively nausea and vomiting, PRiC Postoperative Recovery in Children, EQ5D
      EuroQol five dimensions' questionnaire

      A pilot study will include evaluating the amount of issues in the instruments perceived
      possible to answer and/or the number of measurement points are reasonable.

      Children's tonsil surgery following day surgery are in focus for this study. Children
      admitted for day surgery is monitored only a few hours after the surgery before going home
      when the parents must take the main responsibility for the care and monitoring during the
      recovery period (3). The present study design does not depend on the type of tonsil operation
      implemented, but the percentage advantage lodge will result in the description. Fifty percent
      of these surgical procedures are performed as day surgeries (4). The procedure causes a
      postoperative period of pain and risk of bleeding (5). The pain increases up to seven days
      after surgery, leading to problems with eating, drinking and sleeping (6). Children seem to
      receive too little analgesia and there seems to be a great need for postoperative information
      (7). Especially when the procedure is performed as day surgery the professional postoperative
      treatment at hospital is transferred to the patient to perform self-care. For the parents of
      young children, it could be a demanding task (8). Furthermore, the children's need of care
      could lead to loss of income since temporary parental benefit for care of the child will be
      necessary as well as absence from work and increased costs for the healthcare organization.
      Evidence-based interventions should constitute the basis for development of health care and
      post-operative interventions are often very complex, involving physical and emotional
      mechanisms. There is a gap in knowledge about effective interventions after tonsil surgery
      that could ease the self-care performed at home. In the proposed trials the investigators
      want to evaluate the effects of APU, APR, specially designed diet and extended telephone
      counselling on relieving common postoperative symptoms.

      Qualitative and quantitative methods will be used. All the intervention groups will receive
      usual care in combination with a special intervention. The control group will receive usual
      care. The three interventions will be performed at one hospital each.

      The investigators will apply "The new Medical Research Council Guidance" (9). Guidelines,
      CReDECI, will be used (10). In accordance with these criteria, reporting will be intersected
      in several publications; articles on the development, structured literature review and pilot
      testing, testing PRiC for children under 4 years and adolescents over 12 years, the
      evaluation of interventions and implementations.

      Intervention I: Combinating APU and APR the investigators will evaluate the effect and safety
      as administered in clinical use which is a more holistic approach.

      Intervention II: A specially designed diet including protein-enriched ice cream as snacks and
      "Timbalkost", specially designed diet, originally made for patients suffering of dysphagia
      will be used. "Timbalkost" will be given as lunch and dinner. Ice crème will be available as
      a snack, with lemon, vanilla and caramel flavor.

      Intervention III: Extended telephone counseling. A nurse will contact the Child/youth, or the
      parents, by telephone on day 1, 3, 5 and 10 postoperatively, to provide support and
      information. The nurse will fill in a protocol on what topics the counseling was about at
      each call.

      Usual care will be given to CG, and the IG. Usual care consists routines at the clinic, such
      as sedatives prior surgery, anesthesia during the operation and ondansetron and/or
      metoclopramide for PONV (11). For pain, paracetamol and NSAID is administered routinely
      postoperatively. Morphine is given intravenously in case of severe pain. Current standard
      care concerning diet is most often advice to eat and drink normally.

      Participants Children, 2-19years of age who undergo TE or TT will be asked to participate.

      Primary outcome is throat pain measured with the questionnaire PRiC, change is being assessed
      up to 21 days following surgery. The three interventions are to be evaluated with
      registration of postoperatively recovery.

      The primary outcome will be measured by PRiC regarding existing pain in the throat (12).
      Regarding pain, the child could in the enquiry choose one of four options; During the last
      day/night (within the last 24 hours) Have I had a sore throat with the opportunity to grade
      the answer Not at all, A little, alternatively Much or Very much.

      Estimates for the number of children who need to be included in the study is based on the
      distribution of responses to the question "sore throat" that is, a sore throat the last 24
      hours from the questionnaire PRiC. The control group is assumed to respond to the same
      distribution as the children in Bramhagen et al (12) and the children in the intervention
      group is assumed to have a positive shift in the distribution of answers as shown below,
      where 1 = Not at all throat pain, 2 = Little hurt throat, 3=Very sore throat or 4 = Very much
      sore throat.

      A positive shift in response to previous study results in Bramhagen (12) is assumed in the
      Intervention Group.

      In order to statistically ensure a difference between the intervention and control based on
      the conditions above, you need 138 children in each of the four groups, a total of 828
      children. The method used is the Mann Whitney U test with 80% power and 5% alpha.

      Secondary outcomes; change is being assessed following the surgery. The secondary outcome is
      any change in nausea, vomiting and other parts of the questionnaire PRiC. Analyzes regarding
      costs will be carried out both in a social and a medical perspective. Outcome after different
      types of surgery may emerge. The economic effects will be evaluated between IG and CG and
      between the interventions. Children and parent's experiences after surgery will be monitored
      through qualitative interviews. An economic evaluation of the three interventions combined
      with parents' absence from work will be made (IG and CG). Quality of life, including
      health-related status will be measured using EQ5D (questionnaire for health) (13).

      Data collection for registration of the children' recovery from their surgery the instruments
      Postoperative Recovery in Children instrument (PRiC) (12) will be used in each Cg and IG.

      PRiC is based on data about the general recovery of postoperative symptoms such as pain in
      the throat, including information on the various physical and emotional symptoms. PRiC is
      measured on a four-point scale children's signs and symptoms during the last day/night in the
      last 24 hours, not at all, a little, a lot or very much. It is questioned, for example, "I
      felt as if I would vomit, I have had vomiting, I have had a sore throat or had blood in my
      mouth." It is also requested for the child "I have found it difficult to eat, I have found it
      difficult to play/be active or have I found it difficult to attend daycare/school. Finally,
      the questionnaire asks about" Right now I feel very good, fairly good, quite bad or very bad
      (12).

      For measuring pain, nausea and anxiety at baseline i.e. before surgery, preoperately the
      Numerical rating scale (NRS) will be used, asking the nurse to document in the child's
      medical record. The Investigators will seek to gain access to the child's medical record. The
      instruments will be used collecting data according to the time schedule (Table 2) in both IG
      and CG and with help from the parents if needed. PRiC will be used on the day of surgery and
      thereafter assessed over time following the surgery daily on postoperative days 1-7 the
      postoperative days 10, 14, 21. EQ5D will be measures at baseline 14 Days Before surgery and
      thereafter assessed over time on postoperative days 10, 14 and 21. Diary for Specially
      designed diet will be assessed over time daily following surgery as long as the Child use the
      diet. Protocol and diary for telephone follow up will be assessed over time following surgery
      on postoperative days 1, 3, 5 and 10. Diary for APU and APR will be assessed over time
      following surgery on the surgery day and daily the postoperative days 1-10.

      Measuring time points:

      Numerical rating scale NRS (0-10) pain, nausea and anxiety measured before premedication on
      surgery day.

      PRiC, recovery measured on surgery day, daily following surgery on days 1-7 and on days 10,
      14, 21 following surgery.

      EQ5D, Quality of life and health measured 14 days before surgery, postoperative days 10, 14
      and 21 following surgery.

      Diary for Specially designed diet Experience and number of meals measured up to 7 days after
      surgery.

      Protocol and diary for telephone follow up. Documentation of given support and on the
      postoperative days 1, 3, 5 and up to day 10 postoperatively.

      Protocol and diary for APU and APR Documentation of when APU and APR were used for any reason
      and when removed. Documentation daily on surgery day and postoperative days 1-10.

      The diaries on needle stimulation and the food will be collected after one week, data on the
      telephone calls after 10 days in the IG:s. For each patient specific operation data will be
      collected on day one and postoperative complications after 30 days and 6 months, in the
      child´s medical records and in the Swedish Tonsil register.

      The economic evaluations: EQ5D, data about patients' contacts with healthcare professionals
      and the parents' number of days they are absent from work. Data on indication for surgery,
      surgical techniques and hemostasis method will be collected from the children's medical
      record at baseline and any postoperative complications within 6 months.

      Ten children (or parents if the child is younger than 15 years of age) in each IG and the CG
      will be interviewed using open questions at POD 14 (60 interviews in total) about their
      experiences of the respectively IG or CG.

      The quantitative data will be analyzed using relevant statistical methods (Altman 2006).
      Depending on type of data and distribution either parametric (ANOVA) or non-parametric assays
      to assess group differences. For analysis of binary outcome measures the investigators will
      apply logistic regression models.

      The interviews will be transcribed and analyzed using content analysis (14) with an inductive
      approach to illuminate children's/parents' experiences.
    
  