
    
      Zinc(Zn) is a critical trace element in human health. Zinc has a potential to be utilized for
      the treatment of type 2 diabetes; however, evidence suggests that the effect of Zn on type 2
      diabetes remains unclear. Up to 85% of the whole body Zn content is found in muscle and
      bones, with 11% in the skin and liver .Zn is an indispensable co-factor for more than 300
      enzymes involved in metabolism and also reportedly plays a role in aging, immune system,
      apoptosis, and oxidative stress.

      Although the effect of zinc supplementation in the improvement of oxidative stress is
      controversial, one of the causes that the oxidative stress is present in patients with type 2
      diabetes is the change in zinc metabolism. Recent studies have demonstrated that the
      islet-restricted zinc transporter, ZnT8 (SLC30A8), regulates insulin secretion and hepatic
      insulin clearance, suggesting that Zn is a key biological factor in glucose homeostasis and
      the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.

      In patients without thalassemia, there is a rich body of literature focused on the
      "diabetogenic effects" of altered zinc status.

      Zinc supplementation has even been suggested as an adjunct therapy in the management of
      non-thalassemia related diabetes .Functional zinc deficiency exists in a contemporary sample
      of healthy β-thalassemic patients. An estimated 20% to 30% of patients with β-thalassemia are
      zinc deficient. The high prevalence is thought to be related to a combination of increased
      urinary losses compounded by elevated requirements.

      Glucose homeostasis and its relation to Zinc status has not been widely studied especially in
      Egyptian children and adolescents with β-thalassemia major.

      The aim of this study is to:

        1. Assess zinc status in patients with β-thalassemia major and diabetes mellitus and its
           relation to clinical and laboratory parameters of these patients.

        2. Effect of zinc supplementation on glucose homeostasis in patients with β-thalassemia
           major and diabetes mellitus.
    
  