
    
      RESEARCH QUESTION AND BACKGROUND: Primary liver cancer or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is
      the fifth most common cancer in men and the seventh in women and is the second cause of
      cancer mortality worldwide. . In Canada, HCC is the only cancer for which mortality is
      increasing. More than 80% of HCC cases occur in individuals with advanced liver fibrosis
      (cirrhosis) due to viral hepatitis infection (B and C), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
      (NAFLD), and alcoholic liver disease. Once cirrhosis is established, there is a significantly
      increased risk of developing HCC. Furthermore, HCC is observed in obese diabetic individuals
      without cirrhosis, increasing the population of patients at risk with a disease that has high
      fatality rate. HCC surveillance is associated with significantly prolonged survival. However,
      only 52% of patients undergoing surveillance have early HCCs that are eligible for curative
      treatment, whereas remainder of patients have intermediate- or advanced-stage disease
      eligible for bridge or palliative treatment only. HCC surveillance is also associated with
      significant improvements in early-stage detection, curative-treatment rates, and survival,
      even after adjusting for lead-time bias. North American guidelines recommend ultrasound (US)
      surveillance every 6 months in at-risk patients who are non-cirrhotic hepatitis B carriers
      and cirrhotic. However, a key challenge for US is the low sensitivity (60-78%) for
      identifying a lesion due to liver steatosis and cirrhosis. Once a suspicious malignant lesion
      is detected at US, current American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD)
      guidelines recommend contrast-enhanced US, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed
      tomography (CT) scans to confirm suspicion.

      GOAL: The long-term reaching goal is to develop US biomarkers of focal liver lesions and
      strategies to improve diagnostic sensitivity to HCC while maintaining a high specificity.
      This would constitute a major breakthrough because HCC diagnosis currently requires a
      combination of US for screening and confirmation using MRI, CT and less often biopsy.

      OBJECTIVES: 1) Develop a machine learning model based on QUS for classification of solid
      hepatocellular carcinomas identified at US and diagnosed with MRI (or biopsy if required); 2)
      Determine if QUS maps can improve visual detection of suspected lesions at US; 3) Compare
      performance of QUS- versus MRI-based viscoelastography for lesion characterization.

      Hypothesis: the investigators hypothesize that advanced QUS providing tumor viscoelasticity
      assessment, sub-resolution tissue structure characterization and US attenuation in the
      framework of a machine learning classification model can improve HCC diagnosis compared with
      standard US.

      METHODOLOGY - Study design: This will be a clinical study with two sequential cohorts: 1) a
      training cohort of 100 patients at risk for HCC to optimize QUS biomarkers for classification
      of solid liver lesions using MRI and/or biopsy as gold standard clinical references; and 2) a
      validation cohort of 100 patients to confirm diagnostic performance.

      Data analysis: Random forests machine learning to develop QUS classification models.
      Sensitivity and specificity to assess diagnostic accuracy, according to MRI and/or biopsy,
      with bootstrapping to obtain confidence intervals with training set. Confirmation of accuracy
      on test set. Inter-observer assessment of lesion detectability on clinical B-mode US versus
      QUS maps. Comparison of US- and MRI-based elasticity and viscosity according to diagnostic
      results.
    
  