
    
      Genetic white matter disorders (leukodystrophies) are estimated to have an incidence of
      approximately 1:7000 live births. In the past, patients with white matter disease of unknown
      cause evaluated by the investigator achieved a diagnosis in fewer than 46% of cases after
      extensive conventional clinical testing. Even when a diagnosis is achieved, the diagnosis
      takes an average of eight years and this "odyssey" results in testing charges to patients and
      insurers in excess of $8,000 on average per patient, including the patients who never achieve
      a diagnosis at all. With next generation approaches such as whole exome sequencing, the
      diagnostic efficacy is closer to 70%, but approximately a third of individuals do not achieve
      a specific etiologic diagnosis. This remaining group of patients (unclassified
      leukodystrophy) offers the opportunity to describe novel disorders and provide improved
      diagnostic tools. These diagnostic challenges represent an urgent and unresolved gap in
      knowledge and disease characterization, as obtaining a definitive diagnosis is of paramount
      importance for leukodystrophy patients.

      Moreover, the mechanisms of disease in many leukodystrophies of known cause are very poorly
      understood: many are systemic abnormalities that manifest only testing white matter. Finally,
      little is known about the best symptomatic management of the many leukodystrophies without an
      etiologic cure and thus limited standards of care are available for the management of these
      patients.

      The purpose of this study is to: (Aim 1) define novel homogeneous groups of patients with
      unclassified leukodystrophy and work toward finding the cause of these disorders; (Aim 2)
      assess the validity and utility of next-generation sequencing in the diagnosis of
      leukodystrophies; (Aim 3) establish disease mechanisms in selected known leukodystrophies;
      and (Aim 4) track current care and natural history of these patients to define the
      longitudinal course and determinants of outcomes in these disorders.

      It is hoped that the present study will help clarify the nosology of the leukodystrophies and
      significantly advance our understanding of the pathogenesis of these diseases, the best
      diagnostic testing tools, and the best symptomatic management of these conditions. Due to the
      breadth of this approach, and the rarity of these conditions, these approaches will be
      carried out at multiple clinical centers with specialized expertise in the leukodystrophies.
    
  