
    
      Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a highly contagious disease, caused by a novel
      enveloped RNA beta-coronavirus, also known as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2
      (SARS-CoV-2). This disease has caused a global health crisis.

      While the majority of patients with COVID-19 develop a mild or uncomplicated illness,
      approximately 20-30% of hospitalized patients have required intensive care support and 5% of
      those have multi-organ failure or shock. The case fatality rate ranges from 1 to 4% and it is
      higher among those with pre-existing comorbid conditions (high-risk) such as cardiovascular
      disease, diabetes mellitus, obesity, chronic respiratory disease, hypertension, and cancer.

      To date, treatments for COVID-19 in high-risk individuals remain experimental and therapeutic
      strategies to deal with the infection are at best supportive, with prevention aimed at
      reducing transmission in the community as the best weapon. No proven therapies have been
      demonstrated to prevent progression of COVID-19 to severe illness in confirmed outpatients
      with COVID-19 and this is a critical unmet need for high-risk individuals and warrants study.
      Furthermore, there are no effective medications for the use in outpatients with confirmed
      mild to moderate COVID-19 disease.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-arm, multicenter, phase II
      trial design to allow a rapid efficacy and toxicity assessment of potential therapies,
      camostat mesilate (serine protease inhibitor) and Artemisia annua (unknown mechanism)
      immediately after COVID-19 positive testing in mild to moderate disease and high-risk factors
      such as diabetes, hypertension, and obesity among others. The hypothesis of this study is
      that the addition of agents that inhibit viral entry or replication of SARS-CoV-2 virus, such
      as Artemisia annua and camostat, will reduce the rate of a composite outcome of
      hospitalization due to COVID-19 pneumonia or the use of oxygen therapy; will be devoid of
      additional moderate to severe toxicities; and will improve viral clearance at Day 14 in
      high-risk individuals. The main hypothesis is that the clinical outcomes in COVID-19 infected
      patients at higher risk of poor outcomes following infection will be improved compared to the
      standard of care when introduced as an early intervention after diagnosis.
    
  