
    
      Background:

      There are approximately 2 million men and women living with angina in the UK. In 2014, there
      were ~247,000 coronary angiograms performed, mostly for the investigation of known or
      suspected angina. However, obstructive CAD is detected in only 1 in 2 patients. The
      explanation for the cause(s) of the chest pain are often unclear. Microvascular or
      vasospastic angina may be one explanation.

      Adjunctive tests of coronary artery function to diagnose these problems are rarely used
      during coronary angiography in the NHS, meaning that patient management may be empirical and
      heterogeneous. The lack of adoption of these novel tests in the NHS reflects key gaps in the
      clinical evidence. It is these gaps, coupled with the increasing adoption of anatomical
      coronary artery imaging with CT coronary angiography (CTCA), which stimulate this research.
      In recent large clinical trials, CT coronary angiography has been shown not to reduce the
      rate of invasive angiography. In fact, compared to standard care based on stress testing,
      CTCA is associated with less improvement in anginal symptoms and in quality of life (PUBMED
      ID: 28246175). Anatomical tests, such as CTCA and invasive angiography, do not provide
      information on myocardial blood flow. New evidence that addresses these gaps might inform
      therapy development and future trials.

      Current gaps in evidence and guidelines point to a problem of unmet need in the NHS care
      pathway. Stress perfusion CMR has potential diagnostic value for microvascular disease, but
      whether it might discriminate clinical endotypes in a relatively unselected population of
      patients in daily practice, is uncertain. Further, access to stress perfusion CMR varies
      widely not least because evidence from randomised trials supporting clinical and economic
      benefits from a CMR-guided approach is lacking. CorCMR is a clinical strategy trial that is
      designed to address this evidence gap.

      Hypothesis:

      In patients with angina in whom obstructive disease in the epicardial coronary arteries has
      been ruled out by coronary angiography ± FFR, stress perfusion CMR will reclassify the
      diagnosis leading to changes in treatment (start or stop therapy), improvements in health and
      economic outcomes, as compared to decisions based standard care (CMR not disclosed).

      Design:

      We propose that an observational, diagnostic study involving stress CMR will provide
      information on the prevalence of microvascular disease in a population with anginal symptoms
      potentially attributable to myocardial ischaemia with no obstructive coronary arteries
      (INOCA). Each diagnosis is linked to a guideline-directed treatment plan.The potential value
      of this strategy can only be confirmed if it is associated with patient benefits, which is
      why we propose a nested, randomised, controlled, double-blind trial of routine disclosure of
      stress perfusion CMR vs. angiography-guided management

      Methods:

      Patients undergoing invasive coronary angiography for the investigation of known or suspected
      angina and who do not have either structural heart disease or a systemic health problem that
      would explain those symptoms will be invited to participate. Written informed consent is
      required for participation. Eligibility is further confirmed at the time of the coronary
      angiogram by exclusion of obstructive (stenosis >70% in a single segment or 50 - 70% in 2
      adjacent segments in an artery >2.5 mm, or FFR ≤0.80) coronary artery disease (CAD). Angina
      symptoms will be confirmed by the completion of validated questionnaires and patients will be
      invited to attend for a stress perfusion CMR within 3 months of the original coronary
      angiogram.

      On arrival for the CMR, patients will be randomised (1:1) to either the intervention (CMR
      guided, results disclosed) or blinded control group (CMR undertaken but results not
      disclosed, standard of care) group.

      Trial participants will be blinded to treatment group. The clinicians responsible for
      on-going care will also be blinded. The design is therefore 'double-blind'. Following the
      CMR, patients and clinicians will be advised of the diagnosis (endotype) but not the
      randomised group. The endotype will be informed by the CMR in the intervention group but not
      in the control group (CMR results not disclosed, angiography-guided). Medical therapy and
      lifestyle measures are linked to the endotype and informed by contemporary practice
      guidelines. Therefore, optimal guideline-directed medical care according to the endotype is
      intended to be the same, regardless of the group allocation.

      The sample size is 280 randomised participants. The minimum follow-up duration is 12 months
      from the last participant recruitment. Follow-up will continued in the longer term including,
      where feasible, electronic case record linkage.

      The primary outcome of the diagnostic study is the reclassification of the initial diagnosis
      based on findings from the cardiac MRI scan. The primary outcome of the nested randomised
      trial is the within-subject change at 6 months from baseline for the domains of the Seattle
      Angina Questionnaire.

      Secondary outcomes include other Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMS) to describe other
      aspects of health and wellbeing. These include EQ-5D-5L, Illness perception (Brief IPQ),
      Treatment satisfaction (TSQM), Duke Activity Status Index (DASI), the International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-SF) short-form and a pain questionnaire.

      There is preliminary evidence that small vessel disease can be a systemic problem affecting
      different organs. Whether small vessel disease in the heart might associate with small vessel
      disease in the brain or retina is unknown. In the CorMicA pilot study, studies of small
      vessels isolated from biopsies found evidence of endothelial dysfunction and increased
      responsiveness of the blood vessels to naturally-occurring, constriction-inducing peptides
      such as endothelin and thromboxane. For these reasons, we plan heart-brain-retina and
      peripheral vascular substudies.
    
  