
    
      Chronic pain affects over 100 million Americans, costs the US over $630 billion annually, and
      reduces quality of life. It is among the most clinically challenging and financially
      burdensome conditions facing clinicians and healthcare organizations. Sleep disturbance is
      common in chronic pain conditions with some studies reporting a prevalence as high as
      70%-88%. Psychiatric disorders, including substance abuse and mood disorders are prevalent in
      chronic pain and are associated with impairment and decreased quality of life. Sleep is
      increasingly recognized as a critical regulator of mental health. Taken together,
      epidemiological, cross-sectional, and prospective studies support the hypothesis that
      insomnia, chronic pain, and depression are mutually interacting, each increasing the risk for
      the emergence and/or exacerbation of the other. The gold standard of chronic pain management
      is multidisciplinary pain treatment (MPT), but patients rarely receive MPT secondary to
      limited access and a severe shortage of pain management specialists. Thus, there is an urgent
      need for empirically supported, cost-effective multidisciplinary pain self-management options
      that are accessible to patients and trusted by primary and tertiary care providers. To
      address this problem, the investigators' group in collaboration with the Johns Hopkins
      Technology Innovation Center (TIC) has developed a mobile chronic pain, medication and
      symptom tracking digital technology platform designed to eventually support multidisciplinary
      pain treatment by enhancing patient-provider communication and delivering comprehensive,
      personalized, interactive evidence-based pain management strategies. The investigators' App
      (version 1.3) is currently able to collect self-report data (i.e., pain; sleep; mood;
      catastrophizing; stress; pain flares) and continuous, passively collected wearable biosensor
      data (i.e., heart rate; breathing; sleep; heart rate variability/stress). The investigators
      propose a prospective, observational proof of concept study to demonstrate feasibility and
      adherence while establishing the psychometric properties of a mobile pain App and to compare
      these data with passively collected physiological data and laboratory indices of pain in
      patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP).
    
  