
    
      This is a quasi-experimental design. The study subjects are recruited from patients visited
      to a Ear-Nose-Throat Out Patient Department in a regional teaching hospital in south Taiwan.
      The sampling method is purposive sampling. The inclusion criteria are adults between 20 and
      50 year-old with a definite clinical diagnosis of allergic rhinitis. Subjects were randomly
      divided into experimental and control groups. Thirty persons in the experimental group
      received both medical and infrared-C ray irradiation by hot compress as intervention. On the
      other hand, twenty persons in the control group took only medical treatment. Patients in
      experimental group received anti-histamine, steroid nasal spray and infrared-C ray
      irradiation for 40 minutes each time, and more than three times per week. The regions for hot
      compress included head, neck and shoulder, back and lower back, which covered many
      acupuncture points frequently used by traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of
      allergic rhinitis, including point Dazhui (GV14), Dingchuan (EX-B1) , Dazhu (BL11), Fengmen
      (BL12), Feishu (BL13), Pishu (BL20), and Shenshu (BL23). In addition, patients also received
      infrared-C hot compress over face, eyes and nose during acute stage of allergic rhinitis. The
      investigators used a questionnaire as a pre-test to collect basic information of the
      subjects, and Taiwan's Sino-Nasal Outcome Test-20 (SNOT-20) nose and sinusitis evaluation
      form as pre-middle and post-test to evaluate the effect of the interventions. World Health
      Organization Quality of Life Instruments (WHOQOL-BREF) and Taiwan's concise edition of WHOQOL
      II questionnaire were also used as basic data collection tools for allergic rhinitis.
      Furthermore, blood tests for patient's serum Immunoglobulin E (IgE) and eosinophil cationic
      protein levels were determined before and after experiment. Pre-test for the experimental and
      control group was carried out before the intervention, the first post-test was performed 4
      weeks later, and the second post-test was carried out 12 weeks later. Data was analyzed by
      SPSS 22.0 software.
    
  