
    
      The Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBDs) are life-long conditions often diagnosed between 15
      and 35 years of age that are increasing in frequency. In developed countries, IBD prevalence
      was about 100-220/100,000 in 2002. More recently the estimated prevalence of CD and UC in the
      USA are 201 and 238 per 100,000 respectively. This indicates more than 620,000 CD and 730,000
      UC patients in the USA alone. It has also been noted that the incidence of IBD has been
      increasing in the ethnic minorities in American over the last two decades and it is predicted
      that IBD, which was previously thought of as a 'Caucasian disease', will reach a comparable
      levels in Asia as in the Western Countries within 10-15 years. One of the major costs in IBD
      treatment is the need for a hospital admission. These have been falling for CD patients
      secondary to the increasing use of the biological therapies, however, admissions for UC have
      doubled over the last 15 years. IBD now costs the Australian economy of 22,000,000 people
      over $2.7 billion annually and this is comparable throughout the western World.

      Tacrolimus and cyclosporin are classical calcineurin inhibitors and are widely used as
      immunosuppressive medications with promising results in UC. Calcineurin, or protein
      phosphatase 2B (PP2B), is a ubiquitously expressed cytosolic Ser/Thr protein phosphatase,
      that is highly conserved in eukaryotes. It has the ability to dephosphorylate a broad range
      of proteins and can regulate interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4 and interferon (IFN)γ expression, as
      well as modulating the activity of transcription factors like NF-κB. Enhanced NF-kB activity
      is well described in CD and UC and induces the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα
      expression. It is primarily through the reduction in the levels of these cytokines that
      clinical remission may be achieved.

      The efficacy of oral tacrolimus has been examined in the management of medication resistant
      CD and UC. Unfortunately, the majority of these studies have been open labelled with only one
      randomised controlled trial reported in UC. This demonstrated a short-term clinical
      improvement but without a significant increase in the remission rate, potentially due to low
      patient numbers. Despite this, there are numerous open labelled studies in both UC and CD
      that suggest efficacy in the short term and with promising longer term data. The evidence
      would suggest, however, that the blood trough level should be at least 10ug/L in order to
      achieve the best efficacy (therapeutic range 5-20ug/L), but the higher the trough level the
      more likely a patient will suffer an adverse effect. These, unfortunately, can be numerous
      and include hypertension, nausea and diarrhoea, haematological abnormalities, renal
      impairment. Increase in the rate of skin cancers is also a concern, a concern supported by
      animal studies.

      Use of topical tacrolimus has been effective in the treatment of perioral and perineal
      inflammation in paediatric CD patients with resolution of symptoms in 75%. Work examining
      topical perianal tacrolimus therapy in adult CD patients also demonstrated clinical efficacy,
      and although tacrolimus is absorbed well transdermally, only low trough levels of tacrolimus
      were detected in the blood. In these preliminary studies, the use of topical tacrolimus was
      associated with very few side effects. Long-term topical use, as with oral formulations, may
      be associated with an increased risk of skin cancer formation. Epidemiological evidence,
      however, would suggest that the risk is low and localised to the tacrolimus-treated
      sun-exposed skin.

      The recent pilot study by our group demonstrated that 75% (6/8) of patients with resistant
      distal colitis responded and achieved a remission of their disease following 4 and 8 weeks of
      tacrolimus rectal ointment8. A dose of 0.3 to 0.5mg/ml 3ml twice a day was identified in the
      majority of patients to induce remission. In these patients tacrolimus trough levels were
      taken regularly and were either undetectable (<1.5 μg/L) sub-therapeutic (<5 μg/L) or, at
      their highest, in the low therapeutic range (therapeutic range 5-20 μg/L). The ointment was
      well tolerated without any systemic adverse effects. Use of the same rectal tacrolimus
      preparation in further 8 patients was also associated with a clinical response in 6 patients
      after 4 weeks of therapy.

      The efficacy of topical tacrolimus in UC is further supported by a separate pilot study that
      examined topical tacrolimus in patients with resistant distal colitis. In this study a
      clinical and histological improvement in 10 of 12 patients by 4 weeks without any major side
      effects reported and the preparation was well tolerated.

      METHODOLOGY

      Study medication and supply:The preparation of the tacrolimus rectal ointment will be
      undertaken in respective hospital pharmacy at each centre. Gloves and mask shall be worn when
      making the preparation. The concentration of tacrolimus in the ointment shall be 0.5 mg⁄mL.
      Five millilitres of propylene glycol will be slowly mixed into the desired amount of
      tacrolimus powder on a clean glass slab. To this, 70 mL of paraffin liquid BP (LP) will be
      gradually added by serial dilution and triturate until evenly mixed. This process will be
      repeated with 125 mL of paraffin white soft BP (WSP). The resulting cream will be packed into
      tubes and labelled. The preparation will be formulated using the LP ⁄WSP base for ease of
      rectal use.

      Medication Stability: The cream expires after 30 days at room temperature or 90 days at 4-8
      0C

      Administration of the study medication: A total of 3ml of the study medication or placebo
      will be applied rectally, via an applicator, twice a day by the patient over the 8-week
      period. The application will take place prior to retiring to bed and following breakfast in
      the morning. For shift workers application will occur just prior to retiring to bed and
      following the first meal of the day.

      Dosage schedule:

        1. Randomisation: Patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive the
           tacrolimus or placebo.

        2. Blinding: The trial patients and the clinical investigators will be blinded to the
           randomisation.

      Concomitant therapy: Rectal preparation will be ceased a day prior to commencing the trial.
      Patients will be continued on the same oral medications they are on at commencement of the
      study.

      Screening visit: All patients will sign informed consent prior to any data collection.
      Patient demographics will be recorded. Stool culture and microscopy, blood pressure (BP),
      full blood count (FBC), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP),
      urea,electrolytes (U&E) and GFR will be taken and measured locally at each site. Results of
      these tests will be faxed through to the central site at Fremantle hospital within 3 days of
      collection for review. Faecal calprotectin will be taken and stored at -200C. These specimens
      will be sent in batches on dry ice every 3 months to the central site at Fremantle Hospital
      for analysis.

      Within 7 days prior to week 0 a flexible sigmoidoscopy will be performed. Two sets of photos
      will be taken at endoscopy one set distal (within 15cm of the anus) and one set proximal
      (15-25cm from the anus). The region depicting the worse level of inflammation will 2 biopsies
      will be taken from each region for histological analysis. Biopsies will be fixed and blocked
      at each hospital site. All the paraffin blocks will be sent to Fremantle Hospital be noted.
      Following the photos for histological analysis. Four additional biopsies will be taken from
      each region for RNA isolation. The biopsies from each region will be placed immediately into
      2 tubes labelled 'proximal' and 'distal' containing RNAlater and stored at -80oC. These will
      then be sent in batches on dry ice every 3 months to the central site at Fremantle Hospital
      for analysis. A full Mayo score will calculated to confirm the presence of active UC (Mayo
      score between 6 and 12 required for inclusion).

      Week 0: A Mayo score will be calculated using the screening endoscopic findings and treatment
      initiated. Baseline IBDQ calculated and BP measured

      Weeks 2, and 4: A modified Mayo score will be calculated, BP taken, and FBC, ESR, CRP, U&E as
      described above and the IBDQ assessed. The faecal calprotectin will be taken and stored at
      -200C. Blood for the tacrolimus trough will be taken, the serum collected and this will be
      stored at -20oC. The serum will then be sent on dry ice to the central site at Fremantle
      Hospital for assessment within 2 days of collection. The medical monitor (CIA) at Fremantle
      Hospital will review all the tacrolimus trough levels to ensure patient safety.

      Week 8 or withdrawal: A flexible sigmoidoscopy will be undertaken ± 3 days of the week 8
      visit (or at early withdrawal) and a full Mayo score calculated. Photos and biopsies will be
      taken and processed as detailed at the screening sigmoidoscopy. Routine FBC, U&E, ESR, CRP,
      BP measured, and faecal calprotectin as described above

      Week 12: Follow-up phone call to assess any adverse events. Each histological specimen will
      be assessed centrally at Fremantle Hospital by a blinded specialist gastroenterological
      histopathologist. These findings will be correlated with the endoscopic scoring and photos
      taken at endoscopy.

      Early withdrawal from the study: Patients are free to withdraw from the study at any time. If
      the patient is withdrawing due to lack of efficacy of the study preparation 4 weeks or more
      following the week 0 visit, they will be eligible for open label use topical tacrolimus
      ointment for 4 weeks. A withdrawal flexible sigmoidoscopy will be required prior to the
      supply of the topical tacrolimus ointment. Photos will be taken prior to the biopsies as
      described for the week 0 and 8 procedures. Routine FBC, U&E, ESR, CRP, BP measured,
      tacrolimus trough levels and faecal calprotectin will be taken after 2 weeks of therapy as
      described above. These patients will be eligible for analysis for the primary and secondary
      end points

      Interim Analysis: An interim analysis by an independent statistician and clinician after 20
      patients have completed the 8-week visit will be done to confirm the drug safety and to
      assess the efficacy. This shall be required prior to allowing the study to continue.

      mRNA expression levels: Biopsies (x4) taken from two regions for the distal colon (within
      15cm of the anus and 15-25cm from the anus). The region containing the worse inflammation
      seen on endoscopic examination at weeks 0 and 8 (or at early withdrawal) will have been
      noted. All samples will have been immediately placed in RNA later and stored at -800C prior
      to transfer on dry ice to the central site at Fremantle Hospital. Levels of TNFα, IFN-γ,
      IL-1β, IL-2, IL4, IL-10 and IL-6 mRNA expression will be determined on each group of samples.
      Total RNA will be isolated and DNase-treated using the Qiagen 96 RNeasy® kit (Qiagen, Clifton
      Hill, Australia) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The quality of the RNA samples
      will be verified, reverse transcription performed and cDNA quantitated by real-time PCR using
      QuantiTect SYBR Green Master Mix (Qiagen) on the ABI PRISM 7900HT (Applied Biosystems).
      Specific primers for the mRNAs will be used. Dissociation curve analysis will confirm
      specificity of amplification and copy numbers will be determined from plasmid or PCR product
      standard curves. Target mRNA copy numbers will be normalised against reference gene copy
      number for each cDNA sample. The above methods are already available in CIA's laboratory at
      Fremantle Hospital. The limit of mRNA detection is 3pg/ml for all cytokines

      Statistical analysis: Comparisons between the mRNA expression in endoscopic biopsies taken at
      weeks 0 and 8 (or at withdrawal) in the tacrolimus treatment arm will undertaken and compared
      with each other and against those from the placebo control arm at the same time points. The
      mRNA expression levels will be correlated with the endoscopic and histological inflammatory
      scores. Differences between the groups will be assessed using one-way ANOVA on
      log-transformed data. Statistical analysis will be conducted using the Statistical Package
      for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 17. Statistical significance is considered as p<0.05
      for all analyses.
    
  