
    
      Background. Stress and exposure to drug-related cues (environmental stimuli previously
      associated with drug availability) are considered factors that increase the risk of relapse
      to heroin and/or cocaine use. The two factors may act through different neural mechanisms.
      Alpha-2 adrenergic agonists, such as clonidine, have been shown to block stress-induced
      relapse, but not cue-induced relapse, to heroin and cocaine self-administration in rodents.
      The ability of clonidine to attenuate stress- or cue-induced heroin and cocaine craving in
      drug abusers has not been tested. It is important to determine, in humans, whether clonidine
      blocks the acute effects of only one putative class of relapse precipitants, or whether its
      effects are more general.

      Scientific goal. To compare the ability of clonidine to reduce stress-induced and cue-induced
      cocaine and heroin craving in drug abusers.

      Participant population. A total of up to 160 drug abusers using cocaine, heroin, or both will
      be enrolled. Target enrollment will include 40% women and 60% minorities (mostly
      African-American).

      Experimental design and methods. Participants will be randomized to one of three groups
      receiving clonidine 0.1 mg, clonidine 0.2 mg, or placebo orally under double-blind
      conditions. The study will consist of a single 5-6 hr experimental session in which there
      will be baseline measures, drug administration, and four script-guided imagery sets, each
      followed by a period of data collection. Three hours after dosing (when peak plasma clonidine
      concentrations are reached), participants will be exposed to four scripts: one
      stress-inducing, one describing drug cues, and two with neutral content. The standardized
      script-guided imagery procedure has previously been shown to reliably induce negative
      affective states (stress scripts) and/or craving (stress and drug-cue scripts) compared to
      the neutral scripts and to have internal and external validity (Tiffany and Drobes, 1990;
      Maude-Griffin and Tiffany, 1996; Taylor et al., 2000; Sinha et al., 1999, 2000, 2003;
      Singleton et al., 2003; Tiffany and Haekeneworth, 1991; Elash et al., 1995; Drobes and
      Tiffany, 1997; Taylor et al., 2000; Singleton et al., 2003). Outcome measures will include
      subjective ratings of drug craving and mood, autonomic response (galvanic skin response
      [GSR]), and endocrine responses (salivary cortisol and salivary ?-amylase, a measure of
      endogenous adrenergic activity during stress (Chatterton et al., 1996; Nater et al., 2005;
      van Stegeren et al., 2005)).

      Benefits to participants and/or society. There are no direct benefits to participants.
      However, if clonidine is effective in blocking stress-induced and/or cue-induced craving,
      then the results will be used as a basis for designing a treatment trial, and drug abusers
      and society may benefit from the eventual use of clonidine or other alpha agonists for
      prevention of relapse in cocaine and heroin users. In addition, this research will provide
      information on the clinical relevance of a preclinical model of relapse, possibly
      strengthening arguments for its use in medication development.

      Risks to participants. Participants may experience side effects from clonidine such as
      sedation and are expected to experience brief, mild psychological stress and drug craving
      from the laboratory script procedures. Prior to leaving the session, participants will be
      assessed for the presence of continued drug effects. If participants are experiencing any
      stress or craving at the end of the session, they will undergo a 10-minute guided relaxation
      session, which will be repeated until feelings of stress or craving dissipate, before being
      released from the laboratory. Participants may be kept longer than the planned session
      length, up to and including staying overnight on the inpatient ward, because of continued
      side effects or elevated stress or craving. If the MRP deems it medically necessary,
      participants will be sent to JHBMC emergency department for further evaluation and treatment.
    
  