
    
      Diabetes mellitus and hypertension are two of the most common chronic conditions, and each
      predisposes to accelerated atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease, and death. There has been
      a concern that beta-blocker might have adverse effects in subjects with diabetes on glucose
      metabolism, but some data shows that highly beta-1 selective agents such as bisoprolol are
      essentially free of metabolic disturbances involving blood sugar, insulin sensitivity and
      lipids.

      This is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm, open-label study to assess the glycemic
      effect of bisoprolol in T2DM subjects with suboptimal BP control.

      After pre-screening period, each enrolled subject with T2DM and suboptimal BP control will
      undergo laboratory test for efficacy and safety measurement. After that, subject will
      continue his/her usual dosage of antihypertensive medication and bisoprolol will be added.

      Subjects will be instructed to continue their diet and level of physical activity and to
      attempt to maintain current body weight until completion of the study.

      Bisoprolol will be titrated upward until a dosage that lowers BP to less than 130/80
      millimeter of mercury (mmHg) during the first 2 months of treatment. The maximum dosage of
      bisoprolol will be 10 mg once daily. Following 6 month of added bisoprolol therapy, all
      efficacy and safety measurements will be repeated.

      The duration of study will be up to 24 weeks for each subject.

      Objectives

      Primary objective:

        -  To assess the effect of bisoprolol on glycemic control measured by change from baseline
           in HbA1c in T2DM subjects with suboptimal BP control

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the effects of bisoprolol, as add-on therapy, on BP in T2DM subjects with
           suboptimal BP control

        -  To evaluate the effects of bisoprolol, as add-on therapy, on insulin sensitivity as
           determined by Homeostasis Model Assessment-Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR)

        -  To evaluate the effects of bisoprolol, as add-on therapy, on lipid metabolism as
           determined by lipid profile in T2DM subjects with suboptimal BP control

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of bisoprolol in T2DM subjects with suboptimal
           BP control

        -  To assess the effects of bisoprolol combination therapy on insulin and c-peptide in T2DM
           subjects with suboptimal BP control compared to baseline

        -  To assess the effects of bisoprolol combination therapy on microalbumin and
           albumin/creatinine ratio in T2DM subjects with suboptimal BP control compared to
           baseline
    
  