
    
      Lung cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers in the world. Among them, non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for about 85%. Immune checkpoint inhibitors such as programmed
      death 1(PD-1) and PD-L1 are new treatments for NSCLC. About 290,000 to 650,000 people die
      from respiratory illnesses caused by seasonal flu all over the world. Cancer patients are one
      of the high-risk groups of influenza. Although the United States, Britain, Australia have
      issued guidelines recommending that cancer patients be vaccinated against influenza every
      year, due to concerns about the immune effect and safety of flu vaccination for cancer
      patients, multiple countries including China have not included cancer patients into priority
      influenza vaccination populations. Therefore, how to further prove the immunogenicity and
      safety of influenza vaccine in NSCLC patients is the key to promote influenza vaccines in
      NSCLC patients.

      This study will recruit 130 patients with NSCLC who have been treated with PD-1 / PD-L1
      inhibitors for 6 months or more and 30 healthy participants. Among them, 100 NSCLC patients
      and 30 healthy participants will be intramuscularly inactivated with a trivalent influenza
      vaccine during the influenza seasons 2020-21 and 2021-22. Vaccinated participants' peripheral
      blood samples were collected at day0, 12 hours, day1, 2, 7, 21, 30, 60 and 6 months after
      vaccination. The influenza specific antibody titers, inflammatory chemokines and cytokines,
      antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity, T lymphocytes activity and the
      proportions of different T cells subgroups will be measured to evaluate the participants'
      immune response to the vaccine. In addition, for the subjects receiving the vaccine, the
      study will also group by age to compare the differences in immune effects between subjects
      aged 18-65 and subjects over 65.

      At last, this project will compare immune-related adverse events (irAEs) that occurred after
      receiving PD-1 / PD-L1 inhibitor therapy and survival time between NSCLC patients who receive
      influenza vaccine and those who do not receive influenza vaccine.
    
  