
    
      Background/Rationale:

      Medical abortions induced with either mifepristone or methotrexate and then followed by
      misoprostol are becoming more common. Although mifepristone is the preferred drug used to
      initiate the abortion in Europe, parts of Asia and in the US, it is not available in many
      parts of the world such as Canada, South America and most of Africa. While methotrexate is an
      acceptable and more widely available alternative, concerns about the safety of administration
      have discouraged some providers from using it. The cost of either mifepristone or
      methotrexate may also be barriers to widespread use. Misoprostol is inexpensive and easily
      available and is used alone for abortion both by the women themselves and by medical
      providers. Effective use of a single safe medication will reduce the number of medications
      women are exposed to.

      Reported effectiveness rates for misoprostol alone in terminating pregnancies less than 8
      weeks range from 64 to 94%, with varying doses and protocols. Use of misoprostol in early
      pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of Mobius syndrome in infants. For this
      reason, it is important that the most effective regimen is used for abortion to prevent
      failures.

      A summary of the published protocols and results are as follows. A rate of 91.3% was found
      using 800 mcg vaginally every 24 hours for three doses, with higher effectiveness before 42
      days gestation. A dose of 400 mcg sublingual misoprostol repeated every 24 hours for three
      doses resulted in 86% success. When mifepristone followed by 400 mcg misoprostol orally was
      compared to 800 mcg misoprostol vaginally, the effectiveness rate of the misoprostol alone
      was 88% and there were more prostaglandin side effects compared to the combined drug regimen.
      These side effects were reduced with prophylactic acetominophen and loperamide. Another
      centre reported a 90.8% effectiveness rate with two doses of 800 mcg misoprostol vaginally.
      One study assessed women after each dose of 800 mcg vaginal misoprostol and found that only
      71.8% aborted after one dose and 92.1% aborted after multiple doses. When 800 mcg vaginally
      was repeated every 48 hours for three doses, an effectiveness rate of 93.6% was obtained. The
      same rate was obtained using 1000 mcg. When only 600 mcg vaginally was used, the
      effectiveness rate was only 64% repeating the dose every 8 hours did not improve the
      effectiveness. Similar rates were found for adolescents.

      One proposed hypothesis for the 64-94% range in effectiveness between these various protocols
      is that sublingual misoprostol has a higher peak serum concentration than oral or vaginal
      misoprostol. In other words, the mean time to peak concentration for sublingual misoprostol
      is similar to oral misoprostol at 26 minutes and the area under the MPA curve is similar to
      moistened vaginal misoprostol.

      The regimen planned for this study is a one-step procedure reported at the International
      Consortium for Medical Abortion meeting in Johannesburg, October 2004 by Iheoni Obineche. He
      reported a series of 80 cases in which 79 (98.8%) aborted within 12 hours of receiving 400
      mcg vaginal misoprostol after a thorough vaginal cleanse plus 400 mcg sublingual misoprostol
      administered at the same time. This will be compared to the standard protocol based on the
      National Abortion Federation and SOGC which is 50mg/m2 of methotrexate injected
      intramuscularly followed by misoprostol 800mcg per vaginal 4-7 days later.

      Rationale:

      In countries where abortion is illegal and common such as those in Africa and South America,
      it is important to find a regimen using misoprostol alone which has a higher completion rate
      than those regimens usually used.

      Trial Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if misoprostol alone using this regimen
      is as effective as the investigators' current practice of methotrexate followed by
      misoprostol for early abortion. The secondary objectives are to compare side effects and to
      assess acceptability.

      Study Design and Duration:

      This is a randomized controlled open-label trial. Women requesting medical termination of
      pregnancy at 7 weeks gestation or less will be recruited.

      The study protocol, risks, benefits, visit schedule and consent will be reviewed with each
      potential subject. The informed consent will include the statement "if the treatment does not
      work, I have been advised to agree to a surgical abortion". A haemoglobin and Rh factor will
      be obtained and reviewed. A focussed history and physical examination will be performed.
      Gestational dating will be done by endovaginal ultrasound using the following criteria:
      gestational age (days) = mean sac diameter (mm) + 30 or embryonic pole (mm) + 42. Mean sac
      diameter is used only if there is no embryonic pole. This method has been described by
      Rossavik and Goldstein.

      Randomization will be performed by using a computer generated list of block random numbers
      and sealed, numbered, opaque envelopes will be prepared by a staff member not involved in the
      information/consent process.

      In both groups, women who are Rh negative will receive 120 :g Rh(D) immune globulin on Day 1.
      The methotrexate/misoprostol group will be given 50 mg/m2 methotrexate and both written and
      oral instructions. At least 72 hours after the methotrexate (Day 4-7), they will be asked to
      moisten four 200 :g tablets of misoprostol with a few drops of water each and insert them
      into the vagina. On Day 1, the misoprostol-only group will receive 400 :g misoprostol
      sublingually and the doctor will use a speculum and warm water to cleanse the vagina, moisten
      400 :g misoprostol with warm water and place it in the vaginal fornices. All women will also
      be given six tablets of acetaminophen with codeine, two tablets of diphenhydramine, and six
      tablets of 400 mg ibuprofen to use for side effects.

      All subjects will return to the office within 7 days of having the misoprostol and have
      another vaginal ultrasound. If they have not aborted, they will be offered three options;
      waiting, using additional doses of misoprostol or surgery. If the abortion is failed as
      evidenced by embryonic cardiac activity on Day 15, these women will be scheduled for surgical
      aspiration. At the first follow-up visit, information will be obtained about completion of
      the abortion, and then about the woman's experience of bleeding, pain and side effects. Pain
      will be measured by an 11-point numeric pain scale, using the question "On a scale of 0 to
      10, where 0 is no pain and 10 is pain as bad as it can be, what was the worst pain like for
      you?". They will be asked, "If you were in the same situation, would you choose a medical or
      surgical abortion? If given the choice, would you choose the same medications you received in
      this study?". These scales and questions have been reported in other studies.

      The main outcome measure is effectiveness after the first dose of misoprostol measured by the
      number of abortions completed at the first follow-up visit. The investigators will also
      compare the rate of surgery, the time taken to abort (based on history), side effects, pain
      and satisfaction. Previous studies have had about 86% of women prefer a medical abortion,
      39.2% had nausea, 24.8% had vomiting, 25.9% had fever, 27.2% had headache, 41.8% had chills,
      and 39.8% had fatigue. The investigators do not expect the side effects to be substantially
      different. Previously the mean pain scores were 6.3 on an 11-point pain scale.
    
  