
    
      The Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS) Follow-Up protocol allows us to continue with the
      follow-up of participants who were enrolled in the clinical trial of antioxidant vitamins and
      zinc. The AREDS study was designed in the beginning to determine the clinical course and
      prognosis of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and cataracts.1 In addition, AREDS
      evaluated the possible risk factors associated with the development of AMD and cataracts; the
      nutritional risk factors were evaluated and published in October 2001.

      Study results showed that antioxidant vitamins and zinc therapy reduced the risk of
      developing advanced AMD in participants with intermediate and greater risk of developing AMD
      (categories 3 and 4) by 25%. The risk of vision loss of three lines or more on the
      logarithmic visual acuity charts was also reduced by 19% for these participants. For those
      who developed AMD, their risk of vision loss was reduced by 25%. Antioxidants and zinc are
      now recommended for participants who have an intermediate risk of developing advanced AMD.

      Upon completion of the AREDS clinical trial in September 2001, participants were invited for
      follow-up for an additional five years to collect further data on the natural course of both
      AMD and cataracts. Although the multi-center trial was complete in December 2005, we wish to
      continue to follow-up on these participants at the NEI on an annual basis for a minimum of
      five years from the date of enrollment in this study to collect additional data.

      Although results from AREDS on the relationship of lutein/zeaxanthin and omega-3 long-chain
      polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) intake with advanced AMD were informative, the
      non-experimental sampling (observational) design limited our strength of inference. AREDS2, a
      multi-center Phase III randomized clinical trial, was designed to assess the effects of oral
      supplementation of high doses of macular xanthophylls (lutein and zeaxanthin) and/or omega-3
      LCPUFAs as a treatment for AMD, cataract and moderate vision loss. In addition to this
      objective, the study provided information on the clinical course, prognosis, and risk factors
      for development and progression of both AMD and cataract. Other study goals included the
      evaluation of eliminating beta-carotene and/or reducing zinc in the original AREDS
      formulation on the progression and development of AMD. AREDS2 also sought to validate the
      fundus photographic AMD scale developed from AREDS. Participants who completed AREDS2 are
      invited for follow-up on an annual basis for at least five years from the date of enrollment
      in this study to collect additional data.
    
  