
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity of combination therapy with AMG 337 (c-Met inhibitor AMG 337) and
      mFOLFOX6 (oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil) chemotherapy in patients with
      advanced or metastatic gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. (Phase I) II. To determine the dose of
      AMG 337 to be used in combination with mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy in the phase II portion of the
      trial. (Phase I) III. To determine the pharmacokinetics of AMG 337 in combination with
      mFOLFOX6. (Phase I) IV. To determine if the addition of AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy
      improves median progression-free survival (PFS) in the first line treatment of patients with
      human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2Neu) negative and high c-met proto-oncogene
      (MET) expressing advanced esophagogastric and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma.
      (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the addition of AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy and also to evaluate the
      placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy combination in the first line treatment of patients with
      Her2Neu negative and high c-MET expressing advanced esophagogastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma,
      with regards to overall survival (OS). (Phase II) II. To evaluate the addition of AMG 337 to
      mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy and also to evaluate the placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy combination in
      the first line treatment of patients with Her2Neu negative and high c-MET expressing advanced
      esophagogastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma, with regards to response rate and disease control
      rate. (Phase II) III. To evaluate the addition of AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy and also
      to evaluate the placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy combination in the first line treatment of
      patients with Her2Neu negative and high c-MET expressing advanced esophagogastric and GEJ
      adenocarcinoma, with regards to toxicity rates. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate the addition of
      AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy and also to evaluate the placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy
      combination in the first line treatment of patients with Her2Neu negative and high c-MET
      expressing advanced esophagogastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma, with regards to time to
      development of new metastasis. (Phase II) V. To evaluate the addition of AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6
      chemotherapy and also to evaluate the placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy combination in the first
      line treatment of patients with Her2Neu negative and high c-MET expressing advanced
      esophagogastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma, with regards to evaluation of MET amplification.
      (Phase II) VI. To evaluate the addition of AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy and also to
      evaluate the placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy combination in the first line treatment of
      patients with Her2Neu negative and high c-MET expressing advanced esophagogastric and GEJ
      adenocarcinoma, with regards to evaluation of MET amplification and MET expression as
      determined by DAKO immunohistochemistry (IHC) for comparison to Ventana IHC. (Phase II) VII.
      To evaluate the addition of AMG 337 to mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy and also to evaluate the
      placebo/mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy combination in the first line treatment of patients with
      Her2Neu negative and high c-MET expressing advanced esophagogastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma,
      with regards to a retrospective re-evaluation of the cutpoint used by the computer algorithm
      for c-MET IHC to assess its ability to distinguish responding versus non-responding patients
      will be undertaken in this population, so that a potentially more optimal cutpoint to define
      high c-MET tumors in patients can be identified. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of c-Met inhibitor AMG 337 followed by a
      phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive c-Met inhibitor AMG 337 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28;
      and oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and
      fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive c-Met inhibitor AMG 337 PO QD on days 1-28; and oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1 and
      15.

      ARM B: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28; and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours,
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 15.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  