
    
      Many families presenting in the ED may have unmet social needs. Prior studies have shown that
      families are receptive to screening for these needs in the ED setting. HelpSteps is a
      screening tool that not only identifies social needs but also connects individuals with local
      health and social services agencies. There have been no studies to date assessing the use of
      a new mobile-version of HelpSteps or the use of the tool in the ED setting. The objective of
      this study is (1) to assess the feasibility of using a patient-centered social services
      screening and referral mobile tool in the ED and (2) to determine if the tool is useful in
      helping patients identify social needs and link to appropriate referral services post-ED
      visit.

      Data will be collected in a prospective, non-randomized fashion using a convenience sample of
      330 adult subjects. All parents will be screened for enrollment. If a parent is not present,
      all unaccompanied patients 18 and older will be screened instead. If there are both parents
      present, investigators will ask families to self-identify the most appropriate research
      subject by asking which parent in their family is typically responsible for household
      resources or applications. Non-English speaking families and patients who present with a
      triage score of 1 or 2 (high acuity) will be excluded.

      Once enrolled, research subjects will be offered the option to either download HelpSteps on a
      personal cell phone or to use the application on a provided tablet. The subject will then
      open the Help Steps tool and complete a brief social needs screening survey. Based on the
      results of the screening and on geographic proximity, HelpSteps will recommend referral
      agencies personalized to the subject. The subject will then choose agencies they are
      interested in and receive a personalized list of referrals.

      While still in the ED, families will be asked to complete a brief survey regarding ease of
      use and recommending the tool to family and friends. After the ED visit, subjects will be
      sent two electronic reminders asking if they would like a referral list resent. All
      participants will receive a follow-up phone call approximately 2 weeks post-study enrollment
      to ask whether they have used HelpSteps at home, whether or not they contacted a referral
      agency, if their social need(s) were resolved, and if the application was helpful in finding
      a solution to their need(s). The investigators will also ask physicians to fill out a brief
      survey about the impact of the tool on clinical flow and usefulness in help supplementing
      care for the patient.

      The investigators plan to use descriptive statistics to evaluate three categories of data:
      (1) social services needs, referrals and follow-up, (2) usefulness of the HelpSteps
      application, and (3) physician perspectives on use of the HelpSteps in the ED. The
      investigators will analyze the mobile-based group and the tablet-based group separately as
      they are likely two different populations (based on the lower socioeconomic status and thus
      higher social needs associated with not having a phone).
    
  