
    
      Pathological gambling is a chronic disorder in which a person is unable to control the urge
      to gamble. People who are pathological gamblers constantly think about gambling, and they may
      feel restless when not able to gamble. A pathological gambler's addiction to the thrill of
      gambling may lead to serious relationship, career, and debt problems. The number of
      pathological gamblers in the United States is steadily growing, leading to significant
      financial, psychological, and public health consequences. However, studies examining the
      effectiveness of treatments for pathological gamblers are limited. Forms of psychotherapy,
      such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), and addiction support groups comprise some of the
      commonly used treatments for pathological gamblers. This study will compare the effectiveness
      of three different treatment strategies, including psychoeducation therapy plus case
      management, CBT, and CBT plus contingency management (CM), in reducing gambling behaviors and
      other problems related to pathological gambling.

      Participation in this study will last 2 years. All potential participants will undergo an
      initial screening that will include questions about gambling behaviors and related problems
      and psychiatric, medical, social, legal, and substance abuse history. Eligible participants
      will be referred to Gambler's Anonymous (GA) and will be randomly assigned to one of three
      treatment groups. All participants will attend a 50-minute session of their assigned
      treatment each week for 8 weeks. They will also be encouraged to attend GA meetings during
      treatment.

        -  Group 1 participants will receive psychoeducation therapy plus case management. Therapy
           sessions will include education about gambling and related problems. The case management
           component of treatment will offer help with obtaining additional services from the
           community as needed.

        -  Group 2 participants will attend CBT sessions, which will include learning about the
           triggers that lead to gambling, developing alternatives to gambling, and avoiding
           relapse after stopping gambling.

        -  Group 3 participants will receive CM in addition to CBT, as described above. The CM
           component of treatment will encourage participants to partake in activities unrelated to
           gambling by awarding vouchers, such as a gift certificate to a store or restaurant, to
           participants for completing the alternative activities.

      Gambling, substance use, and psychosocial problems will be assessed at pretreatment and
      Months 2, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 follow-up evaluations. Participants will also be asked to
      identify at least one person who is aware of their gambling problem and whom they regularly
      contact. Researchers will interview the contact person by phone at pretreatment and Months 2,
      6, 12, and 24. The interview will include questions about the participant's gambling
      behaviors, personal relationships, legal status, use of health care and mental health
      services, and any possible change of contact information.

      For information on related studies, please follow these links:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00158314

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00118391
    
  