
    
      The population of the elderly is increasing all over the world and in our country Globally,
      the number of people aged 65 and over is reported to be 727 million in 2020. In the next
      thirty years, it is predicted that the number of elderly people in the world will be over 1.5
      billion and the rate of the population aged 65 and over, which was 9.3% in 2020, will
      increase to 16.0% in 2050. With the aging society, there are more elderly people in the
      service area of nurses. For this reason, there is a need to plan nursing interventions to
      improve and maintain elderly health and quality of life. With the increase of the elderly
      population in the world and in our country, the problems experienced by the elderly gain
      importance, and the necessity of interventions to meet their social and emotional needs comes
      to the fore.

      The Roy Adaptation Model (RAM), developed by Sister Callista Roy, from an expanded,
      integrated and holistic nursing perspective (RAM), enables the development of theory-based
      nursing interventions in the process of adapting to old age and coping with the problems
      encountered. According to RAM, nursing balances knowledge of biology and behavioral sciences
      with "the understanding of individuals as both a physiological being in a physical world and
      as a creature that thinks and feels with human experience in a cosmic world. According to
      Roy, the general purpose of nursing is to improve the health of individuals and groups by
      enabling them to adapt to each of the four areas of adaptation, including physiological,
      self-concept, role function and interdependence. According to Roy, nurses contribute to
      improving the health of individuals and groups, as well as increasing the quality of life and
      dying in dignity. The elderly population is one of the groups that need adaptation. it is a
      process that requires adaptation to critical conditions of life such as separations, losses
      and approaching the end of life. Compliance is considered important in this age group. When
      elderly individuals cannot adapt to the aging process, they face some psychological problems
      such as loneliness, unhappiness, despair, loneliness, depression, and fear of death. This
      situation negatively affects the quality of life and life satisfaction of elderly
      individuals. In old age, with the increasing longing for the old, adaptation due to aging
      decreases, and the situation becomes difficult to cope with the addition of forgetfulness.

      Recall therapy, which is used to cope with forgetfulness in elderly individuals, is one of
      the non-pharmacological approaches preferred in recent years for successful agin. It can
      significantly affect their ability to adapt. Recall therapy, in the Classification of Nursing
      Interventions (NIC), includes "remembering past events, feelings, and thoughts;" pleasure,
      quality of life or using it to facilitate adaptation to existing conditions ". In this
      context, reminiscence therapy takes an important place in nursing care as a therapeutic
      nursing intervention in order to increase the quality of life of the elderly and facilitate
      their adaptation processes.

      Life satisfaction, which is an important element of quality aging, consists of basic
      indicators such as length of life, biological and mental health, cognitive competence, social
      competence, productivity, personal control and enjoyment of life. It has been stated that
      health-enhancing behaviors play an important role in increasing the life satisfaction of
      elderly individuals. In this context, group activities with the elderly; It enables the
      individual to keep his / her relationships with his / her social environment alive, to make
      efforts to improve memory and physical functions by bringing his creativity to the forefront,
      to look positively to life and to enjoy life Older participants in Aberg's qualitative study
      stated that their activity and independence are very important for their life satisfaction
      and that good past memories are remembered in this process. These health-enhancing
      reminiscence-based activities have an important place in reducing the years lost due to
      premature deaths, adding the remaining years to a healthy life and increasing life
      adaptation. is a process. Another concept related to the concept of satisfaction with life
      and positive on the quality of life is the concept of "happiness." Changes in old age and
      changes in lifestyle affect the happiness levels of the elderly. Happiness is an important
      indicator of well-being and healthy aging The concept of happiness is addressed with the
      concept of subjective well-being, and subjective well-being is defined as an individual's
      personal assessment of his life and reporting his own judgment. In the study of Akyıl et al.,
      It was stated that those living at home and those who felt 'well' physically and
      psychologically had higher levels of subjective happiness.

      In a study conducted, it was stated that there was a positive correlation between the
      autonomy level and happiness levels of elderly individuals, their happiness decreased and
      depression increased as their autonomy decreased. In another study conducted with the elderly
      living in institutions, 49.7% of the participants felt themselves unhapp .

      Remember-based activities play a positive role in improving the quality of life of the
      elderly. In the literature, it is seen that studies examining the effects of reminiscence
      therapy on elderly health are often on quality of life, anxiety, and depression In the study
      of Tribe (2018), it is stated that reminiscence therapy has a positive effect on the sleep
      quality of the elderly living in institutions. and it is aimed to determine the effect on
      their happiness. It is thought that the results to be obtained will contribute to the
      planning of education and care activities aimed at improving the health of the elderly for
      health professionals working in institutions where elderly care services are provided. In
      this study, it is important to know the factors that affect the adaptation of the elderly
      first in planning the remembering therapy to be applied to the elderly. Therefore, the
      research will be conducted in two stages. The first phase will be carried out in accordance
      with the qualitative research design in order to reveal the life experiences related to the
      adaptation of the elderly who have transferred to the nursing home for the first time in the
      last year. In the second stage, it is aimed to determine the effect of reminiscence therapy
      based on the Roy Adaptation Model on the level of adaptation, life satisfaction and happiness
      of the elderly.
    
  