
    
      Percutaneous gastrostomy is a procedure that intends to provide prolonged alimentary access
      to patients with normal gastrointestinal tract, which are unable to eat or are facing
      troubles with deglutition.

      Nowadays it is considered as the first line procedure to prolonged enteral access on this
      patients.

      The indications to perform a percutaneous gastrostomy in a cancer center are usually related
      to head and neck, central nervous system and esophagus tumors. In our institution around 80%
      of the percutaneous gastrostomy are performed in patients with head an neck tumors.

      Although percutaneous gastrostomy is considered a safe procedure, there are some
      complications related, specially in oncologic patients. Those complications are reported in
      about 40% of the cases.

      Percutaneous gastrostomy is usually performed as a inpatient procedure, which leads to
      hospitalization costs. However, some studies have shown that is safe and viable to perform
      percutaneous gastrostomy (both endoscopic or radiologic), as a outpatient procedure, in
      patients with head a neck tumors.

      As both techniques (endoscopic and radiologic) present similar results, patients treated in
      our institution that require a percutaneous gastrostomy are referred to endoscopic and
      interventional radiology departments.

      Some of these patients are selected to undergo an outpatient procedure, based on social and
      clinical criteria.

      The majority of the available data shows that both the endoscopic and the radiologic
      techniques present similar results in terms of security and rate of precocious and late
      complications, and that both are superior than the surgical technique, considering they are
      least invasive and related with lower rates of complication and costs.

      In the present, the traction (Gauderer-Ponsky) technique is the most widely used in our
      institution for the endoscopic procedure.

      In the interventional radiology department the percutaneous gastrostomy is performed using
      the introduction (Russel) technique, in which a guidewire is positioned after the stomach
      needle puncture, made under ultrasound or fluoroscopic guidance. After that, the tract is
      progressively dilated to allow the introduction of the gastrostomy balloon catheter, through
      the abdominal wall, using a peel-away sheath.

      This same technique can be performed for the endoscopic gastrostomy, using the same
      gastrostomy kit, but under endoscopic guidance.

      Some authors suggest that the introduction technique, although more challenging, is
      associated with less stoma infections, because is the only one that is not associated with
      oral catheterization.

      For the patients with head an neck tumors, there is also a reduced risk of metastases
      implants on the puncture site.

      Besides those considerations, the data available is still not consensual.
    
  