
    
      The study of patients with focal lesions is at the origin of many key discoveries in the
      field of neurology and cognitive neuroscience.

      There are many mechanisms of injury in the brain. The investigators focus on delineated
      lesions (as opposed to panencephalic, infectious or traumatic lesions), including stroke,
      excision of intracranial expansive processes or cortectomies of epileptogenic foci.

      At the CHUGA, several hundred patients are hospitalized each year for stroke, several dozen
      patients are operated on brain tumor and about thirty patients benefit from surgical
      treatment for their epilepsy.

      Post-injury cognitive disorders represent a large heterogeneous class of neurological
      disorders. They are differentiated by various clinical and neuropsychological profiles
      involving different higher functions such as attention, language, memory, decision-making or
      executive functions. This variability observed in these disorders complicates their
      characterization. Especially, there is no, on a sufficiently large scale, data collection to
      establish whether cognitive deficits are explained by the relative contribution of the type
      of test used, the location of the lesion, the nature of the pathology and the post-injury
      delay. This requires a large cohort of patients.

      The objective of this project is precisely to build a structure-function database in patients
      with focal brain injury (post-stroke or post-cortical resection), with the aim of conducting
      a transnosographic and longitudinal study of brain functions in these patients. To the
      knowledge of the investigators, this type of approach has not yet been proposed. Such a
      project should eventually lead to a better understanding of the nature of the cognitive
      deficits observed in different types of lesions, and to refine the correlations between
      structures and functions. This project is in line with the objectives set by the University
      Hospital Federation NeuroPsyNov, which was labeled in 2015 (Dir P. Kahane,
      fhu-neuropsynov.chu-grenoble.fr) and aims to encourage transnosographic and translational
      studies of neurological and psychiatric diseases.
    
  