
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Maintain the present satisfactory results of patients treated on protocol UKCCSG-HD-8201
           in pediatric patients with stage I-III Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with radiotherapy or
           combination chemotherapy comprising chlorambucil, procarbazine hydrochloride,
           prednisolone, vinblastine followed by doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin, vincristine,
           and dacarbazine.

        -  Determine, by comparison with UKCCSG-HD-8201, if mediastinal irradiation can be safely
           omitted from the management of pediatric patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma and bulky
           mediastinal disease.

        -  Determine if gallium scanning of the mediastinum after chemotherapy will identify
           patients with residual active mediastinal disease.

        -  Improve disease control in patients with stage IV Hodgkin's lymphoma and slow responders
           by intensifying treatment to patients who fail to achieve complete remission after 4
           courses of chlorambucil, vinblastine, procarbazine hydrochloride, and prednisone.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to stage of disease
      (I vs II-IV).

        -  Stage I: Patients undergo involved-field radiotherapy.

        -  Stage II-IV:

             -  CHLVPP chemotherapy: Patients receive CHLVPP chemotherapy comprising oral
                chlorambucil, oral procarbazine hydrochloride, and oral prednisolone on days 1-14
                and vinblastine IV on days 1-8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses.
                Patients achieving complete resolution (CR) of measurable disease receive an
                additional 4 courses of CHLVPP. Patients with no response or progressive disease
                proceed to ABVD chemotherapy. Patients with shrinkage of measurable disease to <
                50% original dimensions (GPR) receive 2 additional courses of CHLVPP. Patients
                achieving CR or GPR after completion of 2 additional courses of CHLVPP receive 4
                more courses of CHLVPP. Patients achieving shrinkage of measurable disease to ≥ 50%
                of original dimension (PR) after 2 additional courses of CHLVPP OR patients not
                achieving CR after a total of 8 courses of CHLVPP proceed to ABVD chemotherapy.

             -  ABVD chemotherapy: Patients receive ABVD chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin
                hydrochloride IV over 4 hours and bleomycin IV, vincristine IV, and dacarbazine IV
                on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4-6 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Mediastinal mass: Patients receive chemotherapy as per stages II-IV. Patients presenting
           with airway or superior vena cava obstruction may also undergo radiotherapy. Patients
           achieving CR after completion of chemotherapy receive no further treatment. Patients
           achieving GPR or PR after completion of chemotherapy undergo gallium scan and CT scan of
           thorax with or without biopsy at the investigator's discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 353 patients were accrued for this study.
    
  