
    
      AZT is the only antiviral agent with demonstrated effectiveness in patients with severe HIV
      infection. Persons with HIV infection may have additional health problems, one of which is a
      diseased kidney due to infection of the kidney, or side effects of therapy. The benefits and
      risks of AZT in patients with diseased kidneys are unknown. It is hoped that this study will
      allow further understanding of the metabolism and excretion of AZT in patients with kidney
      disease. AZT pharmacokinetics will be studied in patients with mild, moderate, and severe
      renal disorders.

      Patients receive AZT by mouth on the first day. After taking the AZT, blood samples are taken
      from a catheter and several urine samples are collected over a 24-hour period. During this
      time, patients remain in the hospital for the 24 hours or may choose to go home 12 hours
      after taking the AZT dose and return for the last blood sample the next morning. Following
      study day 1, patients receive AZT every 4 hours, including in the middle of the night, and
      keep a diary of the times they take AZT, as well as of the use of other medications, tobacco,
      or alcohol. A return appointment is made for 8-15 days later. On that day, patients again
      receive AZT by mouth, and blood tests and urine samples are again taken. Patients who are
      receiving hemodialysis participate in 1 additional day of pharmacokinetic studies to be
      arranged during one hemodialysis session. Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal
      Dialysis (CAPD) are studied separately and do not participate in the procedures for the other
      groups. AZT is given as a single oral dose at the beginning of the first morning exchange
      followed by a pharmacokinetic study. Chronic AZT dosing is initiated following the first
      exchange. After a minimum of 7 days of AZT therapy and a maximum of 14 days the last dose of
      AZT is administered and a repeat pharmacokinetic study is done. All patients are seen again
      1-2 weeks after completing the last pharmacokinetic study.
    
  