
    
      The exposure to tobacco related carcinogens is highly dependent upon dose as well as
      interindividual characteristics of metabolism. Risk assessment of carcinogenic profiles for
      nicotine and its individual metabolites is complicated by interindividual variations in
      nicotine metabolism associated with quantitative nicotine exposure, gender, genetic
      polymorphisms, and behavioral and environmentally induced differences in nicotine
      metabolizing enzyme activities. Consequently, differences in smoking behavior or tobacco use
      have been correlated to differences in nicotine metabolism resulting in cessation strategies
      based upon tobacco use, nicotine dependence, and behavioral modification. Cotinine has been
      shown to be a reliable marker of nicotine exposure and more reflective of recent rather than
      acute nicotine use with better assessment of baseline nicotine levels. Therefore, subjects
      will have blood samples drawn weekly during radiation for cotinine analysis.

      Radiation therapy efficacy is known to be dependent on tissue oxygen status. Since
      therapeutic treatment is less efficacious in patients with poorly vascularized/ hypoxic
      tumors, it is desirable to identify and target such patients for special treatment. Recent
      magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography investigations have shown that there are
      significant blood flow changes during radiation or chemo-radiation therapy, suggesting that
      early blood flow may have prognostic value. Among those methods for oxygen and blood flow
      measurements, the near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is more benefit with merit of
      non-invasive, portable, fast test, and inexpensive. Our instrument system combined
      near-infrared diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) and diffuse correlation spectroscopy
      (DCS) is capable of monitoring tissue oxygen and blood flow simultaneously. This hybrid
      diffuse optical instrument has already been used for monitoring of therapeutic effects (e.g.,
      radiation therapy, chemotherapy) in tumors in human head & neck and breast. In this study, we
      will use this hybrid instrument to investigate the hemodynamic responses to different
      therapies (radiation alone, radiation + chemotherapy) in patients with different nicotine
      levels. Baseline measurement of tissue oxygen saturation, total hemoglobin concentration and
      blood flow using a hybrid optical instrument (DRS for oxygen measurement and DCS for blood
      flow measurement). A hand-hold optical probe connected to the hybrid instrument will be
      placed on the head/neck tumor for about 3-5 minutes, then move it on the normal arm muscle
      for control purposeTumor oxygenation and flow measurements will be performed at the beginning
      of every week during the treatment period. During this monitoring process non-invasive blood
      pressure monitoring will also occur. Weekly optical measurements will be obtained during
      treatment.In this study we will investigate the hemodynamic responses to different nicotine
      levels and different therapies (radiation alone, radiation + chemotherapy).
    
  