
    
      The primary aims of the pilot study are to streamline the infrastructure, machinery, and
      clinical experience with the balloon before the start of the randomized trial. The inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, and measurement points will be similar for the two studies.

      The primary endpoints of the pilot study are to ascertain the feasibility of

        1. Patient recruitment and informed consent process

        2. Balloon insertion procedure

        3. Follow-up of patients for the period of balloon therapy (one balloon)

        4. Data gathering, data management, and endpoint evaluation

        5. Adverse event evaluation of balloon insertion and therapy Secondary endpoints are weight
           loss, HBA1c

      Eligible Patients Eligible patients are adults who have been referred for obesity treatment
      to one of the participating obesity centres and meet all of the inclusion criteria and none
      of the exclusion criteria.

      Inclusion criteria

      1. adults 18 year or older with BMI ≥30 and ≤40 kg/m2, and a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes.

      Feasibility of the intervention will be assesssed by the investigators. Subjects will be
      carefully monitored during the study for possible adverse events (AEs) and will be advised to
      contact the study investigator in case of symptoms of possible adverse events.. During each
      clinical follow-up visit, the investigator will determine AE occurrences. Each adverse event
      is considered to be either anticipated or unanticipated as described below.

      An AE is any adverse change from the subject's baseline (pre-treatment) condition, including
      a concurrent illness, occurring during the course of the study whether or not considered
      related to the study intervention (balloon or surgery). Therefore, an AE can be any
      unfavorable and/or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or
      disease temporally associated with the study treatment, whether or not related to the
      procedure.

      All adverse events are described by the local study investigator using the electronic patient
      record system at the participating site. Adverse events will also be collected once yearly
      through searches in local and national patient registries (hospital discharge and diagnosis
      registry, Norwegian cause-of-death registry, Norwegian cancer registry).

      AEs are categorized as serious or non-serious. Serious Adverse Event (SAE) are those leading
      to

        -  unplanned medical or surgical intervention

        -  unplanned hospitalization (including emergency department visit)

        -  prolonged duration of planned hospitalization (>24hrs)

        -  life threatening illness or injury

        -  permanent impairment of a body structure or a body function

        -  Death Planned hospitalization for a pre-existing condition, or a procedure required by
           the protocol, without serious deterioration in health, is not considered a serious
           adverse event.

      Non-Serious Adverse Events:

      Adverse events that do not meet the definition of SAEs.

      AE evaluation Each reported SAE is reviewed by an adverse event evaluation committee. The
      committee consist of three individuals with a medical background relevant for the trial and
      its interventions. The committee is not blinded to treatment arm as this is not feasible
      given the nature of the trial interventions and the expected grade of details to review to
      make a decision. Each member of the AE evaluation committee reviews each case independently.
      Agreement of whether the SAE is due to the intervention or not (yes, no, An SAE report is
      submitted to the PIs and the company one time each year during the course of the trial.

      Participants will be examined by the study investigators 1 to 3 weeks prior to treatment
      start (baseline visit), and at weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 26 and 52 after treatment start.

      At the baseline visit, demographic data and medical history is assessed.

      All visits include a clinical examination with measurements of body weight, anthropometric
      measures and blood pressure, laboratory analyses, a registration of supplementation and
      prescription and over-the-counter drug use, and registration of complications and side
      effects.

      Body weight and composition will be measured with patients wearing light clothing and no
      shoes using bioelectrical impedance analysis. Anthropometric measures will be recorded with
      patients in an upright position. Height will be measured using wall mounted stadiometers;
      waist circumference (WC) will be measured at the point midway between the lowest rib margin
      and the iliac crest. Height and circumferences will be measured to nearest 0.5 cm and weight
      to the nearest 0.1 kg.

      The following laboratory analysis will be performed: hemoglobin; white blood cell count;
      platelet count; international normalized ratio; C-reactive protein; blood glucose, HbA1c;
      insulin, C-peptide; anti-GAD; anti-IA2; sodium; potassium; phosphate; chloride; magnesium;
      serum iron; ferritin; transferrin; calcium; 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D; 25 hydroxyvitamin D;
      parathyroid hormone; thiamine; B12; folate; creatinine; bilirubin; albumin; total protein;
      alanine aminotransferase; aspartate aminotransferase; alkaline phosphatase A; gamma-glutamyl
      transpeptidase; amylase; lactate dehydrogenase; triglycerides; total cholesterol; HDL
      cholesterol; LDL cholesterol; unbound thyroxine; thyroid stimulating hormone;
    
  