
    
      Anesthesiology care demonstrates wide variation in practice. Sometimes, this variation is
      appropriate because the anesthesiologist is responding to patient comorbidities or procedure
      specific events. However, even after controlling for patient specific factors, there is a
      substantial amount of unexplained variation in fundamental elements of anesthesiology care.
      The same procedure and patient can be performed using completely different anesthetic
      techniques, hemodynamic management strategies, and medications. This variation in care can
      lead to a variation in outcome.

        -  Hemodynamic Management: Despite expert opinion that blood pressure should be maintained
           within 20% of baseline, several studies have demonstrated that more than 40% of patients
           experience profound hypotension in the operating room, defined as systolic blood
           pressure of 79 mmHg or below. These blood pressure levels have been demonstrated to be
           associated with acute kidney injury, myocardial ischemia, and death.

        -  Intraoperative ventilation strategies: A recent prospective, randomized trial in major
           abdominal surgery demonstrated that the use of low intraoperative tidal volumes
           decreases the risk of postoperative pulmonary complications, including pneumonia and
           reintubation, by more than 50%, with no additional costs or adverse events. The use of
           large tidal volumes and failure to administer intraoperative recruitment maneuvers is
           widespread.

        -  Neuromuscular blockade (paralysis): The use of intraoperative neuromuscular blockade for
           many patients undergoing general anesthesia is necessary to optimize surgical conditions
           and prevent catastrophic injury due to unintended patient movement. However, several
           trials have now demonstrated that most patients suffer from residual neuromuscular
           blockade at the conclusion of surgery, resulting in markedly increased risk of
           postoperative hypoxia, pneumonia, reintubation, and prolonged recovery room stay.

        -  Fluid balance: Although fluid administration strategies have been studied in small
           prospective trials extensively, basic consensus regarding the definition of "liberal"
           versus "restrictive" intraoperative fluid administration is absent. Prospective
           randomized controlled trials of restrictive fluid administration combined with
           vasopressor administration in major abdominal cases have demonstrated markedly reduced
           complications and length of stay.

        -  Fluid choice: The use of colloid fluid therapy has been demonstrated to increase costs
           without an improvement in outcomes, yet there are no signs that the use of albumin or
           synthetic colloids has decreased. In addition, despite overwhelming evidence that
           discretionary transfusion of red blood cells above a hemoglobin of 10 mg/dl is rarely
           indicated, recent data demonstrate its continued occurrence in many perioperative
           patients.

      The use of electronic health records (EHR) with detailed preoperative and intraoperative data
      allows an automated system to be developed to notify clinicians their compliance to both
      process of care metrics and outcome metrics. The primary goal of ASPIRE is to provide
      hospitals with confidential risk-adjusted feedback on outcome and process of care variation.
      In addition, ASPIRE creates an active best-practice sharing environment to enable data to
      spur action.

      Recent literature has demonstrated that hospital-level feedback may not be adequate to
      improve performance and clinical outcomes. In addition to hospital level data and feedback,
      ASPIRE can disseminate provider-specific feedback that may decrease variation in care known
      to impact complications and cost. ASPIRE uses the underlying EHR data integration foundation
      of the Multicenter Perioperative Outcomes Group to aggregate and analyze process of care and
      outcome data.

      To date, there is no anesthesia standard for quality improvement practice regarding
      provider-specific feedback. The primary aim of this research study on ASPIRE's QI program is
      to determine whether provider-specific feedback affects quality improvement performance
      metrics. The investigators believe that the start of individual provider performance feedback
      reports to ASPIRE members presents a unique opportunity to evaluate the efficacy of these
      tools.

      The investigators propose to test the hypothesis that monthly provider specific feedback
      emails on ASPIRE quality metrics over a period of 9 months improves provider compliance as
      measured by a either a 10% improvement in the Total Performance Score or by moving from below
      to above the 90% performance threshold in the Total Performance Score Index.

      Pre-defined process of care and outcome metrics will be calculated using the Multicenter
      Perioperative Outcomes Group (MPOG) database. De-identified patient data will be extracted
      from the MPOG database in aggregate for the anesthesia providers to determine their overall
      compliance to the process of care and outcome metrics. The compliance metrics for each
      provider will be stored in the MPOG/ASPIRE database. Any measure implemented in production in
      between July 1, 2015 and July 1, 2016 will be incorporated into the analysis. The quality
      improvement system generates a monthly email to the provider stating their performance
      compared against the performance of their peers for each measure. Each measure is then
      hyperlinked back into ASPIRE web-based dashboard where the provider can review the cases that
      they failed on each measure. The visualization removes protected health information but is
      the representation of the physiologic monitoring, medication and fluids administered,
      laboratory values, and time-based events of the procedure. Provider attribution for each
      measure will follow existing ASPIRE specifications (available at
      https://www.aspirecqi.org/aspire-measures ). Each provider type (faculty, CRNA,
      resident/fellow) within a hospital participating in ASPIRE will be individually randomized to
      either receiving the electronic performance improvement email or not for a total of nine
      months. After the completion of the nine month randomization period, all providers will
      receive monthly ASPIRE performance improvement emails.

      At the conclusion of the project, clinical outcomes of interest will be extracted from the
      MPOG database via an honest broker using ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes and all-cause 30 day
      mortality.

      ASPIRE Quality Measures: Measure Description BP 01: Avoiding intraoperative hypotension (mean
      arterial pressure less than 55 mmHg) BP 02: Avoiding gaps in systolic or mean arterial
      pressure measurement longer than 10 minutes GLU 01: Percentage of cases with intraoperative
      glucose > 200 (between anesthesia start and anesthesia end) with administration of an insulin
      bolus or infusion or glucose test recheck GLU 02: Percentage of cases with glucose < 60
      (between anesthesia start and anesthesia end with a glucose test recheck or administration of
      dextrose containing solution (between anesthesia start and anesthesia end + 2 hours) NMB 01:
      Percentage of cases receiving a non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockade medication that have
      a Train of Four (TOF) count documented NMB 02: Percentage of cases receiving a
      non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockade medication with administration of reversal agent PUL
      01: Percentage of cases with median tidal volumes less than 10 ml/kg of ideal body weight
      (IBW) TRAN 01: Hemoglobin or hematrocrit measurements before each transfusion for patients
      receiving discretionary intraoperative red blood cell transfusions TRAN 02: Avoiding post
      transfusion hematocrit greater than 30%

      Statistical Analysis:

      All statistical analysis will be completed using a de-identified dataset for which the
      analyst will have no link back to each of the individual's unique names. The investigators
      will combine several key process of care measures into a process of care bundle for the
      analysis. The bundle for each participating site will include the process of care quality
      measures included on month 1 of the email feedback program. If there were more than one
      instance that a provider could pass or fail for a specific case, if the provider passed or
      failed at least once it would pass or fail for the entire case. The primary outcome will be
      the proportion of providers that achieve improvement in performance from start to end of the
      study period. The investigators will exclude providers that already met all the metric
      thresholds for the primary analysis.

      Our primary analysis will include all providers. Secondary analysis will include performers
      not meeting threshold measures. Improvement in performance will be determined by the
      following method:

        1. The performance rates for the measures of each site's bundle will be summed. This total
           will be known as the Total Performance Score. The Total Performance Score Index will be
           the score divided by the number of measures in the bundle.

        2. Improvement is defined as greater than or equal to 10% change in the performance index
           from beginning to end of study, OR

        3. Total Performance Score Index crossing the 90% threshold between study beginning or end.

      The threshold for what will be considered a performer not meeting threshold measures will be
      determined by examining the distribution of the bundle compliance. Randomization is
      pre-determined at the start of the project and is NOT based on if the provider is classified
      as a performer meeting threshold measures or not. Each provider's baseline compliance rate
      will be determined by the performance from the first month's feedback email. In addition, the
      investigators will do a secondary analysis investigating if the providers that met all the
      threshold metrics prior to the project further improved during the study period. A sub-group
      analysis excluding the coordinating center is planned.

      The primary analysis will only include sites where all provider types are randomized
      (attendings/residents/CRNAs). Sites where one provider type (ie attending or CRNA) was
      randomized and the other provider type was not will be included in a secondary analysis.

      To assess the investigators primary hypothesis of the impact of provider-specific emails on
      overall compliance during the nine-month study period, a repeated measures generalized linear
      model (GLM) will be used. Between-subjects (randomization to email) and within-subjects
      (compliance) analyses will be reported. The primary analysis will be stratified by provider
      type (faculty, fellow, resident, and CRNA). A sub-group analysis excluding the coordinating
      center is planned.

      For the investigators secondary analysis to determine if a provider who already met the
      threshold performance metric prior to the study further increased in their compliance a
      linear regression will be used.

      Outcome analyses will be performed only using data related to inpatient / admit day of
      procedure operations. First, to determine if providers receiving an email about the
      participants specific bundled compliance affects a patient's overall combined morbidity and
      mortality a binary logistic regression model will be used. The dependent variable will be
      combined morbidity and mortality as a Boolean concept. The independent variables entered into
      the model will be: primary provider AND primary attending both received an email, primary
      provider did NOT receive an email but the primary attending did receive an email, primary
      provider did receive an email but the primary attending did NOT receive an email, elixhauser
      comorbidity score of 2 or more, ASA (binary concept as 1,2 versus 3,4), age (binned by decade
      of life), male gender, BMI (defined by the World Health Organization Classifications). The
      investigators can then determine whether providers receiving feedback emails have a risk
      adjusted improved combined morbidity and mortality rate. If the investigators find this to be
      true, a mediation analysis at the provider level will be performed to determine if our
      independent variable (email received) influences the mediator variable (bundle compliance
      rate) which thereby influences the dependent variable (outcome of interest). The
      investigators will report the direct effect for receiving the email on the provider's outcome
      rate as well as the indirect effect of the email that passes through the bundle compliance
      rate to affect the outcome rate. These values will be reported as the proportion of total
      effect that is mediated by compliance. Sensitivity analyses for residents/fellow and CRNAs
      will also be performed. A sub-group analysis excluding the coordinating center is planned.
    
  