
    
      This open-label, multicenter, randomized study was to consist of a Phase 1b portion: a safety
      run-in period with 3 doses of lenvatinib administered in combination with carboplatin +
      gemcitabine; and a Phase II portion: a randomized 2-arm period. Approximately 100
      participants with ovarian cancer were to be enrolled in the study (10 to 20 participants in
      the Phase 1b portion and 80 participants in the Phase II portion). Participants were to
      participate in either the Phase 1b or the Phase II portion. Participants were to receive
      study treatment (lenvatinib plus carboplatin + gemcitabine or carboplatin + gemcitabine) for
      six 21-day cycles (18 weeks). Participants who receive E7080 and experience evidence of
      clinical benefit (CR, PR, or SD) may continue single agent E7080 beyond 18 weeks, until the
      occurrence of progressive disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or
      withdrawal by investigator, whichever occurs first.

      Initially, an ascending dose schedule starting at lenvatinib 16 mg once daily on Day 1 to Day
      21 was chosen for the Phase 1b portion to determine the MTD of lenvatinib administered once
      daily in combination with carboplatin + gemcitabine; however, due to hematologic toxicity
      observed in the first cohort, the lenvatinib administration schedule was changed to Days 2 to
      21 in Protocol Amendment 2. Continued hematologic toxicity prompted a third protocol
      amendment, designed to evaluate a lower range of doses starting at lenvatinib 8 mg once daily
      in Protocol Amendment 3.

      After three protocol amendments, recruitment into the Phase 1b portion of the study was very
      limited, with only one evaluable participant enrolled during the last 5 months of
      recruitment. Due to the limited enrollment despite significant diligence to boost enrollment
      and the complex study design required to manage hematologic toxicity, the study was
      terminated before the initiation of Phase II.

      Safety was assessed by the monitoring and recording of all adverse events (AEs) and serious
      adverse events (SAEs); vital signs; Gynecological Oncology Group performance status; clinical
      laboratory evaluations; physical examinations; and 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs).
    
  