
    
      -  Context France is one of the Western European countries most affected by suicide, which
           is associated with a high societal cost. Recently, a European project aiming to develop
           best practice for suicide prevention has recommended the development of web-based
           interventions and the French national plan for actions against suicide has supported the
           development of reference websites for suicide prevention. However, web-based
           interventions should be associated with effective promotional efforts to ensure
           awareness but also to improve receptiveness among and around those who could benefit
           from such a resource. Previous work has shown that local authorities are appropriate
           actors for promoting prevention measures against suicide and that 20% of individuals
           attempting suicide visit their GP the day before their attempt.

        -  Research objectives The primary objective of our trial is to assess the effectiveness of
           the tailored promotion at local level of an e-health tool and to compare the
           effectiveness at 12 months of two types of local promotion (with or without involving
           GPs' waiting room) on suicidal acts. The secondary objectives are to assess the
           cost-effectiveness and to run a budgetary impact analysis of the intervention. Moreover,
           our secondary objectives are to assess the effectiveness of the promotion on the
           intensity of utilization of StopBlues by the three types of users (living in a city
           without promotion or with promotion or reinforced promotion), on their help-seeking
           behavior, on their implementation of supportive activities into their daily life and on
           the evolution of users level of psychological impairment. An additional form of
           promotion (intensively sustained promotion) will be implemented after 12 months in the
           control group and evaluated using the same primary outcome measure. In parallel, the
           long-term effectiveness of the two main types of local promotion (with or without a
           passive involvement of GPs through their waiting room) will also be assessed.

        -  Methodology The detailed content of the e-health tool and the promotional tools to be
           made available to local authorities and GPs was determined through literature reviews
           and focus groups with experts and users.

      A cluster-randomized, parallel group, controlled intervention study with local authorities as
      the unit of randomization will be set up. Local authorities can either be cities or a
      grouping of cities ("communauté de communes"), based on the local health governance of each
      area. If several adjacent local authorities volunteer individually to participate in the
      trial, they will be considered as a unique local authority. Volunteer local authorities will
      be randomly assigned to one of the following three arms: those not promoting the e-health
      tool (control group); those promoting the e-health tool without involving GPs' waiting rooms;
      those promoting the e-health tool involving GPs' waiting rooms.

      The trial will last 24 months and local authorities will be able to switch arm if they so
      wish after 12 months and launch an 'intensively sustained promotion'. This will facilitate
      recruitment of local authorities as well as their adherence to the intervention. Data will be
      collected both at the local authority level and at the individual user level.

      • Expected results The investigators anticipate that the promotion of the e-health
      intervention will lead to a greater difference in the number of suicidal acts in the local
      authorities where it is implemented over the trial period. Furthermore, it should also result
      in a higher reduction of psychological distress and in an increased intensity and length of
      use of the e-health tool. The promotion may also lead members of the population with moderate
      level of psychological distress, who may not otherwise be seeking help, to access the
      e-health tool and should also facilitate help-seeking behaviors and implementation of
      supportive activities into their daily life. The intensively sustained promotion should lead
      to higher rates of connexion and by then to a higher reduction of psychological distress and
      in an increased intensity and length of use of the e-health tool.

      Moreover, this project will give information on the relevance of our promotion model for
      primary prevention of psychological distress. Indeed, if the findings are satisfactory, this
      model and the formalized networks for promotion within local authorities may facilitate
      development of additional primary prevention measures both for mental disorders and other
      health issues.
    
  