
    
      Chronic pain conditions are frequent in the danish population. More than 1.2 million Danes
      over the age of 16 are living with chronic pain. Chronic pain affects the health-related
      quality of life and functioning and is associated with reduced work ability, lost earnings
      and disability. At the Interdisciplinary Pain Center Zealand University Hospital Koege,
      Denmark, patients with chronic pain are received and treated based on the Bio-Psycho-Social
      Pain Model. The treatment of patients with complex chronic non-malignant pain can be
      complicated by psychological and / or social factors. The need for a screening of
      psychological factors in connection with the examination and planning of the pain management
      in the Interdisciplinary Pain Center is obvious as the patient's perception of illness and
      expectation of treatment have been shown to play a role in the treatment response. The Brief
      Illness Perception Questionnaire (Brief-IPQ) provides a quick assessment of the patient's
      disease perception and expectation of treatment and has proved useful in clinical practice.
      In this study, a Danish version of Brief-IPQ is used, which initially was taken from
      https://www.uib.no. Items as stated in research by L. van Oort et al (2011) have been adapted
      to the Danish version. A copy of the latest version can be obtained from Interdisciplinary
      Pain Center Zealand University Hospital Koege, Denmark.

      The Study:

      The study is designed as a prospective observational study of the correlation between
      Brief-IPQ and pain-related and demographic data in patients referred to Interdisciplinary
      Pain Center Zealand University Hospital Køge, Denmark. Brief IPQ and PainData (which is a
      database which records the well-being of Danish pain patients and operated by "Danske
      Regioner" and Odense University Hospital) is measured at the start of treatment and after 6
      months. They will consists of items such as; Married or cohabitant, Vocational training,
      Educational length, Occupational status. There will furthermore be an assessment of pain type
      such as; nociceptive / neurogenic / generalized / visceral / other as well as the duration of
      symptoms and treatment with opioids: +/-, equipotent daily doses. Additionally we focus on
      Pain intensity (NRS) from Paindata, Psychological profile (from Paindata): anxiety,
      depression, stress, fear-avoidance, self-efficacy and the following changes before and after
      six months of treatment:

      Inclusion:

      All patients referred to Interdisciplinary Pain Center Zealand University Hospital Koege,
      Denmark and start the treatment from the start date of the study can be included in the study
      provided:

        -  Age over 18 years

        -  Understands and speaks Danish

      Exclusion:

      Patients who meet one of the following criteria are not eligible for inclusion in this study:

        -  Patients who do not have sufficient cognitive skills to complete the form (Brief-IPQ)

        -  Patients who cannot cooperate to complete the form (Brief-IPQ)

        -  Patients who submit invalid or illegible answers (Brief-IPQ)

      Number of patients needed:

      60 patients with complete data or number included as of May 1, 2020. Time schedule:
      Collection of data: start February 1.2020 End: when complete data has been obtained from 60
      patients, or no later than 1.12.2020

      Ethical aspects:

      All information will be treated confidentially and all data will be anonymized by a
      secretary. The Investigator will keep an identification list of all patients who have been
      included. This list will include the patient's full name and CPR number. Collected data will
      be recorded in a Case Report Form. The results will be stored and analyzed using a computer
      and the anonymity of the patients will be preserved and local data law will be observed. Data
      will be stored in accordance with existing regulations. Data is stored in anonymized form and
      correlation and regression analysis will be performed after 6 months. The study is conducted
      in accordance with applicable clinical trial rules. Investigators are responsible for the
      handling and archiving of data in accordance with applicable rules in addition to the Act on
      the Processing of Personal Data and the Health Act. Data belong to the investigators. The
      project has been reported to the local ethic committee.
    
  