
    
      The most common type of fracture in pediatric patients is the distal third forearm fracture,
      with over 600,000 cases in the in the United States each year. Traditionally long arm casts
      have been used for displaced distal forearm fractures, but it may be the case that short arm
      casts are sufficient. Three RCTs (Randomized Control Trials) have been performed comparing
      the efficacy of plaster short and long arm casts for displaced distal forearm fractures;
      these studies have shown no significant difference in angulation or displacement. If short
      and long arm casts offer comparable stability, the short arm version would likely be
      desirable as patient satisfaction and cost effectiveness are improved with short arm casts.

      Despite the results of three well-executed RCTs, it is still common practice for long arm
      casts to be applied for distal forearm fractures. Many surgeons continue to recommend that
      their residents apply long arm casts for all displaced forearm fractures, including distal
      third fractures. At NYP (New York Presbyterian) Cornell and NYP Queens, residents routinely
      apply long arm casts for all forearm fractures.

      Long arm casts are more likely to result in elbow stiffness, although this is often a
      temporary complication. Long arm casts also require more material and take longer to apply or
      remove, potentially leading to higher treatment costs. Additionally, when a longer cast is
      worn there is a larger distance where a cast burn could occur. Skin irritation, particularly
      at the cubital fossa, is likely more common with a long arm cast, and they are overall less
      comfortable, due to elbow restriction and a heavier weight.

      Short arm casts that are well molded to the arm's contours have been shown to control forearm
      supination and pronation. A low cast index has been shown to significantly increase the rate
      of fracture redisplacement. The cast index determines the quality of cast molding, and is
      measured by dividing the sagittal width of the cast by the coronal width. Substantial changes
      in cast angulation have been attributed to poor cast-molding and a low cast index. The
      results suggested that short arm casts when appropriately molded can be effective in treating
      fractures of the distal third of the forearm.

      If short arm casts are equivalent in providing stability for distal third forearm fractures,
      providers should be using them preferentially to avoid the potential complications of elbow
      stiffness, cast burn, skin irritation, and patient dissatisfaction. However, surgeons persist
      with using long arm casts. Rationale for the persistent use of long arm cast is believed to
      include anecdotal concerns of residents placing inadequate short arm casts, leading to an
      increased risk for translation or angulation requiring recasting.

      Previous RCTs, however, do not provide clear recommendations, merely demonstrating that
      treatment using short and long arm casts lead to similar outcomes. Additionally, these past
      RCTs have limitations. Previous studies were conducted with plaster casts and could not
      extend their findings to other casting material. Valving techniques were also not noted in
      these studies; it is unclear whether or not casts were bivalved, which is currently the
      standard of care in the United States. These previous studies also randomized patients to
      short or long arm cast prior to cast application. As a result, it is possible that when long
      arm casts were applied the portion of cast overlying the fracture site was not molded as
      carefully as for short arm casts. Previous studies commented on cast index, but it was not
      clear whether residents were trained in ideal cast application and molding prior to study
      initiation. Finally, the outcome measures used in previous studies were an arbitrary loss in
      angulation or translation, instead of a focus on whether the fracture slipped sufficiently to
      change the treatment required (need for cast wedging, repeat reduction and casting, or
      surgical intervention).

      The aim of the study is to determine by multicenter randomized controlled trial whether short
      arm fiberglass casts are as effective as long arm casts for immobilizing displaced pediatric
      distal third forearm fractures that have undergone closed reduction.
    
  