
    
      The mechanical functionality of the cardiovascular system is governed by a complex interplay
      between pressure gradients, determined by the contraction force of the myocardial cells, the
      dynamics of blood flow and the compliance of cardiac chambers and blood vessels. These
      mechanical processes produce vibrations and acoustic signals that can be recorded over the
      chest wall. Vibro-acoustic heart signals, including heart sounds (phonocardiogram), apical
      pulse (apexcardiogram) and arterial pulse (e.g. carotid pulse) carry valuable clinical
      information, but their use has been mostly limited to qualitative assessment by manual
      methods [1] (Figure 1).

      The primary research hypothesis of this work is that clinical information regarding the
      mechanical functionality of the cardiovascular system can be automatically extracted from the
      vibro-acoustic heart signals by combining medical algorithms with digital signal processing
      techniques and computational learning algorithms.

      The utilization of vibro-acoustic signals in clinical diagnosis and monitoring, by means of
      computerized devices, has been overlooked for many years due to the introduction of more
      sophisticated imaging techniques such as echocardiography, cardiac CT and cardiac MRI.
      However, these valuable techniques require complex and expensive equipment, as well as expert
      operators and interpreters. In particular, these imaging techniques can not be used
      continuously or outside of the hospital environment. Recent advancements in sensor
      technology, wireless communication and miniaturization of high-performance computing devices
      enable to re-approach the analysis of mechanical heart signals using a broad
      interdisciplinary view.

      The research methodology for achieving the goal of the trial will be as follows:

        1. Vibro-acoustic heart signals including phonocardiogram, apexcardiogram and carotid pulse
           will be recorded from subjects undergoing dialysis/medicinal Treatment.

        2. The correlation between the progress of the dialysis/medicinal treatment process and the
           changes in the temporal and morphological characteristics of the vibro-acoustic signals
           will be investigated.

        3. Signal processing algorithms will be used to automatically analyze the vibro-acoustic
           signals.

      The recorded signals will be saved digitally to the hard-disk of the recording system, along
      with the measured reference parameters. Signal processing methods [2][3] will be used to
      segment the signals into distinct components and extract temporal and morphological features.
      Statistical linear regression will be used to identify significant correlations between
      features of the vibro-acoustic signals and the reference parameters. Computational learning
      algorithms will be used to explore non-linear relations and to evaluate the potential of
      estimating hemodynamic indexes from the vibro-acoustic signals.

      This study is intended to evaluate novel methods for non-invasive estimation of cardiac
      indexes that reflect the mechanical functionality of the heart. Modern digital signal
      processing techniques and efficient computational learning algorithms can be combined to
      attain automatic real-time processing of vibro-acoustic signals for continuous monitoring of
      cardiac functionality and early detection of cardiac pathologies.
    
  