
    
      Background: Food allergies and peanut allergy (PA) are becoming increasingly common
      conditions and are an important public health concern. Dietary avoidance of peanut in early
      life has been recommended in many countries. However, there is evidence that the prevalence
      of PA is decreased in countries where children are fed peanut beginning at an early age.

      The LEAP (Learning Early About Peanut allergy) Study (Protocol ITN032AD, NCT00329784)
      demonstrated that the early consumption of peanut in high-risk infants successfully reduced
      the prevalence of peanut allergy at five years of age when compared to peanut avoidance. The
      LEAP-On Study (Protocol ITN049AD, NCT01366846) was a follow-on study to LEAP and investigated
      whether children who consumed peanut remained protected against developing peanut allergy
      even after cessation of peanut consumption for a period of 12 months. The key finding of the
      LEAP studies is that early introduction and consumption of peanut until 60 months of age
      causes a reduction in peanut allergy that persists at 72 months of age, even with a 12-month
      period of avoidance.

      This LEAP Trio cohort study:

      This longer-term follow-up of the study participants will assess whether the benefits of
      regular early-life peanut consumption are maintained over many years when followed by
      consumption of peanut ad lib, or as much and as often as desired.

      The three cohorts will include LEAP:

        -  Participants (NCT00329784, NCT01366846)

        -  Siblings and

        -  Parents

      The study will begin in 2018 with data collection continuing until December of 2020. This
      will allow for the enrollment of former LEAP participants aged 12 years.:

        -  The enrollment phase will be 69 weeks (1 year, 4.25 months).

           --The LEAP siblings and parents cohorts will be enrolled concurrently with the LEAP
           participant cohort.

        -  Study participation phase will be 1 visit; however, more than one clinic appointment may
           be required to complete all assessments. The visit must be completed within 8 weeks of
           enrollment.

      Participant assessments will include general medical, -dietary, -allergy (including but not
      limited to oral peanut food challenges for former LEAP participants and their siblings), and
      mechanistic assessments (involving the collection of biological specimens, a blood draw, skin
      prick testing, as examples, to explore hypotheses related to potential mechanisms of peanut
      allergy).
    
  