
    
      In heart failure (HF) patients, dyspnea is a key contributor to and the strongest predictor
      for hospital readmission. In addition, dyspnea and fatigue are the primary reasons for
      decreased physical activity (PA) which, in turn, leads to activity avoidance, subsequent
      muscle de-conditioning, and further increases of dyspnea even at lower levels of activity.
      Depression, because of its moderate relationship with dyspnea, can further diminish PA and
      increase disability in activities of daily living (ADLs). Strategies to minimize or mitigate
      dyspnea and to boost motivation are imperative for improving adherence to PA, and, in turn,
      improving fatigue, muscle strength, PA itself, functional status, disability in ADLs
      including basic ADLs and instrumental ADLs (IADLs), depression, and quality of life (QOL) in
      HF patients. The overall purpose of this pilot/feasibility study is to evaluate an 8-week,
      home-based DBR intervention, in HF patients who are experiencing dyspnea at rest or with
      daily activities. Using an experimental randomized controlled design, 50 participants over 19
      years of age, with diagnosed with chronic HF, who experience dyspnea at rest or with activity
      and experience dyspnea that limits their activities, who have a telephone, and who reside in
      a rural area, will be recruited at the University of Nebraska Medical Center HF clinic and at
      the Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa Hospital, Cardiology-Congestive Heart Failure
      clinic. Both groups will receive the usual care from a HF specialist. The experimental group
      will receive information on a Diaphragmatic Breathing Retraining (DBR) intervention whereas
      the health promotion (attention control) group will receive general health information. To
      boost adherence to the intervention and to prevent attrition from the study, both groups will
      receive telephone calls from a research nurse for a total of 4 sessions (weeks 1, 2, 4 and
      6). During follow-ups via phone calls for the attention control group, the research personnel
      will discuss health promotion topics (e.g., lipids profile, health eating, cancer screening,
      and annual check-ups (e.g., flu shot, eye and/or dental exams) with their primary health care
      provider. Data collection using standardized measures, will take place at baseline,
      post-intervention, and 3-month follow-up after completion of the 8-week intervention. The
      primary outcomes are: dyspnea and fatigue. The secondary outcomes are: muscle strength, PA,
      functional status, depression, disability in ADLs, and quality of life.
    
  