
    
      General aim:

      To understand whether the ARIDA test device accurately measures respiratory rate (RR) in
      children under 5 years of age with cough and/or difficult breathing.

      Primary objective:

      To determine the performance of the ARIDA test device, as defined by accuracy and consistency
      in children under 5 years with cough or difficulty breathing in a controlled setting.

      Secondary objectives:

      To determine the performance of expert clinicians (ECs) counting RR, as defined by accuracy
      and consistency, in children under 5 years with cough or difficulty breathing in a controlled
      setting.

      To measure RR fluctuation over time after ARIDA test device attachment, in normal breathing
      children aged 2 to 59 months, in a controlled setting.

      Sample size: A total 290 respiratory rate assessments will be done. The accuracy evaluation
      will aim to enrol 156 children (52 per age group: 0 to <2 months, 2 to <12 months and 12 to
      59 months). The consistency evaluation will aim to enrol 104 children (52 per age group: 2 to
      <12 months and 12 to 59 months). The accuracy and consistency evaluations will aim to enrol
      children in a ratio of 3:1 fast:normal breathers in each age group. The RR fluctuation
      evaluation will aim to enrol 30 normal breathing children age 2 to 59 months.

      Data collection:

      Overview of evaluation stages:

        1. Training of the research team: 3 days

        2. Pre-testing of procedural activities and debrief: 5 days

        3. Screening procedure will take place to ascertain study eligibility. Written parent or
           guardian informed consent will be obtained.

        4. Children will be enrolled prospectively based on eligibility determined by the screening
           procedure.

        5. Each child will participate in at least one of the evaluations: accuracy, consistency,
           RR fluctuation

      Steps for device evaluation:

      All ECs conducting manual RR counts are blinded to the RR result from the pre-screen RR
      evaluation and the ARIDA test device readings during the evaluation. The RR reading during
      the pre-screening is recorded by the RA on a data collection form that is not seen by the EC
      manual counter(s). The ARIDA test device screen is covered during the assessment and the RR
      readings were recorded by the RA and entered on to password protected tablets. VEPs are
      blinded to all EC, ARIDA and pre-screen RR readings and the other VEP's RR readings.

      Accuracy evaluation:

      Up to three attempts are made to obtain an ARIDA test device and EC manual RR reading with
      the MK2 ARI timer. The RA attaches the ARIDA test device to the child and ensures the child
      is positioned correctly according to device instructions. The child is calmed by the parent
      or guardian or by the EC who distracts the child through clicking their fingers or make
      hushing sounds. When the child is calm, the videographer starts video recording and the ARIDA
      test device and manual EC RR count start simultaneously. The time taken to get an ARIDA test
      device reading is also obtained using a stopwatch. The EC RR count lasts for 60 seconds.
      After 60 seconds, if the EC has not obtained a RR reading, the EC attempt is recorded as
      unsuccessful and repeated for both the EC and ARIDA test device. The ARIDA test device count
      lasts up to five minutes. After five minutes, or if the ARIDA test displays an error message,
      the ARIDA test attempt is recorded as unsuccessful and repeated for both EC and ARIDA test
      device. If the third attempt is still unsuccessful for either device, the evaluation is
      recorded as a failure.

      Consistency evaluation:

      The consistency evaluation follows the same procedure as the accuracy evaluation. To obtain a
      measure of consistency between two ARIDA test devices, two test devices are attached to a
      single belt, in line with each nipple and measured RR in the same evaluation period. To
      obtain a measure of ECs consistency, two ECs conduct a manual RR count with MK2 ARI timers in
      the same evaluation period. For an EC or ARIDA test attempt to be successful, both ECs or
      ARIDA test devices must have obtained RR readings. The videographer record the entire
      evaluation for quality assurance purposes.

      Respiratory rate fluctuation evaluation:

      A baseline EC manual RR count for 60 seconds is obtained on a calm child using the MK2 ARI
      timer. The research team are allowed multiple attempts to get a baseline reading. Following
      this, the ARIDA test device is attached to the child and the EC does a further three manual
      RR counts for 60 seconds in the following time periods: 0-1 minute, 2-3 minutes, 4-5 minutes.

      The reference standard for the accuracy and fluctuation evaluations is a video review by two
      to three independent video expert panel (VEP) members whose counting is standardised weekly
      to agreement (≤±2 breaths per minute (bpm)). Two VEPs independently review recorded videos of
      the child's chest movements and count the number of breaths observed in a full minute, as per
      the WHO guidelines for RR counting. Each video is edited with an audible beep and 60-second
      timer to ensure the VEP counts the same 60 seconds as the EC. If the panel agreed (≤±2bpm), a
      median VEP reading is used. If the panel disagreed (>±2bpm), a third VEP reviews the video
      and if two out of these three readings agree, the median RR is used. If all three panel
      members disagree the result is sent to a fourth VEP. If two out of four VEP readings agree, a
      median VEP reading is used. If the panel disagree, the data from this evaluation is excluded
      from the analysis.

      There is no video reference standard for the consistency evaluation.

      Data storage:

      All data will be collected using electronic forms uploaded on tablets and backed up to a
      protected cloud account.

      Patient identifiers will not be utilised on data forms; a UIC and associated barcode will be
      used to anonymise patient data and track patient data. The UIC to be used for the study will
      have three numerical characters.

      ECs and RAs will each have a numerical unique identifier, assigned at the beginning of the
      study.

      Data quality assurance:

      As part of the quality assurance procedures, standard clinical protocols, standard operating
      procedures (SOPs) and job aids will be prepared. The tablet based data collection forms will
      also have pre-programmed checks and restrictions to ensure the quality of the data inputted,
      and the data will be reviewed centrally on a regular basis.

      Regular site visits will be conducted by Malaria Consortium study investigators to provide
      oversight and quality assure that the protocols, SOPs and job aids are adhered to by the
      research team.

      Research reports will be submitted to relevant Ministry of Health (MOH) departments and
      Institutional Review Board (IRB).

      Subject safety procedures:

      The ARIDA test device has CE medical device approval. RAs and ECs will be trained on how to
      use the device safely, according to instructions provided by the manufacturers.

      This study will not evaluate device efficacy or safety as a study endpoint and treatment will
      not be based on the outcomes of the study. It is important to note that the device, as part
      of the dossier to the stringent regulatory bodies has conducted their own efficacy studies
      and internal approvals.

      The child/young infant will be evaluated in a health facility; a research nurse or clinical
      officer, trained in management of children and in Integrated Management of Newborn Childhood
      Illnesses (IMNCI), will perform a medical history and physical examination prior to
      evaluation to ensure no children with danger signs or 'pink' IMNCI referral signs are
      included in the study. Children who are deemed very ill will be excluded. ECs and RAs
      performing the evaluations will also be trained in the management of children and in IMNCI.
      In case a child has a medical complication before, during or after the evaluation, the
      research nurse or clinical officer or other medical professionals will manage this
      immediately in the health facility.

      Subject safety, anticipated risks:

      The ARIDA test device to be used on the children will not be invasive. The ARIDA test device
      will not elicit pain or other noxious stimuli when near or in contact with the child/young
      infant's body. It is therefore anticipated it will not cause any bodily harm or injury to the
      child and no adverse events (AEs) associated with the device are anticipated.

      In the event of an AE following an evaluation with the ARIDA test device, the research
      nurse/clinical officer will determine whether the AE is attributable to the device. The
      project manager and or clinical director will report the AE to the in-country research ethics
      committee and the study principal investigator as per applicable guidelines.

      Subject safety, adverse event recording and reporting:

      The parent or guardians of the children will be requested to report any suspected AE
      occurring during and/or immediately after the evaluation using the devices.

      The ECs/RAs while evaluating the child/young infant will be requested to alert the research
      team and clinical director and/or another medical professional of any untoward occurrence.

      Any observed and/or reported AE (serious or non-serious), or suspected causal relationship to
      the investigational device, will be recorded on a severe AE form For all AEs, sufficient
      information will be pursued and/or obtained so as to permit: 1) an adequate determination of
      the outcome of the effect (i.e., whether the effect should be classified as a serious AE);
      and 2) an assessment of the casual relationship between the AE and the investigational
      device.

      AEs felt to be associated with the investigational device will be followed until the effect
      (or its sequelae) resolves or stabilises at a level acceptable to the local project manager
      in discussion with the clinical director.

      The research team will promptly review documented AEs. If the research team's final
      determination of causality is "unknown and of questionable relationship to the
      investigational device(s)", the AE will be classified as "associated with the use of the
      investigational device" for reporting purposes.

      If the research team's final determination of causality is "unknown but not related to the
      investigational device(s)", this determination and the rationale for the determination will
      be documented in the respective subject's case history.

      A copy of the completed form will be provided to the research team in country and to the
      study principal investigator. The completed AE form will be submitted to the regulatory
      authorities as per the country-specific reporting requirements.

      Subsequent to the initial submission of a completed form, the research team will submit
      additional information concerning the reported AE as requested by the regulatory authorities.

      If an investigational device elicits pain or other noxious stimuli when near or in contact
      with the child/young infant's body, or leads to any other untoward medical occurrence, the
      use of the device on the child/young infant will be stopped immediately, the child/young
      infant will be withdrawn from the study and steps will be taken to assess and record the AE.

      The child/young infant will be managed by the EC or other medical professionals, and if the
      AE(s) is felt to be associated with the investigational device(s), the child/young infant
      will be followed until the event (or its sequelae) resolves or stabilises at a level
      acceptable to the research team.

      A child/young infant will also be withdrawn from the study if the parent or guardian
      withdraws consent at any point in the study or if the study is discontinued for any reason.

      Ethical approval: This clinical protocol as part of the ARIDA project has been approved by
      the Ethiopian IRB at national level. The ARIDA test device will be registered with the Food,
      Medicine and Health Care Administration and Control Authority of Ethiopia.
    
  