
    
      Patients with hematologi¬cal malignancies are at increased risk of infections, not only
      because of the malignancy itself, but also because of neutropenia induced by intensive
      chemotherapy and its cyto¬toxic effect on the cells that line the gastrointestinal tract [1].

      Invasive fungal infection (IFI) causes morbidity and mortality among patients with
      hematological malignancy.

      The incidence of IFI has increased worldwide over the last two decades[2]. Major risk factors
      for IFI include neutropenia <500 neutrophils/ml for more than 10 days, bone marrow
      transplantation, prolonged (>4 wk) treatment with corticosteroids; prolonged (>7 days) stays
      in intensive care, chemotherapy, HIV infection, invasive medical procedures, and the newer
      immune suppressive agents. Other risk factors are malnutrition, solid organ transplantation,
      severe burns and major surgery [3].

      Invasive aspergillosis (IA) and invasive candidiasis are the main invasive fungal diseases
      associated with bloodstream Infections. Although invasive yeasts, such as Candida spp., and
      molds, such as Aspergillus spp., are the predominant pathogens of IFIs, other uncommon and
      difficult-to-treat molds, such as Mucorales, Fusarium spp., and phaeohyphomycetes, have
      emerged in patients with hematological malignancies [4].

      Early initiation of the correct antifungal therapy has been demonstrated to have a direct
      impact on the patient's outcome[5]. The increased use of antifungals has induced a higher
      selective pressure on fungal strains and resistance has emerged in two main ways: several
      species have developed secondary resistance and susceptible species have been replaced by
      resistant ones,changing the epidemiology of fungal infections[6]. Among the most common
      mechanisms of antifungal drug resistance are changes in the biosynthetic pathways targeted by
      drugs [7]. Genomics technology and the use of DNA microarrays have facilitated the
      identification of targets of novel antifungal drugs[8]. the molecular understanding of
      resistance mechanisms may identify fungal genes with mutations associated with resistance.
      Resistance mediated by alterations in Erg11/Cyp51 (targets of azoles) has been widely
      documented, involving either mutations or upregulation of their genes in Candida or
      Aspergillus species [9]. Up regulation of CDR1, CDR2, and MDR1 has been demonstrated in
      azole-resistant C. albicans [10]. Genome sequencing can type known drug resistance mutations
      , in some cases suggesting whether particular drugs will fail to control an infection .Whole
      genome variants could be screened for point mutations in specific drug targets that are
      highly correlated with resistance . for example , specific mutations in the target of azole
      drugs [11] .or in the transcription factors that control the expression of drug efflux
      transporters [12] can be identified from whole genome sequence data only in isolates that
      display drug resistance [13]. There are two general approaches for genomic analysis of fungal
      pathogens. One involves generation of a genome assembly de novo, such as for a species that
      has not been previously sequenced and assembled. In the other approach, commonly termed
      re-sequencing, variants are identified between an existing reference assembly and a sequenced
      isolate via alignment of sequence reads to the reference. However, the choice of technology
      selected to generate the sequence is influenced both by the approach selected and by the
      goals of the study .[14]
    
  