
    
      Patients who are recommended non-operative management of their knee osteoarthritis and have
      consented to participate in the study will be randomized into two groups to receive either of
      the following

        1. Reparel knee sleeve

        2. Placebo knee sleeve

      Participants assigned to both groups will be given instructions on how to use/wear the sleeve
      while performing activities of daily living or sports that had previously resulted in knee
      pain and also be asked to do the follows:

        -  Wear the sleeve as much as they possibly can

        -  Not change their usual activities and diet during the time they are on this study.

        -  Record in a diary the number of hours sleeve was worn per day

        -  Record any adverse effects or discomfort due to sleeve use.

        -  Not to receive any injections in the subsequent 6 months following baseline
           randomization visit.

      Participant background information that is relevant to this study will also be collected from
      their medical record including age, sex, and race and stored in a hospital secure computer
      database (REDCap).

      Participants will also be asked to complete the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score
      (KOOS), Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation (SANE), Oxford Knee Score (OKS), Lysholm Score,
      UCLA Activity Score and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) survey questionnaires at baseline
      randomization visit (T0), at 4 weeks (T1), at 3 months (T2), and at 6 months (T3) to assess
      the mobility, functionality, and pain associated with the affected leg.

      The responses to the surveys will be recorded on a password-protected laptop and all patient
      identifiers will be replaced with unique identifier numbers. Only the study team will have
      access to the responses from the forms. The analysis of de-identified data will be done
      through SPSS 27, and scores for the questionnaires will be averaged and compared between the
      two groups.
    
  