
    
      Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is characterized by immune mediated beta-cell destruction.
      Due to the imbalance between glucagon and insulin, long-term T1DM patients experience
      frequent hypoglycaemia and high glucose variability despite of multiple daily injections of
      insulin.

      Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors are a new class of anti-diabetic agents and are
      widely used in clinical practice to improve glycemic control and protect β-cell function in
      patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus(T2DM). Saxagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, improves
      glycemic control in patients with T2DM by increasing endogenous active, intact glucagon-like
      peptide 1 and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide in response to food, which
      augments insulin secretion and decreases glucagon release. This mechanism can lead to the
      reduction of glucose variation. In some pilot studies, incretin-based therapy in patients
      with T1DM can improve glucose control and reduce hypoglycemia, the mechanism probably is that
      it regulates glucagon level. In type 1 diabetic mouse models, DPP-4 inhibitors preserves
      beta-cell mass and stimulating beta-cell replication.

      Interestingly, DPP-4 is also known as cluster of differentiation antigen 26(CD26).It is
      expressed on the membrane of many types of lymphocyte, e.g. T, B and natural killer(NK)cells,
      and is involved in their cellular functions. CD26 plays a key role in many aspects in
      lymphocyte function beyond its DPP-4 enzymatic activity.These observations make it a
      promising therapeutic target.

      Recently, the attention of saxagliptin has been mainly focused on type 2 diabetes, data in
      type 1 diabetes is rare. We are going to carry out this phase 4 study to testify our
      hypothesis that saxagliptin could reduce the fluctuation of glycemia and improve the glycemic
      control in those type 1 diabetes through mechanisms of suppressing glucagon secretion,
      improving beta cell function, and re-regulating of the T cell immune system.
    
  