
    
      The design is a single-blinded, single-site pragmatic superiority RCT with 3 parallel arms:
      comprehensive CR (education and exercise) versus exercise-based CR (no education, as
      delivered in Brazil) versus wait list control (i.e., no CR). Patient assessments will be
      undertaken pre-randomization and again at 6 and 12 months later (in accordance with the end
      of CR). Mortality will be ascertained at 6 months and 1 year post-recruitment.

      The main program is 6 months in duration, with 36 1-hour exercise sessions offered at the
      following frequencies:

        1. participants come to CR for 12 sessions, 3x a week (total of 4 weeks of intervention).

        2. participants come to CR for 8 sessions, 2x a week (total of 4 weeks of intervention).

        3. participants come to CR for 12 sessions, 1x a week (total of 12 weeks of intervention).

      Each participant will receive an individualized exercise prescription based on a grade
      exercise stress test. Participants will be exercising between 50 and 80% of heart rate
      reserve. In all stages patients will be requested to exercise in their community other days
      of the week, to accumulate 30 or more minutes of physical activity at a moderate to
      vigorous-intensity 5 or more days per week, as recommended in the guidelines.

      In the comprehensive CR arm, 24 sessions education will be offered, of 30 minutes duration.
      More specifically, the education component consists of:

        -  weekly group education sessions, which are strategically mapped based on patients'
           information needs and sequenced to support the program learning outcomes. Education
           sessions are delivered by a health educator team. See table 1 for the CR program
           schedule, including educational topics (e.g.. diet, medication and exercise).

        -  A comprehensive education workbook to accompany the sessions, containing 20 chapters.
           The empirically-validated English version has been translated and culturally-adapted to
           Brazilian-Portuguese. Clinicians and patients have reviewed the material, and a plain
           language and clear design review was completed in preparation for this trial.

      The standard of care for Brazilian adults with CVD does not include access to CR for all
      patients, given the gross lack of capacity. All participants will have follow-up appointments
      with their physician as deemed medically appropriate. Consistent with CONSORT guidelines,
      usual care will be described in detail for each participant (e.g., number of health visits -
      both inpatient and outpatient, other treatments).

      The number of patients approached and date will be recorded, as well as the reasons for
      inclusion/exclusion. With informed written consent from the patient and CR clearance from the
      physician, potentially eligible participants will be scheduled to come on-site to complete
      pre-test assessments. Participants will be asked to complete a sociodemographic
      questionnaire, to establish the generalizability of the sample, among other surveys. Clinical
      information will be extracted from participants' charts.

      Eligible participants will be randomized to one of the 3 groups. The randomization sequence
      was generated using the random.org website in random blocks of 4, with a 1:1:1 allocation
      ratio. To ensure allocation concealment, the local principal investigator has the allocation
      sequence in a password-protected file, and will only provide randomization information to the
      student once it is confirmed the participant is eligible. Due to the nature of the
      intervention, participants and the doctoral student cannot be blind to treatment allocation.

      The primary outcome of functional capacity will be assessed again at 6 months. All other
      post-test assessments will be undertaken 6 months post-randomization. Mortality will be
      ascertained from hospital charts and family phone call at 6 months and 1-year. With regard to
      the baseline and 6 months assessments, participants will be invited to come to the study
      center to:

        1. undertake the shuttle walk test as the indicator of functional capacity,

        2. undertake assessments of secondary outcomes including a blood draw for lipids, and

        3. complete surveys related to tertiary outcomes.

      A master's student blinded to random allocation will undertake post-test assessments, outcome
      ascertainment and data entry. To minimize loss to follow-up, investigators will send mail and
      telephone reminders for patients to come on-site for these assessments, based on the Dillman
      method.

      Measures Participants will be asked to complete a sociodemographic questionnaire. Clinical
      characteristics will be extracted from the medical charts, including sex, age, risk factors,
      cardiac history, cardiac test results, comorbidities and medications. These are based on the
      Canadian Cardiovascular Society core element and demographic data definitions. CR session
      attendance will be extracted from program charts at post-test for participants randomized to
      the CR arms.
    
  