
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common type of cancer to affect men and, unfortunately, for
      the majority of PCa patients, death is attributed to metastatic disease. Lifelong androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) with LHRH agonists can help delay cancer progression in metastatic
      PCa patients. However, patients eventually become castration-resistant (disease progression
      despite ADT) and develop progressive metastatic disease. This in turn impacts the patient's
      quality of life and survival. Recently, a new generation of hormonal therapy (such as
      Enzalutamide) has become available to these castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC)
      patients. We believe that the benefits from this new generation of hormonal therapy can be
      prolonged in CRPC patients who develop oligometastases by treating the metastatic lesions
      using stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). This new radiation technique allows for the
      treatment of many different metastases throughout the body in a very precise manner. This
      metastases-directed therapy is a new treatment option for patients with a limited number of
      metastases (less than 5) at the time of recurrence.

      This adaptive phase II/III randomized trial is designed to demonstrate that eradication of
      oligometastases by the new technique SBRT is a promising and emerging way to delay disease
      progression and to postpone second line systemic therapies. Only patients with an
      oligometastatic recurrence after local treatment with curative intent will be eligible to
      take part in this trial. All participating CRPC patients with oligometastases will receive
      either the standard of care (i.e. LHRH agonist in combination with the new generation of
      hormonal therapy [Enzalutamide]) or the experimental treatment (i.e. LHRH agonist in
      combination with the new generation of HT [Enzalutamide] plus the additional SBRT treatment).
      The patients will undergo different evaluations before treatment, such as imaging to confirm
      oligometastatic recurrence and blood tests. Patients will be stratified according to the
      location of metastasis (visceral [with or without bone metastases] vs. bone metastases alone)
      and PSA doubling time (≤ 3 vs. > 3 months). As per the standard of care, patients will have
      PSA testing performed every 6-12 weeks and re-imaging at 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months or at PSA
      progression, whichever occurs first.

      The primary objective of this study will be to evaluate the radiographic progression-free
      survival. We also want to determine the time to the start of second line systemic therapy,
      the prostate-cancer specific survival, the overall survival as well as to assess the quality
      of life, the toxicity and the PSA response. This study is the first randomized study in this
      setting and will employ a randomized phase II design to determine if a larger scale phase III
      trial is needed, thus the phase II/III design. The Phase II will consist of 130 CRPC patients
      with oligometastases, and the phase III will consist of the already randomized 130 patients
      plus an estimated 244 patients for a total sample size of 374 patients. This study will be
      conducted through the Genitourinary Radiation Oncology Group of Quebec (GROUQ) in different
      radiation oncology centres across Canada and the recruitment should be completed within 30
      months of activation.
    
  