
    
      Title of study: Subcutaneous Xolair (omalizumab) for treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis with
      nasal polyposis (CRS/NP)

      Objectives: To compare the efficacy of subcutaneous Xolair (omalizumab) to placebo in
      treatment of CRS/NP in terms of: (a) the effect on polypoid mucosal thickening in the
      anterior ethmoid and maxillary sinuses as measured on sinus CT scan, (b) the effect on volume
      of polypoid mucosal tissue in the nose and sinuses on rhinoscopic examination, and (c) the
      effect on CRS symptoms as measured by total symptom score.

      Study Rationale: Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a persistent inflammatory condition with
      periodic flares, affecting 14% of the United States population with an estimated annual
      health care expenditure of $3.4 billion. CRS patients with nasal polyposis (NP) are the most
      difficult to treat and the most likely to undergo sinus surgery. Tissue eosinophilia is the
      hallmark feature and is associated with specific IgE to inhalants, elevated total serum
      immunoglobulin E (IgE), and peripheral eosinophilia. Omalizumab is a humanized monoclonal
      antibody that binds to the Fc portion of IgE. Omalizumab treatment reduces peripheral
      eosinophilia and prevents nasal tissue eosinophilia. Endoscopic NP severity directly
      correlates with total serum IgE levels, and anti-IgE therapy in the postpolypectomy
      management of atopic asthmatic patients may reduce the severity of NP recurrence. In a
      patient with CRS/NP with asthma treated with omalizumab, symptoms were relieved, and MRI
      showed resolution of nasal mucosa swelling and reduction of polypoid swelling and
      inflammation of the paranasal sinuses. We hypothesize that subcutaneous Xolair (omalizumab)
      treatment will reduce the size of nasal polyps and/or sinus polypoid thickening and relieve
      CRS symptoms in patients with CRS/NP.

      Methodology:

      Xolair (omalizumab) or placebo injections every 2-4 weeks for 5 months. Procedures will
      include:

        1. Quantification of polypoid mucosal thickening in the anterior ethmoid and maxillary
           sinuses on sinus CT scan (primary outcome variable) on Day 0 and on Day 140.

        2. Total symptom score (TSS) recorded daily. CRS Facial Pain/Headache questionnaire at each
           visit.

        3. Rhinoscopic evaluation during screening and on Days 28, 84 and 140. Number of centers &
           patients: Single center. 30 patients (15 per treatment group).

      Population: Outpatient male or female, 18 years of age or older, with CRS/NP, without
      uncontrolled moderate to severe asthma.

      Investigational drug: Xolair (omalizumab), dosage and frequency to be determined based on
      patient's weight and total IgE level, administered by subcutaneous injection.

      Reference therapy: Placebo of similar volume and frequency, administered by subcutaneous
      injection
    
  