
    
      Over the past years, a substantial volume of evidence has accumulated identifying
      inflammatory processes as key mediators of the deleterious effects of
      ischemia/reperfusion-related phenomena in patients presenting with ST-segment-elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI). Nevertheless, equally impressive is the lack of clinically
      applicable therapeutic strategies that could mitigate these processes, thus providing
      significant cardioprotection.

      Despite the well-known fact that inflammation plays an important role in coronary artery
      disease development and progression, there have been few attempts to systematically examine
      the potential role of anti-inflammatory treatment in this setting, possibly because of a lack
      in anti-inflammatory agents without the adverse cardiovascular safety profile of
      corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Some anti-inflammatory agents, like
      pexelizumab, are focused on complement cascade.Another agent is Varespladib, which targets
      sPLA2 that causes oxidative stress and inflammation. There are other therapeutic targets that
      have been widely investigated. Colchicine is a substance with potent anti-inflammatory
      properties, having a unique mechanism of action, which allows for safe use in patients with
      cardiovascular disease.

      Colchicine binds to non-polymerized tubulin, forming a stable complex that effectively
      inhibits the dynamic of microtubules, depolymerizing them. Thus, any process requiring
      changes in the cell cytoskeleton, such as cellular mitosis, exocytosis and neutrophil
      motility, is affected. Colchicine has an important effect on atrial myocytes, changing the
      atrial response to autonomic effects (reducing the sympathetic activity and increasing the
      parasympathetic one). Due to this particular mode of action, colchicine has been indicated in
      atrial fibrillation post-cardiac surgery. A similar trial is being conducted to investigate
      any effusions or syndromes that occur after myocardial infarction.

      The purpose of the present clinical study is to test the hypothesis that a short course of
      treatment with colchicine could lead to reduced major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in
      acute MI.
    
  