
    
      In this study high risk patients will be included. Based on historical data the investigators
      know that the median predicted delirium risk is 35% in patients with an expected stay on the
      ICU of over one day. This is considered a high risk to develop delirium.

      To assess patients for delirium using the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM)-ICU is part of
      daily clinical practice in all participating centres. In this study, high risk patients will
      receive three times a day a study drug of which two groups receive a low dose of haloperidol
      (1mg or 2mg) and a third arm will receive placebo.

      This drug is worldwide the first choice of drug to treat delirious patients. When delirium is
      diagnosed, patients are treated according to delirium protocol, using a higher dosage than in
      the prophylactic treatment period as described in the study protocol. It is recognized that
      early treatment of delirium has beneficial effects compared with delayed treatment, and there
      is also some evidence that delirium prevention in ICU patients has beneficial effects, but
      the design of these previous studies was not optimal.

      Potential side-effects of haloperidol include, extrapyramidal symptoms, drowsiness,
      agitation, and ventricular arrhythmias. The latter are extremely rare (only case-reports are
      published) and related to a higher dosage of haloperidol. With the dosage that will be used
      in the present study no relevant side-effects are anticipated. Nevertheless, and given the
      preventive nature of this study, extra attention is being paid on recognition of possible
      side-effects of haloperidol in the protocol. Importantly, in three recent prophylactic
      haloperidol studies no relevant side-effects, and in particular no ventricular arrhythmias,
      were reported using a similar low dosage of haloperidol as described in the present protocol.

      During the study several inter-rater reliability checks (delirium experts versus ICU nurses)
      concerning the CAM_ICU assessments will be performed. Also medical and nursing files will be
      checked to secure the quality of the delirium diagnose.

      The study will be monitored (all sites), randomly included patient data will be checked on
      delirium diagnose and endpoints of the study. All data will be collected by Electronic CRF. A
      check of completeness on all data is build-in.

      All variables are defined using a data dictionary (using the NICE data dictionary)
      supplemented with definitions of PREDELIRIC-model predictors, delirium diagnosis (at least
      one positive CAM-ICU assessment), and delirium duration.

      Sample size calculation is based on the effect on number of days of survival in 28-days
      mortality derived from the evaluation study using low dosage of prophylactic haloperidol. If
      the true hazard ratio of control patients relative to intervention patients is 0.85, taken
      into account an accrual time of 90 days with 28 days of follow-up, the investigators will
      need to study 647 patients per intervention group and 647 control patients to be able to
      reject the null hypothesis that the experimental and control survival curves are equal with
      probability (power) 0.80. The Type I error probability associated with this test of this null
      hypothesis is 0.05. Taken into account a drop out of 10% the investigators will include 715
      patients per group; in total 2145 patients. The investigators assume that the effect on
      number of days of survival in 28-days mortality will be comparable between the two
      intervention groups. The Cox-regression analysis group will have three levels (placebo, 1 mg
      and 2 mg haloperidol three times daily).

      A Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)will monitor the safety of the study including interim
      analyses on safety/futility after 175-350 and 500 patients and safety and superiority after
      1000 patients. Followed by a final analysis after 2145 patients.

      Only for the interim analysis after 500 and 1000 patients adjusting for covariates (age,
      gender, delirium prediction score and sepsis) will be performed to determine the effect on
      28-day survival

      This multicenter study will be performed in:

        -  Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre

        -  University Medical Centre Utrecht

        -  Medical Centre Leeuwarden (stopped January 2014)

        -  Onze Lieve Vrouwen Gasthuis, Amsterdam (stopped March 2015)

        -  Isala Clinic, Zwolle (stopped June 2014)

        -  Canisius Wilhelmina Ziekenhuis, Nijmegen

        -  Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede

        -  Gelre Hospital, Apeldoorn

        -  Atrium Medical Centre, Heerlen

        -  Jeroen Bosch Hospital, Den-Bosch

        -  Atrium Medical Centre, Heerlen

        -  Medical Centre Haaglanden (Westeinde and Antoniushove), Den-Haag

        -  Bronovo Hospital, Den-Haag

        -  St. Jansdal Hospital, Harderwijk

        -  Maxima Medical Centre, Veldhoven

        -  University Medical Centre, Groningen

        -  Amphia Hospital, Breda

        -  VieCuri Hospital, Venlo

        -  Scheper Hospital, Emmen (stopped August 2016)

        -  Diakonessenhuis Hospital, Utrecht

        -  Haga Hospital, Den-Haag

      After the 4th interim analysis the DSMB advised to drop on study arm due to effectivity and
      efficiency reasons. Since July 2015 the study has been continued with two study arms and the
      included numbers of patients is adjusted to 1800 patients.
    
  