
    
      Pertussis is a highly infectious respiratory illness caused by Bordetella pertussis, which
      characteristically causes paroxysms of coughing with an associated inspiratory 'whoop'. In
      young infants the clinical presentation can be atypical, is frequently associated with
      apnoeic episodes and can cause significant morbidity and mortality. Following the
      introduction of pertussis vaccination into routine infant schedules worldwide there was a
      significant reduction in the incidence of pertussis. However, recently in a number of
      countries, despite high vaccine coverage, there has been a resurgence of pertussis disease
      associated with an increase in infant deaths. Various strategies to control the increasing
      burden of infant pertussis disease have been considered including cocooning, a strategy in
      which close contacts of an infant are vaccinated, a neonatal dose of a pertussis containing
      vaccine, the addition of an adolescent dose to the schedule and vaccination in pregnancy. Of
      these, the latter has gained most support.

      Vaccination in pregnancy is a strategy which relies on effective transport of antibody across
      the placenta, a process which depends on the antibody available, the gestation of the
      pregnancy and the health of the placenta. In the case of pertussis, the main aim is to
      prevent disease in babies (prior to the age of routine vaccination) as they have a higher
      mortality than any other age group from pertussis disease.

      It is now clear that pertussis vaccination in pregnancy can reduce the burden of disease in
      young infants in the period prior to them being fully immunised, and can do so safely.
      However, it is not established whether there is an optimal time to vaccinate in pregnancy to
      ensure maximal protection of the infant. This is reflected in the different guidelines
      currently in place in different countries: in the UK vaccination is advised from 16 weeks
      gestation, in Canada from 26 weeks, in the USA from 27 weeks and in Australia from 28 weeks.

      While some studies have suggested that vaccination later in pregnancy can achieve higher
      antibody concentrations in the newborn, others have found earlier vaccination provides
      improved immunity compared to later vaccination. The significance of this is that if earlier
      vaccination is shown to be equivalent, there are clear logistical benefits in allowing the
      widest possible time window in order to maximise the opportunities for pregnant women to be
      vaccinated and thereby improve vaccine coverage.

      When the pertussis vaccination in pregnancy programmes were first implemented, vaccination
      was recommended in the third trimester (USA 27-36 weeks, UK 28-32 weeks). This decision was
      based on the hypothesis that vaccination would be most effective if it was timed to allow the
      peak in maternal antibody levels after vaccination to coincide with the time of most
      efficient placental transport.

      There is a significant lack of agreement on optimal timing of pertussis vaccination in
      pregnancy due to conflicting data. This is the rationale for this randomised controlled
      trial.

      In this study all participants will receive a pertussis containing vaccine licensed for use
      in pregnancy. In the UK currently the vaccine used is Boostrix-IPV® manufactured by
      GlaxoSmithKline. This vaccine contains pertussis toxin (PT) (8 micrograms), filamentous
      haemagglutinin (FHA) (8 micrograms) and pertactin (PRN) (2.5 micrograms) as well as
      diphtheria toxoid (not less than 2 international units), tetanus toxoids (not less than 20
      international units) and inactivated polio virus types 1-3 (type 1 40 D-antigen unit, type 2
      8 D-antigen unit, type 3 32 D-antigen unit). This vaccine will be given at the time period
      assigned by randomisation. All possible time periods included in the study are within that
      recommended in the UK as part of routine practice.

      Participants will have blood sampling prior to vaccination, 14 days following vaccination and
      at the time of delivery. At delivery a cord blood sample will also be obtained and an infant
      sample taken from the infants of participating women at 28-42 days after completion of their
      primary immunisations.

      There is a paucity of information about functional immunity of anti-PT antibody in serum and
      colostrum/breastmilk following vaccination in pregnancy. We will be investigating this in two
      exploratory sub-studies. The first of these (investigation of functional immunity of anti-PT
      antibody in serum) will be performed on samples being performed as part of the main study.
      For investigation of functional immunity of anti-PT antibody in colostrum and breastmilk we
      will ask participants at two participating institutions if they are willing to participate in
      a breastfeeding sub-study if they decide to breastfeed. For participants who take part in
      this sub-study a sample of colostrum will be obtained within 48 hours of delivery and a
      further breast milk sample at 14 days and 5 months following delivery.
    
  