
    
      BACKGROUND:

      - Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) can mediate the regression of bulky metastatic
      melanoma when administered to the autologous patient along with high-dose aldesleukin

      (IL-2) following a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy preparative regimen.

        -  IL-2 administration has been shown to increase the number of T regulatory cells and in
           our trials we have found a direct relationship between the number of IL-2 doses and the
           reconstitution of patients at one week with cluster of differentiation 4 + forkhead box
           P3 (CD4+ Foxp3) + T regulatory cells.

        -  In our analysis of factors that relate to the ability of this treatment to mediate
           objective responses, we have found a highly significant inverse correlation between
           reconstitution of CD4+ Foxp3+ T regulatory cells and the likelihood of achieving an
           objective response.

        -  In our prior clinical trials of cell transfer using TIL after lymphodepletion with or
           without

           2 (gray)Gy total body irradiation, patients who experienced an objective response
           received fewer doses of IL-2 compared to non-responders (p=0.007 and 0.03 respectively).

        -  High levels of the homeostatic T cell growth factor, IL-15, are present in patient serum
           after the lymphodepleting regimen at the time of cell transfer.

        -  These factors raise the possibility that IL-2 administration is not required after cell
           transfer.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  The primary objective of this trial is to determine whether objective responses can be
           mediated in patients with metastatic melanoma who have received a lymphodepleting
           chemotherapy regimen and adoptive transfer of young tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and
           no IL-2 administration.

        -  The secondary objective involves the determination of the level of transferred cells in
           the blood that persist at about 1 week and 1 month after transfer.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years old with pathologically confirmed diagnosis
           of metastatic melanoma.

        -  Patients with measurable disease, absolute neutrophil count greater than 1000/mm(3) and
           platelet count greater than 100,000/mm(3).

        -  Patients not eligible to receive IL-2.

      DESIGN:

        -  Patients with metastatic melanoma will undergo resection to obtain tumor for generation
           of autologous TIL cultures.

        -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting preparative regimen consisting
           of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by the administration of young

      autologous TIL.

      - Patients will be evaluated for objective clinical response and for persistence of the
      transferred cells.
    
  