
    
      Obesity and sedentary lifestyles are worldwide threats to public health but feasible and
      effective strategies to tackle these problems are scarce. The identification of variables
      that explain why only a sub-group of overweight persons succeeds at increasing physical
      activity and achieving long-term weight control is a key research topic in exercise and
      sports sciences. Subjects are 260 healthy women (BMI, 25 to 40 kg/m2), aged between 25 and 50
      years, premenopausal, of whom half receive the treatment intervention, the remaining being
      randomly assigned to a control group at baseline. This RCT consists of a 1-year intervention
      plus a 2-year no contact follow-up period. The intervention group attended 30 weekly group
      sessions, designed to follow SDT basic tenets, covering PA, eating/nutrition, body image, and
      other cognitive and behavioral contents. Central to the intervention model are autonomy,
      intrinsic motivation, and self-regulation of behavior change. Autonomy-supportive treatment
      climate and internal causality orientations are predicted to enhance autonomous regulation,
      perceived competence, and intrinsic motivation for the targeted behaviors, resulting in
      lasting behavioral and body weight changes. The intervention was designed to follow SDT, with
      an emphasis on promoting intrinsic, self-regulated motivation for exercise and weight
      control. The control group received a general health education curriculum based on several 3-
      to 6-week long educational topics (e.g. food safety, stress management, self-care, body
      image, and others). Results are expected to contribute to a better understanding of how
      individual characteristics, particularly those related to physical activity and exercise
      influence success, better screening/readiness testing procedures, improved matching of
      interventions to participants, and lower rates of attrition and unsuccessful weight loss
      attempts.
    
  