
    
      Hydroxy-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG Co-A) reductase inhibitors ("statins") are commonly
      prescribed to lower low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) and to prevent cardiovascular
      disease (CVD), a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Long-term adherence to statins in
      the primary care environment is challenging; consequences of statin non-adherence include
      higher LDLc levels, hospitalizations, costs, and death due to CVD.

      Medication non-adherence is complex and multifactorial and can be associated with a number of
      factors including medication cost, complexity of medication regimen, poor provider-patient
      relationship / communication, and adverse side effects. For statins, side effects such as
      muscle aches, cramping, and pain (referred to broadly as statin-related myopathy) are a
      frequent cause of non-adherence. These symptoms are non-specific and are frequent reasons for
      stopping statin therapy, due to patient or provider concern about the possibility of
      statin-related myopathy. Many patients may be needlessly deprived of the cardiovascular
      benefits of long-term statin use.

      A genetic risk factor for statin myopathy and subsequent non-adherence has recently been
      identified. In a genome-wide association study, a genetic variant (named SLCO1B1*5) was a
      main contributor of statin myopathy. It was demonstrated that the SLCO1B1*5 variant is not
      only a predictor of myopathy, but also of premature statin discontinuation. The risk with the
      *5 allele is statin specific: greatest with simvastatin and atorvastatin use, the least with
      pravastatin or rosuvastatin. Therefore, the SLCO1B1*5 variant is common, can predict
      myopathy, subsequent non-adherence, and due to its statin-specific effects creates a novel
      research paradigm for personalizing statins to an individual's genetic profile. Carriers of
      the SLCO1B1*5 variant may do best on rosuvastatin, pravastatin, or fluvastatin whereas
      non-carriers may be treated with any statin.

      The objective of this study is to conduct a randomized trial comparing two strategies:

        1. genetically guided statin therapy vs.

        2. usual care (i.e., a strategy without genetics) on the effects of statin adherence and
           LDLc lowering.

      The overall hypothesis is that genetically guided statin therapy will lead to greater statin
      adherence and lower LDLc when compared to a non-guided strategy. The design of this trial
      will randomize primary care patients within Duke University Health System (DUHS) and travis
      Air Force Base (TAFB) clinics that are nonadherent to statins due to prior side-effects in an
      unblinded, 1:1 fashion, stratified by SLCO1B1*5 genotype.
    
  