
    
      Total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) is a technique in which general anesthesia is
      administered intravenously, exclusively, a combination of drugs in the absence of any
      anesthetic agent inhaled1. TIVA development is closely linked to that of perfusion systems;
      these make total intravenous anesthesia enjoy several advantages as high hemodynamic
      stability, anesthetic depth more balanced, rapid and predictable recovery, less medication
      administered, less pollution and lower toxicity , not only for the patient also for the
      surgical equipment 2,3, 4 .

      Two methods for controlling drug administration can be distinguished: open-loop and
      closed-loop control.

      Open loop control applies pharmacokinetics (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) models based on the
      estimation of concentration of the drug in certain parts of the body, without measuring these
      concentrations in real time. The inaccuracy resulting from the absolute concentration
      requires the clinician to manually titrate dosage and objective observation based on the
      concentration of the desired therapeutic effect. This titration requires high clinical
      experience and a process of intensive monitoring, which may divert the attention from
      critical situations which in turn leads to suboptimal therapy or even to put safety at risk
      patient5, 6.

      The application of closed-loop systems for the administration of an anesthetic requires a
      perfect balance of all the basic components of a system of this type: a variable control of
      the specific therapeutic effect; a target value for this variable (usually called set point);
      an actuator control (in this case, the drug infusion pump); a system (in this case the
      patient); and control algorithm7. This system excludes the control anesthesiologist drug
      infusion which is determined by one or more clinical variables that directly reflect the
      relationship PK / PD which previously established the attending anesthesiologist. The
      controller automatically calculates the optimal rate of infusion based on the current value
      and the desired value of the controlling variable and previously established mathematical
      models.

      With the appearance of electroencephalographic monitoring practice as a control variable,
      began to conduct studies to assess the cerebral effect of anesthetics. Linear model two
      compartments is used to describe the relationship of drug concentration and an adaptive
      controller and this system was used subsequently using EEG to study the interaction of opioid
      and propofol 8,9. After marketing bispectral index derived from the EEG, began to evaluate
      closed loop systems using the BIS technology in several studies concluding that such systems
      not only makes more predictable anesthetic depth, but provides greater intraoperative
      hemodynamic stability and early recovery of the sedative and hypnotic effects of propofol
      10,11,12,13,14.

      Closed loop system in intravenous anesthesia is more effective to maintain the depth of
      anesthesia compared with manual system open, it is unclear what the driver and the variables
      to achieve this goal be more physiological and accurately; in the literature doesn´t exist
      studies showing that the closed-loop system for both hypnotic and opioid is better than the
      controlled pharmacokinetic models and open loop system to maintain anesthetic depth. In
      addition, the infusion of the opioid lacks physiological controllers in closed loop. Thus, a
      system was designed for intravenous anesthesia in closed loop for propofol as hypnotic based
      on neuromonitoring bispectral index as anesthetic depth, and was integrated an additional
      closed system for remifentanil using hemodynamic variables and control algorithm associated
      with bispectral index.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the therapeutic effectiveness of a new system of
      administration of intravenous anesthesia in closed loop to maintain a depth of anesthesia
      compared to an open loop system TCI.
    
  