
    
      Background:

      The clinical outcome for patients with T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is significantly
      inferior to the outcome of patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In most reports less
      than 20% of patients with T cell lymphoid malignancies remain free of disease at 5 years.

      The combination of alemtuzumab and Etoposide, Prednisone, Vincristine, Cyclophosphamide and
      Doxorubicin (EPOCH) chemotherapy was evaluated in patients with chemotherapy naive aggressive
      T and natural killer (NK) cell lymphoid malignancy. Dose-limiting bone marrow toxicity
      prevented escalation of the alemtuzumab dose.

      Siplizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed at cluster of differentiation 2 (CD2)
      that demonstrated activity in the treatment of relapsed/refractory T cell lymphoma,
      suggesting further development by combining with chemotherapy for untreated patients.
      Siplizumab caused Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) lymphoproliferative disease in patients treated
      with a weekly schedule of administration.

      Rituximab prevents the development of EBV lymphoproliferative disease in the allogeneic
      transplant setting and may be active in preventing EBV-related B cell lymphoma in other
      settings.

      Objectives:

      Determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of siplizumab and dose-adjusted EPOCH
      rituximab chemotherapy in chemotherapy naïve CD2- expressing T and NK lymphoid malignancies.

      Eligibility:

      CD2-expressing lymphoid malignancy.

      Patients with chemotherapy naive aggressive T & NK lymphomas. Patients with alk-positive
      anaplastic large cell lymphoma and patients with T-cell precursor disease are not eligible.

      Design:

      Four dose levels of siplizumab will be evaluated to determine the toxicity profile and in a
      preliminary fashion, and its activity in combination with dose-adjusted EPOCH with rituximab.

      Four dose levels of siplizumab will be explored, in cohorts of three to six patients each.
      Patients will receive 3.4, 4.8, 8.5, or 15 mg/kg of siplizumab on day 1 of therapy, followed
      by dose-adjusted EPOCH-rituximab chemotherapy days 1-5 every 3 weeks for a total of 6 cycles.
    
  