
    
      The response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) in early stage breast cancer has important
      prognostic implications. Early, dynamic prediction of response allows for adaption of the
      treatment plan before completion, or even before the start of treatment. This strategy can
      help prevent overtreatment and related toxicity and correct for undertreatment with an
      ineffective regimen. The hypothesis of this study is that accurate dynamic response
      prediction may be reached by combining multi-parametric MRI with liquid biopsies prior to,
      during and after NAC, in addition to conventional clinical and pathological information.
      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is non-invasive and is typically used for response
      evaluation in current clinical practice. It shows the size and perfusion of the tumor as they
      change during treatment. However, tumor size on MRI has limited predictive value for response
      to therapy. Multi-parametric MRI uses different imaging protocols in one session to measure
      more functional items than perfusion alone, addressing different aspects of tumor biology,
      and possibly improving predictive value. With this improvement, imaging still only visualizes
      macroscopic disease. Therefore, in the LIMA study, MRI will be combined with liquid biopsies
      containing circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), which have both
      shown prognostic and predictive values in early stage breast cancer. Since the ctDNA may
      originate from cells in every part of the tumor, it may capture tumor heterogeneity. Liquid
      biopsies are minimally invasive and provide insight into microscopic tumor load and the
      tumor's genetic picture.

      The aim of the study is to show proof of concept for combining multi-parametric MRI with
      liquid biopsies in addition to conventional clinical and pathologic information, to
      accurately predict response to neoadjuvant treatment for patients with primary breast cancer.

      The LIMA is a multicenter prospective observational cohort study. Multi-parametric MRI will
      we performed prior to NAC, halfway and after completion of NAC. Liquid biopsies will be
      obtained before start of treatment, every 2 weeks during treatment and after completion of
      NAC. 100 patients will be enrolled in different hospitals.

      Funding from the European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under grant
      agreement no. 755333 (LIMA)
    
  