
    
      Study Protocol

      When there is a need of a peripheral venous access for the inpatient, the medical or nursing
      care team will contact the researchers, informing the personal data of the possible candidate
      to participate in the study. By fulfilling the eligibility criteria, the patient will be
      invited and informed about the study proposal; and, if he agrees to participate, he will sign
      the consent form. The type of procedure to be performed will be randomized through a draw.
      The procedure options are:

        1. Intervention: peripheral venipuncture guided by ultrasound by a registered nurse with
           expertise in vascular access, or

        2. Control: conventional peripheral venipuncture by an inpatient care registered nurse.

      Individuals who do not agree to participate in the study will have their data stored on a
      patient exclusion checklist.

      In both groups, intervention and control, up to two attempts will be made by the same
      professional and, if there is no success on the procedure, another professional will be
      designated for two more attempts. Ultrasound Site Rite 8 or Ultrasound Site Rite 5, which are
      portable ultrasound devices that include 2D ultrasound imaging in real time, will be used on
      the Intervention Group (1) procedure.

      The peripheral venipuncture procedure for both groups will be performed according to the
      standard operating procedures recommended by the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre. The
      catheters to be used will be the peripheral venous catheters made available by the
      institution.

      If there is a failure of puncture in the Control Group (2), the study participant will follow
      the institution's routine to adapt an appropriate vascular access, which is the activation of
      a nurse specialist in vascular access, who can perform peripheral venipuncture guided by
      ultrasound. In the event of a new insertion failure, the care team (doctor and nurse)
      discusses the case to define a new approach according to the infusional therapy, considering
      the protocol for the indication of venous vascular accesses at the institution. Thereafter,
      the patient can proceed for oral treatment, insertion of a peripherally inserted central
      catheter, insertion of a short-term central venous catheter, hypodermoclysis, long-term
      central venous catheter (totally or semi-implanted), according to the decision of the
      assistant team.

      In the case of failure of the puncture in the Intervention Group (1), the study participant
      will follow the same routine of the institution, as explained above, for the adequacy of an
      adequate vascular access. However, in this case, the nurse specialist in vascular access will
      not be contacted, as the intervention procedure already uses ultrasound.

      All participants who successfully insert a peripheral venous catheter in both groups will be
      monitored for the occurrence of any event related to the procedure from the time of insertion
      of the catheter until the loss of access for any reason, removal of the device at the end of
      therapy, discharge, death or eight days of follow-up, whichever comes first. Peripheral
      venous access that remains for more than eight days will be counted as event-free, access
      survival. Study participants with failed insertion will have the outcome computed in the
      database and will be followed up for another 48 hours to assess any complications resulting
      from the puncture attempt.
    
  