
    
      Fuch's endothelial dystrophy is a disease of the human cornea, which affects people in the
      fifth or sixth decade of life. Due to poorly functioning cells its inner surface, the cornea
      becomes swollen, resulting in pain and blurry vision. Mild to moderate Fuch's disease can be
      managed pharmacologically or conservatively. Nonetheless, cataract development is an
      unrelated age-associated process that occurs in the same way in patients with and without
      Fuch's endothelial dystrophy. Therefore, many patients with mild to moderate Fuch's dystrophy
      would need to undergo cataract surgery.

      In cataract surgery, the native human lens is removed and replaced with a synthetic
      intraocular lens. There are several varieties of lenses available currently. Of these, the
      aspheric lens has a unique contour that was developed to complement the surface features of
      the cornea, thus reducing spherical aberrations. Several studies have shown that the aspheric
      lens improves contrast sensitivity in dim light and higher order aberrations in the otherwise
      normal eye. Contrast sensitivity refers to the ability of the patient to discern differences
      in similar shades of colour. Higher order aberration is a concept that is used to quantify
      how much the optical mechanism of the eye distorts incoming light rays. Most of these studies
      compared the aspheric lens to the standard spheric lens.

      Since Fuch's patients can experience intermittent corneal swelling, the shape of their
      corneal surface is prone to distortion. Since the aspheric lens does not change shape, it is
      unknown how its fixed surface will interact with the fluctuating corneal surface in patients
      with Fuch's endothelial dystrophy.

      To date, there have been no studies looking at contrast sensitivity and higher order
      aberrations in patients with Fuch's dystrophy who were implanted with an aspheric intraocular
      lens. The accepted practice is to offer Fuch's patients the aspheric lens during the
      pre-operative evaluation, and explain to them that we are not sure how it will be of benefit
      to them. At Hotel Dieu Hospital in Kingston, there is a cost of $125 to all patients who
      choose the aspheric lens, while the spheric lens is free. Therefore, most patients with
      Fuch's dystrophy choose the spheric lens. There is no evidence-based data to guide patient
      choice in this situation.
    
  