
    
      Lycopene, a carotenoid mainly found in tomato-based food products, has strong antioxidant
      properties relative to other carotenoids and has been postulated to play a role in the
      prevention of coronary heart disease through a variety of mechanisms. Lycopene cooked and
      consumed in oil mediums is optimal for not only its efficient absorption, but also its
      potential clinical effectiveness. Studies have also linked serum lycopene with the early
      stages of atherosclerosis, as measured by carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT), a
      noninvasive ultrasound examination of the carotid arteries and potential surrogate endpoint
      for subsequent cardiovascular morbidity and mortality used in previous clinical trials of
      vitamin supplements. Short-term intervention studies of lycopene supplements are limited,
      having explored mechanisms through which lycopene or its readily absorbable food sources may
      increase plasma lycopene or induce changes in other relevant biochemical markers impacting
      the subsequent risk of coronary heart disease. Ateronon is a lycopene supplement developed
      with the understanding that the potential clinical effectiveness of lycopene is impacted by
      its bioavailability. A single daily 7 mg tablet of Ateronon provides more bioavailable
      lycopene than diet alone, is absorbed efficiently, and completely inhibits the atherogenic
      lipid oxidation processes in subjects. Clinical studies suggest that short-term treatment
      with Ateronon among those with coronary heart disease leads to favorable reductions in lipid
      levels, lipoprotein oxidation, blood pressure, and Rose-Blackburn scores. Therefore, we will
      conduct a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 7 mg Ateronon taken
      daily for 1 year among 200 patients aged ≥50 years with stable coronary heart disease. This
      clinical trial is a collaborative effort between the Division of Preventive Medicine and the
      Vascular Medicine Program in the Division of Cardiology. Our primary aim is whether taking
      Ateronon for 1 year is associated with favorable changes in carotid IMT. Secondary aims
      expand to whether Ateronon leads to favorable 1-year changes in coronary biomarkers related
      to oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction; blood pressure; plasma carotenoids;
      AtheroAbzyme levels; and other traditional coronary biomarkers. This clinical trial of
      Ateronon seeks to improve our understanding of various mechanisms through which Ateronon, a
      concentrated and highly bioavailable form of lycopene, may reduce the risk of developing
      coronary heart disease.
    
  