
    
      Background Single or multiple point mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) of the
      BCR-ABL1 fusion gene in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and Ph-chromosome positive acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia represent the most important known mechanism of resistance to tyrosine
      kinase inhibitors (TKIs). It is conceivable that pre-existing point mutations in CML stem
      cells attributable to the genomic instability conferred by the BCR-ABL1 fusion protein give
      rise to the outgrowth of resistant subclones and onset of treatment-insensitive disease under
      the selection pressure of TKI therapy. Early detection of such subclones may therefore be of
      prognostic and therapeutic relevance. The recently published immunophenotype of CML stem
      cells (Hermann et al. Blood 2014), and our recent report on an NGS (next-generation
      sequencing)-based method facilitating sensitive detection and quantitative monitoring of
      BCR-ABL1 subclones carrying single or compound mutations (Kastner et al. European Journal of
      Cancer 2014) facilitate the screening for clinically relevant mutant subclones in stem cells
      or early progenitor cells.

      Hypothesis Detection of mutant subclones within the stem cell or early progenitor
      compartments at diagnosis or early into therapy of Ph-positive leukemias, and monitoring of
      their proliferation kinetics, permit early prediction of resistant disease under the ongoing
      TKI treatment.

      Experimental approach Bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) samples will be collected
      upon informed consent from patients with Ph-positive leukemia at diagnosis (BM+PB), and
      subsequently at 3-month intervals (PB;BM upon availability) during the first year of therapy
      based on or including TKIs. Isolation of CD (cluster of differentiation) 34+ cells carrying
      additional phenotypic markers characterizing stem cells or early progenitor cells
      (CD38-/CD25+/CD26+ in CML, CD19 in Ph-ALL) will be performed by flow sorting. The entire
      BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) will be amplified from cDNA (complementary DNA) or
      specific exons of interest from DNA by established protocols, and bidirectional sequencing
      will be performed by ultra-deep sequencing using NGS. Mutant subclones identified at
      diagnosis or after debulking of most of the treatment-sensitive leukemic burden early into
      treatment (3 month time point), will be monitored by NGS until month 12 of therapy. BCR-ABL1
      transcripts will be monitored according to the International Scale (IS) in parallel. DNA
      isolated from fingernail clippings will be used as germline control for the ABL1 TKD. The
      testing will be performed in a blinded fashion to prevent treatment adjustments according to
      experimental data.
    
  