
    
      Bone graft obtained from a patient's own bone (autogenous), usually around the pelvis, is
      currently considered the gold standard for bone grafting material. It provides a structural
      scaffold on which the patient's own bone may grow into (osteoconduction), growth factors that
      can stimulate healing (osteoinduction), and primitive cells (progenitors) that can stimulate
      bone formation directly (osteogenesis). It readily regains a blood supply from the
      surrounding tissues (revascularization) and is incorporated into the recipient site. However,
      there are significant disadvantages in the use of the patient's own bone graft including
      complications where the bone is taken from (donor site morbidity), limited availability and
      expense. Hence, human donor bone procured at the time of death (allografts) and synthetic
      bone fillers have been used as an alternative to the patient's own bone (autogenous bone
      graft). Both of these provide an osteoconductive scaffolding but nothing more. For defects
      created by scraping (curettage) of non-cancerous (benign) bone lesions, a structural scaffold
      (osteoconduction) is generally considered the minimal necessary role that the graft material
      must serve to allow healing of the defect. In many cases, this is adequate to allow healing
      of the defect by a process of creeping substitution, with neighboring bone growing from the
      periphery to the center in a centripetal fashion.

      Ideally, the pace at which the graft material is resorbed is identical to the parallel pace
      of new bone formation. However, some materials have extremely slow replacement and are
      essentially never replaced fully for all practical purposes. An example of this is coralline
      hydroxyapatite. At the opposite end of the spectrum, some graft materials are resorbed at a
      far faster rate than bone formation. An example of this has been calcium sulfate. In the
      investigator's experience with the use of the synthetic bone graft substitute ultraporous
      beta-tricalcium phosphate (TCP) (Vitoss, Orthovita, Inc.) over the first 3 years of its
      availability, the graft material, when combined with local blood alone, performed well
      clinically but persisted for a year or longer radiographically in some cases. Prolonged
      persistence of the graft material may serve as a potential stress riser, although the
      investigator did not observe any untoward late effects in our published work. Subsequently,
      the investigator completed a randomized prospective evaluation of ultraporous beta-TCP alone
      and compared to beta-TCP combined with autologous bone marrow aspirate (BMA). The hypothesis
      was that both graft resorption and trabeculation (radiographic measures of incorporation of
      the synthetic material by the native bone) would be more advanced at each time point in those
      patients that received BMA plus TCP compared to those that received TCP alone. However, based
      upon the investigator's clinical impression, there does not appear to be a clinically
      relevant difference in the rate of bone incorporation. On the other hand, even at 1 year
      post-operatively, there appears by CT scan to be persistent beta-TCP in the grafted defects.
      Hence, it is felt that the rate of resorption and incorporation of the beta-TCP, with or
      without BMA does not keep pace with new bone formation.

      Recently, a new osteoconductive synthetic bone graft material has become available that
      combines beta-TCP and calcium sulfate (PRO-DENSE® Injectable Regenerative Graft, Wright
      Medical Technology, Inc.). Theoretically, the calcium sulfate from this product will leach
      out more quickly, leaving a more porous local environment comprised of residual beta-TCP.
      Hence, the hypothesis of this study is that PRO-DENSE® may result in a more desirable,
      physiologic pace of graft incorporation when compared to beta-TCP and BMA. The overall study
      plan is to compare, in a randomized prospective fashion, PRO-DENSE injectable regenerative
      graft to ultraporous beta-TCP (VITOSS® morsels, OrthoVita, Inc.), the latter combined with
      bone marrow aspirate (BMA). VITOSS is the same porous material the investigator has used in
      an earlier study and is conducive to the addition of osteoinductive agents such as BMA,
      whereas PRO-DENSE is not.

      A total of 56 patients with any type of benign bone lesion indicated for surgical curettage
      would be offered inclusion in the study, randomized to receive either PRO-DENSE or VITOSS
      with BMA, and followed for a minimum of 2 years post-operatively. Bone marrow aspiration
      would be obtained by a needle inserted through the skin (percutaneous aspiration) from the
      large bone of the pelvis (iliac crest) using a standard bone marrow aspiration needle.
      Patients with infection, bone marrow disorders, or other conditions that preclude use of
      supplementary the patient's bone marrow as well as those who prefer to use their own bone
      graft material (autograft) or donated human bone graft (allograft) alone would be excluded.
      Each patient will undergo radiographic evaluation of the lesion at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6
      months, 1 year, 18 months and 2 years post operatively. At one time point (1 year) a
      computerized tomogram (CT) of the grafted region will be obtained for each patient. Two
      qualified, blinded, independent reviewers will evaluate the radiographs and CT scans for six
      criteria: 1.) presence of graft within the soft tissues, 2.) presence of a rim of
      radiolucency surrounding the grafted defect, 3.) size/circumference of the rim of
      radiolucency, 4.) resorption of graft material, 5.) trabeculation through the defect and 6.)
      persistence of graft material in the lesion. Kappa statistics have shown good agreement for
      these parameters in our published retrospective preliminary analysis of results for the TCP
      use without bone marrow by the investigator.
    
  