
    
      Non-celiac gluten/wheat sensitivity (NCGS/NCWS) is a syndrome characterized by both
      intestinal (irritable bowel syndrome [IBS]-like presentation) and extraintestinal symptoms
      (headache, migraine, "foggy mind", depression, anxiety, fibromyalgia, joint and muscle pain,
      leg or arm numbness, eczema or skin rash), which occur after the ingestion of gluten/wheat in
      subjects in which celiac disease (CD) and wheat allergy diagnosis has been previously
      excluded. Recent data suggest that NCGS affect up to 3-6% of the general population, a higher
      prevalence than that reported for CD. NCGS/NCWS symptoms generally occur after the ingestion
      of gluten/wheat, disappear within a few days of a gluten-free diet (GFD) and quickly reappear
      when gluten/wheat is reintroduced. GDF is very difficult and onerous from a social (presence
      of gluten in many industrial food products and "contamination", both domestic and
      extra-domestic), psychological (e.g. for adolescents, exclusion from the "peer group", with
      difficulty in accepting the diagnosis) and economic point of view. A new assay, recently
      available on the Italian market, allows to ascertain the presence of immunogenic peptides of
      gluten (gluten immunogenic peptides, GIP) in the urine and stool. The test might allow to
      ascertain if the NCGS/NCWS patients, on GFD, eat even accidentally gluten. Of the 2 available
      assays, the urinary one allows the patient himself to test the presence of GIP in relation to
      symptoms/signs appearing and/or social activities (e.g. meal in a restaurant). The other one
      involves collecting a stool sample and allows to identify the gluten taken in the previous
      week, but it requires a laboratory, specifically equipped. To date, there are no
      observational studies that indicate the performance of the test in patients with NCGS/NCWS.
      The aims of the present study are: 1) to test, in patients with NCGS/NCWS on GFD, the
      adherence to the elimination diet; 2) to evaluate the correlation between the symptoms'
      reappearance and the presence of GIP in the urine.
    
  