
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the 1-year overall survival rate of patients with relapsed low-grade
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with fludarabine and
           total body irradiation vs cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by allogeneic
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and donor lymphocyte infusions.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the 1-year treatment-related mortality and infectious complications in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the efficacy of these treatment regimens, in terms of 1-year disease-free
           survival, of these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease, age (less than 55 vs over 55), and participating transplantation center. Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -4 to -2. Patients undergo total body
           irradiation followed by allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) on
           day 0. Patients receive graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis comprising oral
           cyclosporine twice daily on days -2 to 90 followed by a taper on days 90-150 and oral
           mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days 0-28.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -6 to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV on days
           -3 to -2. Patients undergo PBSCT on day 0. Patients receive GVHD prophylaxis comprising
           methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11 and tacrolimus IV continuously and then orally
           on days -2 to 90 followed by a taper on days 90-150.

      At approximately day 180, patients with persistent disease, evidence of T-cell chimerism, and
      no GVHD may receive up to 3 donor lymphocyte infusions administered every 1-2 months.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6
      months for 1 year.

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, and then annually for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (50 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  