
    
      This study is constituted of two independent sub-studies investigating two types of
      stimulation (tDCS and tACS) with the same cross-over design

      Study design The study design is composed of two experimental sessions, one active
      stimulation and one sham comparator. Sessions will be randomized in a double-blind randomized
      crossover design (neither the participant nor the experimenter knows which session includes
      which stimulation type), with at least 2 days of interval between them.

      In these sessions, the patients' state of consciousness participants will first be determined
      using the dedicated Coma Recovery Scale - Revised (Giacino, Neurology 2002) (CRS-R) scale
      before stimulation. Resting state brain activity EEG and cognitive auditory paradigm
      (local-global paradigm, Bekinschtein, PNAS 2009) will also be recorded before stimulation.

      Twenty minutes stimulation will then be performed (see below). CRS-R, resting state EEG and
      local-global paradigm will be repeated after stimulation.

      Outcome measures will be the same in the two studies. The primary outcome will be the change
      of CRS-R between before and after stimulation. Secondary outcomes will be the
      neurophysiological correlates of consciousness in resting state EEG and during the local
      global paradigm.

      tACS stimulation During tACS sessions, 6 Hz stimulation (1000 μA) will be applied
      simultaneously over the left prefrontal dorso-lateral cortex (F3 of the 10-20 international
      scalp EEG system) and the left parietal cortex (P3) using an 8-channels stimulator (Starstim
      NE, Neuroelectrics, Barcelona, Spain) with small round sponge electrodes (25 cm2 surface,
      maximal current density of 0.06 μA/cm2), controlled via Bluetooth. In the in-phase condition,
      the phase difference between the two stimulation sites will be 0° which will entrain
      synchronization between sites. In the sham condition, the stimulation will start with a
      current intensity of 1000 μA lasting for 30 seconds. Afterwards, the intensity will
      progressively decrease over 20 seconds until cessation. Each stimulation session will take 20
      minutes and the positions of stimulation electrodes and the duration of the stimulation will
      be kept identical for all conditions.

      tDCS stimulation During tDCS session, 2000 μA stimulation will be applied over the left
      prefrontal dorso-lateral cortex (F3 of the 10-20 international scalp EEG system) (Starstim
      NE, Neuroelectrics, Barcelona, Spain) with small round sponge electrodes (25 cm2 surface,
      maximal current density of 0.06 μA/cm2), controlled via Bluetooth. In the sham condition, the
      stimulation will start with a current intensity of 2000 μA lasting for 30 seconds.
      Afterwards, the intensity will progressively decrease over 20 seconds until cessation. Each
      stimulation session will take 20 minutes and the positions of stimulation electrodes and the
      duration of the stimulation will be kept identical for all conditions.
    
  