
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate toxicity and estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of melphalan
      (intra-arterially [i.a.]) administered in conjunction with carboplatin (i.a.) and etoposide
      phosphate (intravenously [i.v.]) undergoing BBBD, in subjects with anaplastic
      oligodendroglioma or oligoastrocytoma. (Phase I) II. To examine the efficacy (one year
      progression free survival [1YPFS]) of carboplatin (i.a.), melphalan (i.a.) and etoposide
      phosphate (i.v.) in conjunction with BBBD, in subjects with anaplastic oligodendroglioma or
      oligoastrocytoma. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the incidence of severe neutropenia (specifically febrile neutropenia or
      sepsis) of carboplatin (i.a.), melphalan (i.a.) and etoposide phosphate (i.v.) in conjunction
      with BBBD, in subjects with anaplastic oligodendroglioma or oligoastrocytoma.

      II. To evaluate the overall toxicity of carboplatin (i.a.), melphalan (i.a.), and etoposide
      phosphate (i.v.) in conjunction with BBBD.

      III. To estimate the differences in tumor response, 1YPFS and survival, in subjects with
      allelic loss of chromosomes 1p and 19q, and tumor protein p53 (p53) immunocytochemistry,
      versus subjects without allelic loss.

      IV. To assess quality of life, cognitive function, and performance status of subjects
      undergoing treatment with carboplatin, melphalan and etoposide phosphate in conjunction with
      BBBD.

      V. To estimate differences in 1YPFS between subjects with anaplastic oligodendroglioma and
      patients with oligoastrocytoma.

      VI. To describe the role of biopsy versus extent of surgery (sub-maximal versus maximal safe
      resection) on 1YPFS and survival.

      VII. To describe the role of prior radiation on tumor response, 1YPFS and survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of melphalan followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive etoposide phosphate IV over 10 minutes, mannitol IA over 30 seconds,
      melphalan IA over 10 minutes, and carboplatin IA over 10 minutes on days 1 and 2. Patients
      then receive sodium thiosulfate IV over 15 minutes at 4 and 8 hours after carboplatin.
      Courses repeat every 4 to 6 weeks for up to 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  