
    
      Research aim

      The primary aim of this clinical trial is to test the efficacy of an intervention which aims
      to increase rates of maternal HIV disclosure to HIV-uninfected children aged 6-9 years.

      Secondary aims include to improve:

        1. health promotion and custody planning for mothers and their children;

        2. maternal and child mental health;

        3. family functioning and the quality of mother-child relationship;

      Hypothesis

      We hypothesize that our intensive home-based intervention (the 'Amagugu' Counseling
      Intervention), compared to the Standard of Care in clinic facilities, will significantly
      increase rates of maternal HIV disclosure and will result in improvements in the quality of
      the maternal-child relationship, emotional well-being of children and family support.

      Research design

      The intervention package was successfully piloted in late 2010 (Rochat et al 2013, BMC Public
      Health) and a large scale feasibility and acceptability field test was completed with 281
      families in April 2012 funded by the Canadian International Development Agency. Preliminary
      results show that the intervention is highly acceptable, with more than 90% of mothers
      agreeing to participate; and effective with more than 90% having disclosed to their child
      either 'fully' (using the words 'HIV' and explaining that they have HIV) or 'partially'
      (using the word 'virus' and explaining that they have this virus).

      Sample size calculation

      Based on our pilot work we have shown that at least 60% of mothers disclosed their HIV status
      fully during the intervention. However, our results also show that prior disclosure to a
      current partner at baseline significantly increases the odds of full disclosure to children
      following the intervention. Since women enrolled in this trial will already be in HIV care
      they are likely to have received counseling and support to disclose their HIV status to their
      partners. To allow for the possibility of this effect in both intervention and control arms,
      we have powered the study conservatively to ensure that we have adequate power to detect
      differences between the groups. We have assumed that 30% women in the control arm will
      disclose their HIV status to their children in this trial and that the intervention will
      increase the proportion disclosing their HIV status to their children by at least 15
      percentage points. Allowing for a loss-to-follow-up of 20%, 300 mothers in the intervention
      arm and 300 in the control arm will provide >90% power to detect a difference of 30% versus
      45% (alpha type-one error of 5%, two-tailed) in HIV disclosure to children. This design will
      also provide adequate power for our main secondary outcome which is children's social and
      emotional wellbeing measured by the Child Behavior Checklist (Achenbach & Ruffle, 2000) as
      described in the objectives above. In high risk populations of children, one would expect the
      mean CBCL total score to be 50 for boys and for girls, with a standard deviation of 10. We
      hypothesize that our intervention would decrease the CBCL total difficulties score by at
      least 3 points whilst there would be no change in the CBCL score in the control group. With
      300 women in each group we would have >90% power to detect a difference of 3 points between
      control and intervention.

      Research methodology

      The research site

      The proposed research will be managed from the Wellcome Trust-funded Africa Centre.
      Recruitment will take place at a primary health care clinic located 1 km from the Africa
      Centre headquarters. Participants will be enrolled from an established HIV Programme,
      including (i) pre-ART patients who attend clinics on a 6-monthly basis to assess eligibility
      for ART based on immunological (CD4 cell count) and clinical staging and (ii) patients
      already on ART. Recruitment will be monitored carefully and if numbers are not sufficient we
      will seek ethics permission to expand to additional clinics.

      Assessment schedule

      All 600 mothers (i.e. 300 in the intervention and 300 in the Standard of Care arms) will
      receive assessments at four time points: at enrollment by the CRA and at home by one study
      interviewer as follows:

      Time point 1: Baseline assessment at enrollment at clinic (CRA) Time point 2: 3-month
      assessment at home (study interviewer) Time point 3: 6-month assessment at home (study
      interviewer) Time point 4: 9-month assessment at home (study interviewer)

      All assessments will be conducted in isiZulu and the study interviewer will be blinded to
      whether the mothers are randomized to the intervention or Standard of Care.

      Data collection

      Data collection will be completed using mobile phones that will digitally capture and
      transmit data from the field sites (clinic and women's homes) to the Africa Centre. Using the
      key pad the research staff will load a mobile researcher application on the phone which will
      display the questionnaires and assessments to be completed. On completion of the questions
      and assessments, the answers will be stored securely on the handsets until the phone is in
      the range of a mobile phone signal tower. There is a signal tower situated adjacent to the
      Africa Centre, and signal strength in the area of the proposed research clinic is generally
      excellent. When in range, the phones will automatically and securely upload the data to the
      central database.

      Whilst the main data capture method will be the mobile phones, paper forms will be used for
      (i) informed consent, (ii) participant tracking information. These forms will be transported
      weekly from the clinic to the Africa Centre and stored in a secure Data Centre.

      The Africa Centre has Standard Operating Procedures in place to track forms between the
      field, clinics and Centre, with clear documentation to identify 'chains of custody' as forms
      are handed between staff. In addition, a book containing a list of participating mothers and
      their unique study ID will be kept in a locked cabinet in the clinic; this will only be
      accessible by study staff. All files and data in the clinic are treated with the strictest of
      confident. The two paper forms and this book will be the only places where an individual's
      personal details are linked to their unique study ID.

      Data management

      Following uploading, data will be checked for completeness and accuracy the following day by
      the study coordinator; with queries returned to the field staff within 48 hours for
      correction.

      Data cleaning will occur fortnightly, with routine checks for inaccuracies, outlying values
      and missing data, with immediate feed-back to the field team for rectification.

      Data analysis

      An intention-to-treat analysis, based on the randomization, will be used for the primary
      trial outcome - proportion of HIV-infected women who disclose to their HIV-uninfected child
      at 3, 6 and 9-months.

      Because of the possibility that the randomization may lead to some imbalance in the
      distribution of risk factors across the trial arms, an assessment for baseline
      characteristics known to be associated with disclosure will be undertaken using binary
      logistic regression. These include age and gender of the child, mother's age, marital status
      and family composition, mother's health status, and educational attainment that will be
      collected as part of the study.

      We will report both adjusted and unadjusted effects of the intervention on disclosure. The
      outcomes related to taking children on a health promotion visit to the clinic and developing
      a clear custody care plan will be analyzed using the same methodology.

      The Child Behavior Check List (CBCL) scale is a multi-axial, empirically-based measure for
      assessing children's mental health and behavior by parent report. It consists of 120 items,
      measuring eight constructs or syndromes ( Withdrawn, Somatic complaints, Anxious/Depressed,
      Social Problems, Thought Problems, Attention Problems, Delinquent behavior, Aggressive
      behavior) and allowing for examination of two broad grouping of syndromes: Internalizing and
      Externalizing problems.

      Raw scores can be converted to T scores to facilitate comparisons across the sub-scales,
      computing a Total Internalizing, Externalizing and Competence Score as well as a Total score.
      T scores from 50 to 70 are based on percentiles from normative samples of non- referred
      children. For statistical analysis of syndrome scales in this research, raw scale scores will
      be used and not T scores, in order to take account of the full range of variation in the
      scales. Scores will be standardized taking age and gender into account.

      The CBCL has been cross-culturally validated, and translated for use in this research
      community and was used as a measure in the preliminary work by the applicants. In line with
      normative research we expect a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. The analysis to
      compare changes in emotional and behavioral difficulties in children using the CBCL scale
      will be performed on an intention-to-treat analysis. Baseline comparability across the trial
      arms using the CBCL subscales will be assessed in subjects to address comparability by
      randomization assignment.

      The statistical significance of changes in total CBCL scores from baseline to 9-month
      follow-up, within the control and intervention groups separately, will be calculated using t
      tests for normally distributed outcome measures. If baseline disparities across treatment
      arms are identified, then we will also perform linear regression analysis to allow adjustment
      for baseline disparities.

      Data safety and monitoring plan

      The quality of data collection and management will be monitored throughout the trial.

      The use of mobile technology will result in several advantages in terms of data quality and
      management including: built in algorithms and skip patterns to ensure data are collected with
      accuracy, consistency and integrity; and 'real time' transmission of data collected in the
      field to the Africa Centre Data Centre, ensuring rapid data cleaning.

      A Data Safety and Monitoring Board has been established and the terms of reference agreed.
    
  