
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a disease of disordered eating and is characterized by
      self-starvation, extreme weight loss, and difficulty maintaining a normal weight. Symptoms
      and behaviors of AN may include distorted body image, obsessive exercise, lack of
      menstruation among women, binge and purge eating behaviors, and intense fear of weight gain.
      Furthermore, people with AN are at a high risk of other mental disorders, such as depression
      and anxiety, and medical complications, such as organ damage, heart failure, and
      osteoporosis. Current treatments for AN include nutrition counseling, psychotherapy, and
      medication. Although weight restoration is a treatment priority, no particular therapeutic
      approach for patients with AN has clear empirical support. Previous studies have suggested
      that certain medications usually used to treat schizophrenia, also known as atypical
      antipsychotic drugs, may be helpful in increasing appetite and reducing anxiety related to
      weight gain and eating in people with AN. Specifically, the atypical antipsychotic medication
      olanzapine may be effective in improving overall symptoms of AN and in restoring weight to
      normal levels. This study will compare the effectiveness of the antipsychotic medication
      olanzapine versus placebo in treating outpatients with AN.

      Participation in this study will last 8 weeks. All participants will first undergo baseline
      assessments that will include questionnaires and interviews about AN symptoms, a physical
      exam, vital sign measurements, an electrocardiograph (EKG), and a blood draw. Participants
      will then be assigned randomly to 8 weeks of daily treatment with olanzapine or placebo.
      Participants will meet with a study doctor weekly over the 8 weeks of treatment. During these
      visits, the study doctor will monitor participants' progress, medication dosage, vital signs,
      and side effects. Participants will also fill out weekly questionnaires about the status of
      their condition and monthly repeat baseline questionnaires. In addition, participants will
      undergo blood draws every 2 weeks for the first month of the study and every 4 weeks for the
      remainder of the study. Upon completing the 8 weeks of treatment, participants will repeat
      the baseline assessments. During the next 5 years, participants may be contacted to complete
      a follow-up interview.
    
  