
    
      -  Study will be start after confirming the approval of institutional ethical review
           committee and after fulfilling the study inclusion criteria. The detailed study protocol
           will be explain to the parent/guardian and written & informed consent will be taking on
           his/her will.

        -  Inclusion Criteria

             -  Age between 2 to 10 years,

             -  American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I & II,

             -  Patient is not contraindicated to Laryngeal Mask Airway insertion,

             -  Elective below umbilical general surgical procedures

             -  patient is planned for general anesthesia with spontaneous breathing.

        -  Fifty patients will participate in both study groups.

        -  All patients will be premedicated with oral midazolam 0.3mg/kg, 45 to 60 minutes prior
           to induction.

        -  After arrival of patients in operating room, routine anesthesia monitoring will be
           applied and baseline blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation
           will be recorded.

        -  Patient will be induced with anesthetic induction inhalational agent (sleeping drug)
           sevoflurane 8% with oxygen by pediatric anesthesia circle system. The sevoflurane
           concentration will be adjusted to 3% to 4% once the adequate depth of anesthesia
           achieved, as evident by jaw relaxation and tolerance of an oral airway.

        -  The LMA will be placed after the insertion of intravenous line.

        -  The LMA size will be determined as per manufacturer's recommendation; which suggest 1.5
           LMA size for 5-10 kg, size 2 for 10-20 kg and size 2.5 for 20-30 kg.

        -  The anesthesia will be maintained with isoflurane in 60% nitrous oxide and 40% oxygen.
           Patients will be ventilated by spontaneous mode by 'Mapleson F anesthesia circuit' and
           for above 25 Kg patient, the circle system will be used.

        -  Caudal analgesia was standardised in both study groups.

        -  Prior to LMA removal in group-I, isoflurane MAC awake (MAC less than 0.5) will be
           achieved in expiratory gases with 60% nitrous oxide and 40% oxygen. Propofol 1 mg/Kg
           will be combined with Isoflurane MAC awake and LMA will be removed after 20 seconds of
           propofol administration in group-I.

      The group-II LMA will removed at end expiratory isoflurane MAC of 1.2% with 60% nitrous oxide
      and 40% oxygen. In both groups; LMA will be removed with inflated cuff, throat was suctioned
      and patients were turned into lateral recovery position.

      Isoflurane and nitrous oxide were turned off and 100% oxygen supplemented till the patient
      had regained consciousness. All participants were transported to Post Anesthesia Care Unit
      (PACU) once ensured airway patency and peripheral oxygen saturation (Sp02) greater than 93%
      on room air. Children were allowed to wake up effortlessly in PACU at oxygen 5
      litters/minutes via Hudson mask.

      - The following study variables will be recorded;

        1. Emergence time ( patient awakening time),

        2. Duration of recovery room stay (Post anesthesia care unit),

        3. Smooth Laryngeal Mask Airway removal will be assessed by

             -  Cough,

             -  Hypersalivation,

             -  02 desaturation < 90%,

             -  Teeth clenching,

             -  Airway obstruction requiring jaw support,

             -  Laryngospasm,

             -  Bronchospasm,

             -  Retching,

             -  Vomiting,

        4. Confounding variables will be assessed like;

             -  Patients demographics,

             -  Duration of surgery,

             -  Duration of anesthesia,

             -  Type of surgery,

             -  Mode of analgesia

             -  Number of Laryngeal Mask Airway insertion attempts:
    
  