
    
      Severe burn injury is associated with hypertrophic scarring, which occurs in up to 70% of
      burn patients (Finnerty et al., 2016). Burn scars are particularly troublesome because they
      cause debilitating neuropathic pain and itch, joint contractures and stiffness that limit
      range of motion, inability to sweat, and physical disfigurement of cosmetically sensitive
      areas such as the hands and face.

      Autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is plasma with a higher concentration of platelets, and
      is prepared by drawing up a small amount of a patient's blood, centrifuging it, and
      collecting the platelet-rich layer. Many automated machines exist for doing this process.
      Platelets contain a multitude of growth factors and other small molecules that have been
      shown to promote wound healing and tissue regeneration in a variety of contexts. PRP, which
      is rich in these healing growth factors, has been studied extensively and has proved to be
      both a safe and effective treatment modality for a wide range of applications, including acne
      scars and hair loss (Elghblawi et al., 2018). It has been shown to be a safe and effective
      treatment for some types of surgical and traumatic scars, and has been safely applied to
      acute burn wounds where it has been shown to improve healing and subsequent scarring (Venter
      et al., 2016). Despite these known uses of PRP, its role in reducing the extent and severity
      of mature hypertrophic burn scars after they have already healed is notably lacking in the
      literature.

      The purpose of this study is to assess whether intradermally-injected autologous
      platelet-rich plasma improves the size, texture, color, elasticity, contour, and neuropathic
      pain associated with mature burn scars.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Compare the effectiveness of intradermally-injected autologous platelet-rich plasma
           versus normal saline (NS) to improve burn scars, as measured by both clinician-reported
           (Vancouver scar scale; VSS) and patient-reported measures (Patient and Observer Scar
           Assessment Scale; POSAS).

        2. Compare the effectiveness of intradermally-injected autologous platelet-rich plasma
           versus normal saline as a control to improve neuropathic pain associated with burn
           scars.

        3. Understand the mechanism of action of PRP in improving burn scars via histological
           analysis of collagen content in the burn scar tissue biopsy specimens.
    
  