
    
      The Serum Substudy will assess the levels of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF),
      Soluble HER2 Protein (NRP, neu-related protein) and Vascular Cellular Adhesion Molecule-1
      (VCAM-1) in patients' serum samples at different time points.

      VEGF: Angiogenesis plays a central role in tumor progression of solid neoplasia. The switch
      from the avascular to the vascular phase is generally accompanied by rapid primary tumor
      growth and local invasiveness. Furthermore, angiogenesis is also necessary both at the
      beginning and end of the development of distant metastasis and is implicated in the
      phenomenon of dormant micrometastases. Antiangiogenic peptides may be altered in the serum or
      urine of cancer patients. In a study of 144 breast cancer patients, angiogenic protein basic
      fibroblast growth factor was abnormally elevated in the urine in 29% of cases and in the
      serum in 10%. Another angiogenic protein, vascular endothelial factor (VEGF), was abnormally
      elevated in the serum in over 70% of these breast cancer patients (4). Since platelets bind
      VEGF, platelet values will also be assayed.

      HER2-ECD: No data are available regarding the presence of serum HER2-ECD (NRP) levels in
      c-erbB2 negative tumors, but the extracellular domain of the c-erbB2 oncogene product (NRP)
      is detectable in sera of 30-60% of patients with cerbB2 positive tumors. Many reports have
      correlated the elevated serum levels of the cerbB2 with gene amplification and c-erbB2
      overexpression in tumor. These data support the hypothesis that the level of NRP protein can
      reflect the presence of c-erbB2 positive cells and that modification of the factor can
      predict a decrease of c-erbB2 positive cells during standard adjuvant chemotherapy. Moreover,
      change in the detectable NRP during the maintenance phase can suggest a possible modification
      in the biology and/or behaviour of hypothetic micrometastasis.

      VCAM-1: In tumors, endothelial VCAM-1 play a major role in the adhesion of leukocytes to the
      endothelium, suggesting a relationship between cellular adhesion and angiogenesis. Soluble
      VCAM-1 has been implicated in the mediation of angiogenesis and some studies support the
      hypothesis that VCAM-1 provides surrogate markers for endothelial activation and angiogenesis
      occurring during cancers. Recently, VCAM-1 serum levels have been associated with microvessel
      density and response to endocrine therapy.
    
  