
    
      While the results of primary therapy for Hodgkin's lymphoma are generally excellent, between
      10-20% of patients with advanced stage disease will not enter a complete remission (CR) and
      between 20-30% of patients will relapse after completion of treatment. Salvage chemotherapy
      followed by high dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has become
      the treatment of choice in patients with relapsed or initially chemotherapy-refractory
      disease.

      Although high dose chemotherapy remains a curative option for the treatment of relapsed or
      chemotherapy-refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma, up to 50% of patients will ultimately recur
      post-stem cell transplant and will require further treatment.

      Thalidomide is an agent that has anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenic
      properties. Thalidomide has been shown to have activity in a number of solid and hematologic
      malignancies, and has demonstrated effectiveness in the treatment of refractory multiple
      myeloma. A dose escalation study of single-agent thalidomide has been performed in heavily
      pre-treated patients in which two Hodgkin's patients were enrolled and did not respond to
      treatment. Based on the NCI experience with vinblastine, we initiated a phase II trial
      examining the combination of thalidomide and vinblastine in patients who were being treated
      palliatively for Hodgkin's lymphoma. In a heavily pre-treated group of patients (70% of cases
      having relapsed post-ASCT), a response rate of 40% to the combination was noted with median
      duration of response of over nine months.

      Lenalidomide (Revlimid®) is a thalidomide derivative and the first-in-class novel
      immunomodulatory agent that has more potent activity as well as a more favourable toxicity
      profile than the parent compound. Based on the alterations demonstrated in various cytokines
      and angiogenic markers in patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma, we feel that Lenalidomide's
      immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenic effects make this an ideal drug to study in this
      lymphoma. This will be the first study to assess Lenalidomide in patients with Hodgkin's
      lymphoma.This is a single arm, open-label phase II multi-centre study evaluating the single
      agent activity of Lenalidomide in relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma. The primary
      endpoint is objective response rate (CR + CRu + PR) as determined by International Workshop
      Criteria.

      Initial treatment will consist of lenalidomide 25 mg PO daily given for 21 consecutive days
      (days 1 - 21), with seven days off on a 28 day cycle.Patients with PR, CR or CRu, may
      continue on therapy for 2 cycles past best response.Patients with PD at any time or those
      with evidence of SD after cycle 4 of monotherapy will be eligible to receive treatment with
      dexamethasone 40 mg PO daily on days 1 - 4 and 15 - 18 of a 28 day cycle while continuing
      protocol treatment if they continue to meet the criteria of continuation on therapy.
    
  