
    
      n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, conjugated-linoleic acids and conjugated-linolenic acids
      show interesting effects in the context of health. Indeed, some studies suggest positive
      effects on circulating lipids or inflammation associated with certain disorders such as
      diabetes, following the consumption of these fatty acids.

      However, these fatty acids are not very present in the classic diet. Therefore, we have
      developped hens eggs naturally enriched in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids,
      conjugated-linoleic acids and conjugated-linolenic acids by changing the hens feed.

      This study has two objectives: 1) to check that the daily consumption of two eggs with a
      particular fatty acid pattern rich in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (α-linolenic acid,
      docosahexaenoic acid), conjugated-linoleic acid and conjugated-linolenic acid is well
      tolerated by the consumer ; 2) to evaluate the effects of the consumption of these eggs on
      health parameters in subjects presenting a risk of developing a metabolic disorder.

      To do this, 80 subjects aged 35 to 75, sedentary (<2 hours of physical activity per week) and
      with abdominal obesity (> 94cm for men and> 80cm for women) were recruited and were divided
      into two groups: the control group (12 subjects consuming 2 classic eggs for 3 months per
      day) or the test group (12 subjects consuming 2 eggs enriched in omega per day for 3 months).

      A medical examination with blood sampling was scheduled every month at baseline (Day 0),
      after one month (Day 30), after two months (Day 60) and at the end of the 3 months of
      intervention (Day90). During those visits, the following were monitored: glucose parameters,
      lipids parameters, fatty acid profile of red blood cells and plasma and safety parameters
      related to haematology, kidney and liver functions .

      During these monthly medical visits patients also completed the questionnaires assessing
      intestinal tolerance (visual analogue scale showing 10 gastrointestinal symptoms), satiety
      (visual analog scale questionnaire) and well-being (36 items short form survey). Eating
      habits were monitored using a food diary. Additional parameters were measured only during the
      first and the last visit: coagulation, nutritional status, endothelial function and
      inflammation.
    
  