
    
      Objective:

      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the leading causes of blindness in the United States. A
      frequent manifestation of DR is diabetic macular edema (DME) for which the only proven
      treatment is laser photocoagulation. In the retina, microglia are capable of migrating
      through the retina to sites of inflammation to associate closely with neurons and the
      vasculature, and are key cellular players in the mediation of processes of chronic
      inflammation implicated in DME. For these reasons, microglia represent a promising cellular
      target for forms of therapy that limit the deleterious inflammatory changes found in DR. The
      objective of this study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of dextromethorphan as a
      microglia inhibitor in participants with DME.

      Study Population:

      Eligibility criteria include presence of diabetic retinopathy with retinal thickening due to
      diabetic macular edema within 3000 μm of the center of the macula as measured by optical
      coherence tomography (OCT), and visual acuity better than 20/200 in the study eye.

      Design:

      Five participants will be initially enrolled in this unmasked pilot study. However, up to an
      additional three participants may be enrolled to account for participants who withdraw from
      the study prior to receipt of six months of study treatment. Participants will take an oral
      dose of 60 mg of dextromethorphan twice daily for 24 months. During each visit, participants
      will have their visual acuity measured and will undergo OCT testing to measure retinal
      thickness. Beginning at the Month 4 visit, participants will be assessed for worsening
      disease defined as loss of ≥ 15 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters of
      vision compared to baseline or a ≥ 50% increase in total central retinal thickness as
      measured by OCT. Individual participants deemed to have worsening disease may stay on the
      study and continue to receive study medication, but will be allowed to receive focal laser
      therapy for any amenable leaking microaneurysms and/or anti-vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) intravitreal injections (such as bevacizumab or ranibizumab) at the discretion
      of the treating physician. Additionally, beginning at the Month 6 visit, participants will be
      eligible for treatment, with either focal laser or anti-VEGF injections if they have
      center-involving macular edema.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is the change in retinal thickness measured by OCT at 6 months compared
      to baseline. Secondary outcomes include the change in retinal thickness as measured by OCT at
      12, 18 and 24 months compared to baseline, change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at
      6, 12, 18 and 24 months compared to baseline, change in mean macular sensitivity as measured
      by microperimetry at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months compared to baseline, as well as changes in
      fluid leakage in the macula as demonstrated by fluorescein angiography at 6, 12, 18 and 24
      months compared to baseline. Safety outcomes include the number and severity of systemic and
      ocular toxicities, and adverse events.
    
  