
    
      The Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is a neurobiological chronic disorder,
      symptomatically evolutionary and of probable genetic transmission that affects between 5 and
      10% of the child population.

      The current opinion on the etiology of the disorder focuses on a failure in the development
      of brain circuits in which inhibition and self-control, critical functions to perform any
      task, gets supported. In addition, there is greater evidence of knowledge of the genetic
      influence as a major part of the etiology of ADHD. Studies suggest that ADHD is familiar and
      that genetic influences may contribute to its etiology from moderate to high phenotypic
      expression. Current studies have identified significant associations with several candidate
      genes for this disorder, including DAT1, DRD4, DRD5, 5HTT, HTR1B or SNAP25.

      Meta-analytical studies are needed to develop a more personalized treatment for ADHD. Other
      factors associated with ADHD are inadequate lifestyles by parents, especially during the
      gestation period in the case of the mother. ADHD treatment includes the use of medication and
      psychosocial and educational support

      FOOD, NUTRITION AND ADHD: A NEW PARADIGM OF THERAPY?

      Despite the above, with the use of internet many hypotheses have emerged, not yet proven,
      many in relation to food of patients with ADHD, in which a single focus is exposed as the
      determinant factor: heavy metals; gluten and dairy; additives; or intake of certain
      supplements.

      The truth is that, neuronal function is strongly influenced by substances in the diet, which
      are very important for its functioning. Many micronutrients have been evaluated, including
      mainly vitamins B6, B12, B9, D and E along with some minerals like magnesium, selenium and
      zinc. Their actions are related to memory, neurotransmitter synthesis and neurological
      protection.

      Multiple studies have found magnesium deficiency in patients with ADHD, as reported in
      relation to other nutrients. What has also led to study specifically the use of
      supplementation, in patients with ADHD, with zinc, magnesium, phytochemicals, omega-3
      traditional herbs or mixtures of these elements.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  Main objective:

             -  Rating, by analysis of results, environmental, nutritional and body composition
                factors, which may affect the pathogenesis and symptoms of ADHD patients.

        -  Specific objectives (project sub-lines):

             -  Heritage and programming: assessing the hereditary role, as the main factor for the
                development of ADHD: genetics, nursing, toxic habits in parents and birth
                characteristics.

             -  Diet and physical activity: assessing the role of specific nutrients, eating
                patterns, exercise, sedentary lifestyle, leisure type and cognitive entertainment,
                in the development of ADHD.

             -  Body Composition: assessing body fat accumulation and muscle mass, aspects involved
                in the metabolism of people with ADHD.

      DESIGN

      Cross-sectional study of observational, descriptive and comparative cohort. It consists of
      volunteer participants, divided into two study groups:

        1. cases (ADHD) and

        2. controls (healthy, with no ADHD).

      For the initial design and protocols main databases have been revised (Scielo, PubMed,
      ENBASE...).

      Development: An observational retrospective cohort study.

      Incidental sample: n = 70-100 (approximately 35-50 subjects per group, of the same age
      range).

      Inclusion criteria: both genders, ages 8-16 years.

      Intervention trial. A personalized diet for patients will be performed. After completion of
      the diet, the effect of the intervention on ADHD symptomatology will be measured.
    
  