
    
      The objective of this study is to understand the bioenergetic impairments that underlie
      Parkinson's disease (PD) and evaluating treatments that may improve abnormal mitochondrial
      function that is present in PD. High field - 7 tesla (T) - magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) is able to non-invasively assess for changes in brain energetics and will be used to
      evaluate the effects that repeated oral doses of the mitochondrial enhancer ursodeoxycholic
      acid (UDCA) has on brain bioenergetics derived from MRS measurements. This study will combine
      results obtained using MRS brain scans along with peripheral measurements of bile acids
      (e.g., total UDCA). This research will require at least 2 visits: baseline evaluation and at
      approximately 6 weeks after subjects are on a stable oral dose for 4 weeks. Participants will
      provide their medical history during the first visit, and undergo a physical examination and
      rating scale each visit (duration: ~1 hour) as well as a brain MRI scan (1-1.5 hours). Blood
      will be obtained at both visits to monitor for adverse effects as well as to assess for
      changes in bile acids from orally administered UDCA. If additional funding is obtained we may
      have another visit added between the first and second assessments to obtain additional blood
      measurements and MRS data.

      Since there is extensive animal and cell model data supporting the rationale for a
      therapeutic trial of UDCA in PD, and because MRS methods can non-invasively detect changes in
      brain chemistry we propose a study to evaluate the effects of a 4-6 weeks of high-dose oral
      UDCA on central (brain) and peripheral measures (through MRS and blood measurements,
      respectively) in individuals with PD and healthy controls. The hypothesis and specific aims
      are as follows:

      Hypothesis: Repeated oral dosing of UDCA will result in increased brain ATP levels in
      individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD).

      Specific Aims:

        1. Measure plasma UDCA levels in individuals with PD at baseline and after four weeks of
           repeated high doses of oral UDCA (50mg/kg/day).

        2. Measure cortical bioenergetic profile and ATPase activity (as ascertained through MRS)
           in those with PD at baseline and at four weeks after repeated high doses of oral UDCA
           (50mg/kg/day) simultaneously with Aim 1.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. Characterize oral UDCA pharmacokinetics

        2. Develop a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model to characterize the relationship between
           peripheral measurements of UDCA (and associated conjugates) and peripheral measures
           and/or central (brain) bioenergetic measurements.
    
  