
    
      Postoperative fatigue (POF) is one of the main complaints in approximately 39-80% of CABG
      surgery patients. POF can have a significant impact on an individual's quality of life (QoL)
      and recovery. The objectives are to examine how an oral iron (Feramax®) influences fatigue
      during early postoperative recovery (at three months) among CABG patients and determine the
      effects on recovery outcomes (e.g. QoL, functional capacity, anemia, and medication
      adherence). To achieve these objectives the research will aim to answer the following
      questions:

        1. Is oral iron effective in reducing POF measured by the Identity Consequence Fatigue
           Scale (ICFS) over 12 weeks?

        2. If oral iron is effective, how effective was it on improving fatigue, functional
           capacity, QoL, and anemia?

        3. To what degree do patients taking oral iron adhere to the prescription? A prospective,
           randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled, single-center study was chosen for this
           study. Three hundred participants who are scheduled for an isolated CABG surgery will be
           recruited from the QEII Health Sciences Centre (QEIIHSC), Halifax, Nova Scotia. All
           study participants will be followed for three months following hospital discharge.

      Data will be collected at five time points:

      Time point 1 Baseline -Patients are screened in the preadmission clinic or nursing unit and
      recruited for the study. During this visit, the patient will be assessed for eligibility,
      demographic data and blood work collected and three questionnaires and six minute walk test
      completed by participants.

      Time point 2 Discharge/Randomization-Patients will be randomized to either FeraMAX® or
      placebo at hospital discharge. The treatment will be taken once daily for 84 days starting
      Day 1 (day after discharge from hospital). The questionnaires, six minute walk test and blood
      work will be repeated.

      Time point 3 -Post testing 7 to 14 days post discharge A follow up telephone call to reminder
      patients to take medications and fill put side effects diary

      Time Point 4 Six week Follow up-Blood work will be collected and three questionnaires and six
      minute walk test completed by participants.

      Time Point 5-End of treatment-The questionnaires, six minute walk test, blood work, collect
      side effects diary and pill count will be repeated during a clinic visit.

      Fatigue will be measured with the ICFS and Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Anemia(
      FACT-An) questionnaire. The Short Form-36 is used to measure QoL and the six minute walk test
      to measure functional capacity. Standard of care laboratory tests including (hemoglobin (Hgb)
      level, reticulocyte count, ferritin, iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC), transferrin
      saturation, and C-Reactive Protein levels will be drawn. Medication adherence to the will be
      assessed by pill count.

      The primary endpoint will be analyzed using ANOVA for repeated measures to compare level of
      fatigue of two groups at baseline, discharge, six weeks and 12 weeks. For the secondary
      endpoint, a subgroup analysis will be performed and reported on participants with and without
      iron- deficiency anemia to determine if any efficacy of iron on POF is restricted to this
      population or to a more general population post CABG surgery. Results will be reported using
      mean and standard deviation when appropriate and median (interquartile range) for
      nonparametric data. Categorical variables will be compared using Fisher exact test or t test
      when appropriate. Level of significance was set at p < 0.05.

      Oral iron is inexpensive and effective treatment for iron deficiency that occurs from
      surgical blood loss. Currently there is no specific drug used to treat POF. Standard of care
      for POF consists of treating and eliminating the underlying symptoms.
    
  