
    
      The aim is primary mechanistic i.e. we want to investigate if a clear change in negative
      metacognitions in one group (internet-based metacognitive therapy; I-MCT) relative to another
      (waiting list) mediates subsequent reductions in worry.

      Our hypotheses are the following:

        1. I-MCT reduces both negative metacognitions (Beliefs about uncontrollability and danger
           of worry) and worry from baseline to week 10,

        2. reductions in negative metacognitions will significantly mediate subsequent reductions
           in worry.

           Additionally we hypothesize that patients who score low at baseline in negative
           metacognitions will not show this process pattern i.e.

        3. patients who score low at baseline in negative metacognitions will benefit less from
           treatment (moderator hypothesis)

           and consequently

        4. will not show the same mediation response as stipulated in hypothesis 2 (moderated
           mediator hypothesis).

      Trial Design: Randomized controlled trial with waitlist control. Duration: Ten weeks Primary
      Endpoint: Change in worry symptoms and negative metacognitions from baseline to Week 10. Long
      term follow-up is also investigated (baseline to 6-months after treatment completion and
      baseline to 12-months after treatment completion).

      Efficacy Parameters: Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ) and the negative metacognitions
      subscale (negative beliefs about uncontrollability of thoughts and danger) of the
      Meta-Cognitions Questionnaire 30 items.

      Safety Parameters: Adverse Events is assessed at week 10.

      Description of Trial Subjects: Patients > 18 years old with a PSWQ score more than 56 points
      Number of Subjects: Anticipated 140

      Analysis plan:

      To address the hypotheses in the study growth modeling analysis using the
      expectation-maximization algorithm and maximum-likelihood estimation will be employed. The
      treatment effect on negative metacognitions and worry will examined by comparing average
      growth rates between treatment and control group over the assessment period. Growth modeling
      for longitudinal mediation will be employed to test (a) the overall mediated effect on worry
      using individual trajectories of change on the proposed mediator (i.e., negative
      metacognitions) and outcome (i.e., worry), and (b) mediated baseline by treatment moderation
      effect using the initial assessment of negative metacognitions as the moderator of the
      indirect (i.e., mediated) and direct effect of treatment. Competing mediator is depressive
      symptoms using the PHQ-2.
    
  