
    
      Paravertebral Blocks and General Anesthesia The use of a paravertebral block involves
      injecting local anesthesia (a numbing medicine) into the patient's back to numb specific
      areas (the breast[s] for this study) for surgery.

      General anesthesia is medicine that is used to put patients to sleep so that there is no
      feeling of pain.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an equal (50/50) chance of being
      assigned to either group.

      Participants in one group will receive a paravertebral block (the local anesthetic
      ropivacaine) plus general anesthesia.

      Participants in the other group will receive general anesthesia (propofol, desflurane, and
      fentanyl) without a paravertebral block.

      Drug Administration:

      If you are assigned to receive the paravertebral block plus general anesthesia, you will have
      a paravertebral block placed just before surgery begins. Ropivacaine will be given by
      injection into the paravertebral space along the spinal canal.

      If you are assigned to receive general anesthesia without a paravertebral block, you will be
      given propofol, desflurane, and fentanyl by vein over 1-4 hours during surgery.

      Participants in both groups will receive promethazine, famotidine, and dexamethasone at the
      start of surgery to help decrease or eliminate nausea and vomiting that may occur after
      surgery.

      Follow-up:

      After your surgery is complete, before you leave the hospital, you will have the following
      evaluations:

        -  You will be asked how you are feeling so that the study doctor can determine how much
           medication you may need for pain and nausea as well as how long your hospital stay may
           need to be. You may be given fentanyl and dilaudid for pain and ondansetron and
           promethazine for nausea.

        -  You will also be asked about your satisfaction with the anesthesia. You will be asked
           these questions within the first hour, between 1 and 3 hours, and between 3 and 6 hours
           after surgery. Once you are discharged from the hospital, study staff will contact you
           by phone or talk with you when you return for a visit (at 18 -22 hours and 1 week after
           surgery) to ask these questions. It will take about 3-5 minutes to ask these questions
           each time.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after the 1 week follow-up telephone call.

      This is an investigational study. Paravertebral blocks and general anesthesia are FDA
      approved and commercially available. Up to 89 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  