
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Nab-paclitaxel is designed to block cancer cells from dividing, which may cause the cancer
      cells to die.

      Gemcitabine is designed to disrupt the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells
      to die.

      Bevacizumab is designed to block the growth of blood vessels that supply the nutrients needed
      for tumor growth, which may prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells. Bevacizumab is
      no longer FDA approved to treat breast cancer.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine based on when you join this study.
      Up to 6 dose levels of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine will be tested. All participants will
      receive the same dose level of bevacizumab, regardless of when you join the study. Between
      3-6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of participants will
      receive the lowest dose level of the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in
      combination with bevacizumab. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group before
      it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable
      dose of the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine given in combination with
      bevacizumab is found.

      Once the highest tolerable dose is found, up to 12 additional participants receive this dose.
      This is called the expansion group.

      Catheter Placement:

      On Day 1 of each 21-day study cycle, a catheter (a sterile, flexible tube) will be placed
      into a large artery that carries blood to the liver in your groin area, on the right side of
      the body. The area where the catheter will be placed will first be numbed with local
      anesthetic. The catheter will be taped in place to prevent it from moving or coming out while
      you are receiving nab-paclitaxel. You will lie flat on your back while receiving the study
      drug, and you will be on bedrest until the catheter is removed.

      The doctor who performs the catheter placement procedure will explain it to you in more
      detail, and you will be asked to sign a separate consent form that describes the catheter
      placement procedure and its risks in more detail.

      After the catheter is in place, you will receive heparin, a drug that is used to help prevent
      blood clots. Heparin will be started as soon as the catheter is placed and will continue for
      up to 2 hours.

      The catheter will be removed right after you receive nab-paclitaxel. While the catheter is
      being removed, the study staff will apply pressure to your groin area for 15 minutes in order
      to stop the bleeding. The catheter will be in place for about 1 hour, or until the
      nab-paclitaxel administration is complete.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Nab-paclitaxel will be given through the catheter into the artery that carries blood to your
      liver nonstop for 1 hour starting on Day 1 of each cycle. If the study doctor thinks it is
      needed, you will be given drugs by vein to lower the risk of nausea before each dose as part
      of your standard, routine care.

      Gemcitabine will be given by vein over 1 hour on Days 1 and 8 of each cycle.

      Bevacizumab will be given by vein on Day 1 of each cycle. The first time you receive
      bevacizumab, it will be given over 90 minutes. If you tolerate it well, the rest of the doses
      will be given over 30-60 minutes.

      If you do not tolerate the study drug combination well, the doses that you receive may be
      lowered. If you experience certain side effects, the study drug doses may be delayed and that
      study cycle may last longer than 21 days.

      Starting at least 24 hours after the you receive the study drug on Day 1, you will receive
      Neupogen® (filgrastim) through a needle injected under the skin. You will continue to receive
      filgrastim for 3 days (Days 2-4). Filgrastim is being given to help prevent possible side
      effects related to the other study drugs.

      Study Visits:

      You will stay in the hospital for up to 7 days (Days 1-7 of each cycle) at the beginning of
      each cycle, until you recover from any side effects that you may experience. You will be seen
      by a doctor or "advanced practice" nurse every day while you are in the hospital to check on
      how you are recovering.

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to test your blood's ability
           to clot, and tumor marker testing.

      On Day 2 of each cycle:

      -You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      Every 2 cycles, or at any time the study doctor thinks it is needed, women who are able to
      become pregnant will have a urine pregnancy test. To remain on this study, the pregnancy test
      must be negative.

      At the end of every 2 cycles (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on), or at any time the study doctor
      thinks it is needed, a chest x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan and/or PET/CT scan will be
      performed to check the status of the disease. After 10 cycles of study drug treatment, you
      may have scans every 3 cycles instead of 2 cycles, if your doctor feels that this is in your
      best interest. If the study doctor thinks it is better for you, other types of scans that
      have not been listed here may be performed.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      Six (6) weeks after the last dose of the study drug combination, or if you stop taking the
      study drug combination for any reason, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to test your blood's
           ability to clot.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, a chest x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan
           and/or PET/CT scan will be performed to check the status of the disease. If the study
           doctor thinks it is better for you, other types of scans that have not been listed here
           may be performed.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug combination for as long as the doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets
      worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Nab-paclitaxel is FDA approved and commercially available
      when given by vein for the treatment of breast cancer.

      Gemcitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of pancreatic
      cancer, breast cancer that is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body), non-small
      cell lung cancer (NSCL), and ovarian cancer. Bevacizumab is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, NSCL, and a type of brain cancer
      called glioblastoma multiforme.

      Giving nab-paclitaxel into an artery that carries blood directly into the liver is
      investigational. Using the study drug combination for treating advanced cancer that has
      spread to the liver is investigational.

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  