
    
      Infective Endocarditis is still associated with high mortality (16-25%) and high incidence of
      embolic events (10-49%), and the optimal therapeutic strategy remains unclear. The benefit of
      surgery was particularly high in patients with abscess formation, periannular complications,
      and moderate to severe heart failure related to acute mitral or aortic regurgitation.
      Retrospective studies reported that valve surgery was associated with improved survival, but
      the benefit of early surgery has not been adequately studied due to inherent treatment biases
      and significant differences in baseline characteristics. Embolic indications for surgery are
      more controversial, and surgery is usually performed in cases of recurrent emboli and persist
      vegetations despite appropriate antibiotic treatment. The combined risk of early surgery and
      valve prosthesis needs to be balanced against the potential benefit of preventing embolism
      and improving survival. Risk-benefit balance changes recently to favor early surgery in
      patients with high embolic risk of endocarditis for the following reasons. Identification of
      patients with high risk of embolism becomes possible with the use of transesophageal
      echocardiography. Patients with vegetation length > 10 mm on transesophageal echocardiography
      have a significantly higher risk of embolization. With advances in surgical technique, urgent
      surgery is feasible with low operative mortality, and the success rate of valve repair has
      been increased.

      To the best of our knowledge, there have been no prospective outcome studies comparing early
      surgery with the conventional treatment strategy based on current guidelines. The purpose of
      this multi-center, prospective, randomized trial is to compare clinical outcomes of early
      surgery versus conventional treatment strategy in patients with high embolic risks of
      infective endocarditis.
    
  