
    
      Behavioral abnormalities, ranging from autistic symptoms to anxiety and mood lability, are
      now recognized as major clinical issues in RTT. These clinical manifestations are
      particularly problematic in higher functioning individuals since they seem to substantially
      affect their quality of life. Moreover, novel drug treatments aiming at RTT's neurobiological
      mechanisms have the potential of targeting these abnormal behaviors. Despite the recent
      emphasis on abnormal behaviors, little is known about their characteristics, severity, and
      impact. This is due, in part, to the paucity of behavioral measures compatible with the
      cognitive and motor impairments of RTT. The investigators currently have only one instrument
      with limited validation for delineating the range of behavioral abnormalities in RTT (the
      parent-rated Rett Syndrome Behavioral Questionnaire (RSBQ)), which is a significant
      shortcoming to the implementation of treatment trials. Moreover, there has not been a
      systematic approach for defining behavioral abnormalities in RTT (e.g., definition of mood
      abnormalities in RTT). These deficiencies have led the investigators to propose the creation
      of a broad-based behavioral outcome measure for use in RTT at different ages. Due to the
      complexity of the clinical evolution of RTT and the relative limited knowledge on its adult
      period, the investigators will focus on children with RTT ages 3-18 years. The new measure
      will allow for standardized quantifications of behavioral outcomes in treatment trials and,
      eventually, in clinical practice. The investigators recognize that developing an instrument
      with strong psychometric properties is a major endeavor; therefore, the investigators
      conceived this project as a multi-stage process.

      The first stage, conducted with support of Rettsyndrome.org, consisted of developing a
      prototype or first version of a behavioral questionnaire for parents of children with RTT
      (3-18 years), which the investigators have termed RettBe 1.0. The initial part of this study
      will test the psychometric properties (i.e., structure, content validity) of RettBe 1.0 with
      an initial cohort of 100 participants. This stage intends to transform RettBe 1.0 into a
      fully developed behavioral instrument within the framework of the Natural History Study
      (RTT5211). Thus, in Aim 1 the investigators will evaluate psychometrically RettBe 1.0
      following, in part, previous studies including their examination of anxiety instruments and
      adaptation of the Anxiety, Depression and Mood Scale (ADAMS) for RTT, and their adaptations
      of the Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Community (ABC-C) for fragile X syndrome and Down
      syndrome. In Aim 1, they will also refine RettBe 1.0 by adding new "missing" items based on
      parental input or clinician (PIs of sites involved) feedback. The resulting instrument,
      RettBe 2.0 will be tested in Aim 2.

      Testing of RettBe 2.0 will be carried out with a new (naïve) validation cohort of 300
      subjects and two raters (preferentially both parents/caregivers, alternatively one teacher or
      therapist), to determine inter-rater reliability. One rater, preferentially a parent, will be
      asked to also complete three other behavioral measures (RSBQ, ADAMS, ABC-C) for comparisons.
      Scores for RettBe 2.0 will be analyzed in terms of psychometric properties, as performed for
      RettBe 1.0. However, in addition to structure (construct validity) and content validity, the
      investigators will also examine convergent and discriminant validity by correlating domain
      RettBe 2.0 scores with those of comparable and non-comparable domain scores of the RSBQ,
      ADAMS, and ABC-C, respectively.

      Finally, Aim 3 will use data from the RTT5211 protocol to determine the effect of age on
      RettBe 2.0 scores and the clinical and functional significance of the measure. Specifically,
      the investigators will examine score distributions throughout the age range, with special
      emphasis on early childhood (3-8 years), late childhood (8-12 years), and adolescence (>12
      years). Clinical and functional relevance will be determined by correlations with instruments
      measuring multiple parameters of clinical severity, specifically, the CGI-S, Clinical
      Severity Scale, and Motor Behavior Assessment. Relevance to quality of life will be evaluated
      by correlations with the Child Health Questionnaire-Parent Form 50 (CHQ-PF50; child-oriented
      measure) and The Short Form (36) Health Survey (SF-36v2TM Health Survey; parent-oriented
      measure). All these instruments are components of the core RTT5211 protocol. Finally, prior
      to its release as RettBe 3.0 (if psychometric properties are good-excellent), the
      investigators will obtain input from a panel of clinicians (site PIs and their designated
      clinicians) about content validity and clinical impact.
    
  