
    
      All infants born before 32 weeks of gestation or weighing <1500 g and admitted to the
      Neonatal intensive care unit of the University Hospital Center Rijeka will be included into
      the study. The investigators will collect data from the neonatal period, including:
      gestational age, sex, birth weight, Apgar score at 1 and 5 minutes, socioeconomic status and
      Clinical Risk Index for Babies scoring system (CRIB II). Blood glucose levels will be
      measured at 3rd, 12th, and 18th hour after birth on the first day of life, and from the 2nd
      to the 7th day of life blood glucose levels will be measured once a day. According to the
      blood glucose concentrations infants will be divided into normoglycemic group and group with
      disturbed glucose concentration. The relationship between glycemia category and 2-year
      outcomes will be investigated. In the corrected age of two years neurodevelopmental outcome
      will be assessed. Certified psychologists will assess cognitive, motor and language
      development with the Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development (Bayley III). Bayley III
      scales are standardized to a mean (SD) score of 100. Pediatric neurologists or pediatrics
      will examine the children and will estimate the neuromotor function. Cognitive, motor and
      language development were considered normal if the composite score on the respective
      Bayley-III score was ≥mean -1SD; mildly impaired if the score was < -1 SD and ≥ -2 SD;
      moderately impaired if the score was <-2 SD and ≥3 SD; and severely impaired if the score was
      < mean -3SD.

      Cerebral palsy (CP) was evaluated according to the European Cerebral Palsy Network
      definition. The severity of CP was classified as mild in children who were able to walk
      without an aid, moderate in children able to walk with an aid, and severe in children who
      were unable to walk even with an aid.

      Children unable to fixate and follow a light with either eye were considered bilaterally
      blind. Children registered at low-vision centers without blindness were recorded as having
      moderate visual impairment. Severe auditory impairment was defined as hearing loss that could
      not be corrected with a hearing aid and moderate auditory impairment was defined as hearing
      loss corrected with a hearing aid.

      The overall outcome was categorized as normal, mild, moderate or severe impairment. Mild
      impairment was defined as scores between -1and -2 standard deviations from the mean of any of
      the Bayley-III scales or mild CP. Moderate impairment was defined as scores between -2and -3
      standard deviations from the mean of any of the Bayley-III scales, moderate CP, or moderate
      visual or hearing impairment. Severe impairment was defined as scores between < mean -3
      standard deviations of any of the Bayley-III scales, severe CP, or bilateral blindness or
      deafness.
    
  