
    
      Hip fractures are considered one of the major health problems in aging societies . These
      fractures are correlated with increased disability and mortality and a decreased quality of
      life . Early mobilization of patients with these fractures is essential to improve fracture
      healing, minimize immediate postsurgical morbidity, and reduce care costs. One essential
      prerequisite for early mobilization is mechanically stable fracture fixation . Nowadays, most
      hip fractures are treated by extramedullary or intramedullary implants, which allow a stable
      fixation in the majority of cases

      A dynamic hip screw (DHS) is the most commonly used implant for intertrochanteric fractures .
      Load bearing in the proximal femur is predominantly through the intact calcar femoral; the
      lever arm of the laterally placed plate is increased, thus, there is a risk of implant cutout
      if the calcar is not intact .

      Biomechanically, compared with a laterally fixed side plate, an intramedullary device
      decreases the bending force of the hip joint on the implant by 25-30%. This has advantages
      especially in elderly patients, in whom the primary treatment goal is immediate full
      weight-bearing mobilization.

      It has been postulated that cephalomedullary nails have an advantage over DHS fixation
      because of the load-bearing axis being closer to the hip joint fulcrum, and also less blood
      loss, minimal tissue dissection, shorter operation time, and faster ambulation after surgery
      . However, other studies have reported that fixation with DHS is better . One of the major
      drawbacks discovered with the use of the gamma nail is a higher reoperation rate as a result
      of new fracture around the implant . In this study, we present our results for the treatment
      of trochentric fractures using a gamma nail in terms of the outcome, drawbacks, and possible
      complications.
    
  