
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. The first 3 or 6 participants will receive a lower
      dose of ipilimumab. If there are no intolerable side effects, then the second group of 6
      participants will receive a higher dose of ipilimumab.

      All study participants will receive the same dose level of cyclophosphamide and the CD4+T
      cells.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive cyclophosphamide by vein over about 30-60 minutes on Day -2 (2 days before
      you receive the CD4+T cells). If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will be given standard
      drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for information
      about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      On Day 0, you will receive the CD4+T cells by vein over about 30-60 minutes. You will stay in
      the hospital overnight after the dose.

      On Days 1, 22, 43, and 64, you will receive ipilimumab by vein over about 90 minutes.

      Study Visits:

      Within 2-4 weeks before you receive the CD4+T cells:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests, and
           tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

        -  You will have a computed tomography (CT) scan or x-rays to check the status of the
           disease.

      On Day -2:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw will
           include a pregnancy test if you can become pregnant.

      On Day 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Days 0, 7, 14, 22, 28, 35, 43, 49, and 56:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests, and
           tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

      On Day 3, blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests,
      and tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

      Between Day 35 and 42 and again between Day 77 and 84, you will have a CT scan or x-rays to
      check the status of the disease.

      The study tests may be repeated or you may have additional tests performed anytime the doctor
      thinks it is needed.

      Some of the study tests may be done at your local clinic if you cannot return to MD Anderson.
      The study staff will discuss this with you.

      Length of Study Drug Dosing:

      Your last study drug dose will be on Day 64. You will no longer be able to take the study
      drugs if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up.

      End-of-Study-Drug-Dosing Visit:

      On Day 64:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests, and
           tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

      Follow-Up:

      On Days 70, 77, 84, 105, 126, 147, and 168:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, immune system tests, and
           tests on how long the T-cells survive in your body.

      Every 3 months after Day 84, unless the disease gets worse or you start another cancer
      therapy, you will have a CT scan or x-rays to check the status of the disease. Every 3 months
      for up to 5 years, the study staff will call you or ask your doctor how you are doing. If you
      are called, the calls should last about 10-15 minutes.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed to confirm the status of the disease, blood (about 1½
      tablespoons) will be drawn every 3 months for up to 1 year.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will return to the clinic every 4-6 weeks starting
      after Day 168 or as often as the doctor thinks is needed. These visits will stop if the
      T-cells disappear or if the disease gets worse. Blood (about 5½ tablespoons) will be drawn
      for routine tests, immune system tests, and tests on how long the T-cells survive in your
      body.

      This is an investigational study. CD4+T cells are not FDA approved or commercially available.
      They are currently being used for research purposes only. Cyclophosphamide is FDA approved
      and commercially available for the way it is being used in this study. Ipilimumab is FDA
      approved and commercially available for the treatment of melanoma, but not for sarcoma. The
      study doctor can explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 12 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  