
    
      The objective of our research is to determine whether the synchrotron is an effective tool
      for imaging human ovaries ex situ. Approximately 1 in every 6 women in Canada is affected by
      infertility; however, the underlying causes remain largely unknown. Imaging techniques are
      essential for increasing our understanding of normal and abnormal female reproductive
      biology. At present, ultrasonography is the most commonly-used tool to image human ovaries.
      However, ultrasonography only allows the detection of structures ≥ 2 mm in size within the
      ovaries, limiting the ability to detect smaller anatomic details (eg. the eggs and the
      surrounding cells and 'follicles' or the small fluid filled sacs that contain the eggs).
      Other limitations of ultrasonography for imaging the ovaries include a limited depth of
      penetration within the pelvis and the inability to see the ovaries clearly due to bowel
      activity and/or gas.

      The synchrotron has been effectively used for imaging soft tissues, including the breast,
      heart and lungs. We hypothesize that the synchrotron will provide greater resolution for
      imaging the ovaries compared to conventional ultrasonography. Specifically, we anticipate
      that synchrotron imaging will provide greater structural details of the ovaries (including
      small follicles <2 mm and eggs) compared to conventional ultrasonography.

      The study will consist of three different phases listed below:

        -  Phase 1 - Imaging of 10 fresh and preserved bovine ovaries

        -  Phase 2 - Imaging of 5 preserved human ovaries from the Department of Pathology

        -  Phase 3 - Imaging of 2-4 fresh human ovaries from women having their ovaries surgically
           removed

      The initial imaging of bovine ovaries will help us determine the best synchrotron settings to
      image the human samples. All ovaries will be preserved using formaldehyde. In all 3 study
      phases, ovarian specimens will be imaged first with 2D and 3D ultrasonography and then with
      the Biomedical Imaging and Therapy Beamline (BMIT) at the Canadian Light Source. Furthermore,
      histologic sections of structures of interest within the ovaries will be made, and digital
      images will be acquired.

      We believe that synchrotron imaging of human ovaries ex situ will be an important first step
      to develop future high-resolution tools for imaging reproductive tissues in situ.
    
  