
    
      1. BACKGROUND The ABC study (NCT02374242) is a phase II clinical trial recruiting 3 cohorts
           of patients with melanoma brain metastases. 76 patients received immunotherapy with
           either nivolumab alone or nivolumab combined with ipilimumab. Nivolumab together with
           ipilimumab was shown to be more effective than nivolumab alone in melanoma brain
           metastases. The combination will therefore be used in this trial.

           Findings from pre-clinical and clinical research provides evidence supporting the
           ability of radiotherapy to induce anti-tumour immune responses and augment the efficacy
           of anti-PD1 checkpoint blockade in melanoma and provide mechanistic rationale for
           combined therapy.

        2. STUDY DESIGN This current protocol builds on the ABC study and will assess clinical,
           functional, toxicities and quality of life outcomes with the combined modalities of
           immunotherapy with radiotherapy to the brain in melanoma patients.

           The main aim of this study will be to assess the effect of immunotherapy +/- concurrent
           stereotactic radiotherapy (SRS) on the intracranial death rate at 12 months from the
           commencement of treatment. Secondary aims include the RECIST response in the brain,
           extracranially and overall, progression free survival, overall survival, neurocognitive
           function, adverse event rates and quality of life.

           The study will recruit 218 patients with asymptomatic, untreated melanoma brain
           metastases. All patients will be treated with combination ipilimumab and nivolumab at
           the doses and duration approved by worldwide regulatory authorities for advanced
           melanoma. All patients will undergo the the SRS treatment planning MRI of the brain
           PRIOR to randomisation to ensure that the timing of the baseline intracranial
           measurements are made within a similar timeframe and so that the delineation of tumour
           volume is accurately recorded in the same way for both cohorts. Patents will be
           randomised to receive concurrent intracranial SRS (within 7 days of the baseline /
           planning MRI scan) or immunotherapy alone. At intracranial disease progression, any form
           of salvage local therapy (radiotherapy or surgery) may be administered to either cohort.

           Randomisation is 1:1, using a permuted, random block design with stratification by
           participating centre, LDH (normal / elevated), BRAF (mutant / wild type), 1-2 brain
           metastases versus > 2 brain metastases.

        3. PRIMARY OUTCOME The neurological specific death rate at 12 months - defined as a
           proximate cause of death which is a sign, symptom, or diagnosis related to metastatic
           brain disease.

        4. OBJECTIVE RESPONSES A modified version of RECIST will be used to assess response to
           treatment. The modification allows for up to 5 brain metastastes to be selected as
           target lesions and a further 5 extracranial lesions. The immune related response
           criteria (irRC) will also be applied and concordance evaluated with RECIST. The irRC
           measures the volume of tumour lesions by calculating bi-dimensional measurements of
           target lesions.

        5. NEUROCOGNITIVE ASSESSMENT, FUNCTION AND QUALITY OF LIFE Neurocognitive impairment is a
           concern in the setting of radiotherapy delivered for brain metastases. The addition of
           immunotherapy for enhanced local disease control and survival may augment the risks.
           Quality of life (QoL) assessment is therefore an important objective in clinical trials
           studying the effects of new interventions, where side effects and tolerability are as
           important as clinical benefit.

           Neurocognitive function will be assessed at baseline and every 6 to 12 weeks using the
           Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and a neurological assessment of the patient. A
           member of the study team will be nominated to conduct the MoCA to allow for consistency
           of delivery of the examination. The MoCA measures six cognitive domains:
           visuospatial/executive function; naming; memory; language; abstraction; and attention.
           To decrease the learning effect from multiple administrations of the MoCA over a short
           period of time, alternate versions have been made available.

           The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) questionnaires are commonly used to
           assess cancer-related QoL issues. The FACT-Brain (FACT-Br) module provides an additional
           set of disease-specific questions pertaining to brain neoplasms and is completed by the
           patient.

           Neurological assessments wil be made using the structured NANO scale at each physical
           examination - each neurological domain is subdivided into 3 or 4 levels of function with
           scores based on discrete quantifiable measures. Thus, levels of function for each domain
           range from 0 to 2 or 0 to 3. A score of 0 indicates normal function, while the highest
           score indicates the most severe level of deficit for that domain. Levels of function are
           distinguished by significant and measurable differences in order to avoid
           misinterpretation of subtle or nonspecific changes.

           The EORTC QLQ-C30, an internationally validated cancer-specific QOL-instrument, assesses
           various facets of functioning, symptoms common in cancer patients and global QOL. The
           Brain Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ-BN20 is a 20-item supplement for the QLQ-C30 to assess
           neurological related quality of life and neurological symptoms and is being utilised in
           the main ABC study. Among the symptoms captured by neurocognitive tests are
           communication deficits and memory problems. In these cases, a patient-rated QoL tool may
           not capture the true effects of the disease or the intervention to treat it. Both C30
           and BN20 modules have been validated for assessing health-related quality of life and
           symptoms in patients with brain cancer.

           General health status will also be measured using the EQ-5D. The EQ-5D is a standardized
           instrument for use as a measure of self-reported health status. The EQ-5D comprises 5
           dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety) and a
           visual analogue rating scale (VAS). The utility data generated from the EQ-5D is
           commonly used in cost effectiveness analyses.

        6. TOXICITY AND TOLERABILITY Adverse events will be reported using the CTCAE version 5.0 in
           addition to causality, duration, treatment required and the need for treatment delays or
           discontinuation. Radionecrosis is an event of clinical interest and will be captured
           separately.

        7. CORRELATIVE BLOOD AND TISSUE BIOMARKER STUDIES Some patients may not benefit from
           radiation therapy and immunotherapy combinations. Therefore, biomarkers predictive of
           response. or the lack of it are needed. Extensive correlative analyses of tumoural and
           peripheral blood immunologic changes will be essential to a better understanding of the
           mechanistic interactions between these 2 treatment modalities. The differential
           composition of the gut microbiome has been shown to affect antitumor immunity and
           immunotherapy efficacy and will also be correlated with response and toxicity.

           To address this, blood, tissue, stool and urine samples will be obtained. Blood will be
           collected at baseline, at 1 week of treatment and then 6 to 12 weekly to examine serum
           chemokines, cytokines, inflammatory markers, lymphocyte and T cell subsets and myeloid
           derived suppressor cells and to assess correlation with disease response or progression.
           All Cohorts will be included in this study.

           In patients with sufficient archival melanoma tissue from metastatic sites, a baseline
           tumour PD-L1 level, immune markers and genetics of response and resistance will also be
           measured. If available, tumour tissue following progression of accessible extracranial
           disease and / or craniotomy will also be tested for immune and genetic markers.

           Stool samples will be obtained at baseline, at weeks 6 and 12 and at the end of
           immunotherapy to investigate the gut microbiome composition, diversity and abundance and
           correlation with the response to immunotherapy and immune-related gastrointestinal
           toxicity. A baseline evaluation of participants' dietary habits will also be included in
           these analyses.

           A reduction in intestinal barrier function is currently believed to play an important
           role in pathogenesis of many diseases, response to immunotherapy and immune related
           toxicity. Urinary excretion of two orally-administered non-metabolizable sugars,
           lactulose and mannitol, is a valuable marker for evaluating intestinal permeability.
           Patients will collect a urine specimen at baseline to assess this biomarker.

        8. CONTINUED SYSTEMIC TREATMENT IN CASES OF PROGRESSIVE DISEASE

           The application of traditional RECIST criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid
           Tumors) in patients treated with immunotherapy may lead to premature discontinuation of
           treatment in a patient who will eventually respond to treatment or have prolonged
           disease stabilization. Disease progression may occur in extracranial lesions whilst
           patients may continue to have disease stabilisation or response of their intracranial
           melanoma disease, and vice versa. The patterns of response to treatment with these
           immunotherapy agents differ from those with molecularly targeted agents or cytotoxic
           chemotherapy in several important respects:

             -  Patients may have a transient worsening of disease, manifested either by
                progression of known lesions or the appearance of new lesions, before disease
                stabilizes or tumour regresses. Therefore caution should be taken in abandoning
                therapy early. In general these delayed responses are not observed in patients with
                rapidly progressive, symptomatic disease.

             -  Responses can take appreciably longer to become apparent compared with cytotoxic
                therapy. Continued disease regression is frequently observed well after completion
                of the initial induction period.

             -  Some patients who do not meet traditional criteria for objective response can have
                prolonged periods of stable disease that are clinically significant.

           An evaluation of data from ipilimumab phase II clinical trials in advanced melanoma
           found patients characterized as PD at week 12 (by WHO criteria), either by an increase
           in tumour burden and/or the appearance of new lesions, subsequently experienced an
           objective response or SD (relative to baseline) without the addition of non-ipilimumab
           anticancer therapy. Examination of biopsies taken from patients receiving ipilimumab
           demonstrated that in some small unmeasurable lesions noted at baseline, an increase in
           size may be interpreted as PD, when instead, this may be due to inflammation due to T
           cell infiltration.

        9. CONTINUED TREATMENT WITH NIVOLUMAB Patients who are found to have RECIST defined
           intracranial or extracranial progression (or both) from 6 weeks onwards, and who do not
           have clinical signs or symptoms of progression, may continue on nivolumab and must have
           a confirmatory scan within 4 to 6 weeks. The date of the original assessment of
           progression will be used to record progression, and not the date of the confirmatory
           imaging. Continued immunotherapy treatment is permitted if the treating clinician
           determines that the patient is still clinically benefiting from immunotherapy and the
           patient is willing to continue drug treatment. Consideration may be given to stable or
           good response extra- or intra- cranially with concurrent progression in the other as a
           scenario that may warrant further treatment.

      There is growing evidence that patients may not need to be treated with immunotherapies
      indefinitely, or even for as long as the two years commonly studied in clinical trials.
      Rather, shorter courses of treatment may be just as effective and provide an option for
      retreatment should a patient progress after coming off a defined period of therapy. Patients
      who receive 2 years of immunotherapy have the option to cease treatment at this stage, with
      an option for a rechallenge of immunotherapy at the time of disease progression, if this
      occurs with 2 years of initial cessation.
    
  