
    
      Introduction

      Gambling disorder is a public health problem characterized by persistent and recurrent
      maladaptive patterns of gambling. A prevalence rate was 0.4-2.0% worldwide. In Japan,
      gambling is common: the prevalence rate of disordered gamblers is estimated to be 5.5% of
      adults.Gambling disorder resulted in clinical and subclinical harms, which are depression,
      suicidal behaviors, legal involvement, occupational/ educational disruptions, financial and
      interpersonal difficulties.

      Some psychological treatment studies indicate a benefit of active treatments compared to no
      treatment or wait-list control conditions. On the other hand, the accumulated evidence seems
      to suggest that interventions based on the CBT produce the most favorable
      outcomes.Nevertheless CBT is not yet recognized as a standard treatment for gambling
      disorder. What is the therapeutic insufficiency in CBT for gambling disorder? The fundamental
      aim of CBT, especially cognitive therapy for gambling disorder is to identify and correct
      irrational and unrealistic beliefs postulated to contribute to excessive gambling, which is
      usually the control over the outcome regardless of the randomness. However, although majority
      of disordered gamblers already understand that this belief is theoretically irrational, they
      cannot quit problem gambling. For recovery they may need not only cognitive changes in
      illusions of control but also motivated inner power such as desires.

      Therefore the investigators assumed that disordered gamblers could not quit or control
      gambling because their original desires which had constructed pathological craving for
      gambling had not been satisfied. Namely most important erroneous beliefs for which the
      investigators should target in CBT are ones concerning not the nature of gambling itself but
      original desires. The investigators thought this hypothesis focused on original desire with
      reference to the studies of natural recovery process.

      In this study, in order to reveal the efficiency of this intervention more clearly, for
      disordered gamblers the investigators compared a six months-outcome between this
      intervention, which we named a "desire satisfaction-targeted intervention for gambling
      disorder" (DTIG), and an ordinary abstinence-targeted intervention.

      Methods:

      Participants Subjects are outpatients who are treated by DTIG at Outpatient Unit for Gambling
      Disorder of Kurihama Medical and Addiction Center in Japan. This intervention consists of an
      initial psychiatric assessment, followed by psychoeducational approach based on desire
      satisfaction-targeted intervention by psychiatrists, and three group sessions based on CBT by
      psychologists. Patients with psychiatric comorbidities are treated with the appropriate
      pharmacological regimens.

      All are over 20 years of age and meet Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
      5thed. (DSM-5) criteria for a diagnosis of gambling disorder. 2) The investigators exclude
      patients with acute psychotic symptoms including manic symptoms or cognitive impairment that
      can compromise their ability to complete the research questionnaires.

      This investigation is carried out in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and going
      to be approved by the ethical committee of Kurihama Medical and Addiction Center. All
      subjects should be provided written informed consent.

      Procedure

      Participants are examined as follows at the first hospital visit:

        1. Basic and medical background such as gender, age, married or not, educated beyond twelve
           years or not, employed or not, addiction-related family history (defined as a
           second-degree or closer family member with an addictive disorder), crime history,
           suicide history, current psychiatric complications;

        2. Gambling-related variables such as the age of gambling onset, the age of
           problem-gambling onset, time lag between gambling onset and the onset of problematic
           gambling (time lag), the duration of the problem gambling, predominant gambling activity
           (non-strategic or not), total amount of debt, method of debt management (bankruptcy or
           not), Attendance at Self Help Group, motivation to quit gambling;

        3. Assessment of severity such as the number of items in DSM-5, scores of South Oaks
           Gambling Screen (SOGS) 23) and the Gambling Symptom Assessment Scale (G-SAS) 15) ;

        4. Outcome concerning gambling behavior in 3 and 6 months after DTIG.

      Assessment of Severity Severity of gambling disorder is measured using the above three
      reliable and valid instruments.

        1. DSM-5: The standard of severity is defined in the DSM-5 based on the number of items
           that are met: 4-5 is mild, 6-7 is moderate, and 8-9 is severe.

        2. SOGS: 20-item self-report questionnaire providing a cut-off score for pathological
           gambling using DSM criteria. The accepted cut-off point for problem gambling is 5, with
           higher scores denoting more severe gambling problems.

        3. G-SAS: 12-item self-report scale examining gambling urges, thoughts, and behaviors
           during the previous week.

      Assessment of Outcome The investigators ask participants two questions concerning gambling
      behaviors 3 months and 6 months after intervention by mail or telephone, which are "Did
      participants gamble during this period (three or six months)?" and "Did some troubles with
      gambling happen during this three months if participants gambled?" The outcome is
      distinguished on a 3-stepped degree through the above two questionnaires; (keeping abstinence
      continuously / continuing gambling, but no problem during this three months / keeping problem
      gambling continuously). In this study, problem gambling was defined as "gambling accompanied
      by monetary, occupational/educational, familial and legal problem such as debts, absence,
      marital crisis and embezzlement etc."

      Desire satisfaction-targeted intervention for gambling disorder (DTIG) The investigators have
      performed DTIG instead of ordinary abstinence-targeted intervention. In this intervention,
      whether patients currently gamble or not is once shelved. This intervention consists of three
      steps;

        1. Identify original desires, which have been covered by intensive craving for gambling.

        2. Aim to satisfy only a single desire if you hope to continue gambling.

        3. Search and try alternative behaviors which directly satisfy the original desires.

      One or two psycho-educational sessions based on above three steps were performed by
      psychiatrists (one session usually needs 30-60 minutes). A worksheet is utilized to progress
      this intervention smoothly.

      Additionally three psycho-educational sessions are performed by psychologists to help to
      discover owns' desires (one session usually needs 60 minutes). These themes are "the total
      amounts of lost money", "advantage and disadvantage in gambling" and "alternative behaviors
      instead of gambling".

      Statistical analysis Data entry and statistical analysis were performed using Microsoft
      ExcelⓇ 2010. A Pearson correlation analysis was used to assess correlations between outcome
      (abstinence / controlled gambling / problem gambling) and other variables in DTIG group. To
      identify the independent predictors of outcome, multiple stepwise backward linear regression
      analysis was used and an analysis of variance for the full regression models was performed.

      These analyses were repeated using all participants (intention-to-treat analysis: ITT).
      Therefore cases that dropped out of the following system were set as cases that continued
      problem gambling (worst cases analysis). Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05.
    
  