
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial. Adolescents with elevated depressive symptoms will be
      identified and randomly assigned to IPT-AST delivered through telehealth by research staff
      (alone or in collaboration with school support staff) or services as usual (SAU) as delivered
      by counselors or other student support staff in schools. The research team will use
      longitudinal data collection with adolescents, parents, and counselors, and will collect data
      from teachers and school records to achieve study objectives.

      Participants will be 240 racially and ethnically diverse students in the 9th and 10th grades
      between the ages of 14 and 17 with elevated symptoms of depression and their parents.
      Counselors in local high schools will also be study participants. A subset of counselors,
      adolescents, and administrators will also participate in a qualitative interview as part of
      an implementation study.

      Adolescent participants will be randomly assigned to IPT-AST, an evidence-based depression
      prevention program, or SAU which may include supportive counseling and/or referral for
      services.

      Standardized measures for adolescents, parents, and teachers and school records will be used
      to examine emotional outcomes (e.g., depression and anxiety symptoms, depression diagnoses)
      and school outcomes (e.g., school engagement, grades). Investigators will utilize
      standardized measures to assess social processes (e.g., interpersonal conflict, social
      functioning) that may mediate the effects of the intervention on these emotional and school
      outcomes. Investigators will also collect data on services received in IPT-AST and SAU,
      techniques utilized in both conditions, and feasibility, acceptability, fidelity,
      sustainability, and costs of IPT-AST using session logs, time diaries, standardized measures,
      leader- and consultant-rated fidelity checklists, and qualitative interviews.
    
  