
    
      Procedure:

        1. Eligible patients with signed consent will be enrolled.

        2. Baseline transthoracic echocardiography, laboratory testing, evaluation of subjective
           dyspnea, lung water by ultrasound, chest x-ray, hemodynamic monitoring (details below)

        3. Randomisation 1:1 to standard therapy vs. intensive heart rate control

        4. Two hours of therapy with continous hemodynamic monitoring (blood pressure by arterial
           line, cardiac output and stroke volume non-invasively by bioreactance)

             1. Standard therapy (oral or intravenous beta-blockers other than landiolol while
                avoiding hypotension or deterioration of hemodynamics, according to the preference
                of the physician) with a bolus of 250-500mg of digoxin

             2. Intensive heart rate control with the goal to achieve heart rate <115 during the
                first the hours, preferentially with continuous infusion of landiolol and a bolus
                of 250-500mg of digoxin. The dose will be titrated according to the actual heart
                rate and hemodynamic parameters (blood pressure, cardiac index, stroke volume
                index). If possible, in both groups, electric cardioversion will be preferentially
                delayed during the first 2 hours. Both groups will receive standard therapy of
                acute heart failure (diuretics, inotropes if needed-preferentially milrinone or
                levosimendan, nitrates..)

        5. At 2 hours: evaluation of patients subjective dyspnea (primary clinical endpoint), heart
           rate (primary endpoint), hearth rhythm and hemodynamics

        6. After 2 hours, both groups can be treated according to the preference of the physician.

        7. Symptoms, heart rate control, hemodynamics and lung congestion will be reevaluated at 12
           and 48 hours

        8. The study protocol will end after 48 hours.
    
  