
    
      Objectives Summary

      * To investigate whether the progressive addition of a fibrate and niacin to baseline statin
      therapy will improve apolipoprotein A-I kinetics, postprandial lipidemia, and postabsorptive
      lipoproteins and metabolism in adult men and women with atherogenic dyslipidemia.

      Major Efficacy Aims

        -  Objective 1 is to test the hypothesis that the fibrate ABT335 and extended release (ER)
           niacin progressively improve apolipoprotein A-I kinetics when added sequentially to
           baseline therapy with atorvastatin. The key outcomes include the apolipoprotein AI rate
           of catabolism and rate of production.

        -  Objective 2 is to test the hypothesis that the fibrate ABT335 and ER niacin
           progressively improve postprandial lipidemia by oral fat challenge when added
           sequentially to baseline therapy with atorvastatin. Key outcomes include the incremental
           area under the curve for triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

        -  Objective 3 is to test the hypothesis that the fibrate ABT335 and ER niacin
           progressively improve markers of postabsorptive lipoproteins and metabolism when added
           sequentially to baseline therapy with atorvastatin. Key outcomes include a. fasting
           cholesterol efflux, b. HDL cholesterol, apolipoprotein A-I, and enzymes that remodel
           HDL, c. atherogenic lipoproteins, and d. markers of energy metabolism and e. markers of
           inflammation.

      Additional Aims

      * Objective 4 is to assess tolerability and adverse events when ABT335 and ER niacin are
      added sequentially to atorvastatin. Specifically, we will assess changes in hepatobiliary
      laboratory tests (including incidence of elevation), incidence of symptomatic myalgia, and
      incidence of flushing. On an exploratory basis, we will enhance the flushing evaluation with
      objective and subjective measurements of flushing during inpatient visits.

      Study Design:

      This is an open-label feasibility study of fixed-sequence addition of lipid-altering
      medications, in which comparisons are made to the baseline for each subject. Subjects begin a
      lead-in phase in which they start the study statin (atorvastatin) or switch from previous
      statin therapy to the study statin. Subjects will wash off other excluded lipid-altering
      drugs during the lead-in. Subjects return for the first inpatient visit, where they have
      baseline studies on statin monotherapy. At the end of this visit, subjects are started on
      fibrate therapy (ABT335). They repeat the studies on dual therapy with statin and fibrate,
      and then add niacin (ER niacin). To minimize flushing during chronic treatment, they start
      aspirin 325 mg daily, or titrate to 325 mg if they are taking a lower dose of aspirin (e.g.
      81 mg). Finally, they repeat the studies on triple therapy with statin, fibrate, and
      niacin/aspirin.
    
  