
    
      The most serious adverse effect of antithrombotic therapy is bleeding. Combinations of
      antithrombotic agents are now frequently used (e.g. after use of drug eluting stents or after
      ischemic stroke), and this may lead to an increased frequency of significant bleeding
      complications. Among hemorrhagic complications of antithrombotic drugs, intracranial
      hemorrhage (ICH) may have particularly devastating consequences with high morbidity,
      disability and even mortality rates. Intracerebral hemorrhage (hemorrhagic stroke) is
      generally associated with a higher risk for death and incurs greater loss of health over a
      lifetime than ischemic stroke.

      This makes antithrombotic therapy a double-edged sword. Although a certain risk for bleeding
      may be acceptable in the context of even greater protection against ischemic events, it is
      important to quantify the magnitude of bleeding risk. So far the efficacy and safety profile
      of antithrombotic agents are generally assessed in randomized controlled trials (RCT).
      However, extrapolating the results from randomized clinical trials to the general patient
      population in this context is challenging. Patients who participate in clinical trials are
      frequently highly selected and therefore somewhat unrepresentative. In addition, their
      numbers are limited and the treatment period is often much shorter than in routine management
      of a chronic disease or condition. Finally, patients in clinical trials are often monitored
      more closely than in routine practice.

      The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage due to antithrombotic therapy could theoretically be
      monitored by post-marketing surveillance by including spontaneously reported events.
      Unfortunately, it seems this does not provide more reliable estimates. A recent study from
      Finland has shown that bleeding complications due to oral anticoagulation with Warfarin are
      underreported in daily clinical practice. Further, it has been shown that reporting rates of
      side effects following medical therapy tend to decrease over time indicating that it is more
      likely that adverse events to a newer drug are reported than to a drug that has been
      available for many years. This is why population-based large-scale pharmaco-epidemiological
      studies are needed, in which cohorts of patients exposed to antithrombotic medications are
      monitored to determine a valid and reliable risk of the treatment.
    
  