
    
      1. BACKGROUND

      1.1. RENAL DYSFUNCTION AND OPEN HEART SURGERY:

      The incidences of both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic renal dysfunction (RD) are
      increasing with the aging population in the western world (1). The intense relationship
      between the pathogenesis of CVD and chronic RD has recently been reviewed by Schiffrin et al,
      in detail (2). They both have common risk factors such as diabetes, hypertension, activation
      of renin-angiotensin system, endothelial dysfunction, oxydative stress, etc. Besides, each
      has an impact on the other's outcome. On the one hand, CVD is the most frequent cause of
      death in chronic RD patients (3). On the other hand, even mild chronic RD is one of the major
      risk factors of postoperative mortality and morbidity after cardiac operations (4, 5). The
      mechanism is not clear yet, however, volume overload, electrolyte imbalance and inflammatory
      state created by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) may have an impact. Zakeri et al showed that
      in-hospital mortality after isolated primary coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) increases
      exponentially with increasing levels of renal dysfunction (6). They reported an in-hospital
      mortality of 2.2%, 4.3%, 9.3% and 14.8% in patients who have a preoperative serum creatinine
      level (SCr) of <130 µmol/L, 130-149 µmol/L, 150-179 µmol/L and 180-199 µmol/L, respectively.
      These results were similar to the study published previously by Weerasinghe et al with the
      same cut-off levels of SCr (7). Using the Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) instead of SCr,
      Cooper et al. came to the same conclusion after analysing 483,914 patients receiving isolated
      CABG in the Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) National Adult Cardiac Database (5). They
      reported that operative mortality rose inversely with declining renal function, from 1.3% for
      those with normal renal function to 1.8%, 4.3% and 9.3% for patients with mild, moderate and
      severe RD, respectively. Another study regarding the effect of preoperative RD on mortality
      after valve surgery was also published with a relatively smaller patient population (8).
      Although the RD group had significantly worse outcomes with regard to postoperative
      ventilation time, re-operation, blood transfusion and length of hospital stay, operative
      mortality was not statistically different between the two groups (3.4% for RD group vs. 2.3%
      for the control group), probably because of small sample size. However, Filsoufi et al.
      reported an increased mortality for patients having SCr of >2.5 mg/dL after single valve
      replacement (25.0% vs. 2.4%),multiple valve replacement (26.7% vs. 3.4%), and combined valve
      replacement with CABG (28.0% vs. 4.6%) in a large, single-center cohort (9). Regarding
      long-term survival, Devbhandari reported 1-, 3- and 5-year survival rates following on-pump
      coronary bypass surgery as 90.3%, 83.2% and 71.4% for non-dialysis dependent renal
      dysfunction (NDDRD) patients, and 97.4%, 94.6% and 91.0% for patients with no history of RD,
      respectively (10). Chronic RD affects not only the operative mortality, but also the
      morbidity after open heart surgery. It has been shown that preoperative RD is an independent
      predictor of postoperative acute RD and hemodialysis (HD) (5, 7, 9-12) as well as
      gastrointestinal (GI) (4, 9), respiratory (5, 9), infectious (5) and neurological (5)
      complications.

      1.2. HEMODIALYSIS:

      HD is the most common renal replacement therapy for decades, for those who have end-stage RD
      and have not received renal transplantation. Intermittent HD is a very efficient method to
      decrease blood urea and creatinine as well as to treat volume overload. Intermittent HD can
      be performed temporarily in the setting of acute RD or permanently in the setting of chronic
      RD. In chronic RD, 3 sessions of 4 hours are usually prescribed to adequately substitute the
      renal function. A good vascular access is essential to perform HD. A temporary dual- or
      tri-lumen dialysis catheter has to be inserted into a central vein such as the internal
      jugular, the subclavian or the femoral vein.

      1.3. ULTRAFILTRATION:

      Intraoperative ultrafiltration has been used widely in pediatric open heart surgery for
      decades, reducing total body water, increasing hematocrit (Htc) levels, removing inflammatory
      mediators, thus improving the operative outcome (13). In the 90's, Naik et al. modified the
      technique (14), and reported better outcomes with modified ultrafiltration (MUF) in pediatric
      population (15). However, use of MUF has been limited to end-stage RD patients with volume
      overload undergoing open heart surgery, as an adjunct to pre- and postoperative HD in the
      adult population. The Verona group reported fewer respiratory, neurological, GI
      complications, and less blood product transfusion in the group of patients who received MUF
      after CPB, however mortality, overall morbidity, length of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) stay and
      length of hospital stay were comparable between MUF and control groups including 573
      consecutive patients (16). A meta-analysis evaluating the effects of ultrafiltration on
      postoperative blood product use and perioperative bleeding in adult patients revealed fewer
      bleeding complications and reduced blood product use after intraoperative ultrafiltration
      (17). Boga et al reported improved cardiac performance after CABG surgery with MUF. However,
      they could not find any difference in Interleukin-6, Interleukin-8 and Neopterin levels. They
      attributed this effect to prevention of hemodilution and hypervolemia (18). In summary, no
      clear evidence is available at the present regarding the impact of intraoperative MUF on the
      operative outcome of NDDRD patients undergoing open heart surgery. Capuano et al. recently
      (19) reported successful results in a NDDRD patient who required urgent coronary
      revascularisation. Nevertheless, the impact of intraoperative MUF on the outcome of NDDRD
      patients undergoing open heart surgery remains unclear, and is worth investigation.

      1.4. PREVIOUS STUDIES:

      The quest to improve the outcome of NDDRD patients undergoing open heart surgery has been in
      the agenda of some groups to date. Two pioneering studies were recently published from Turkey
      (20, 21). The target patient population was NDDRD patients undergoing elective isolated
      primary CABG surgery. Patients were randomized into two groups prospectively, one group
      received 2 doses of prophylactic HD just before surgery whereas the other did not, and served
      as control. Both studies reported reduced operative mortality rates, reduced postoperative
      need for HD, and shorter length of stay in the prophylactic HD groups. However, these two
      studies had very limited number of patients with a short period of follow-up, excluded valve
      surgery, and did not analyse cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, intraoperative ultrafiltration
      was not studied.

      1.5. ASSESSMENT OF RENAL FUNCTION:

      GFR is the best measure of overall kidney function (22). The Cockroft-Gault formula is a
      commonly used way to predict GFR (23). GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m2 is accepted as "severe RD"
      (22). SCr is a simple and practical universal biologic marker used for estimating glomerular
      filtration. Although SCr does not have a linear association with GFR, it has also been
      reported to be a powerful predictor of operative mortality (6). Thus, SCr and GFR were both
      accepted as preoperative indicators of RD with the cut-off levels of 180 µmol/L (or 2.0
      mg/dL) and 30 mL/min/1.73 m2, respectively.

      1.6. CONCLUSION:

      In summary, this data mandates us a well defined strategy for patients with NDDRD in order to
      obtain better operative outcome. Under the guidance of the current literature, a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) with a larger number of patients undergoing open heart surgery will
      provide precise answers for these questions. Comparison of hospital costs may add an extra
      value for the assessment of cost-effectiveness as well.
    
  