
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial, with participants randomly allocated to one of two
      groups: chlorthalidone associated with amiloride or amlodipine. Capsules were identical
      presentation and the research team and participants were blinded to the allocation list. The
      randomization list was stratified by gender and severity of OSA (AHI: 10-25 or 26-40) and in
      blocks in time, with size four and six units. Randomization was carried out prior to the
      start of the trial and it was generated by a validated software (Random Allocator). In order
      to ensure the confidentiality of the allocation list, it was generated by an epidemiologist
      who did not maintain direct contact with participants and the identification of the study
      drugs was done through alphanumeric code, implemented via software (RedCap).

      Adherence to treatment was measured by counting returned capsules and through the Morisky
      questionnaire with eight questions, validated for Portuguese. Participants underwent initial
      clinical evaluation prior to randomization and after eight weeks of treatment for evaluation
      of outcomes. Demographic characteristics (age, gender, skin color), socioeconomic level
      (education), previous morbidity (diabetes mellitus, stroke, acute myocardial infarction,
      cancer, rheumatic diseases), treatments in use (anti-diabetic, anti-depressants,
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, corticosteroids, nasal vasoconstrictor, appetite
      suppressants, lipid-lowering drugs) and lifestyle characteristics (smoking and drinking) were
      collected in a standardized way. The investigators also assess anthropometric measures such
      as weight, height, waist, neck and hip circumference, and bioimpedance for determination of
      lean and fat mass. Blood pressure was measured using a validated digital oscillometric
      monitor, with cuff appropriate to the arm circumference, and two measurements per visit were
      made. In addition, ECG was performed and biochemical parameters (creatinine, blood glucose,
      serum potassium, uric acid, cholesterol and fractions, C-reactive protein and NT-proBNP) were
      determined in the laboratory of Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre.

      The transthoracic echocardiography is performed by the CX-50 unit (Philips, Bothell, WA -
      USA) with sectoral S5-1 transducer. Ambulatory monitoring of blood pressure will be measured
      through the Mortara AMBULO 2400 device (Mortara, Milwaukee, WI, USA) with measures 15/15
      minutes during the day and 20/20 minutes at night, within 24 hours of a working day.
      Polysomnography will be held in type III (home with device that measures at least 4
      cardiorespiratory variables) held with handset Sonmocheck (Weinmann GmbH, Hamburg, Germany),
      a monitor that detects the position of the patient, the presence of apneas or hypopneas,
      heart rate and digital oximetry.
    
  