
    
      Dental caries and gingivitis prevalences in schoolchildren in Indonesia is high. Dental
      diseases can potentially caused missed school, concentration disturbance, impaired speech,
      poor self-esteem, and systemic illness. Caries and gingivitis can be prevented by maintaining
      oral hygiene. Toothbrushing is one of oral hygiene method to remove and prevent dental plaque
      that can cause dental caries and gingivitis. The aim of the study was to compare the level of
      plaque and gingivitis of children aged 10-12 years old that use the Modified Circular and
      natural tooth brushing methods.

      One hundred and twenty four students from two state elementary school in Yogyakarta,
      Indonesia participated in this study. The age of the participants were between 10 and 12
      years old including males and females students. All of the participants were fifth graders
      from two elementary schools. To be eligible to participate in this study, each participants
      met the criteria including: students with age 10 to 12 years old and willing as well as
      permitted by the parents/guardian to join thorough the study. The exclusion criteria were
      being diagnosed having developmental disorder, using orthodontic appliances, and using
      antiseptic mouthwash for daily use.

      The study began with the baseline data collection. Then it continued with the training for
      the participants about improving the oral hygiene. Children will be instructed to brush their
      teeth two times a day in the morning and before bedtime with the duration of 2 minutes. The
      project provided one toothpaste and one toothbrush for each children. In this stage, the
      intervention group was demonstrated and instructed to brush their teeth using Modified
      Circular method, while the control group was not given any instruction to brush their teeth
      using a specific tooth brushing method and asked to brush their teeth using the way they
      brushing every day. The period of intervention was started after training and lasted for one
      month. In intervention period, intervention group was observed once a week to ensure that
      they brushed their teeth correctly using Modified Circular method. Finally the evaluation was
      implemented after 1 month of intervention. The duration of the trial was one month, started
      in 2 August 2017 and finished on 6 September 2017, and the study was finished in time.

      This study did not use any invasive treatment due to oral examination. No drugs or chemical
      materials were used except nontoxic disclosing agent that was used only 2-3 drops for
      staining the dental plaque. The colors of disclosing agent will gradually disapear and easily
      removed by brushing.

      The benefit of this study was to help teachers, parents, and students to know the level of
      oral cleanliness and the effective method of toothbrushing in order to maintain oral hygiene
      and prevent dental caries and gingivitis.

      The participants recruitment started after the research permission from government were
      accepted on 29 July 2017 until 31 July 2017. The schools selected then received the research
      permit from government and the research was started by giving the informed consent to the
      children and parents. The funding of this study is from Graduate School Prince of Songkla
      University Research Funding and Faculty of Dentistry Prince of Songkla University Research
      Funding.

      The principle investigator of this study (as the main contact) is Istiyanti Hapsari (e-mail
      istiyantihapsari@gmail.com).
    
  