
    
      Approximately 60 subjects will be enrolled to allow for up to 48 male or female subjects with
      SCD and cutaneous ulcers to complete this double-blind, placebo-controlled study.

      A sentinel group of 3 subjects will be enrolled and evaluated for safety (while still
      blinded). The remaining subjects will be enrolled in a 2:1 ratio, active:placebo.

      Those subjects who pass Screening will enter into the Standard of Care (SOC) Run-In period.
      During this time, ulcers will be assessed to check healing based on digital planimetry, and
      qualitative features of the ulcer. Subjects who meet eligibility criteria at the end of the
      Run-in Period will be randomized and enter the 12-week Treatment Period.

      The DIDP (or placebo) will be replaced daily at home. The subject will visit the clinic on an
      approximately weekly basis for study assessments, to include imaging and planimetric wound
      measurements and qualitative wound assessments. Clinical laboratory samples will be collected
      at Treatment Baseline, Treatment Weeks 4, 8 and 12, or at End of Study (EOS) visit if sooner.
      A blood sample for PK testing will also be collected at these timepoints. During this
      Treatment Period, if at any time the wound has met the criterion for 100% healing, the
      subject will immediately go into the 4-week Follow-up Period.

      During the Follow-up Period, the subject will come to the clinic at 1-week intervals. At
      these visits, the area of the wound will continue to be protected with a protective dressing.
      Clinical laboratory samples will be collected at the Termination Visit.

      Ulcer pain will be assessed by the subject daily and recorded in a diary, along with a record
      of analgesic use. At each visit, study staff will assist the subjects to assign an overall
      ulcer pain score for the week.

      Quality of Life Assessment will be performed at Baseline prior to dosing and at End of
      Treatment.

      Safety will be assessed based upon known adverse outcomes of Deferoxamine (DFO) therapy. Skin
      will be examined for evidence of rash and skin irritation.
    
  