
    
      Methodology:

      Patients with BCNS who meet the Eligibility Requirements below will be studied. After
      informed consent is obtained and baseline evaluation, each lesion to be injected will receive
      ASN-002 once weekly x 3 weeks. Subjects will be premedicated with acetaminophen, 1000mg, 30
      minutes prior to injection and continue 650mg, four times/day for two days after injection.
      Evaluation for toxicity and safety will be performed at 1, 2, 3 and 4 months after the first
      injection. All target lesions will be excised at 6 months and the subject evaluated for
      healing one month later.

      Subjects with 5 or more lesions will be entered into Cohort A and will receive 1.0 x 1011
      vp/injection into each of 4 BCCs, weekly x 3, i.e. weeks 1, 2, and 3, i.e. a total dose of
      4.0 x 1011 vp on each day of injections. If one subject in this cohort experiences Grade 3 or
      greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, three additional subjects will be accrued to
      this cohort. If none of the first 3 subjects or no more than one of the six subjects in the
      expanded cohort experiences Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, the
      total dose of 4.0 x 1011 vp/day will be accepted for further clinical assessment. All four
      injected lesions and 1 or 2 non-injected lesions will be excised after 6 months.

      Cohort B will be open for accrual to patients with 4 or more lesions once Cohort A is
      accepted for further clinical assessment or if Cohort A has >1/6 Grade 3 AEs. Subjects in
      Cohort B will receive 1.5 or 1.0 x 1011 vp/injection into each of 3 BCCs, weekly x 3, i.e.
      weeks 1, 2, and 3, i.e. a total dose of 4.5 or 3.0 x 1011 vp on each day of injections as
      outlined in Synopsis Table 2 below. If one subject in this cohort experiences Grade 3 or
      greater local or systemic toxicities by week 4, three additional subjects will be accrued to
      this cohort. If none of the first 3 subjects or no more than one of the six subjects in the
      expanded Cohort B1.5 or B1.0 experiences Grade 3 or greater local or systemic toxicities by
      week 4, that total dose of 4.5 or 3.0 x 1011 vp/day will be accepted for further clinical
      assessment. All three injected lesions and 1-2 non-injected lesions will be excised after 6
      months.

      Cohort C may be designed based on the results observed in Cohorts A and B with the agreement
      of the Protocol Steering Committee. If a total dose >4.5 x 1011 vp/day of injection ASN-002
      on any single day or more than 3 weekly injections are to be administered, a formal amendment
      to the Protocol must be approved before accrual to Cohort C is permitted.

      Each cohort will be assessed for safety, dose escalation and possible cohort expansion as
      described above. The week 4 assessment of toxicity and apparent efficacy of the first 3
      subjects in each cohort will be used to determine the need to increase the size of that
      cohort to 6 subjects. Cohorts will be assessed clinically at 1, 2, 3 and 4 months. Treated
      tumors will be resected at 6 months, based on observations in the ongoing Australia trial
      study that inflammation persisting at 16 weeks could not be reliably distinguished from
      residual tumor. The 1st and 3rd secondary endpoints, histological clearance of injected and
      non-injected lesions, will be assessed by the Pathology Department of each clinical site.
      Representative slides will be submitted for possible central review to be performed at the
      discretion of Ascend. Each participant will also be seen one month after tumor resection to
      assess healing and post-surgical results Each subject may be evaluated on the 7 month visit
      for a second cycle of 3 weekly ASN-002 injections into new or previously untreated BCC
      lesions at a dose accepted for further clinical assessment. Subjects who receive a second
      cycle will be followed for 6 months as before, but lesion excision will be at the discretion
      of the investigator.

      In the event study subjects in any Cohort do not proceed to histological confirmation of
      response per protocol, they may be replaced as long as the reason for not proceeding to
      histological confirmation of response per protocol was not investigational product related
      adverse events and so long as the Protocol Steering Committee concurs with the Sponsor that
      no limiting safety issues have been identified.

      Depending on results, and at the discretion of the Sponsor and the Protocol Steering
      Committee, one Cohort may be expanded to a total of 24 subjects so long as no more than one
      of six subjects already included at that dose and schedule of ASN-002 experienced Grade 3 or
      greater local or systemic toxicities. The selection of the cohort to be expanded will be
      based on favorable response data from the subjects already included at that dose and schedule
      of ASN-002,
    
  