
    
      Within the scope of the study the aims will be to: (1. Develop the pre-implantation
      assessment protocol utilizing targeted CT to locate optimal gluteal motor points
      bilaterally.) CT assessment of the pelvic region in spinal cord injured subjects will be
      carried out to determine regional vascular and nervous anatomy. This will allow us to achieve
      optimal electrode placement using a minimally invasive implantation procedure. (2. Develop
      the implanted gluteal stimulation system.) The fully implanted gluteal stimulation (GSTIM)
      system is envisioned as a marriage between the established technology of the implanted IM
      electrodes developed by the Cleveland FES Center and the newly developed Micropulse I
      2-channel stimulator. The Micropulse I IPG is a small, rechargeable stimulator developed by
      NDI Medical as a platform technology for neuromodulation and neurostimulation applications.
      The device will be customized in order to provide two synchronized channels of stimulation
      for the GSTIM system. (3. Implement and evaluate implanted gluteal stimulation system in
      human volunteers.) A pilot clinical trial of the fully implanted gluteal stimulation system
      will be carried out using a two-arm crossover study of ten wheelchair users at risk for
      pressure ulcer development due to impaired mobility. Pre-defined selection criteria will be
      employed to screen potential participants physically and psychologically. All participants
      will receive a stimulation system consisting of implanted IM electrodes inserted bilaterally
      in the gluteus maximus together with the Micropulse I stimulator implanted subcutaneously in
      the lower abdomen. Tissue health will be assessed at three month intervals during the
      12-month period following implantation. The clinical application of this system is of great
      relevance to the veteran population at risk of pressure ulcer development. The project will
      add value to the continued improvement in health care provision for veterans, allowing them
      to benefit from the most recent advances in medical device technology. Although the initial
      target user group is veterans with SCI, the proposes system will have applications to other
      patient populations at risk due to reduced mobility, such as those with multiple sclerosis
      and the elderly.
    
  