
    
      Primary Objective

      1) Compare the rate of weight gain (in g/day) between infants receiving an investigational
      formula and infants receiving a control formula between at baseline (B), B+2 weeks, B+4
      weeks, B+8 weeks, B+12 weeks, and B+16 weeks.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Compare rate of change in length (mm/day) among infants receiving an investigational
           formula, infants receiving a control formula, and breastfeeding infants at baseline (B),
           B+2 weeks, B+4 weeks, B+8 weeks, B+12 weeks, and B+16 weeks.

        2. Compare rate of change in head circumference (mm/day) among infants receiving an
           investigational formula, infants receiving a control formula and breastfeeding infants
           at baseline (B), B+2 weeks, B+4 weeks, B+8 weeks, B+12 weeks, and B+16 weeks.

        3. Evaluate and compare achieved body weight, length, and head circumference at each visit
           and after 16 weeks.

        4. Evaluate plotted raw growth data on World Health Organization standard growth charts.1

        5. Compare the types and incidence of adverse events among infants receiving an
           investigational formula, infants receiving a control formula, and breastfeeding infants.

        6. Compare average daily intake of formula between infants receiving an investigational
           formula and infants receiving a control formula.

        7. Compare parents' and physician's assessment of formula tolerance among infants receiving
           an investigational formula, infants receiving a control formula, and breastfeeding
           infants.

        8. Compare counts of Bifidobacteria and Lactobacillus species in stools of infants
           receiving an investigational formula, infants receiving a control formula, and
           breastfeeding infants.

        9. Compare stool short-chain fatty acid metabolites (including total SCFAs, acetic,
           propionic, n-butyric, iso-butyric and n-valeric acids, L-lactic acid and D-lactic acid,
           etc) among infants receiving an investigational formula, infants receiving a control
           formula, and breastfeeding infants.
    
  