
    
      Caregiver:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete 3 study visits over a
      period of about 20 weeks (the first visit, followed by 2 more visits, usually 3-8 weeks
      apart). During the first and third visits, you will be asked to take part in an interview
      that will include questions about your experience as a caregiver to a patient with cancer.
      The interview will last about 30-45 minutes and will be tape recorded. The text of the
      interviews will be copied from the tapes to a written format. The study staff will review the
      content to look for key caregiver concerns and experiences. The PI and study staff will be
      the only ones who will have access to the tapes and transcripts. All tapes will be destroyed
      after the study is finished.

      You will also be asked to complete some brief surveys about your physical and psychological
      health, your reactions to being a caregiver, and your beliefs about symptoms and their
      control. It will take about 30-45 minutes to complete the surveys, each time.

      Each study visit will take about 60-90 minutes. If you can not come to the clinic, trained
      research study staff will contact you by telephone or by a home visit (with your permission)
      to complete the surveys and interview. After the last of the 3 study visits, your
      participation will be ended in this study.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 125 participants will take part in this multicenter
      study at 4 sites: Lyndon Baines Johnson Hospital, Ben Taub General Hospital, MD Anderson, and
      locations in the community identified by the participant and the study team. Up to 40 will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.

      Patient:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete 3 study visits over a
      period of about 20 weeks (the first visit, followed by 2 more visits, usually 3-8 weeks
      apart). During the visits, you will also be asked to complete some surveys about your
      physical and psychological health, your reactions to your caregiver, and your beliefs about
      symptoms and their control. It will take about 30 minutes to complete the surveys each time.

      Each study visit will take about 45 minutes. If you can not come to the clinic, trained
      research study staff will contact you by telephone or by a home visit (with your permission)
      to complete the surveys and interview. After the last of the 3 study visits, your
      participation in this study will end.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 125 patients will take part in this multicenter study
      at 4 sites: Lyndon Baines Johnson Hospital, Ben Taub General Hospital, MD Anderson and
      locations in the community identified by the participant and study team. Up to 40 will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  