
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the complete remission rate and survival of patients with
      lymphoproliferation following organ transplantation treated with a defined sequential
      approach: modification of immunosuppression, with surgery or limited radiotherapy for an
      isolated site of disease; interferon alfa; and chemotherapy (ProMACE-CytaBOM;
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, etoposide, prednisone, cytarabine, bleomycin, vincristine,
      methotrexate).

      OUTLINE: All patients receive modification of immunocompetence, unless rejection is present
      at outset. These patients proceed directly to interferon treatment. Group 1 (see Disease
      Characteristics): Patients receive reduced doses of their current immunosuppressive therapy
      for 10 days. Group 2: Patients receive reduced doses of some of their current
      immunosuppressive therapy and discontinue some of the other therapy for 14 days.
      Immunosuppressive therapy then resumes on day 15. Immunosuppressive therapy continues
      throughout other therapy, unless otherwise noted. Some patients may then undergo surgery or
      radiotherapy. Interferon therapy: Patients receive interferon alfa (IFNA) subcutaneously or
      intramuscularly on days 1-28 for a maximum of 3 courses. Patients then receive maintenance
      therapy with IFNA 3 days a week for 4 weeks for up to 6 courses. Chemotherapy
      (ProMACE-CytaBOM): Immunosuppressive therapy is stopped on days 1-20. Patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on day 1, oral
      prednisone on days 1-14, and cytarabine IV, bleomycin IV, vincristine IV, and methotrexate IV
      on day 8. Treatment is repeated every 21 days for up to 6 courses. Patients with positive CSF
      cytology receive intrathecal methotrexate or cytarabine on days 1, 3, 5, 7, and 14. Some
      patients may continue this therapy on day 21 , then every 3 weeks for 5 doses, or may receive
      cranial irradiation. Patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study within 4-5 years.
    
  