
    
      Imagine if we could leverage existing infrastructure to enhance how we better manage and
      support patients with chronic disease in the community? Three of the most common chronic
      diseases worldwide are Diabetes Mellitus (DM), Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) and Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). These diseases are on the rise and currently cost the
      Canadian health care system billions of dollars every year including the cost of unnecessary
      hospitalizations and ED visits. The current structure of the health care system does not have
      the capacity to effectively care for these patients in the future. Paramedics are currently
      employed 24-7 to provide Emergency Medical Services (EMS) in urban, rural and settings across
      Canada. They are highly trained health care practitioners that are connected to and mobile in
      the community and currently work in a medically delegated act model with physicians where
      they regularly rely on independent judgment giving them a significant advantage in assessing
      patients. The evidence already tells us that collaborative Chronic Care Models can improve
      patient outcomes and decrease overall health care utilization. What if we leveraged this
      incredible resource to enhance patient care in the community setting? We hypothesize that
      training paramedics in chronic disease management and having them conduct home visits to
      assess and treat patients under medical delegation of the patients' primary care physicians
      will reduce the rate of acute care hospitalization and, ED visits, EMS utilization, and
      Family Health Team (FHT) utilization for COPD, DM and CHF patients.

      So how do we find out if it works? We propose a randomized controlled trial (Level 1
      evidence) to rigorously study the effectiveness of community paramedicine model versus
      standard care. The primary study question is whether non-emergency community paramedics
      conducting home visits to undertake assessments and evidence-based treatments of patients
      under the medical delegation of primary care physicians will decrease the rate of
      hospitalization for chronic disease patients. Our intervention will be applied in select
      Ontario Family Health Team (FHT) patients diagnosed with COPD, CHF and DM. We plan to
      randomize 695 patients: patients randomized to the intervention group will be assessed and
      treated during home visits by community paramedics. Patients randomized to the control group
      will continue to receive usual care from the participating Family Health Teams. The number of
      hospitalizations, hospital length of stay, ED visits, EMS utilization and cost-effectiveness
      will be compared using existing administrative databases. We have been doing a feasibility
      trial since March of 2013 to confirm our recruitment and data collection approaches.

      The intent of the Partnerships for Health System Improvement (PHSI) program is to strengthen
      Canada's health care system through collaborative, applied and policy-relevant research. Our
      project has been developed in strong partnership with Centennial College; Central Community
      Care Access Centre; York Region Emergency Medical Services; Health For All Family Health
      Team; Markham Family Health Team; Rescu, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's
      Hospital; and the Sunnybrook Centre for Prehospital Medicine. We have also partnered directly
      with the Primary Care Branch of the Ministry of Health and Long Term Care to ensure a
      fruitful integrated knowledge translation plan at the policy level. By engaging all of the
      key stakeholders upfront we have already created the necessary linkages to make this health
      system innovation possible.

      If found to be effective, the simplicity of the community paramedicine model allows it to be
      scalable in various ways for EMS services across the country. It could also be expanded to
      include management of several other conditions. Funding is only getting tighter and health
      care capacities will be increasingly challenged in the coming years - innovation in how we
      use existing resources is the future of health system improvement. Community paramedicine is
      a perfect example of this type of innovation and our project will provide the evidence needed
      by decision makers and knowledge users to significantly impact primary care policy making for
      the future.
    
  