
    
      Inguinal hernia repair is the most commonly performed general surgery procedure in the United
      States. Despite the prevalence of this procedure, there is no consensus regarding the optimal
      approach to this surgical procedure. Since the advent of the laparoscopic inguinal hernia
      repair in 1990, there is a growing body of research that has investigated the efficacy of
      this minimally invasive surgical approach. To date, the laparoscopic approach to inguinal
      hernia repair has proven beneficial in reducing post-operative pain and allowing for earlier
      return to normal activity versus the traditional open inguinal hernia repair. In addition,
      the laparoscopic approach to inguinal hernia repair has been advocated for recurrent inguinal
      hernia repairs and bilateral inguinal hernia repairs.

      Despite these advantages, however, there are several limitations of the laparoscopic inguinal
      hernia repair. Specifically, unstable camera platforms, two-dimensional imaging, rigid
      laparoscopic instruments, and poor surgeon ergonomics make the laparoscopic approach to
      inguinal hernia repair challenging. Furthermore, the learning curve associated with a
      laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair has been prohibitive for many surgeons. Finally, the
      laparoscopic approach to inguinal hernia repair often requires the utilization of some form
      of fixation device, such as surgical tacks, which have been associated with chronic pain,
      vascular injury, as well as increased overall cost of the operation. The robotic platform has
      been shown to help compensate for many of these short-comings of laparoscopic surgery as it
      provides three-dimensional imaging, improved instrument mobility, articulation, suturing
      capability (which allows for a more cost-effective procedure with decreased risk of
      post-operative chronic pain), and surgeon comfort. Because of these reasons, it is important
      to determine the specific advantages the robotic approach will provide for inguinal hernia
      repairs.

      The laparoscopic approach to inguinal hernia repair has proven beneficial in reducing
      post-operative pain and earlier returns to normal activity versus the traditional open
      inguinal hernia repair. However, the overall penetrance of laparoscopic inguinal hernia
      repair has remained consistently below 20% of all inguinal hernia procedures performed in the
      United States. The robotic platform provides several potential advantages over the
      laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair including three dimensional visualization, the ability to
      suture (rather than tack) the mesh, as well as the ability to suture the peritoneal defect
      closed. This technological platform could provide earlier adoption and proficiency for
      surgeons to perform a minimally invasive inguinal hernia repair with improved surgical
      outcomes. As more general surgeons begin to incorporate robotic surgery into their practice,
      the robotic platform might provide further improvements in the outcomes of minimally invasive
      inguinal hernia repair over even traditional laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair.

      The investigators propose a Randomized Clinical Trial comparing the robotic versus
      laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair techniques. The investigators hypothesize that the
      robotic approach to inguinal hernia repair will result in improved post-operative outcomes
      compared to traditional laparoscopic inguinal hernia repairs.

      Specific Aim #1: To determine if the robotic approach will result in a significant reduction
      in postoperative pain and earlier return to full function when compared to a laparoscopic
      inguinal hernia repair.

      Specific Aim #2: To perform a cost analysis to determine the financial implications of
      performing a robotic versus a laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair.

      Specific Aim #3: To determine the effect of surgeon reported ergonomics when performing
      laparoscopic versus robotic inguinal hernia repairs.

      Specific Aim #4: Evaluate the long term hernia recurrence rates associated with laparoscopic
      versus robotic inguinal hernia repairs.
    
  