
    
      OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the immediate and longer-term effects of early cognitive
      telerehabilitation on cognitive performance and self-reported symptoms/functioning in
      patients with low-grade gliomas and meningiomas, in a prospective randomized trial.

      HYPOTHESIS: Cognitive telerehabilitation after brain tumor surgery has both immediate and
      longer-term beneficiary effects on cognitive functioning and patient-reported outcomes.

      STUDY DESIGN: In the first 6 months of the project a feasibility study will be conducted to
      ensure that adherence, patient experience, and potential attrition are acceptable.

      Subsequently, a prospective randomized (waiting-list) controlled trial (RCT) will be
      performed. Information from the feasibility study will be used to modify the RCT when
      necessary. In the RCT, patients are randomized to early cognitive rehabilitation (3 months
      after surgery) or to a waiting-list control condition. The waiting-list control group will be
      offered the same cognitive rehabilitation program after they have undergone all study
      assessments. Assessment of cognitive performance and self-reported symptoms will be performed
      prior to surgery (T0), before cognitive rehabilitation (3 months after surgery, T3),
      immediately after cognitive rehabilitation (6 months after surgery, T6), and at half-year
      follow up (12 months after surgery, T12).

      STUDY POPULATION/SAMPLE SIZE: Patients with presumed low-grade glioma or meningioma, who are
      scheduled for resective surgery, will be included in the study. Fifteen patients will be
      invited in feasibility study. Based on the yearly numbers of meningioma and low-grade glioma
      patients that are operated in the Elisabeth-TweeSteden Hospital Tilburg, it is expected that
      60 patients will be randomized in the RCT per year for 2.5 years. With a maximum attrition
      rate of 33%, a minimum of 100 patients (50 per group) will be evaluated.

      INTERVENTION: An evidence-based cognitive rehabilitation program that is provided via a
      tablet app. The program consists of retraining, and teaching and practicing of compensational
      strategies of attention, memory and executive functioning. Patients spend 3 hours per week
      during 2.5 month in this home-based program. They are monitored and supervised by a trainer.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: Feasibility (accrual, attrition, adherence, patient experience) will be
      monitored in the feasibility study.

      At several time points during the RCT, patients will be tested with the computerized test
      battery (for cognition; CNS VS), two additional cognitive tests and several self-report
      questionnaires. Testing is done prior to surgery, prior to cognitive rehabilitation (3
      months), immediately after cognitive rehabilitation (6 months) and at half-year follow up (12
      months post-surgery). Questionnaires on self-reported cognitive functioning, psychological
      symptoms (anxiety and depression), and fatigue will be administered on all assessments; the
      questionnaires on work status, professional functioning and community integration are
      administered at baseline and one-year follow-up only.
    
  