
    
      Medication use is rising due to an aging population and expanding treatment indications for
      chronic diseases. Simultaneously, adverse drug events-harmful and unintended events related
      to medication use or misuse-have increased. In Canada, adverse events to outpatient
      medications cause over two million emergency department visits and 700,000 hospital
      admissions, costing over $1 billion in healthcare expenditures annually. Optimizing the
      benefits of medications while limiting their potential for harm is a public health priority
      across patient populations, health settings and medical disciplines.

      The second most common subset of adverse events to outpatient medications was caused by
      non-adherence. Non-adherence has been associated with increased downstream health services
      utilization and costs of care, likely reflective of worse patient outcomes. It is unknown to
      what extent communication about non-adherence to outpatient medications can assist the care
      team in reinforcing patient adherence.

      Patients with adverse events due to non-adherence often seek care in hospitals due to the
      unexpected and serious nature of these events. After assessment and treatment, patients are
      discharged back into the care of a community-based provider who often cannot access the
      hospital's medical record, may not receive a legible or detailed discharge summary.
      Therefore, community-based care providers risk managing the patient without knowing about the
      patient's non-adherence, and inappropriately up-titrating medication doses, or simply missing
      an opportunity to emphasize the importance of adherence.

      The investigators developed ActionADE to address this type of information discontinuity.
      ActionADE was integrated to a province-wide network that links all pharmacies in British
      Columbia to a central data system, allowing users to see their patient's medication
      dispensing history.

      The investigators will conduct a triple-blind randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      effectiveness of ActionADE on preventing subsequent non-adherence. The trial will take place
      in two urban tertiary care (Vancouver General and Saint Paul's Hospitals) and one urban
      community hospital (Lions Gate Hospital) within the Greater Vancouver area, in British
      Columbia, Canada. Other hospitals may be added to accelerate recruitment into the trial if
      approved by the British Columbia Ministry of Health.

      The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the effect of providing information
      continuity about non-adherence using ActionADE on adherence over 12 months compared to
      standard care. Secondary objectives for both trials are to evaluate the effect on outpatient
      and emergency department visits, admissions, hospital-days and mortality.
    
  