
    
      Gastric cancer (GC) is the fourth most common type of cancer (934 000 new cases, 8.6% of all
      new cancer cases in 2002), and the second most common cause of cancer death (700 000 deaths
      annually) in the world. Several Asian countries, including China, Japan, and Korea, have the
      highest incidences of GC in the world. Because the prognosis of early GC is highly favorable,
      high- prevalence countries, such as Japan and Korea, have sought to reduce the disease burden
      by providing GC screening to aver- age-risk populations. In Korea, national GC screening was
      instituted in 1999 as part of the National Cancer Screening Program (NCSP). The NCSP
      recommends biennial GC screening for males and females older than 40 years of age, using
      direct or indirect upper gastrointestinal series (UGIS) or endoscopy. Upper gastrointestinal
      endoscopies are generally accepted as the gold standard for the diagnosis and
      clinicopathological evaluation of GC. Endoscopic examination has been predominantly used to
      screen symptomatic individuals, and to distinguish patients with GC from those with
      comparatively benign diseases, such as peptic ulcers. However, there was no consensus for
      optimal timing of screening endoscopy to detect of early GC.

      Thus, investigators are planned to evaluate the optimal endoscopic interval to find early
      gastric cancer by use of survey between newly diagnosed GC cohort group and healthy control
      cohort group. In addition, investigators are going to analyze the risk factors of GC in
      Korean (epidemiologic, diet, and clinical factors). In this study, the investigators are
      going to enroll the participants who were diagnosed GC and normal control group people, from
      October 2016 to October 2021 in multi-center, prospectively. The baseline characteristics of
      the participants, H. pylori status, stage of gastric cancer at diagnosis, treatment
      modalities, treatment response and mortality were analyzed.

      Although diagnosis of gastric cancer has been characterized by endoscopy, there has been a
      strong demand for serologic marker because accessibility, invasiveness, discomfort of
      endoscopy. In recent years, there have been advancements in the molecular biomarkers utilized
      in the cancer detection and in the development of therapeutic agents based on the target
      genes for a few types of solid tumours excluding GC. With the advancement of molecular
      biological techniques in the last decades, researchers have gained important insights into
      the oncogenesis mechanisms of GC. Besides the well-known pathogenic factor, Helicobacter
      pylori, various experimental approaches have identified oncogenes and tumour suppressor
      genes, including cell cycle regulation genes in the growth and signal transduction pathways.
      Recently, several studies were reported about the efficacy of the serum biomarker (serum PG,
      H. pylori Ig G Antibody and TFF3, etc) for diagnosis of GC. In this present study,
      investigators are going to the efficacy of serum biomarker by the use of serum of GC patients
      and health control group.
    
  