
    
      Project Summary

      Justification for the project

      One half of all pregnancies among American women are unintended, with nearly 4 in 10 ending
      in pregnancy termination by abortion. Elective abortions are among the most common outpatient
      surgical procedure, with an estimated 46 million performed worldwide annually. The management
      of pain is critical to patient care throughout the abortion experience since the vast
      majority of women will experience pain with the procedure. Patients are most affected by pain
      during paracervical block, cervical dilation, suction aspiration, and post operatively with
      uterine cramping. Innovation in pain control and reduction of anxiety, nausea and vomiting
      using a low cost, well-tolerated intervention could impact thousands of women each year.

      Proposed research

      This is a randomized controlled trial of gabapentin 600 mg compared to placebo given 1-2
      hours preoperatively in conjunction with perioperative paracervical block for surgical
      abortion. The researchers hypothesize that adding gabapentin to local anesthesia will reduce
      perioperative and postoperative pain associated with surgical abortion. Additionally, the
      researchers hypothesize that gabapentin will reduce nausea, vomiting, anxiety, and
      consumption of pain medication.

      New features

      Gabapentin as an adjunct o pain management has proven beneficial in gynecological surgery.
      Its use in similar surgical settings as an adjunct to pain management regiments has proven to
      be beneficial. It is generally well tolerated, inexpensive, has minimal side effects, and few
      contraindications.

      Problems anticipated

      The high volume at the study clinic will benefit recruitment efforts, however, as the
      coordination of this study may potentially disrupt clinic flow there will be limits on daily
      recruitment. Postoperative follow-up may be challenging, thus to reduce the impact of loss to
      follow-up, most of the outcomes are measured on the same day as the procedure. Further,
      multiple contact approaches will be employed and a second incentive offered after completion
      of the postoperative assessment.
    
  