
    
      Smoking rates are elevated among drinkers compared to non-drinkers (Marks et al., 1997).
      Moreover, there is some evidence that both smokers who drink alcohol are less successful
      quitting smoking (Leeman, Huffman, & O'Malley, 2007). Thus, identifying interventions that
      are effective in reducing both smoking and heavy drinking in this population is warranted.
      Varenicline, a medication recently approved by the FDA, results in smoking cessation rates as
      high as 50%, significantly better than bupropion or placebo. There is preliminary
      experimental evidence from both animal and human laboratory research that varenicline reduces
      alcohol seeking and consumption (McKee, 2008; Steensland et al., 2007).

      The typical dose schedule for varenicline involves a 1 week pretreatment phase prior to
      quitting smoking (Gonzales et al., 2006; Jorenby et al., 2006; Nides et al., 2006). However,
      greater quit rates have been observed 1 month after using varenicline compared to 1 week.
      Therefore, it is possible that extended pretreatment with varenicline may also yield better
      cessation outcomes than the standard 1 week lead in period. This may be particularly true if
      pretreatment also reduces alcohol consumption prior to the quit attempt.

      Thirty regular smokers who drink alcohol heavily will receive open-label varenicline for 5
      weeks according to the recommended titration schedule up to 1mg varenicline twice daily.
      Prior to the smoking quit date, subjects will be randomized to receive either extended
      pretreatment with varenicline (titration up to 1mg) for 4 weeks or short-term varenicline
      pretreatment (3 weeks placebo followed by 1 week of varenicline).

      The primary aims of the study are to examine: (a) the efficacy of extended varenicline
      pretreatment for smoking cessation, (b) the safety and tolerability of varenicline in heavy
      drinking smokers, and (c) the efficacy of varenicline for reducing alcohol consumption in
      human participants. Effect size estimates for prolonged smoking abstinence and heavy drinking
      will be generated for a NIH grant application.
    
  