
    
      Background

        -  Although malignant gliomas display genetic heterogeneity, several key proliferation and
           survival signaling pathways have been identified.

        -  Recent work has focused on targeting these tumor specific pathways in hopes of improving
           treatment efficacy and minimizing treatment toxicity. Because molecularly targeted
           agents have been mostly ineffective when used alone, combination therapy that inhibits
           multiple pathways is an appealing strategy.

        -  Sorafenib is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor with effects on tumor proliferation and
           tumor angiogenesis. Although most GBMs lack RAF mutations, targeting the RAF/MEK/ERK
           pathway may be beneficial as this pathway may be activated by other genetic alterations
           upstream from RAF.

        -  The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) protein is a downstream component of the
           PI3K/Akt pathway. Everolimus (everolimus; Novartis) is a novel oral derivative of
           rapamycin.

        -  Combining everolimus and sorafenib allows targeting of both the PI3K pathway and the
           RAF-MAPK pathway and in addition targets VEGF and PDGF, other active targets in
           malignant glioma.

      Objectives

      Phase 1

      -To determine the maximum tolerated dose and safety of everolimus in combination with

      sorafenib for patients with recurrent malignant gliomas.

      Phase 2

        -  6 month progression free survival rate for glioblastoma patients with no prior
           bevacizumab exposure treated with everolimus and sorafenib at the maximum tolerated dose
           as determined in the phase I study.

        -  3 month progression free survival rate for glioblastoma patients with prior bevacizumab
           exposure treated with everolimus and sorafenib at the maximum tolerated dose as
           determined in the phase I study.

        -  6 month progression free survival rate for AG patients with no prior bevacizumab
           exposure treated with everolimus and sorafenib at the maximum tolerated dose as
           determined in the phase I study.

      Eligibility

        -  Patients with histologically proven recurrent intracranial malignant glioma will be
           eligible for the phase I/II component of this protocol.

        -  Patients must be >= 18 years old with a Karnofsky performance status of greater than or
           equal to 60

        -  No more than 2 prior chemotherapies and 1 relapse. Prior bevacizumab therapy is allowed.

      Design

        -  This is a phase 1 /2 study of everolimus and sorafenib in patients with recurrent
           highgrade gliomas.

        -  Phase 1: Patients will be treated with daily everolimus (days 1-28) in combination with
           sorafenib.

        -  Phase 2: Patients will be treated with the combination of sorafenib and everolimus.
           Sorafenib will be taken daily for 7 days on, then 7 days off. Everolimus will be taken
           daily.

        -  There is not a defined set maximum number of cycles that a patient may have. Patients
           may continue with protocol therapy until criteria for Off Treatment is met. Patients
           will then be followed every 3 months for survival status.

        -  There will be an accrual of approximately 3-6 eligible patients per cohort to the Phase
           I component of the study. Patients removed at any time for toxicity are evaluable. Phase
           I patients removed from study treatment within 28 days for reasons other than toxicity
           may be replaced.

        -  There will be a total accrual of approximately 82 eligible patients to the Phase II
           study (34 recurrent GBM with no prior exposure to bevacizumab, 16 recurrent Anaplastic
           Glioma with no prior exposure to bevacizumab, and 32 glioblastoma with prior exposure to
           bevacizumab).
    
  