
    
      OVERVIEW

      The study will involve a three arm parallel cohort study considering patients with the
      following conditions:

        1. Class I malocclusion with no vertical facial anomalies, and no facial asymmetry or other
           pathology;

        2. Class III malocclusion with maxillary deficiency but no other vertical facial anomalies,
           and no facial asymmetry or other pathology;

        3. Patients with cleft lip and/or palate and a Class III malocclusion and no other
           pathology.

      DATA CAPTURE

      a. MRI data will be obtained (for 10 subjects in each group) at age T0 and one year
      afterwards (T1). This will provide accurate geometries to properly test the techniques. The
      use of MRI scan data avoids the need for unnecessary exposure of patients to ionizing
      radiation, it also allows the relationship between hard and soft tissues to be observed.

      b. The same 10 patients in (a) will undergo an intra-oral scan captured using a Trios
      intraoral scanner (3Shape, Aarhus, Denmark) which uses ultrafast optical sectioning
      technology (non-invasive) to provide a 3D image of the dentition and dental occlusion and
      facial stereophotogrammetry scan (Vectra H1 3D camera) for soft-tissue texture information at
      ages T0 and T1.

      3D DATA ANALYSIS

        1. Reconstructed 3D geometries of the MRI scans at ages T0 and T1 will be superimposed to
           determine the areas of skeletal and dental change in each subject. The scans will be
           reconstructed and processed for the downstream 3D volume subtraction, using the
           methodologies developed by the investigators and collaborators in similar dental and
           skull biomechanics applications The T0 data will then be subtracted from the T1 data to
           visualize and quantify the geometric changes in hard tissues arising from growth.

        2. To investigate the external changes in soft tissues, 3D stereophotogrammetry scans will
           be converted to shells. Colour-mapping will then provide quantification of the temporal
           change in the soft tissues by 3D subtraction. Furthermore, to quantify the changes in
           areas of complex-curvature e.g. the labiomental fold, 3D curvatures will be computed and
           differences analysed using methods developed by the investigators.

        3. To determine the growth correlation between soft- and hard-tissues, geometric
           morphometric algorithms and bespoke computational methods will be developed. Firstly,
           homologous landmarks will be identified automatically and 3D landmark templates will be
           created to capture the surface geometries. Thereafter, discriminant function analysis
           will be performed to compare the shape changes in each category for each age.

        4. The intraoral scans will also be converted to shells along with the hard- and
           soft-tissue information. Using Avizo software, subtraction and colour-mapping of the
           intraoral images will then again provide quantification of the temporal change in the
           occlusal relationships.
    
  