
    
      Background

      The prognosis after heart transplantation (HTx) has improved considerably since the first HTx
      was performed in 1967. Studies from our group have shown both left and right ventricular
      function is affected immediately after heart transplantation, but this seems to recover to
      some extent over the first year. This immediate effect on the graft organ following HTx is
      associated with tissue ischemia and reperfusion injury causing cellular energy depletion,
      mitochondrial failure and subsequent apoptosis. The condition may progress into full blown
      primary graft failure (PGF) with a need for mechanical cardiovascular support or inotropes
      which is seen in 3-30 % of HTx patients. The cardiac injury will consequently increase the
      risk of morbidity as well as mortality. In addition to acute PGF, a chronic rejection owing
      to coronary arterial vasculopathy (CAV) may develop. Hence, despite advances in
      peritransplantation treatment and immunosuppression, PGF and CAV remain the major heart
      related mortality causes following HTx and additional assessment and treatments are therefore
      needed.

      Graft rejection is diagnosed, and the severity graded based on endomyocardial biopsies (EMB)
      taken percutaneously through the jugular or femoral veins. These biopsies are routinely
      performed at our institution to ensure prober immunosuppression following HTx.1 Acute
      cellular rejection (ACR) may occur in approximately 25% of the patients which is associated
      with PGF, CAV and later chronic rejection. However, mitochondrial function and integrity may
      prove to be a more sensitive marker of allograft rejection. In heart failure, mitochondria
      density changes while function and integrity is impaired linking the failing heart to energy
      deprivation. Animal studies demonstrate that deterioration in total mitochondrial function
      precedes histopathological changes during cardiac graft rejection following HTx. Therefore,
      assessment of mitochondrial function following HTx may allow for earlier detection of
      rejection and allograft dysfunction. This may be of particular importance as emerging
      treatments are targeting both energy substrate supply for adenosine-triphosphate (ATP)
      generation produced by the mitochondria as well as mitochondrial function in the failing
      heart. At our institution, we have established methods to evaluate mitochondrial function in
      myocardial tissue, and pilot studies have demonstrated feasibility with the use of EMB. In
      addition, by use of non-invasive 11C-acetate positron-emission tomography (PET), we can
      assess myocardial external energy efficiency (MEE) calculated by the ratio of myocardial
      external work (EW) and oxidative metabolism (MVO2). Thus, enabling quantification of coupling
      between mitochondrial energy production and mechanical work.

      Despite the overt association between graft dysfunction/rejection and mitochondrial function,
      it remains unsettled whether mitochondrial content and function associate with PGF, ACR and
      CAV. Such findings may be of prognostic importance and even elucidate a new treatment target.

      Hypotheses

        1. Primary graft pump function is correlated to mitochondrial function in the first
           myocardial biopsy taken from the donor heart during the operation

        2. Cardiac mitochondrial function improves over the first 3 months after a heart
           transplantation

        3. Heart transplant patients with moderate to severe coronary graft vasculopathy has
           impaired mitochondrial function

        4. MEE can be used as a marker of mitochondrial function and chronic rejection in HTx
           patients

      Objectives

      Study 1: To examine whether primary myocardial function is related to cardiac mitochondrial
      function in de novo HTx patients

      Study 2: To investigate whether cardiac mitochondrial function improves over time after HTx
      along with improvement of cardiac function

      Study 3: To examine whether heart transplanted patients with chronic rejection and graft
      vasculopathy have impaired mitochondrial function

      Study 4: To evaluate whether MEE can be used as marker of mitochondrial function and chronic
      rejection

      Design and endpoints

      Study 1: The association between cardiac and mitochondrial function following HTx

      Design: Myocardial mitochondrial function analyzed from 15 HTx patients taken from the donor
      heart during the transplantation will be compared to EMB from 15 HTx patients at scheduled
      biopsies (1 or 2 years after implantation)

      Study 2: Development in cardiac and mitochondrial function following HTx Design:
      Mitochondrial function measured at scheduled EBM follow-up (1,2,3,4,8,12 weeks and 6 months
      after HTx) from 24 HTx patients. These results are compared to 15 patients with biopsies
      performed at 1 and 2 years after HTx.

      Study 3: The impact of coronary arterial vasculopathy on mitochondrial function Design:
      Mitochondrial function assessed at scheduled EMB follow-up visits of patients with CAV as
      determined by coronary angiography (scheduled procedure) 15 HTx patients CAV are compared to
      15 HTx patients with without CAV.

      Study 4: MEE as a non-invasive marker of mitochondrial function and allograft rejection
      Design: 24 HTX patients scheduled for EMB will be examined twice with 11C-acetate-PET. It is
      intended that we consecutively recruit patients enrolled in study 2. The first examination is
      performed within 3 weeks following HTx and the second examination after 6 months. Up to 4
      weeks between EMB and the second 11C-acetate PET examination is accepted.

      (The HTx patient cohort which is subjected to biopsies 1 and 2 years after HTx in study 3
      (n=15) is reused in study 1 and 2 as a comparable cohort. Hence, a total of 69 patients are
      enrolled. However, it is anticipated that several patients from study 1 and are enrolled in
      study 2 which will decrease the total number of participants.)

      Methods

      Mitochondrial function will be assessed in myocardial biopsies by High-resolution
      respirometry and Electron microscopy

      Cardiac functions is assessed by transthoracic echocardiography

      Coronary Angiography is performed to assess the degree of CAV

      Blood samples will be taken

      In study 4, MEE will be assessed by positron emission tomography using validated kinetic
      methods.

      Ethical considerations

      The project will be carried out in accordance with the principles of the Helsinki Declaration
      II. The protocol, including the written participant information and consent forms must be
      finally approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Central Denmark Region and .

      Publication and study plan All results, whether positive, negative or inconclusive will be
      published in an international peer-reviewed scientific journal.

      Perspectives Cellular rejection (ACR) shortly after HTx is strongly associated with the
      long-term development of CAV and subsequent myocardial dysfunction. As graft failure and CAV
      are the major long-term heart-related late mortality causes following HTx, it seems paramount
      to modify long-term hazards such as ACR, CAV, and graft failure to significantly improve
      post-transplant outcome.5 In this context mitochondrial function seems to be pivotal, hence,
      approaches to assess mitochondrial function in HTx patient may prove to pave the way for new
      follow-up algorithms and even treatment targets.
    
  