
    
      Freezing of gait (FOG) is arguably one of the most debilitating motor symptoms experienced by
      individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD), and negatively impacts quality of life (Walton et
      al., 2015). Furthermore, advanced FOG does not respond well to treatments commonly used in
      Parkinson's disease (Nutt et al., 2011), therefore warranting the use of adjunct treatment
      options. The development of potential treatment strategies for FOG should focus on the
      underlying mechanism. The cross-talk model of FOG proposes that FOG may be caused by an
      overload of cognitive, limbic, and sensorimotor system activity in the basal ganglia,
      resulting in a depletion of dopaminergic resources, leading to FOG (Lewis & Barker, 2009).
      Hence, based on the cross-talk model, treatments targeting the cognitive, sensorimotor and
      limbic systems independently may lead to a reduction in FOG episodes. Previous studies have
      demonstrated the efficacy of therapies targeting these domains in PD and healthy individuals,
      however, these have yet to be explored in FOG. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to
      evaluate cognitive, sensorimotor, and limbic therapies in individuals with FOG.

      This study will employ a within-subjects design, in which participants will undergo all three
      treatments in a randomized counterbalanced order. Sessions for each type of treatment will
      occur for 1 hour, twice weekly for a period of 4 weeks. Participants will also undergo pre-
      and post-test assessments prior to and following each 4-week treatment period. The cognitive
      training will utilize the "Smartbrain Pro" computer software, which has previously
      demonstrated efficacy in individuals with Parkinson's disease (Paris et al., 2011). The
      sensorimotor training group will participate in proprioceptive training of the upper and
      lower limbs. This training will entail a target matching task, in which participants will
      produce active and self-defined movements while blindfolded (i.e. without visual feedback).
      The limbic training group will undergo cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) focusing solely on
      anxiety symptoms.
    
  