
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the incidence of premature ovarian failure after chemotherapy in premenopausal
           women with stage I-III breast cancer treated with goserelin vs no goserelin .

      Secondary

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare menopausal symptoms in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare bone mineral density loss in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare hormone levels in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare menstruation in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of pregnancy in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, prospective, parallel group, multicenter study.
      Patients are stratified according to age (≤ 40 years vs > 40 years) and participating center.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I (chemotherapy alone): Patients receive neoadjuvant or adjuvant cyclophosphamide- and/or
      anthracycline-containing chemotherapy. Treatment continues for 6-8 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II (chemotherapy plus goserelin for ovarian function suppression): Patients receive
      neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy as in arm I. Patients also receive goserelin
      subcutaneously every 3-4 weeks beginning 1-3 weeks before the start of chemotherapy.
      Treatment with goserelin repeats every 3-4 weeks until completion of chemotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months, and then annually
      for up to 5 years.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 400 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  