
    
      Background:

      Cytology screening programs have efficiently reduced cervical cancer incidence and mortality
      in the U.S. by > 75%. However, these programs rely on the insensitive Pap smear and,
      consequently, are inefficient and overly expensive. Therefore, the needs of undeserved
      populations are not well-served by the current cytology-based programs for cervical cancer
      screening. Based on the central role of oncogenic types of human papillomavirus (HPV) causing
      virtually all cases of cervical cancer, HPV DVA testing is already approved by the FDA as an
      adjunctive screening modality to cytology in this country and as a primary screening modality
      internationally. A validated screening program of HPV DNA testing of self-collected
      cervicovaginal specimens might provide more sensitive and wider coverage screening than
      cytology in the populations underserved by cytology-based (Papanicolaou [Pap] smear or
      liquid-based cytology) screening programs and therefore are at an elevated risk of cervical
      cancer. We are currently evaluating self-collection devices for optimal detection of HPV DNA,
      including one (POI sampler) designed by Jerry Belinson (Cleveland Clinic) and one (Fournier
      device) by Arthur Fournier (University of Miami).

      Objective:

      To compare HPV DNA detection in cervicovaginal specimens collected using newly developed
      self-collection devices, the POI sampler or the Fournier device, to HPV DNA detection in
      cervicovaginal specimens collected using a Darcon swab and HPV DNA detection in
      physician-directed cervical specimens.

      Methods:

      Two pilots will be done, one at the Cleveland Clinic with the POI sampler and one at the
      University of Arizona using the Fournier device (with two different tip designs), in which we
      will recruit 150 consenting women attending a colposcopy clinic, including 50 women referred
      due to HSIL pap. Prior to undergoing a pelvic exam and insertion of the speculum, the
      attending physician will simulate self-collection of cervicovaginal specimens using, in
      alternating order, one of the new devices and a Dacron swab. After collection of the
      cervicovaginal specimens, women will then undergo a standard colposcopic evaluation but with
      an added cervical specimen collected from the os of the cervix to serve as the referent
      standard. Specimens (n=450, 3 paired specimens per woman, for the POI sampler pilot; n = 600,
      4 paired specimens per woman, for the Fournier device pilot) will be tested in a masked
      fashion for oncogenic HPV DNA using Hybrid Capture 2 (HC2; Digene Corporation Gathersburg,
      MD) at the NCI HPV DNA core testing facility.
    
  