
    
      Distal embolization of plaque and thrombotic debris in the infarct-related artery may lead to
      microvascular obstruction resulting in impaired myocardial reperfusion. The aim of the study
      was to assess the impact of contrast injection pressure in coronary arteries, during primary
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), on myocardial reperfusion in patients with acute
      ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

      A randomized, prospective, open label, pilot study. In the period of 6 months, consecutive
      patients with acute STEMI were included in the study. The acute STEMI was confirmed according
      to the clinical, ECG and cardioselective enzymes criteria.

      Patients with the following features were eligible for inclusion: who underwent primary PCI
      within 12 hours from the onset of symptoms, with typical chest pain lasting >30 minutes, with
      ST-segment elevation of ≥1 mm in ≥2 contiguous leads in ECG and with ECGs recorded at
      admission, 60 minutes and 24h after primary PCI.

      Exclusion criteria were: patients who had cardiogenic shock and/or underwent cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation before or during primary PCI, with symptoms lasting more than 12 hours, with
      left bundle branch block in ECG at admission, with diameter stenosis < 50% of the culprit
      lesion or normal coronary blood flow, with severe left main coronary artery or multivessel
      disease who required emergency cardiac-surgery revascularization, with permanent cardiac
      pacemaker or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, with anemia (haemoglobin <100 g/L) at
      admission, who underwent cardiothoracic surgery or had a history of moderate or high degree
      valvular pathology, who had life-expectancy of less than 1 year and who did not sign informed
      consent. Patients were admitted through the Emergency Department, where they were evaluated
      for onset and duration of pain, co-morbidities and risk factors. Vital signs and complete
      physical status were recorded. All patients underwent 12-lead ECG and patients with acute
      STEMI were taken immediately to the catheterization laboratory for primary PCI.

      All patients who met the inclusion criteria were randomized into two groups by means of
      sealed envelopes.
    
  