
    
      The regular collection and banking of cord blood remaining in the placenta after baby's
      delivery started in the early 1990s and was prompted by the observation that cord blood shows
      an immunological immaturity which allows to avoid any matching between donor-mother source
      and patient-recipient, it contains a number of haemopoietic progenitor and stem cells and is
      therefore potentially and safely useful in the field of regenerative medicine.

      Cord blood collection occurs after the umbilical cord has been cut and is extracted from the
      fetal end of the cord. After collection, the cord blood unit bag is delivered to the lab,
      processed and then cryopreserved.

      The main current clinical use of cord blood is allogeneic transplantation in patients
      suffering from severe blood diseases but physicians and researchers are making significant
      progresses evaluating the safety and efficacy of umbilical cord blood stem cells for
      therapeutic uses far beyond their uses for blood disorders.

      Umbilical cord serum (UCS) contains many growth factors and especially EGF and TGF-beta1
      concentrations are two-three times higher than in peripheral blood serum and much higher than
      in tears and is sufficient to prevent squamous metaplasia. In addition, UCS contains
      anti-inflammatory cytokines with protective effect.

      Current therapy for SS-I and GVHD related dry eye depends upon clinical severity of the
      disease. From mild to progressively severe involvement of corneal epithelial damage , tear
      substitutes, FANS, steroids, Cyclosporin A, contact lens shields can be topically applied
      alone or in combination. Autologous serum eyedrops can be an option in severe cases as well,
      since it supplies epithelial growth factors to the healing process of epithelium.

      The use of autologous serum eyedrops, however, is a controversial issues in diseases where
      inflammatory cytokines are present in peripheral blood, such as GVHD.

      The use of cord blood serum based tear substitutes has been recently proposed in the
      literature for the treatment of ocular surface diseases and neurotrophic keratitis, because
      it contains growth factors, neurotrophic factors and essential components of tears. Moreover,
      serum from cord blood is readily available from cord blood banks as quality controlled
      product and is therefore theoretically attractive for topical use in ophthalmology.

      The use of cord blood serum eyedrops as a biological preparation can display in itself
      efficacy features higher than the other drugs in terms of healing and anti-inflammatory
      properties in absence of any chemical compound.

      In Italy biological products for topical use in ophthalmology to treat corneal epithelial
      severe defects are not available. The originality of the present study is based on the
      optimization and standardization of biological eyedrops prepared from cord blood serum. The
      efficacy and safety of the product for topical use in ocular surface diseases will be
      evaluated .

      For the purpose, the following methods will be applied at baseline and endpoint (28 days of
      treatment with UCS eyedrops):

        1. Patients' subjective symptoms evaluation by a validated questionnaire for dry eye (OSDI)

        2. Slit Lamp examination and evaluation of Tear Film Break Up Time, corneal fluorescein
           staining score, conjunctival lissamine green staining score, staining will be recorded
           with digital photos to estimate the healing area in the follow up

        3. Schirmer I test to evaluate tear production

        4. Corneal sensitivity test (measured with a Cochet-Bonnet esthesiometer)

        5. Tear osmolarity, (TearLab, TearLab S.Diego) an indicator of the ability of the patient
           to compensate

        6. Tear Clearance Rate, a global indicator of tear production and tear evaporation

        7. Tear Proteomic to evaluate tear protein profile

        8. Corneal and Conjunctival inflammatory marker evaluation on cells collected by imprint
           and scraping cytology

      Data will be statistically evaluated after 28 days treatment and matched vs baseline by using
      the descriptive statistics for paired data. Statistic outcomes will be analyzed with caution
      due to the non-randomized study design.
    
  