
    
      This study will be performed as a collaboration between Technical University of Madrid (UPM),
      Spanish Group of Cancer Patients (GEPAC), Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón,
      Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierr y Hospital de Sanchinarro-Madrid del Norte. The
      project will be carried out at the facilities of the Physical Activity and Sport Science
      Institute (INEF) and has been approved by the Ethical Committee of the UPM. A single arm
      pilot project with pre-post test has been designed.

      Intervention The exercise program was designed and conducted by a qualified exercise
      physiologist with oncologic training. The exercise program consisted in a twice weekly
      supervised training program developed in a social framework. The sessions included
      instructions in training exercises, as well as included time to speak about their fears and
      doubts with other patients, who were in the same situation. The intervention lasted 12 weeks
      (24 sessions). The training intensity was progressively increased from 65% to 85% of heart
      rate with control by a POLAR FT7 heart rate monitor for aerobic activities, and by 8-15
      repetitions in 2-3 sets for the strength activities. Exercise intensity was prescribed using
      Karvonen equation.

      Every supervised session had the same structure and a duration of 60 minutes. American
      College Sport Medicine (ACSM) Guidelines for Cancer Patients were followed for the session
      design. The first 10 minutes was a dynamic warm up combining different ways of movement
      around the class and articular movements. Next part consisted in aerobic exercise, where the
      principal aim was to practice exercises that increased the participant's functional capacity
      with music-based activities such as aerobic, box-dance or global strength circuits without
      external resistance. Followed by upper-limbs strength exercises with elastic bands to improve
      strength and increase arm lean mass, focusing on chest and dorsal exercises. The last part
      was whole-body stretching exercises to improve joint mobility and muscle flexibility of upper
      body limbs, and general muscle relaxation after training.

      The exercise program was complemented with theoretical classes about exercise and nutrition.
      One class of exercise prescription was held after two months of intervention. The patients
      were taught about the minimum of exercise recommended and about which activities they could
      do and how to adapt them depending on their own situations.

      The nutrition program consisted of three theoretical and practice classes, where specific
      terms of nutrition and diet were explained. The first class explained the different groups of
      nutrients, their functions in the organism and for which group of aliments these can be
      obtained. The second class was a practical class about how to interpret food labels and
      relating measurements of food portions with recommendations for a healthy diet. Final session
      spoke about the ten best and the ten worst aliments, which prevent and promote cancer.
      Teachers did not promote avoiding any group of aliments and a Mediterranean diet was
      encouraged to be followed.
    
  