
    
      Patients will be recruited both prospectively and retrospectively from the Royal Brompton
      Hospital allergy clinic and through advertisement. Subjects will be identified by diagnosis
      of birch pollen allergy, either routinely in the RBHT adult allergy clinic or by looking back
      at patient records. Suitable patients will be invited to participate in the study, with fully
      informed consent obtained, if they understand written English and fulfil the following
      criteria:

      Criteria for inclusion

        -  History of Springtime hayfever

        -  Positive skin prick test (  3mm) to Birch

        -  FEV1.> than 70% predicted or greater than 1.5L

        -  Aged 16 years or more

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Existing medical condition which could be affected by a severe response on challenge

        -  Aged under 16

        -  FEV1.< than 70% predicted or greater than 1.5L

      On recruitment

      After a full explanation of the study given, patients who agree to participate will be asked
      to sign the consent form, a copy of which will be placed in the medical notes, and a second
      copy sent to the Ethics Committee Administrator. Participants will then be booked in for
      visit one and advised to avoid short acting antihistamines for 72 hours and long acting ones
      for a week, prior to their prick prick test.

      The OAS screening tool will be completed for every patient. A venous blood sample will be
      taken and stored for the measurement of total IgE and specific IgE RAST tests for birch,
      apple, celery and hazelnuts. A questionnaire will be completed by the patient assessing the
      effect any food reactions is having on their diet and social life. The researcher will then
      complete a 24-hour food recall questionnaire with the patient, to ascertain their normal
      dietary intake.

      The patient will then be asked whether they have taken anti-histamines in the last 72 hours,
      and if they have not then prick prick tests can be performed using a range of different fresh
      fruits, vegetables, nuts and Birch and Grass reagent. The tests will be undertaken according
      to EAACI recommendations, with a positive and negative control. The allergen content of fresh
      foods is unknown, but using data from previous studies, a wheal of 3mm will be considered
      positive, and a wheal of 5 mm strongly positive.

      All participants will then be invited to return to undergo one single blind, placebo food
      challenge. Those classed as negative responders will then undergo two double blind,
      placebo-controlled food challenges (DBPCFC), one being an active substance and one a control
      substance. Following these challenges, those still classed as negative responders will
      undergo an open challenge with the active substance. The only exclusion criteria will be
      those subjects who have previously reported an anaphylactic response to the active challenge
      material.
    
  