
    
      The HOMESWEETHOME clinical trial is conducted as a multi-centre randomised control trial
      (RCT), across four pilot sites. The trial design, analysis and reporting follow the "Revised
      CONSORT - Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials - Statement" and subsequent additions to
      the CONSORT statement.

      HOMESWEETHOME services are expected to result in an outcome that is superior to usual care
      alone in reducing deterioration of health related quality of life and function associated
      with age and chronic disease. This effect will be measured by assessing different outcomes.

      The clinical evaluation of the HOMESWEETHOME project sets out to assess the long-term effects
      of continuous assistance offered by the HOMESWEETHOME services to older people living
      independently. The trial will test the hypothesis that while providing a level of safety
      equivalent to or better than that enjoyed in older people"s homes, there is a significant
      positive effect on the quality of life (QoL) and the duration of independently living of
      older people.

      The study is conducted in four sites within the European Union, these sites will have the
      number of participants randomised into Intervention Group and Control Group, as follows:

        -  Belgium - City of Antwerp 30 + 30

        -  Catalonia - Town of Badalona 15 + 15

        -  Ireland - North Eastern Region 30 + 30

        -  Italy - Town of Latina 30 + 30 The main inclusion criteria for participants" entry into
           the trial will be based on frailty. Frailty is a concept associated with adverse
           outcomes such as higher morbidity, more hospitalisations and falls, and a lower quality
           of life. Furthermore, frailty predicts - better than age - the evolution to disability
           and death. Participants must also be 65 years or over, and living at home. The main
           reasons for excluding participants will be based on their physical or mental (in)ability
           to take part.

      The primary clinical outcome for the trials will be measured based on the Health Status
      Questionnaire Short Form 36 (SF-36) (v2).

      Secondary outcomes will be measured using Edmonton Frailty Scale (EFS), Comprehensive
      Geriatric Assessment (CGA), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), and Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale (HADS). A number of medical events will also be measured.

      Measurements will be taken at trial start, trial mid-term, and trial end. Measurements will
      be entered, anonymously, into a database for analysis of results. The trial population size
      has been subjected to a statistical power analysis, to ensure statistical significance of
      project results.
    
  