
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate non-inferiority in terms of progression-free survival (PFS) of concurrent
      reduced-dose radiation therapy (RT) with cisplatin or concurrent reduced-dose radiation
      therapy with nivolumab to the current standard of care (standard-dose RT with cisplatin).
      (Phase II) II. To demonstrate co-primary endpoints of non-inferiority of PFS and superiority
      of quality of life (QOL) as measured by the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) of
      concurrent reduced-dose radiation with cisplatin or concurrent reduced-dose radiation with
      nivolumab to the current standard of care (standard-dose RT with cisplatin). (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patterns of failure (local and regional relapse versus distant) and overall
      survival between each experimental arm and the control arm.

      II. To assess long term PFS, overall survival, and toxicity between each experimental arm and
      the control arm.

      III. To determine acute and late toxicity profiles as measured by the Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

      IV. To explore the symptomatic adverse events (AEs) for tolerability of each treatment arm as
      measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE.

      V. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (Hearing Handicap Inventory for
      Adults-Screening [HHIA-S], European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
      [EORTC]-Quality of Life Questionnaire [QLQ]30) between each experimental arm and the control
      arm.

      VI. To assess the association of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography
      (PET)/computed tomography (CT) at baseline with locoregional control and PFS.

      VII. To estimate the negative predictive value of the 12-14 weeks post-radiation therapy (RT)
      FDG-PET/CT in terms of locoregional control rates and PFS rates at 1 and 2 years.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translation research. II. To optimize
      radiotherapy treatment plan quality assurance methodology for radiotherapy planning and
      imaging.

      III. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (European Quality of Life Five Dimension
      Five Level Scale [EQ-5D-5L]) between each experimental arm and the control arm.

      IV. To collect Modified Barium Swallow (MBS) data for future review and analysis.

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or image-guided
      radiation therapy (IGRT) over 6 fractions per week and receive cisplatin intravenously (IV)
      over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo reduced dose IMRT or IGRT once daily (QD) over 5 fractions per week
      and receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 22. Treatment continues for 6 weeks
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Beginning 1 week prior to radiation, patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks (14 days) for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo reduced dose IMRT or IGRT
      over 6 fractions per week for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      PHASE III: Patients are randomized to Arm I, Arm II, and/or Arm III.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12-14 weeks, every 3 months
      for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  