
    
      Osteoarthritis leads to degeneration of the articulating surfaces of the femur and tibia,
      with the end-stage intervention being replacement of these articulating surfaces using a
      total knee arthroplasty (TKA) surgical procedure. For patients undergoing TKA, there is a
      significant decline in functional abilities throughout the waiting period from surgical
      referral to the surgery date. Following the surgery, there is an improvement in function of
      these patients, but they do not reach the same functional level as healthy individuals who
      have not undergone TKA. To objectively measure functional abilities, various tests of
      strength, mobility and balance can be assessed. To date, no study has been conducted to
      evaluate how these objective measures of functional ability change throughout the pre-surgery
      waiting period and how this compares to levels following surgery. To gain a further
      understanding of the mechanisms behind these changes in function, physiological measures of
      muscle and tendon can be employed using electrical testing and ultrasound imaging. By
      evaluating changes in physiology alongside changes in function in TKA patients and healthy
      controls, we can gain a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying observable changes
      in function of patients undergoing TKA and how this compares to normal physiological changes
      in healthy controls.

      Patients undergoing total knee replacement will visit the laboratory on 5 separate testing
      occasions (1, immediately following referral for TKA; 2, midpoint between referral and
      surgery; 3, 2 weeks prior to surgery; 4, 6 weeks post-surgery; 5, 6 months post-surgery. At
      each testing session participants will begin by filling out questionnaires related to overall
      functional ability. They will then perform functional tests of the upper and lower body to
      gain measures of limb-dependent functional ability. Following functional measures, resting
      measures of muscle and tendon surrounding the knee and quadriceps muscle group will be
      obtained using a combination of ultrasound imaging and measurements at the skin surface.
      Participants will then be equipped will surface electromyography (sEMG) electrodes on the
      muscles composing the quadriceps and hamstrings muscle groups to measure muscle activity
      during the subsequent measures. Muscle reflex activity will be assessed through sub-maximal
      and maximal electrical stimulation of the femoral nerve via carbon stimulation electrodes
      placed on the skin surface. Participants will then perform three maximal voluntary
      contractions (MVC) requiring them to extend their leg as hard as possible against the force
      transducer. Stimulation will be applied prior to, during and following the MVCs to assess the
      level of muscle activation. From the MVCs, sub-maximal tracking tasks of 5,10,25,50 and 75%
      MVC will be established. Using the force displayed on a screen in front of the participants,
      they will be required to produce contractions up to these force levels and maintain the force
      level for 5 second in order to quantify force steadiness. During these sub-maximal tracking
      tasks, the ultrasound probe will be placed on the junction between the quadriceps muscle and
      tendon to record tendon elongation for quantification of tendon mechanical properties.

      These procedures will be preformed for the surgical leg of 30 patients undergoing TKA to
      compare inter-leg differences across time points, and 30 healthy control participants not
      undergoing TKA who are age-and sex-matched to the patient group will also perform these
      measures on their non-dominant leg using the same spacing between testing sessions. Measures
      will be compared between the surgical of patients and the non-dominant leg of healthy
      controls to evaluate differences over time in the patient group and how this compares to
      normal changes in a healthy population over the same period of time. This study will try and
      determine what measures of physiological change prior to surgery best predict optimization of
      patient function and improvement following surgery.
    
  