
    
      Objectives Given that this combination of outcomes have not been sufficiently measured in the
      cancer population, and most balance and agility training programs are 12 weeks or more in
      length, the objectives of this study is to determine the effects of a 6-week intervention,
      the Balance, Agility, Strengthening Exercise (BASE) Class, on the balance performance,
      self-efficacy, and the fear of falling in cancer survivors.

      Methods This study is a 3 year exercise interventional study, with 20 participants per year.
      In year one of the study, 20 participants will be enrolled in a 6-week Balance, Agility,
      Strengthening Exercise (BASE) Class. The pre-program data collection will include:
      demographic data; initial intake examination utilizing standard physiotherapy assessment of
      range of motion, flexibility, and strength; use of validated balance performance tools; and
      validated self-report surveys for balance confidence, fear of falling, and quality of life.
      The participants will attend the BASE class twice weekly for 6-weeks. The post-program data
      collection is to include the same outcome measures.

      Subsequent years will be an observational study of the same design, enrolling 20 participants
      in year 2 and 3 for a 6-week BASE class. A total of 60 participants will be recruited over 3
      years providing adequate power to assess program efficacy. Based on the resources available,
      this study can only accommodate 20 participants per year and can only be conducted for a
      6-week period each year of the study.

      Participants and recruitment Posters and hand bills will be distributed and placed throughout
      CancerCare recruiting participants for the study (self-referral). In addition, hand bills
      will provided for oncologists, oncology nurses, and psychosocial clinicians to give to
      patients/potential participants within the clinical areas at CancerCare. After receiving the
      hand bill with the study description and information, potential participants can choose to
      phone or e-mail the PI to indicate their interest in the study. A phone interaction will take
      place between the PI and potential participant to determine if they meet the inclusion
      criteria. Once it is determined that they meet the inclusion criteria, an in-person meeting
      will be arranged and they will be provided with the study's objectives, risks and benefits,
      and the consent document. Time will be allowed for the potential participant to ask questions
      and to consider their enrollment in the study. After a thorough discussion and review of the
      documents, the potential participant will be asked to sign the consent form. If requested, a
      person will be allowed to take the consent form home for further consideration prior to
      signing.

      Data collection Prior to the start of the BASE Class, an initial assessment will take place.
      This assessment will utilize standard physiotherapy assessment of range of motion,
      flexibility, and strength; use of validated balance performance tools; and validated
      self-report surveys for balance confidence, fear of falling, and quality of life.

      Intervention:

      The BASE class will run twice weekly for 1.5 hours each session over a 6-week period and will
      include a 10-minute warm-up, 30 minutes of static and dynamic balance exercises, 20 minutes
      of lower extremity strengthening exercises, and a 10-minute cool-down. There will be weekly
      falls prevention and mobility enhancement education provided during the class.

      Statistical Analysis Pre-post paired comparisons will be conducted for each balance
      performance and self-reported questionnaire measure. A paired T-test or Wilcoxon signed ranks
      test will be performed according to the observed distributions.
    
  