
    
      The diagnosis of invasive Aspergillosis (IA) remains a challenge in the febrile neutropenic
      and the hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients. Recent studies have shown that
      early diagnosis of IA is possible in this group of high-risk patients. Serial screening of
      circulating Galactomannan (GM), an epitopic determinant of several antigens secreted by the
      Aspergillus early in its growth, has been shown to be sensitive and specific in the diagnosis
      of IA. This test may help us to detect IA early, thereby permitting a pre-emptive strategy to
      be initiated in high-risk patients. In a prospective, randomized, non-blinded study, we seek
      to compare the outcome of a novel GM-guided anti-fungal strategy against the conventional
      empirical antifungal therapy. Patients randomized to the conventional arm will not undergo
      serial GM monitoring, but will receive standard anti-fungal prophylaxis and standard
      empirical antifungal therapy in accordance with published guidelines. Patients randomized to
      the GM arm will receive standard anti-fungal prophylaxis but will not receive empiric
      anti-fungal therapy unless 2 GM readings are positive. The study aims to determine if such a
      strategy permits targeted, pre-emptive therapy in those at greatest risk, and spare febrile
      patients without evidence of fungal infection other than prolonged fever from unnecessary and
      potentially toxic therapy. It also aims to determine if GM guided pre-emptive antifungal
      therapy using Amphotericin-B deoxycholate prevents the development of proven or probable
      invasive aspergillosis (IA). The study will also prospectively evaluate (in a blinded
      fashion) the use of realtime polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) assay in the same cohort of
      patients receiving GM serial monitoring, and investigate its role in the diagnosis and
      treatment monitoring of invasive Aspergillosis.
    
  