
    
      BACKGROUND:

      MRFIT was a randomized, multicenter primary prevention trial designed to determine whether a
      special intervention consisting of smoking cessation, cholesterol reduction and control of
      high blood pressure, would result in a significant reduction in coronary heart disease (CHD)
      mortality, compared to usual care. The study presented a unique opportunity to test in a
      cost-efficient manner the association of psychosocial factors and mortality in a large, well
      characterized sample of middle-aged men.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The sample was composed of 12,866 men who at the time of study entry were in the top 15
      percent of a risk score distribution based on the Framingham Heart Study data, but had no
      clinical evidence of CHD. During the trial, annual measurements were taken, which included
      some health behaviors, stressful life events, feelings of anger and hostility. A subset of
      3,110 men also were administered once the Type A Structured Interview from which Potential
      for Hostility could be rated and all men who survived until the sixth year of the trial were
      administered the CES-Depression scale.

      After approximately seven years of the active phase of the trial, the men were followed for
      an additional 9 years for mortality and cause of death. To test the major study hypotheses,
      the investigators coded all Type A Structured Interview tapes for Potential for Hostility,
      and components of hostility (Style, Intensity, Content) and constructed and validated a
      self-report measure of hostility from items administered to all participants. Cox
      proportional hazard regression techniques were used to test the association of hostility,
      depression, and stressful life events with all cause and CVD mortality. If the major study
      hypotheses were confirmed, then educational attainment, baseline risk factors, change in risk
      factors, and adherence indicators would be included in subsequent analyses.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  