
    
      The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility of a pilot intervention to increase
      adherence behaviors among patients eligible for cardiac rehabilitation (CR). The intervention
      will include two components. The first component is an educational video shown pre-discharge,
      at the time referral to CR is made. The video, based on social-cognitive principles, will
      educate patients about what they can expect during CR using actual CR patients. The second
      component of the intervention will be a brief, telephone-delivered counseling session to
      increase motivation to adhere to prescribed CR participation or cardiac medications. The
      counseling session will use well-established motivational interviewing techniques. Three
      groups will be formed, with 40 participants each: a control group that receives standard
      care, experimental group #1 that receives the educational video plus a counseling session
      that focuses on participating in CR, and experimental group #2 that receives a counseling
      session that focuses on taking cardiac medications as prescribed.

      Given that this is a pilot study and the sample size is relatively small, statistically
      significant differences are not expected. However, the following hypotheses will be explored:

        -  Experimental group #1 will differ from the control group in rates of participation in
           CR.

        -  Experimental group #2 will differ from the control group and experimental group #1 in
           adherence to prescribed medications.

      Participants will be recruited from patients at Truman Medical Center (TMC) who are eligible
      for CR. Information is received daily about new patients at TMC who are eligible for CR and
      who need to be referred. Investigators will provide research team members information about
      eligible patients who can be approached about study participation. A member of the research
      team will visit patients in their TMC hospital rooms pre-discharge and ask if they are
      interested in learning about the study. If they indicate an interest in learning more, a
      brief summary of the study will be provided (e.g., "The investigators are interested in
      learning about how health care providers can best talk to patients about treatment
      recommendations."). Then, the team member will administer a brief cognitive assessment to
      determine whether the patient is able to complete the study to determine if inclusion
      criteria are met. If they decline participation, or if they do not correctly answer the first
      two screening questions, patients will be asked to answer five brief demographic questions
      and thanked for their time. These five demographic questions will be asked so that
      investigators may compare the final sample to patients who declined participation to explore
      for differences that could limit generalizability of findings.

      If a patient correctly answers the two screening questions, and continues to be interested in
      learning more about the study, the research team member will provide the patient with a
      consent form and TMC's PHI authorization form. Upon completion of the consent form, patients
      also will be asked to review the pharmacy release form and complete and sign it if they
      consent to sharing their prescription refill data with investigators. Afterward, the Time 1
      (baseline) questionnaire will be administered via interview by the research team member. The
      interview will take approximately 15 minutes to complete. Upon completion, the research team
      member will provide the participant with an appointment reminder card and a $10 cash voucher
      than can be used at the TMC Cash Office. At that time, the team member will schedule the next
      two interviews to be completed by telephone (i.e., Times 2 and 3).

      Upon completion of the Time 1 questionnaire, the team member will complete a form with the
      participant's basic information and provide it to the CR nurse. In turn, the CR nurse will
      assign the participant to one of the three study groups. Before recruitment begins, a
      statistician will create a random number table with group assignments stratified by race and
      heart failure diagnosis. The random number table will be used to create sealed envelopes with
      randomization information for each study participant. The envelopes will be sequentially
      numbered and provided to the CR nurse before recruitment. Upon receiving a form from a team
      member, she will open the next sealed envelope to reveal into which group the participant is
      assigned. She will note the envelope number and group assignment on the form. Then, the form
      will be provided to the research team for secure storage.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three groups:

      A control group that receives standard care. Standard care includes a visit by the CR nurse
      pre-discharge to refer the patient to CR. This referral session includes a discussion of
      heart health, CR benefits and outcomes, and literature about prescribed medications. If
      possible, the CR orientation appointment is scheduled with patients. If it is not possible to
      schedule the orientation session at the referral, CR staff members call the patient a few
      days after discharge to schedule an appointment. Reminder calls are made by CR staff members
      a few days before scheduled appointments. The pharmacist also visits all patients after the
      CR referral is made to review prescribed medications. Follow-up phone calls are made 2-3 days
      after discharge by the pharmacy team to answer any medication questions and trouble-shoot any
      problems.

      Experimental group #1: This group will receive standard care (detailed above), and it will be
      shown the educational video on an iPad by the CR nurse during referral. The educational video
      will be based on social-cognitive principles, with the goal of educating prospective CR
      patients about what happens during CR. The video will be approximately nine minutes long, and
      will feature testimonials by real CR patients. In addition, this group will be called by a
      trained counselor approximately one week after discharge. During this call, the counselor
      will conduct a brief counseling session, using motivational interviewing (MI) techniques,
      that focuses on increasing motivation to participate in CR. During this session, the
      counselor will help the participant identify barriers and benefits to participating in CR,
      thereby increasing internal motivation to participate. The counseling session will take
      approximately 10 minutes.

      Experimental group #2: This group will receive standard care (detailed above), plus a
      counseling session that focuses on medical adherence. Specifically, the counselor will
      conduct a session on improving internal motivation to adhere to the cardiac medications
      prescribed by the pharmacist. The session will take approximately 10 minutes.

      As stated above, the CR nurse will note the participant's randomization on the information
      sheet, and this information will be shared with the other research team members after the
      participant is discharged from the hospital. This information will be shared with team
      members prior to the Time 2 phone call (because group membership needs to be determined
      before the call is made to plan for which, if any, counseling session will be completed).

      All participants will take part in the Time 1 interview (see above), as well as telephone
      interviews at Time 2 (approximately one week post-discharge; immediately prior to the
      counseling session provided to the experimental groups) and Time 3 (approximately five weeks
      post-discharge). The Time 2 interview will take approximately 20 minutes and the Time 3
      interview will take approximately 30 minutes.

      Therefore, the control group will take part in a 15-minute Time 1 in-person interview, a
      20-minute Time 2 telephone interview, and a 30-minute Time 3 telephone interview.
      Experimental group #1 will take part in a 15-minute Time 1 in-person interview, a 20-minute
      Time 2 telephone interview, a 10 minute counseling session immediately following the Time 2
      interview, and a 30-minute Time 3 telephone interview. Experimental group #3 will take part
      in a 15-minute Time 1 in-person interview, a 20-minute Time 2 telephone interview, a
      10-minute counseling session immediately following the Time 2 interview, and a 30-minute Time
      3 telephone interview.

      The Time 1 (baseline) interview measures the following constructs/contains the following
      scales:

        -  Demographic questions

        -  Confidence and motivation to change behaviors

        -  Knowledge about cardiac rehabilitation

        -  Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)

        -  Perceived Stress Scale (PSS)

        -  Subjective health status (adapted from BRFSS)

        -  Cardiac self-blame

      The Time 2 (1-week post-discharge) interview measures the following constructs/contains the
      following scales:

        -  Confidence and motivation to change behaviors

        -  Medication Adherence Self-Efficacy

        -  Treatment Self-Regulation Questionnaire

        -  Knowledge about cardiac rehabilitation

        -  Knowledge about cardioprotective medications

        -  Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)

        -  Perceived Stress Scale (PSS)

        -  Subjective health status (adapted from BRFSS)

        -  Medical Care Questionnaire

        -  Medication Adherence

        -  Feedback about educational video (not for control/experimental group #2)

      The Time 3 (5-weeks post-discharge) interview measures the following constructs/contains the
      following scales:

        -  Confidence and motivation to change behaviors

        -  Medication Adherence Self-Efficacy

        -  Treatment Self-Regulation Questionnaire

        -  Knowledge about cardiac rehabilitation

        -  Knowledge about cardioprotective medications

        -  Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9)

        -  Perceived Stress Scale (PSS)

        -  Subjective health status (adapted from BRFSS)

        -  Medical Care Questionnaire

        -  Medication Adherence

        -  Ratings of the counseling session (not for control group)
    
  