
    
      Multidisciplinary experts from two Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICUs) used an iterative
      modified Delphi process to develop and refine criteria for determining PICU patients for whom
      a family care conference would be beneficial. A preliminary set of criteria were developed
      with expert input and review of the literature. The investigators then assessed the
      preliminary criteria by retrospectively reviewing PICU patient's medical records at the two
      participating sites. Making revisions as needed the investigators then assessed the
      reliability of the family care conference criteria by prospectively reviewing the medical
      records of two months of PICU patient admissions at both participating sites. Based on these
      efforts, the investigators have described a set of family care conference criteria that will
      be studied in this investigation.

      Primary Aim: Assess the inclusivity of the developed Family care conference criteria (FCC).

      Secondary Aim: Describe parents' views of PICU family care conferences (FCC) and factors
      associated with having PICU family care conferences.

      Methods: Taking an implementation science approach, the investigators will use
      plan-do-study-act cycles to optimize the goal of offering an FCC to all parent(s) of patients
      with any FCC criteria. The implementation aim statement is, within 6 months, healthcare team
      members will offer an FCC to the parent(s) of >95% of patients who have at least one FCC
      criteria.

        -  Planning (Plan). Development teams at participating institutions have determined how to
           inform PICU healthcare team members (HTMs) when a patient has an FCC criterion. A
           one-page information sheet (written at a 6th-grade level) describing FCCs, their
           potential role and value will be used when offering families a FCC. The development
           teams have also created an electronic health record (EHR) note template to document
           offering and conducting FCCs.

        -  Implementation (Do). Each weekday, a study team member at each site will review the EHR
           to identify patients who have one FCC criteria. A study team member will inform the PICU
           team when a patient has at least one FCC criteria and request that an HTM give the
           parent(s) the FCC information sheet, offer the parent(s) an FCC, and document the
           conversation with the parent(s) in the EHR. The processes for organizing and conducting
           FCCs will occur according to the PICU teams' discretion.

        -  Data collection (Study). The investigators will track the occurrence of FCCs by
           reviewing the EHR and obtaining input from PICU HTMs. For patients meeting at least one
           FCC criteria, but for whom an FCC was not documented, a study team member will ask the
           patient's PICU team (either resident, fellow, APRN, or attending) if an FCC occurred
           while the patient was admitted. For patients meeting FCC criteria, but for whom an FCC
           did not occur, study team members will also document if an FCC was offered by reviewing
           the EHR. If there is no EHR documentation about offering parent(s) an FCC, a study team
           member will ask the patient's PICU team (within a week of informing them that a patient
           met an FCC criteria) if the parent(s) were offered an FCC and if not why the parent(s)
           were not offered and FCC. Using input from HTMs, the investigators will record reasons
           for not offering an FCC and ascertain why parents opted out of an FCC. In addition to
           data about the FCC criteria, the investigators will extract the follow patient data from
           the EHR: age; sex; Pediatric Index of Mortality 3 (PIM3) score (measures of PICU
           admission illness severity) indication for PICU admission; need for intubation; need for
           pressors/vasoactive medications; number of subspecialty teams consulted; and use of
           ECMO.

        -  Revise implementation plan (Act). The development teams will meet every other week x 4,
           then monthly x 4, then every two months to review the data, assess implementation, and
           modify the process as needed.

      To describe parents' views of PICU FCCs and factors associated with having PICU FCCs, the
      investigators will enroll English- and Spanish-speaking (materials will be available in
      Spanish) parents (one or both) of PICU patients <18 years old for whom an FCC occurred or
      whose child had at least one FCC criteria. English- and Spanish-speaking parents (one or
      both) of PICU patients < 18 years old whose child did not have an FCC criteria and who did
      not have an FCC will also be eligible until the investigators have enrolled 100 parents. the
      investigators will invite eligible parents to complete a post-FCC Survey within three days of
      an FCC (for those that have an FCC). The investigators will invite all eligible parents to
      complete a post-PICU Survey and participate in a one-on-one interview within three days of
      PICU discharge.

      The Post-FCC Survey will ask for information about parent characteristics and feedback on the
      FCC. The variables related to parent characteristics will include demographics, family
      relationship style (using the Family Apgar), informational support (using the Informational
      Support SF4a), and mental health (using the two-item PROMIS® mental health scale) and global
      physical health (using the two-item PROMIS® global physical health scale). Items asking for
      feedback about the FCC (adapted from previous work) will assess: overall FCC utility; the
      topics discussed and their importance to the parents; what was useful and what could be
      improved; and whether the parent would like to have another FCC in the future. The post-PICU
      Survey will include the same items asking about family characteristics as in the Post-FCC
      Survey (not included for parents who completed a post-FCC Survey). The post-PICU Survey will
      also include items asking about the utility of other modes of PICU communication (daily
      rounds, electronic patient portals, written information, bedside and phone interactions with
      physicians/APRNs and bedside nurses, and communication with social workers, chaplains, and
      case managers). Finally, the post-PICU Survey will ask if an FCC was offered, request
      feedback on FCCs (see above) that occurred (not included if a post-FCC Survey was completed),
      and ask why offered FCCs did not occur. All non-validated survey items were reviewed by the
      study team, for face validity. Parents of patients who die in the PICU will receive the
      post-PICU Survey by mail or email 3-5 weeks after their child's death, as the investigators
      and others have done previously. Parents will complete surveys electronically on a tablet
      using REDCap. Audio-recorded one-on-one interviews will be conducted by a study team member
      using an interview guide that focuses on the following content areas: perceptions of PICU
      communications overall; specific modes of communication; why an FCC occurred or did not
      occur; and perceptions of FCC utility.
    
  