
    
      Epidemiological information will be obtained at community, household and individual levels.

      In each country, informed consent will be obtained from adults selected to participate in the
      study and for the children under their care. Written informed assent will also be obtained
      from participants aged 12 to 15 years. Oral assent will be obtained from younger children.
      Once consent or assent has been obtained, a structured questionnaire will be completed
      following discussions with the head of the household which records information about sleeping
      and cooking arrangements in the household. Each study participant or their guardian will
      complete a questionnaire which collects information on potential risk factors for
      meningococcal carriage such as occupation, smoking, recent travel, including travel on the
      pilgrimage, attendance at social gatherings, and recent respiratory infection. Following
      interview, a pharyngeal swab will be obtained from each study participant. A 5 ml blood
      sample will be obtained from 200 randomly selected subjects in each of the four older age
      categories and from 50 infants aged 6 - 11 months (a total of 850 samples) during the initial
      survey to measure serogroup A bactericidal and Immunoglobulin G ELISA serogroup A, C, W135, X
      and Y meningococcal antibodies. Blood will not be collected from infants under the age of 6
      months.

      In each country, immediate processing of pharyngeal swabs will allow the identification of
      subjects who are carrying meningococci and the serogroup of these meningococci will be
      determined within 2 - 4 days of collection of the sample. The households of these subjects
      will be visited as soon as possible after identification of a carrier has been made, informed
      consent will be obtained and if the participant agrees, a pharyngeal swab will be obtained
      twice a month for two months and monthly for a further four months, a total of 8 follow-up
      samples to estimate the rates of acquisition and loss of carriage in household's contacts.
      During the first visit, a 5 ml blood sample will be obtained from all subjects over the age
      of 6 months for measurement of IgG ELISA and bactericidal serogroup A meningococcal
      antibodies to determine concentrations that protect against acquisition of carriage. No
      further blood samples will be collected. A rapid diagnostic test for malaria will be
      performed on any subject who is febrile or unwell and antimalarial treatment provided
      according to the national guidelines if it is positive. The results of these household
      studies will show the impact of vaccination on acquisition rates of carriage.

      Similar cross-sectional and longitudinal surveys to those described above will be conducted
      approximately 6 and 18 months after the mass vaccination campaigns with the serogroup A
      meningococcal conjugate vaccine.

      AMENDMENT TO ORIGINAL STUDY PROTOCOL:

      The initial proposal included provision for an interview to collect information on potential
      risk factors for carriage, collection of a pharyngeal swab from each study participant, and 8
      swabs from household contacts of index carriers over a six-month period. It included
      provision for the collection of one 5 ml blood sample during the initial cross-sectional
      survey from 800 subjects aged 6 months or older for baseline serological assays, and for
      collection of a further 5 ml post-vaccination sample. It also included provision for
      collection of a 5 ml blood sample from all subjects over the age of 6 months during the first
      visit of the household follow up study to determine concentrations that protect against
      acquisition of carriage.

      During pre-vaccination surveys conducted in 2010, pharyngeal swabs were collected from 4,300
      and 5,000 age stratified subjects in Mali and Niger respectively. Molecular analysis
      performed in Oxford, confirmed that there was no serogroup A meningococci among the 48 and
      338 isolates of putative meningococci identified in Mali and Niger respectively. In contrast,
      serogroup A meningococcal carriers were identified in Chad during the course of a related
      epidemiological study (REF.5699). In addition, during the 2011 African meningitis season,
      more than 90% of cases of serogroup A meningococcal disease recorded in the meningitis belt
      came from Chad or Cameroun with very few cases being reported from Mali or Niger. These
      observations indicate that it may be possible to measure the impact of MenAfriVac™ on
      serogroup A meningococcal in Chad rather than in Mali or Niger as had been proposed
      originally.

      For the reasons indicated above, it is proposed to undertake a pre-vaccination carriage
      survey in Chad in 5,000 subjects in the 2011 rainy season instead of the 2,000 subjects
      proposed originally for the epidemiological study (REF. 5698). As the prevalence of carriage
      was higher in rural than in urban areas in the 2010 rainy season surveys conducted in Chad,
      we propose to study 4000 subjects in two rural areas and 1,000 subjects in an urban area.
      This will allow a comparison to be made with the results obtained in the 2010 rainy season
      survey when 1000 subjects were recruited in urban and rural areas respectively.

      The same study procedures described in original proposal will be performed in Chad, except
      that no blood samples will be obtained during the initial survey as these were collected
      during 2010. However, one blood sample will be obtained from household contacts of index
      carriers as set out for the surveys originally planned for Mali and Niger. The same consent
      form as the one proposed initially will be used.

      Depending upon the prevalence of serogroup A meningococcal carriage in the 2011 rainy season
      survey conducted in Chad, a decision will be made as to whether or not to proceed with two
      post-vaccination surveys as indicated in the original protocol for Mali and Niger.
      Vaccination of the whole of Chad with MenAfriVac™ will commence in the last quarter of 2011
      and the whole country is likely to be covered by early 2012.
    
  