
    
      Total of 100 American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) I-III, adult patients scheduled to
      elective or emergency trauma surgery of hand/forearm or shoulder are planned to be randomly
      allocated to general anaesthesia (GA) or ultrasound-guided (UG) brachial plexus block (BPB)
      group, in this randomized-prospective study after approval by the University Research Ethics
      Board, Pécs University Medical School, Hungary. All of the patients will receive detailed
      information about the planned BPB or GA techniques and surgeries, then written informed
      consents will be obtained. Study participants are planned to be assigned randomly into 4
      groups (Shoulder GA; Shoulder RA; Hand/forearm GA; Hand/forearm RA).

      Standardized UG Axillary-supraclavicular (AX-SC) approach to the BP is planned to be
      performed under sterile conditions, or standardized GA with propofol IV, fentanyl IV, and 1
      MAC (minimal alveolar concentration) sevoflurane, by experienced anesthesiologists.

      Blood samples will be taken at 0-time point (straight before the administration of BP
      injection or the induction of GA) and straight after the surgery. The collected serum samples
      are stored at -70 °C for a maximum of two weeks prior to analysis. Qualitative and
      quantitative determination of endocannabinoids and corticosteroids is performed by
      supercritical fluid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry after salting-out
      assisted liquid-liquid microextraction. For somatostatin measurement, the samples are
      immediately supplemented with aprotinin (20µl/ml blood sample; Gordox 10 KIU/ml (Kallikrein
      Inhibitor Unit/ml), Richter Gedeon Budapest, Hungary) and transported for centrifugation on
      ice. The pellet is discarded, and the plasma is stored at -80⁰C until further processing. The
      somatostatin concentration of the plasma sample is determined with both ELISA (CEA592Hu,
      Cloud-Clone Corp., Wuhan, PRC) and radioimmunoassay. The results are collected and analyzed.

      Demographic data, vital parameters, and verbal numeric rate of pain intensity are collected
      prior to and after surgery.
    
  