
    
      Winter seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a subtype of recurrent depression involving major
      depressive episodes during the fall and/or winter months that remit each spring. The central
      public health challenge in the management of SAD is prevention of winter depression
      recurrences. This application focuses on two SAD treatments that each work for some patients:
      light therapy (LT) and a SAD-tailored group cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT-SAD). LT is the
      acute SAD treatment with the most substantial evidence to support its efficacy. Correction of
      circadian phase is LT's established target and mechanism. In our recently completed R01-level
      efficacy trial, post-treatment outcomes for CBT-SAD and LT were very similar, but CBT-SAD was
      associated with fewer depression recurrences over 2-year followup than LT (27.3% in CBT-SAD
      vs. 45.6% in LT). CBT-SAD engaged and altered a specific mechanism of action, seasonal
      beliefs, which improved at twice the rate during CBT-SAD compared to LT, and this improvement
      was associated with lower risk for recurrence following CBT-SAD. This confirmatory efficacy
      R01 will apply the experimental therapeutics approach to determine how each treatment works
      when it is effective and to identify the best candidates for each. We will ascertain whether
      theoretically-derived candidate biomarkers of each treatment's target and effect are
      prescriptive of better outcomes in that treatment vs. the other. Biomarkers of LT's target
      and effect include circadian phase angle difference (PAD) and the post-illumination pupil
      response (PIPR). Biomarkers of CBT-SAD's target and effect include pupil dilation and
      sustained gamma band EEG responses to seasonal words, which are hypothesized to reflect less
      engagement with seasonal stimuli following CBT-SAD and corroborate with the established
      target of seasonal beliefs. In addition to determining change mechanisms, we will test the
      efficacy of a "switch" decision rule upon recurrence to inform clinical decision-making in
      practice. We will randomize 160 adults with SAD to 6-weeks of CBT-SAD or LT in Winter 1;
      follow subjects in Winter 2; and, if a depression recurrence occurs, cross them over into the
      alternate treatment (i.e., switch from LT to CBT-SAD or CBT-SAD to LT). All subjects will be
      followed in Winter 3. Biomarker assessments will occur at pre-, mid-, and post-treatment in
      Winter 1, at Winter 2 followup (and again at mid-/post-treatment for those crossed-over), and
      at Winter 3 followup. Consistent with NIMH's priorities for demonstrating target engagement
      at the level of RDoC-relevant biomarkers, this work aims to confirm the targets and
      mechanisms of LT and CBT-SAD to maximize the impact of future dissemination efforts.
    
  