
    
      Central nervous system (CNS) metastases is the most common type of brain malignancy, and
      breast cancer is the second most common type of malignancy to cause CNS metastases. Although
      the incidence of CNS metastases is less common than bone or visceral metastases, it is
      associated with poorer prognosis and is relatively unresponsive to systemic therapies. The
      incidence of CNS metastases in breast cancer has been estimated as 1-16% in clinical series,
      with higher rates (18-30%) in autopsy series. Recently a trend towards increasing CNS relapse
      has been noted, up to 25-34%. This may be partly explained by the increasing use of
      contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), heightened awareness by patient or
      clinicians, or an alteration in the natural history of breast cancer with improvements in
      systemic therapies, resulting in a prolongation of survival. Therefore, with improvements in
      treatments, metastases are better controlled, resulting in the CNS becoming a sanctuary for
      residual disease. The treatment of CNS metastases in breast cancer remains challenging.
      Surgical resection of tumor will prolong survival only in patients with a single lesion and
      with well controlled systemic disease. For patients with multiple lesions, whole brain
      radiotherapy (WBRT) remains the backbone in the management of CNS metastases. Recently the
      use of stereotactic radiosurgery alone or in combination with WBRT has been explored.
      Although better local control was achieved with the combination therapy, minimal overall
      survival benefit was seen. This may be secondary to the competing risk of death from systemic
      (extra-CNS) progression. The use of systemic agents including chemotherapy and hormonal
      therapy has been generally disappointing. This is often attributed to the impermeability of
      the blood-brain and blood-tumor barriers. Furthermore, P-glycoprotein (Pgp), a drug efflux
      pump encoded by the multidrug resistance gene, mdR1, is expressed in brain endothelial cells.
      Therefore, agents such as doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil, paclitaxel,
      docetaxel and vinorelbine, which are active against breast cancer, may either penetrate CNS
      poorly, or be transported out of the CNS environment. However, the blood brain barrier may be
      more leaky and permeable than previously thought in patients with CNS metastases, and these
      agents may achieve therapeutic concentrations in the CNS. As evidence for this, patients
      without prior exposure to agents such as cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil,
      vincristine, and doxorubicin, can have significant objective responses in the CNS metastases.
      Today, most patients would have received these agents in the adjuvant setting, thus
      emphasizing the importance of both chemo-sensitivity together with CNS penetration, in the
      treatment of CNS metastases.

      This is a single arm, open label, phase II drug study. This study will be conducted at the
      Breast Care Center at Baylor College of Medicine and its affiliated hospital, and at Ben Taub
      General Hospital in Houston. Patients who were diagnosed with CNS metastases (brain +/-
      leptomeningeal disease) will be identified prospectively. All eligible patients will receive
      capecitabine concurrently with WBRT followed by combination capecitabine with sunitinib. WBRT
      will be administered at 30 Gy in 10 fractions together with capecitabine to be given on the
      first day of WBRT at 1000 mg/m2/day and continued daily for 14 days. After a 7 days rest
      period, capecitabine will be restarted at 2000mg/m2/day for 14 days followed by a 7 days rest
      period. This will be given together with sunitinib at 37.5 mg daily. This is the dosing
      determined by the phase I study with capecitabine and sunitinib. Dose reduction and/or
      treatment postponement will be done for significant toxicity. Capecitabine with sunitinib
      will be administered until disease progression in either CNS and/or non-CNS sites. Efficacy
      assessments will be performed on all subjects via imaging studies in the CNS and extra-CNS
      sites 8 weeks after starting study, then every 12 weekly. Neurological examination will be
      performed at baseline, 3 weeks after starting treatment, then every 6 weekly. Assessment of
      treatment toxicity will be performed at baseline, 3 weeks after starting treatment, then
      every 3 weekly using the NCI Common Toxicity grading system. Clinical and laboratory
      parameters will be assessed until disease progression or withdrawal from study (due to
      unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent). Subjects with progression of CNS and / or
      extra-CNS disease will be considered progressors. Subjects withdrawn from treatment will be
      followed for survival until death.

      Primary endpoint: 1. To determine progression free survival. Progression will be defined by
      progression in either CNS or extra-CNS metastases. Secondary endpoint: 1. To assess the
      toxicities associated with the regimen 2. To determine the overall objective response in CNS
      disease 3. To determine the overall objective response in extra-CNS disease 4. To determine
      the overall survival.
    
  