
    
      Cryosurgical freezing (limited to 1.5 cm diameter single freeze within the cancer (up to two
      cancer sites selected and treated)) will release intact antigens to prime the immune system.
      The study treatment immunotherapeutic drugs (PD-1 inhibitor monoclonal antibody nivolumab or
      pembrolizumab and anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody ipilimumab, and low-dose cyclophosphamide)
      will then be sequentially injected directly into each of the treated cancer sites immediately
      following cryosurgical freezing. These injections will be performed in combination with
      collagen (Helitene) to improve drug containment at the site of injection for improved local
      effect rather than rapid disbursement and dilution throughout adjacent interstitial spaces,
      as well as sustained drug delivery over time rather than a burst-release pattern. Prior to
      study treatment, oral low dose cyclophosphamide will be given. Post-treatment, daily
      subcutaneous low-dose GM-CSF injections will also be administered subsequently. It is
      speculated that neoantigens released from the cryoablated necrotic cancer will be available
      in the vicinity of the cryosurgical freezing field immediately following the procedure.
      Immature dendritic cells attracted to the injection site will internalize neoantigens to
      become activated to recognize cancer-specific antigenic proteins. The activated dendritic
      cells will recruit killer T-cells to the injection site to attack cancer cells, and then
      migrate through the lymphatic system to sites of metastases, targeting cancer-specific
      neoantigens and recruiting more killer T-lymphocytes to destroy other cancer cells harboring
      the precise antigenic epitopes (abscopal (bystander) effect). In this way, dendritic cells
      are capable of initiating cell-mediated systemic immune response in combination with
      cytotoxic killer T-cells. Regulatory T lymphocytes, which have been implicated in dampening
      or halting cell-mediated, antigen-specific immune responses, will be selectively depleted by
      anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies, low-dose cyclophosphamide, and metronomic GM-CSF.
      Intra-tumoral injection of the immunotherapeutic medications assists in stimulating and
      harnessing the local and systemic immune response. GM-CSF prolongs the immune response. Using
      this combination of therapies, referred to as AbscopalRx5001, it is thought that a clinically
      significant systemic anti-cancer immune response might be elicited. Intra-tumoral injection
      of drugs will likely offer fewer side effects than systemic therapy.
    
  