
    
      10 patients with a proven food allergy will be submitted to the combined effort of IgE
      specific (selective) immunoadsorption and subsequent treatment with Omalizumab.

      An Oral Food Challenge (OFC) will be performed before, during and after the above mentioned
      treatments according to international guidelines with administration of increasing doses (3,
      10, 30, 100, 300, 1000 and 3000 mg of protein) of the incriminated food at one hour
      intervals, until objective signs of an allergic reaction in the patient occur. The cumulated
      dose eaten before this reaction is defined as the threshold (Tr).

      The patient's threshold value (mg protein) before therapy (Tr0) will be determined by OFC
      immediately before three cycles of immunoadsorption on three consecutive days are performed.
      This repeated procedure will expectedly reduce the serum level of IgE (total as well as
      specific) by a factor of at least 10. Immediately after the last day of immunoadsorption, a
      second OFC for determination of threshold (TrP) will be performed and compared to Tr0, in
      order to determine the efficacy of the immunoadsorption.

      Immediately after finalization of the second OFC, treatment with Omalizumab 300 mg s.c.
      injection will be initiated and repeated every 2 weeks until 12 weeks of treatment has been
      reached. The administration, the dose and dose interval is the recommended dosage as to the
      SPC (Summary of Product Characteristics). Treatment with Omalizumab will expectedly reduce
      the level of serum IgE (total as well as specific) by a factor of 2-4. The day following the
      final administration of Omalizumab, a third OFC for determination of threshold (TrX) will be
      performed and followed by a fourth OFC for determination of threshold (TrW) four weeks later.
      These thresholds will be compared to Tr0 and TrP to determine the combined efficacy of
      immunoadsorption and therapy with Omalizumab during therapy and after cessation of therapy.

      Skin Prick Tests (SPTs), serum levels of total (t-IgE) and specific IgE (s-IgE) as well as
      relevant component resolved diagnostics (all in kIU/L) and Basophil Histamine Release (BaHR)
      (ng/mL) for relevant food allergens will be determined immediately before and after
      immunoadsorption, before challenges and before administration of Omalizumab.

      Provided that 80 % of the patients will respond to immunoadsorption and therapy with
      Omalizumab (i.e. a comparison between Tr0 and TrX) with at least a two-step increase in
      threshold, a number of 10 included patients will result in a statistical significance for
      difference between the two parameters of 0.0047, if the remaining two patients do not change
      their threshold values. If, additionally one patient decreases threshold (i.e. 7 positive, 2
      unchanged and 1 negative), the value will still be statistically significant (p=0.0142) using
      the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The specified number of patients have to complete the study to
      ensure the results.

      GCP-monitoring is performed by the local GCP-unit at Odense University Hospital.
    
  