
    
      Gambling Disorder (GD) is a complex addictive disorder involving fronto-striatal connectivity
      and prefrontal top-down control modulation of reward-related brain areas. Repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) seems to reduce cravings and improve cognitive
      function in substance dependent individuals. Moreover, rTMS has been shown to modulate
      dopaminergic and glutamatergic transmission, both involved in GD pathophysiology. However,
      the efficacy of rTMS in treating GD has not been evaluated and also, we lack a full
      characterization of rTMS effects on other important aspects, including effects on mood,
      cognition and changes in brain function. The purpose of this study is to investigate the
      effects of repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) at 15 Hz frequency on the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in patients affected by GD and to examine possible changes in
      mood, cognition, and brain activity and functional connectivity associated with this
      intervention. For this purpose, the investigators will recruit GD patients. After screening
      and informed consent, participants will undergo active rTMS for two consecutive weeks (twice
      a day) during the continued treatment phase, and a maintenance intervention (twice a week for
      3 months), during the rTMS follow-up phase. Following this phase, participants will be
      followed for further 3 months, during which no rTMS will be delivered but clinical data will
      be collected.

      Procedure: The project consists of: Screening Visit (baseline), Phase 1 (continued treatment
      phase), Phase 2 (3 months- rTMS follow-up), Phase 3 (3 months follow-up without rTMS). First,
      there will be a screening visit, where a clinical interview will be conducted and
      questionnaires and tests will be administered to identify study participants who meet the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Baseline clinical and cognitive data will be acquired. In
      Phase 1, participants will receive 2 sessions of rTMS (active), twice per day for 10
      consecutive days, for a total of 20 rTMS sessions. Following this, the investigators will
      evaluate the acute effect of treatment on relapse rate, gambling severity and craving, mood
      and cognition. In Phase 2 of the study, all participants will continue the treatment arm with
      rTMS (15Hz) for three months. Participants will receive 2 sessions of rTMS (active) once per
      week; clinical and cognitive data will be acquired once per month. The investigators will
      evaluate the acute effect of treatment on relapse rate, gambling severity and craving, mood
      and cognition. In Phase 3 of the study, participants will not receive any rTMS session.
      Clinical and cognitive data will be acquired once per month for three months. The
      investigators will evaluate the long-term effect of treatment on relapse rate, gambling
      severity and craving, mood and cognition.
    
  