
    
      The immediate postoperative period is associated with spontaneous pain and hyperalgesia,
      i.e., increased pain response (both intensity and duration) to normally painful stimuli
      following tissue injury or damage.

      The development and maintenance of secondary hyperalgesia depend on complex plastic changes
      in spinal cord dorsal horn cells after peripheral injury or damage. Afferent impulses
      signaling the damage are carried to the dorsal horn by slowly conducting, unmyelinated
      C-fibres. C-fibres release glutamate which acts at three receptor types: metabotropic,
      kainate/AMPA and NMDA. NMDA receptor activation, through a complex cascade of intracellular
      events, results in dorsal horn neuron hyperexcitability or central sensitization. These cells
      have increased spontaneous activity, decreased threshold, increased response to afferent
      input, prolonged afterdischarge to repeated stimulation, and an expansion of receptive
      fields. Central sensitization is expressed behaviorally as secondary hyperalgesia and
      contributes to prolonged postoperative pain. It also may trigger pathological reorganization
      of neural circuitry leading to the development of chronic postsurgical pain. Through these
      processes, tissue injury may have profound effects on the CNS that long outlast the injury.

      In animal models of pain, NMDA agonists induce central sensitization and hyperalgesia whereas
      antagonists decrease or prevent hyperalgesia. In humans, NMDA-receptor antagonism decreases
      secondary hyperalgesia subsequent to experimentally-induced pain.

      Perioperative administration of NMDA antagonists, that is, before, during and after surgery,
      may be the ideal intervention to block the initiation and maintenance of central
      sensitization. Several studies have found that this intervention reduces postoperative
      hyperalgesia, pain, and analgesic use; however, others have not found these effects. This is
      not surprising given the variability across studies in factors such as surgical procedure,
      extent and nature of tissue damage, duration of surgery, pharmacokinetics of the agent(s)
      tested, and intraoperative and postoperative analgesia. Nonetheless, the weight of the
      evidence suggests that preventing or minimizing central sensitization reduces pain and
      analgesic requirements.

      Co-administration of NMDA antagonists and opioids has been advocated as an effective
      approach. The combination of morphine and amantadine should reduce postoperative pain by
      inducing analgesia through actions on opioid-mediated receptor systems and by reducing
      hyperalgesia via NMDA receptor-mediated events . The combination also should produce fewer
      opioid-related adverse effects due to the anticipated opioid-sparing effect. The present
      proposal describes the first direct comparison of perioperative NMDA receptor blockade
      coupled with intra- and post-operative opioid administration in young and elderly patients.
      In order to minimize the influence of other perioperative factors on the outcome variables,
      all patients will undergo the same surgical procedure and anesthetic protocol. Furthermore,
      factors that cannot readily be standardized (e.g., surgical duration, mood) will be measured
      and controlled for statistically. This increases the internal validity of the proposed study
      and our ability to detect age and drug effects.
    
  