
    
      This will be an open label randomised prospective study that will involve 280 insulin-treated
      patients with type 2 diabetes and who are receiving a basal insulin as part of their
      treatment regimen. The power calculation suggests a subject number of 250 but to account for
      a 10% drop out then 280 patients will be recruited competitively. To account for an estimated
      30% screen failure then 400 patients will have to be screened. Of those eligible140 patients
      will be randomized to insulin glargine U100 and 140 patients randomised to insulin degludec:
      patients will be stabilised on that regimen so that the primary objective of the study to
      compare glycemic control for those on insulin glargine U100 compared to those on insulin
      degludec can be undertaken.

      Insulin glargine U100 and insulin degludec will be given once daily in the evening before
      Ramadan, 10-20 weeks prior to the onset of Ramadan as a run in period for stabilisation, and
      to be given at Iftar (breaking of the fast) in the evening of Ramadan. In accord with the
      latest International Diabetes Federation (IDF) guidelines the dose of both the glargine U100
      and insulin degludec will be reduced by 15% during Ramadan
      http://www.idf.org/sites/default/files/IDF-Diabetes and Ramadan
      (DAR)-Practical-Guidelines-Final-Low.pdf), After Ramadan basal insulin will be increased to
      that of the pre-Ramadan dose. In accord with the insulin degludec label guidelines (and those
      of insulin glargine U100), a one to one dose will be implemented if switching from a single
      basal injection; however, a dose reduction of 20% will be implemented if having to switch
      from a twice daily basal injection (including those on twice daily insulin glargine U100
      randomised to once daily insulin glargine U100). Thus, for those subjects already on once
      daily insulin glargine U100 and randomised to insulin glargine U100 then no dose reduction
      will be undertaken, nor will a dose reduction be undertaken for those subjects on once daily
      insulin glargine U100 and randomised to insulin degludec.

      Oral hypoglycemic agents will be on a stable dose that has not been altered in the preceding
      12 weeks and will be continued unchanged through the study period

      During the 10-20 week run in period to Ramadan fasting blood glucose will be titrated to less
      than 5mmol/l (90 mg/dl)and insulin dose will be increased or decreased according to the
      average of three previous fasting blood glucose measurements from the previous week (weekly
      titration). During Ramadan fasting blood glucose will be measured before Iftar (breaking of
      the fast) and will aim for a fasting blood glucose of 5mmol/l (90 mg/dl).

      Glycosylated hemoglobine (HbA1c) measurement will be done at baseline and 2-4 weeks before
      Ramadan; two weeks after Ramadan and at the end of the 8 weeks study period following Ramadan

      Insulin dose will be increased by 2 units for FBG 7.1-7.9 mmol/L (120-140 mg/dl), 4 units
      8.0-8.9 mmol/L (141-160 mg/dl), and 6 units 9.0 mmol/L (more than 160 mg/dl) and above.
      Insulin dose will be decreased by 2 units for FBG 3.1-3.9 mmol/dl (55-70 mg/dl), decreased 4
      units FBG <3.1 mmol/L. During Ramadan fasting blood will be measured before Iftar. Titration
      of insulin will be continued for the 8 weeks following Ramadan

      Patients will be contacted by a diabetes educator every 2 weeks by telephone to gather the
      details of their glycemic control that will be discussed with the medical investigators to
      alter their insulin dose and to report any hypoglycaemic events - all patients will be
      encouraged to measure their blood glucose if a hypoglycaemic event occurs

      At the end of the study patients will have the option to be converted back to their previous
      basal insulin before the study. However, should they wish to continue on insulin glargine
      U100/ then this will be available to be continued per local guidelines.

      Study Visit Schedule

      Visit 1 (Initial visit: 10 to 20 weeks before Ramadan) and will include:

        -  Consent, inclusion and exclusion criteria, Medical history

        -  Anthropometric measurement - Height, Weight, Waist circumference, blood pressure.

        -  Blood collection for CBC, routine biochemistry including creatinine (and calculated
           eGFR), HbA1c, full blood count (FBC), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), sodium (NA),
           potassiumK (25ml)

        -  Electrocardiograph (ECG).

      Visit 2 (within 2 weeks of visit 1: 8-18 weeks before Ramadan) and will include:

        -  Randomisation, randomization sequence will be created by a statistician before the start
           of the recruitment

        -  Fasting plasma glucose

        -  Education session and instruction on the use of the insulin degludec / glargine U100
           pen. Following successful education then patients will go to pharmacy to pick up their
           insulin degludec/glargine U100.

        -  Dietary education session to optimize the effect of the change to degludec/glargine U100

        -  Distribution of Blood glucose meters and Diaries for the patients to record the value of
           their blood glucose through the period of the study.

      Visit 3 (telephone calls):

      Telephone calls will be conducted by the assigned clinical research coordinators (CRCs) for
      each subject with an interval of two weeks in which the subject will be asked about their
      health and readings of their blood glucose levels, they will also be asked if they had any
      episode of hypoglycaemia or any adverse events.

      Visit 4. Just prior to Ramadan:

      This is likely to be within 1-2 weeks (14 day window) before Ramadan to logistically get all
      patients in for that blood test.

      Fasting blood will be collected for glucose, FBC, Na , K , creatinine (estimated glomerular
      filtration rate -eGFR), ALT and HbA1c (25ml).

      Visit 5 (telephone calls):

      Telephone calls will be conducted by the assigned CRCs for each subject with an interval of
      two weeks into Ramdan in which the subject will be asked about their health, readings of
      their blood glucose levels, and they will also be asked if they had any episode of
      hypoglycaemia or any adverse events.

      Visit 6 (two weeks after Ramadan) and will include:

      Fasting blood collection for glucose, FBC, HbA1c , NA , K and creatinine (eGFR estimation),
      ALT (25ml).

      This is likely to be within 1-2 weeks (14 day window) after Ramadan to logistically get all
      patients in for that blood test (6 weeks between HbA1c measurements).

      Visit 7 (4 weeks after visit 6 (to be done over a 14 day period) and this will include:

      End of study visit and determination if patient wants to continue with insulin
      degludec/glargine U100 or to convert back to the basal insulin that they were on before the
      study
    
  