
    
      Aim:

      This application, for Phase 2 of a larger study, is a 6-month group randomized trial to test
      the effectiveness of Stepping Online.

      Stepping Online (developed in Phase 1) is a continuation website to help Stepping On
      graduates to:

        1. Maintain exercises and fall prevention strategies learned in Stepping On, and

        2. Stay connected with other participants and leaders/peer leaders in the 7-week workshop.

      Approach:

        1. Subject Eligibility:

             1. Stepping On leaders and peer leaders of Milwaukee, Dane, Rock, Adams, Green Lake,
                Marquette and Waushara Counties during the enrollment window

             2. Stepping On participants/graduates of the above workshops whose leader assesses
                that they can safely use Stepping Online to exercise at home

        2. Recruitment and Consenting:

             1. Leaders/Peer Leaders: County aging unit coordinators will invite leaders to
                participate in the study and share the names of those who agree with the study
                research staff. Staff will then explain the study in detail, answer questions, and
                obtain informed consent from those who agree.

             2. Participants: (1) Research staff will visit participating leader/peer leader
                workshops to explain the study; (2) leader will distribute a card for participants
                to agree to a researcher phone call to learn more. They will then share the contact
                information of those who agree with study research staff; (3) study research staff
                members will contact and conduct a recruitment interview by phone. They then
                schedule those who agree to come to the site where the workshop occurred (or
                another public place that is private and convenient for research subjects) for
                consenting and baseline measurement.

        3. Randomization

           Randomization will occur on the Stepping On workshop level to ensure that leaders, peer
           leaders and participants are in the same arm. Procedures:

             1. County liaisons, who routinely collect data, will provide participants' education
                level (without personal identifiers);

             2. Study biostatistician pairs workshops based on above data, as well as geographic
                location and other data to ensure comparability.

             3. Participants from each designated pair of SO workshops will provide informed
                consent and participate in baseline measurements

             4. Designated pair of SO workshops will be randomized to the Stepping Online
                (intervention) or to the usual care Control arm.

             1. Intervention arm: Stepping On graduates (and their leaders/peer leaders) will
                receive the Stepping Online website for 6 months. They can use their own computer
                or receive a laptop and Internet access (if needed) for the study duration.
                Research staff will provide 2 in-home training sessions (2 weeks apart) on how to
                use Stepping Online's fall prevention features (described under the "Arms and
                Intervention" section). Participants can call the technical support phone line for
                more help.

             2. Control arm: Stepping On graduates in this arm will not receive Stepping Online.

             3. Neither the intervention nor the control arm subjects will have access to Stepping
                Online after the 6-month trial.

        4. Participants in both study arms will complete measurements at their workshop location or
           another location that is private and convenient fir subjects at baseline (prior to
           randomization), and later at 3 and 6 months.
    
  