
    
      Species Zaire ebolaviruses (EBOV) are members of the Filoviridae and are known primarily as
      the underlying cause of severe viral hemorrhagic fevers with disturbingly high case fatality
      rates. Between 1994 and the present, there have been many filovirus outbreaks affecting
      mostly central Africa, with 2 large outbreaks in 1995 in Kikwit, Democratic Republic of Congo
      (DRC), and in Gulu, Uganda in 2000-2001. The 2013-2016 West African outbreak significantly
      exceeded all previous outbreaks in geographic range, number of patients affected, and in
      disruption of typical activities of civil society. In 2018 there have been two additional
      outbreaks of EBOV infection, both in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and constituting
      the 9th and 10th recorded outbreaks of this infection in that country. The 10th outbreak is
      currently ongoing in the DRC as of December 2018 and has raised great concern because of the
      potential to expand greatly in scope and to spread to surrounding regions.

      It has been suggested that one of the most important elements necessary to improve survival
      from Ebola virus infection is the provision of supportive care inclusive of hemodynamic
      support in the form of aggressive fluid replacement, ability to diagnose and correct severe
      metabolic derangements, early treatment of sepsis, and other standards of modern medical
      care. A small number of investigational therapeutics have been developed as putative
      antiviral strategies for treating this infection. Unfortunately, phase 1/2 data supporting
      the safety and efficacy of these agents are often limited, and thus there remains some degree
      of equipoise as to which of these interventions should be prioritized in the treatment of
      severe infection. The triple monoclonal antibody product ZMapp was studied through a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) in the 2014-2016 West African outbreak and remains perhaps
      the best characterized of the available investigational products, but the end of that
      outbreak forced the RCT to close prior to crossing pre-specified evidentiary boundaries.

      A WHO Research and Development Ebola Therapeutics Committee has agreed that, given the
      lethality of Ebola virus and the combination of human and non-human primate (NHP) efficacy
      data for ZMapp, either ZMapp+oSOC or oSOC alone could potentially be positioned as the
      control arm in comparative trials depending upon the preferences of the host countries. The
      DRC has chosen to use ZMapp + oSOC in the current protocol. However, both the nature and
      number of control and invegstigational arms may change over the course of the trial. Such
      changes would require protocol amendments.

      This multicenter, multi-outbreak, randomized controlled trial will study the comparative
      safety and efficacy of additional investigational therapeutics compared to ZMapp in patients
      with known EBOV disease (Zaire) receiving oSOC. The primary endpoint of this comparison will
      be mortality by Day 28, with a number of secondary endpoints also planned that should
      generate important knowledge about the safety, ease of administration, and antiviral activity
      of all of these investigational interventions.
    
  