
    
      1. Study Design The proposed study is a time-based system-triggered EMA which will collect
           real-time data about exposures to smoking-related cues and behaviors. With a smartphone
           app installed in the mobile phones of the participants, they will each day complete at
           least 3 pairs of EMA prompted randomly for only 2 days (a working and a non-working
           day). The prompting time will be sampled from the time when the participants are
           outdoor, so that more exposures to the tobacco HW, POS tobacco displays, and smoking
           hotspots can be captured. The EMA includes questions of the self-reported exposure to
           and/or responses to tobacco HWs, POS tobacco displays, smoking hotspots, craving
           intensity, and other smoking-related outcomes.

        2. Procedures The clinic counselors will briefly introduce all the clients in the clinics
           about the study during their visits. The clients who are interested will be referred to
           the on-site recruitment staff to screen for the eligibility. In the setting of retail
           shops and smoking hotspots, the recruitment staff will proactively approach the smokers.
           Eligible participants will be given more details of the study and invited to give a
           written consent for participation. Then, they will complete a baseline questionnaire
           administered by the recruitment staff. Afterwards, the staff will assist the
           participants to install the EMA app in their mobile phones, and ask the participants to
           select one working day and one non-working day, and then select at least 3 time windows
           for the EMA on each study day. These time windows can be their outdoor time when they
           are more likely to be exposed to the smoking-related locations, such as traveling to
           work, lunch time, or shopping. Then, the staff will set up the EMA schedule in the app
           for the participants, and train the participants to answer the questionnaire. A
           pocket-sized instruction card of using the app will be provided. The EMA will not
           interfere the smoking cessation intervention they receive in the clinic.

      To protect the privacy of the participants, several strategies will be adopted. First,
      participants will be reassured that all data are anonymous in the data collection and the
      analysis. All data will not be accessed by the clinic counselors. Second, no personal data
      (e.g. name and telephone numbers) will be collected in the app.

      The EMA validity largely relies on the participants' compliance, therefore an attractive
      incentive is needed. If they complete all the EMAs in the 2-day period, they will be given
      HK$200 dollar.

      After the data collection, the participants will be reminded to uninstall the app. They will
      be contacted to receive the incentive and complete the last questionnaire face-to-face.

      3 . EMA app The EMA app will be developed based on the app used in our aforementioned pilot
      randomized trial, which has a user-friendly interface and is easily operated. Users need to
      input at least 3 time windows (each for at least an hour) in each study day. In each time
      window, the app will firstly prompt the user at a random time to answer a set of
      questionnaire in the app, including questions on (1) exposure and responses to tobacco HW,
      (2) exposure to tobacco POS displays, (3) exposure to smoking hotspots, and (4) smoking and
      quitting outcomes. After 30 minutes of completing the first questionnaire, the app will
      prompt again the user to answer another set of questionnaire, which only assess smoking and
      quitting outcomes. The design of EMA pair within 30 minutes facilitates the analysis of
      causality, because we can capture some smoking or cravings preceded by the environmental
      exposures. Each questionnaire will take no more than 1 minute to complete. If an EMA prompt
      is not responded by the user, 2 additional prompts in every 5 minutes will be generated to
      remind the user to complete. The EMA will regard non-response as missing data if these
      additional prompts are not responded. All the above data will be sent to our server in each
      day.

      4. Statistical analysis Data will be analyzed with SPSS or Stata for Windows. The first
      research question can be addressed by comparing the frequency/proportion of the 4 HW-related
      outcomes pre- and post-implementation of the new warnings. To take into account the
      clustering between the outcomes within each participant, generalized estimating equation
      model will be used to assess the effect of new HWs on the noticing and responses to the HWs.
      To answer the second and third research questions, each EMA pair is the analysis unit, which
      is nested within each participant. The 3 outcome variables include the craving intensity
      (continuous variable), purchase of tobacco (binary) and smoking (binary). In the main
      analysis, linear mixed model (continuous) and mixed logistic regression model (binary) which
      allow for multiple observations in each subjects and account for clustering of data within
      subjects will be used to explore the association between each exposure variable and the
      outcome variables, adjusted for the variables collected at baseline. Significance level will
      be defined as p<0.05.

      5. Consent Participation in the study is voluntary. The recruitment staff will explain to the
      potential subjects who agree to join the study, before the written consent is requested. The
      subjects will be assured that they can withdraw from the study anytime without any prejudice,
      and all the information will be kept confidential and results will be reported in an
      aggregate format. Subjects are required to sign the written consent form.
    
  