
    
      The overall prevalence of metabolic syndrome in the general US population is estimated to be
      22-34.5% with greater prevalence in certain populations (e.g. Mexican and African Americans,
      women). These numbers have been consistent with the rise of prevalence of obesity in the US
      population to 34.9%, which has remained stable over the last 10 years. Veterans are
      particularly predisposed to metabolic syndrome since the prevalence of obesity is much higher
      among their ranks. Since the annual medical cost of those who are obese or have metabolic
      syndrome is $1429 higher than those at a healthy weight, the impact on the cost of healthcare
      for Veterans can be potentially tremendous. This is mainly since obesity is strongly
      associated with many chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
      some types of cancer (endometrial, postmenopausal breast, kidney, and colon), musculoskeletal
      disorders, sleep apnea, and gallbladder disease.

      In order to combat the obesity epidemic in Veterans, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
      created the MOVE! Weight Management Program (MOVE!) in 2006. MOVE! is an evidence-based
      weight-management program designed for patients followed in primary care clinics and who have
      a BMI of ≥30kg/m2 or with a BMI of ≥25kg/m2 with 1 or more obesity-related conditions (e.g.
      diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia). The efficacy of the program is measured by the % of
      patients who losing at least 5% of body weight at 8 weeks and 6 months after first session.
      In addition, TeleMOVE! is a program recently initiated within the VA system to help
      individuals who cannot make it to the VA MOVE! program due to their work schedule or distance
      from VA clinic.

      This observational study will investigate the potential clinical utility of the Pathway Fit®
      test by investigating whether patients who successfully lose weight (defined as losing at
      least 5% of body weight 8 weeks after initiation) in the MOVE! or TeleMOVE! programs have a
      distinct nutrigenetic profile over those that were unable to lose a significant amount of
      weight. We will use electronic records to identify all individuals who have successfully
      completed the MOVE! program (i.e. attended the full 8 week course) or TeleMOVE! program. In
      addition we will find age- and gender- matched individuals who attended and completed the
      MOVE! Or TeleMOVE! programs but did not lose weight. After completion of the MOVE! Or
      TeleMOVE! programs Veterans will submit a saliva sample for the Pathway Fit® test. The start
      and end weight of all participants will be recorded. The nutrigenic profiles of those with
      successful weight loss will be compared to those less successful to determine if this cohort
      has a particular genetic profile. Also, blood will be collected for storage for further
      studies on metabolomics.

      To encourage participation, participants will be reimbursed for their participation in the
      study and the Pathway Fit® test results will be provided to all. Comparisons on all pertinent
      measures will be made between those achieving at least 5% weight loss and those that did not.

      Upon completion of the study, the clinical utility of the Pathway Fit® test can be further
      investigated to determine if the successful nutrigenic profile can predict clinical outcomes
      of the participants in the MOVE! program or other lifestyle management programs.
    
  