
    
      The DREAM trial is a large, international, multi-centre, randomized double-blind controlled
      trial. A total of at least 4000 participants with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and 1000
      participants with isolated impaired fasting glucose (IIFG) will be recruited from major
      international centres over an 18 month period. They will be randomly allocated to either
      ramipril and/or rosiglitazone using a 2X2 factorial design and followed for at least 3 years
      after randomization. Participants will be assessed at regular intervals to ascertain the
      occurrence of the primary outcome (new onset diabetes mellitus or all cause mortality) and
      other secondary outcomes. A diagnosis of diabetes will be made if 2 consecutive plasma
      glucose levels exceed the diagnostic thresholds (i.e. a fasting plasma glucose >=7.0 mmol/l
      (126 mg/dl) or a 2 hr plasma glucose >=11.1 mmol/l (200 mg/dl)) within a 3 month period.
      Assuming an annual event rate of 5%, this sample size provides 90% power to detect a 22%
      reduction in the rate of the primary outcome.

      Potential Significance of the Study: This study could provide new strategies for the
      prevention of type 2 diabetes as well as provide insight into the relationship between
      cardiovascular disease and diabetes.

      Study Update: A total of 5269 participants were enrolled into the study. 4527 Participants
      had IGT and 739 participants had IIFG. The study is currently in the follow-up phase.

      DREAM On

      In order to determine whether or not the benefits observed during the active phase of the
      trial are sustained after cessation of active medication use, further follow-up of the DREAM
      cohort will be conducted in the passive DREAM ObservatioN (DREAM On) follow-up study.

      DREAM On will assess approximately 1500 consenting DREAM participants without a diagnosis of
      diabetes at the end of the washout phase after a post-trial period of between 1 and 2 years
      to determine the effect of on-trial exposure to rosiglitazone and/or exposure to ramipril on:
      a) the primary outcome (incident diabetes or death); and b) regression or maintenance of
      normoglycemia. Participants will be free to take any medications that are indicated and may
      participate in other research studies, according to the judgment of their own physician.
    
  