
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the objective response rate (partial response [PR] or complete response [CR] ≥
      8 weeks) to sunitinib in 2 strata (recurrent/progressive/refractory high-grade glioma vs
      ependymoma) of recurrent or progressive brain tumors in pediatric and young adult patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore and report descriptively the safety and tolerability of sunitinib in pediatric
      and young adult brain tumor patients who have not received prior anthracycline or
      radiotherapy involving the heart.

      II. To describe the pharmacokinetic profile of pediatric and young adult patients taking
      sunitinib malate.

      III. To describe the cumulative toxicities of sunitinib when administered over multiple
      courses to pediatric and young adult patients.

      IV. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) distributions for these cohorts of patients.

      V. To evaluate changes in phosphorylation of PDGFR-α and -β, MEK/ERK, S6 kinase, and AKT in
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells and explore possible associations between these changes
      and outcome measures.

      VI. To evaluate plasma levels of soluble isoforms of VEGFR-1 and -2 prior to initiation of
      therapy and at points during therapy as an exploration of possible biomarkers of clinical
      response.

      VII. To evaluate and report descriptively the expression and ratio of VEGF isoforms in tumor
      tissue, as available.

      VIII. To evaluate and report descriptively the genotype, expression, and possible
      amplification of KIT and PDGFR-α and -β in tumor tissue, as available.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats
      every 42 days for up to 18 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients may undergo blood sample collection at baseline and during courses 1 and 2 for
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies. Tissue samples from diagnosis and surgical
      resection may be also collected.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.
    
  