
    
      Spinal anesthesia is usually the first choice for many surgical procedures of lower limbs,
      perineum, and lower abdomen. It is a simple and safe procedure, however it can present
      complications such as hypotension and bradycardia.

      Hypotension results mainly from a decrease in systemic vascular resistance secondary to a
      blockage of sympathetic fibers. The Bezold-Jarisch reflex, proposed as a mechanism for
      bradycardia is mediated by serotonin receptors (subtype 5-HT3) located in the vagus nerve and
      within the walls of the cardiac ventricles. 5-HT3 receptors are activated in response to
      systemic hypotension, causing increased vagal efferent signaling, bradycardia, reduced
      cardiac output and increased exacerbation of hypotension.

      Therefore, ondansetron, a potent 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist commonly used as an antiemetic,
      is potentially useful in attenuating this response. To assess this response, the main goal of
      the present study is to verify the hypothesis that blocking type 3 serotonin receptors with
      intravenous ondansetron reduces the incidence of spinal anesthesia-induced hypotension.

      This prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study aims to verify the
      hypothesis that blocking serotonin type 3 receptors with intravenous ondansetron prior to
      subarachnoid block reduces hypotension induced by spinal anesthesia in surgical procedures at
      Base Hospital of the Federal District. The examiners responsible for patient assessment will
      not have access to the agents used.

      Patients will be randomized through a randomly generated list. The examiner responsible for
      opening the envelope will make the draw, will include the patient in one of the groups, write
      down their data in the random list, prepare the syringe with the medication, and deliver it
      to the operating room so that the next examiners will not be aware of the administered drug.

      Patients will receive standard monitoring, venoclysis, intravenous midazolam as
      pre-anesthetic medication. The study drug (ondansetron 0.15 mg / kg or placebo) will then be
      administered. All patients received spinal anesthesia with hyperbaric bupivacaine and opioid
      adjuvants at the discretion of the anesthesiologist.

      The evolution of vital signs such as systolic blood pressure, mean heart rate, height of the
      sensitive block, incidence of adverse events such as bradycardia, tachycardia, hypertension
      or hypotension, nausea, vomiting, vasopressor and antiemetic consumption will be evaluated.
    
  