
    
      Nearly one of three American Indian (AI) women can expect to be raped in their lifetime
      putting them at great risk for revictimization and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The
      high prevalence of sexual and physical assault in Indian country has led Amnesty
      International to declare a state of emergency for AI women in the United States. This
      application is part of a community led effort by the Yakama Nation to turn this tide in their
      tribal community.

      Situated in the plateau region of Eastern Washington, the Yakama Nation is the largest tribe
      in Washington State (comprising over 10,000 members.) Since 2008, Investigators at the
      University of Washington have been collaborating with the Yakama Reservation Wellness
      Coalition who has mobilized activists and researchers through a community-based participatory
      research (CBPR) process to address the trauma and associated mental health concerns
      disproportionately affecting community women. This application, in response to "R34
      PA-09-146: Pilot and Feasibility Studies in Preparation for Drug Abuse Prevention Trials"
      proposes a 3-year project to culturally adapt and pilot an empirically supported
      trauma-focused treatment, Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) for post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD), substance use and HIV/STI sexual risk behavior among 56 AI women in a
      resource-limited rural area.

      Additionally, the investigators will assess the feasibility, acceptability and treatment
      fidelity of delivering this CPT via AI community health workers. Based on the investigators
      promising preliminary work, their multidisciplinary collaboration includes experienced AI and
      non-AI HIV, trauma, health service, and mental health academic researchers and an 8-member
      community research team of Yakama Nation tribal leaders, potential consumers, and health care
      providers with strong community connections.

      High rates of comorbidity between substance and alcohol use disorders (SAUD) and PTSD have
      been well established especially for women. Moreover, 25-40% of those seeking treatment for
      substance use meet criteria for PTSD. Additionally, PTSD is associated with increased
      HIV-risk sexual behavior (HRSB) in women. Prevailing theory suggests that alcohol and other
      drugs may be used to self-medicate or mitigate PTSD symptoms, which then reinforces more
      substance use leading to substance abuse-related consequences and problems, particularly
      HIV/STI exposure. Avoidance of trauma-related cues and affect including avoidance through
      substance use is thought to maintain PTSD and enhance risky sexual behavior. Therefore,
      treatment of PTSD should decrease substance use and risky sexual behavior.

      Many AI women never receive services for serious mental health problems resulting from
      traumatic events, violence exposure and maltreatment. AI women suffer higher lifetime rates
      of PTSD (20-23%), and are 2-3 times more likely than the general U.S. population to engage in
      excessive drinking which often co-occurs with risky sexual behaviors. These factors magnify
      risk for HIV and sexually transmitted infections (HIV/STI).

      This project is innovative in both its focus and its methods. It brings a culturally
      responsive intervention to an understudied and highly vulnerable population. It will
      culturally adapt and modify an evidence-based community health worker delivered intervention
      to address health risk behaviors (SAUD and HRSB). Its significance lies in its potential to
      advance science in the area of PTSD and SAUD treatment and HIV/STI prevention among AI women.
      Study data would be a significant contribution to tribal and rural communities and the mental
      health field. Finally, it is geared toward developing the research infrastructure and mental
      health treatment capacity serving AI women living in rural settings, a group at risk for an
      expanding AIDS and STI epidemic. If successful, findings from this study will inform a larger
      efficacy trial.

      AIM I. Adapt the evidence-based CPT intervention in full collaboration with tribal partners.
      This will be done in accordance with the CDC's Map of Adaptation Process and involved
      formative research with tribal leaders, potential consumers, providers, and health care
      administrators using qualitative methodology.

      AIM 2. Assess this intervention delivered by Native American community health workers for
      feasibility and acceptability in a resource-limited rural reservation setting.

      AIM 2. Conduct a two-group, single-site waitlist randomized controlled pilot trial of a
      12-session, 6-week CPT intervention among 56 (6 pilot) sexually active and substance using AI
      women with PTSD or sub-threshold PTSD. Determine preliminary efficacy and estimate an effect
      size in terms of three primary outcomes: (a) PTSD symptomatology; (b) substance use; (c) high
      risk sexual behavior.
    
  