
    
      This study comprises two parts:

        1. Blood sample

        2. ACH-test (including coronary flow measurements)

      Blood will be taken, frozen and stored for up to 5 years. The following markers will be
      studied: C-reactive protein, E-selectin, neopterin, troponin and CD40 ligand. These are
      essential biochemical markers or so called pro-inflammatory substances that normally
      circulate in the blood but their levels can increase under certain conditions such as stress
      or inflammation. In addition, expansion of CD4+CD28null T-cells will be measured via flow
      cytometry.

      Coronary angiography will be performed according to routine clinical guidelines. If the
      investigators find severe disease standard treatment procedures will take place and the
      investigators will only ask for a blood sample. If the investigators find normal coronary
      arteries on coronary angiography the investigators will conduct the ACH-test as part of the
      study. After injecting ACH into the coronary arteries narrowing can occur and provoke the
      same or similar symptoms as at home (i.e. chest pain). If you experience severe pain the
      investigators will inject a drug called nitroglycerine to relieve the pain. Then the
      investigators will measure the capacity of the blood vessels to dilate with a special
      catheter. The whole procedure including coronary angiography and ACH-test will last for about
      one hour. There is only very little radiation needed for the ACH-test which is unlikely to
      cause any health problems (~2.4mSv). In some very rare cases chest pain can be prolonged and
      heart rhythm disorders can occur. In worst case prolonged narrowing can lead to a heart
      attack (myocardial infarction, < 1%).

      The result of the ACH-test can lead to 3 different results.

        1. Epicardial coronary spasm. This means that the narrowing of the blood vessel occurs in a
           place where it can be seen on the screen during angiography.

        2. Microvascular dysfunction This means that the narrowing of the blood vessel cannot be
           seen on the screen but on the ECG. It only affects the very small blood vessels of the
           heart.

        3. Normal ACH-test This means that the test is normal and the patient has no chest pain
           during the test and also no narrowing.

      Depending on the result the investigators will suggest to start with a medication according
      to current guidelines and inform the patient's GP about the results and further suggestions
      for treatment. To maintain confidentiality all participants are entered onto our secure
      database using only their initials and a study number.
    
  