
    
      Injections are currently the gold-standard for administrating various medications
      parenterally. The most significant side-effect related to injections is the accompanying
      pain. Injection pain is related to the penetration of the skin by the needle and to the
      mechanical and chemical effects of the drug during and after its injection. This pain remains
      a major obstacle in medication administration in children as well as in other populations
      subject to needle-phobia because of the pain experience. The associated pain may thus prevent
      optimized medical care for these patients.

      Current methods to alleviate immediate pain include the utilization of topical anesthesia
      whereas some patients do not utilize any form of pain relief and simply endure the pain of
      the injection. Other methods for pain reduction are taking advantage of the applying pressure
      or vibration to alleviate pain. These methods have resulted in a number of pain relieving
      devices currently on the market. Such predicate devices primarily involve vibration devices
      commonly used to alleviate the injection pain. Published data suggests possible use of
      pressure application mechanism in pain alleviation related to injections.

      We suggest here, for the first time, the use of the Pneumatic Skin Flattening (PSF)
      technology for alleviation of pain associated with injections. The PSF technology is
      currently used worldwide in the FDA cleared Serenity device (Serenity, Inolase Ltd.) for pain
      reduction in hair removal. The device generates contact and compression between a transparent
      sapphire window and the skin. The compression creatures pressure signal which, based on the
      gate theory, is though to depress the pain associated with the hair removal treatment. We
      assume the same mechanism would apply for the reduction of pain associated with injections.

      Comparison: Intra-Subject pain level change of injection with PSF and without PSF
    
  