
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of mortality and serious long-term disability. There is a
      substantial unmet medical need for new therapies that can improve outcomes in acute stroke.

      Experimental and pathologic data suggest that peri-infarct inflammation contributes to
      secondary injury after brain ischemia and that blocking inflammation could reduce the volume
      of brain infarction and improve clinical outcome.

      In a recently completed phase 2 placebo-controlled clinical trial, the administration of
      natalizumab (a potent inhibitor of leukocyte transmigration through the blood -brain barrier
      [BBB]) in the hyperacute phase of ischemic stroke was associated with beneficial effects in
      measures of functional outcome, but did not affect the rate of infarct volume growth during a
      90-day assessment period. This apparent discrepancy between the lack of effect of
      anti-inflammatory therapy on lesion size and a substantial beneficial effect on functional
      outcome in ischemic stroke patients has raised further questions about the manifestation of
      neuroinflammation, its pathophysiological role and its relation to patients' functional
      outcome in stroke patients.

      The purpose of this imaging study is to characterize the subacute and longstanding extent of
      upregulation of the neuroinflammation marker TSPO on glial cells at two time points after
      stroke. The study will also explore the correlation of TSPO upregulation with measures of
      stroke severity and post-stroke functional outcomes.

      The objectives of this study are:

        -  To characterize TSPO glial expression in specific regions of interest defined on
           correlative brain MRI (ROIs; infarct, peri-infarct, thalamus) in the subacute (day 15+7)
           and chronic (day 90+/-7) phases after an ischemic stroke;

        -  To determine the magnitude and variability of TSPO uptake at these ROIs during the
           assessment period;

        -  To describe changes in TSPO expression between 15 and 90 days

        -  To explore the relationship between TSPO uptake, blood and infarct volume, and measures
           of Wallerian degeneration,

        -  To characterize post-stroke TSPO glial expression in relation to measures of stroke
           severity (infarct size, volume and location; NIHSS) and functional outcome (mRS,BI,
           depression scale, MoCA)

        -  To characterize post-stroke TSPO glial expression in relation to systemic inflammatory
           markers in blood

      The endpoints that relate to these objectives are:

        -  PET-derived measures of TSPO radiotracer uptake in the infarct and peri-infarct areas at
           day 15 and day 90 after a stroke

        -  PET-derived measures of TSPO radiotracer uptake in ROIs distant from the infarct area
           (e.g. thalamus, hippocampi, amygdalae and midbrain) at day 15 and day 90 after a stroke

        -  Correlation of PET-derived measures with clinical and imaging measures of stroke
           severity (stroke volume, size and NIHSS) and functional outcome (mRS Barthel index,
           MoCA, depression, ) at day 15 and day 90

        -  Correlation of infarct volume and MRI measures of white matter tract injury determined
           from DTI MRI with measures of thalamic TSPO uptake (time-activity curve; measures of
           mean and max TSPO uptake on summed image sets fromTSPO PET

        -  Correlation of PET derived measures with inflammatory markers in the blood (e.g.
           cytokines)

      This is an exploratory, prospective, natural history, imaging cohort study. The recruiting
      site will be Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust. All study scans will be performed by
      Invicro, Hammersmith Hospital

      Between 15 and 25 subjects, with recruitment ending when 15 participants have completed all
      study procedures.

      Subjects aged 18-85 with a supratentorial ischemic stroke of moderate severity as measured by
      NIHSS >4 and evidence of infarction on clinical brain scan at time of stroke:

      Subjects will participate in this study for approximately 90 days. No treatment will be
      started as part of the trial
    
  