
    
      Tobacco smoking is a well-known environmental risk factor for developing rheumatoid arthritis
      (RA). The onset of RA can occur in all age groups, with the majority being women aged 50-60
      years. RA is a chronic inflammatory disease and cannot be cured. However, the activity of the
      disease can be reduced by medication. During periods with high disease activity, patients
      experience increased pain and fatigue and subsequent restrictions in social life, psychical
      activity and activities of daily life. Furthermore, the inflammatory process underlying RA
      can cause pain, fatigue, reduced health-related quality of life and reduced physical
      function. Patients with RA are at increased risk of cardiovascular diseases similar to the
      risk demonstrated in patients with diabetes. Furthermore, several studies indicate that
      smokers with inflammatory arthritis tend to experience more pain and fatigue, and a reduced
      quality of life compared to non-smokers.

      Aim: This randomized controlled trial (RCT) in patients with RA aims to examine the effect of
      intensive smoking cessation intervention (motivational counselling combined with tailored
      nicotine replacement therapy) versus standard care on smoking cessation, and consequently on
      disease activity. Secondary objectives are to explore the effect on flare, risk factors for
      CVD, lung function, physical function, HR-QoL, pain and fatigue in patients with RA.

      Material and Methods Trial design: The trial is an international, multicentre, randomized RCT
      in which daily smokers with RA in remission or with low-moderate disease activity ≤ 5.1 DAS28
      (Disease Activity Score - based on 28 joints assessment, serum-C-reactive protein (CRP) and
      patient's Global assessment of a visual analogue scale (VAS)) will be randomized 1:1 to
      either an intervention group or to a control group. Patients will be followed for 58 weeks,
      including the 6-week intervention period and 3 months, 6 months and 12 months into the
      post-intervention follow-up period.

      Study setting: We will recruit patients from the Center for Rheumatology and Spine Diseases,
      Rigshospitalet, Denmark and from the Preventive Cardio-Rheuma Clinic, Department of
      Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

      Randomization and blinding: Immediately after collecting baseline data using stratified block
      randomization (block size 6-10) participants will be randomized to either 1) the intervention
      group or 2) the control group. The stratification variables are trial site and Anti-cyclic
      citrullinated peptide (Anti-CCP status). The allocation sequence is generated using
      computer-generated random numbers. Participants will be informed about their group allocation
      directly after randomization. For participants randomized to the smoking cessation
      intervention group, the first intervention meeting will be scheduled as soon as possible,
      preferably immediately after randomization. It is not possible either to blind participants
      to their allocated intervention or to blind the project nurses performing the intervention.
      The primary outcomes will be assessed by blinded assessors and smoking cessation will be
      self-reported by participants and validated biochemically.

      Data collection:All outcomes are assessed at three months (18 weeks post-intervention), 6
      months (30 weeks post-intervention) and 12 months follow-up (58 weeks post-intervention).

      We will retrieve data from the DANBIO database regarding the participants' pharmacological
      treatment, duration of RA, CRP levels, IgM rheumatoid factor and Anti-CCP status. Additional
      descriptive data include participants' demography, socio economic situation, lifestyle
      (smoking and alcohol) and consumption of pain killers obtained via a questionnaire.
      Co-morbidities are assessed using the Charlson's Co-morbidity Scale obtained from the
      electronic patient journal.

      All participant-reported questionnaires will be completed electronically on a tablet
      connected to DANBIO, which will be used only for participants in the trial. Blood samples
      will be destroyed immediately after the analyses are done.

      All outcomes excluding patient-reported outcomes will be assessed by project nurses blinded
      to the patients' group allocation.

      Ethics, confidentiality and dissemination: The trial will be carried out in accordance with
      the Helsinki Declaration. The project has been approved by The Regional Committee on Health
      Research Ethics (H-16022001) and the Danish Data Protection Agency (I-suite number 04849).
      The trial has been reported to Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02901886). All data and information
      collected during the trial will be kept confidential and in accordance with the requirements
      of the Danish and Norwegian Data Protection Agencies and Good Clinical Practice.
    
  