
    
      Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a collection of at least three out of five cardiometabolic risk
      factors including abdominal obesity, hypertension, elevated blood glucose,
      hypertriglyceridemia, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. MetS is a major risk
      factor for cardiovascular disease and is considered a state of prediabetes. Improving
      metabolic parameters through dietary, behavioral, and pharmacological interventions can
      improve or reverse MetS. For example, increased consumption of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO)
      and mixed nuts was shown to reduce cardiovascular event rates and reverse MetS in a 5-year
      study in Spain (PREDIMED study). However, lower levels of adherence to the PREDIMED
      intervention was found in participants with a higher number of cardiovascular risk factors,
      larger waist circumference, and lower physical activity levels at baseline. New strategies to
      convey one's risk of morbidity and mortality at the onset of a dietary intervention may
      improve intervention adherence, particularly among individuals meeting the criteria for MetS.

      A greater DNA methylation-based predicted age relative to chronological age, often referred
      to as "epigenetic age acceleration", has been associated with many lifestyle factors,
      including physical activity and diet, as well as components of MetS, including obesity, blood
      pressure, HDL cholesterol and blood glucose levels.

      The investigators hypothesize that the majority of people with MetS have advanced epigenetic
      aging, and among those that have advanced epigenetic age, learning one's epigenetic age, and
      epigenetic age-based predicted risk of morbidity and mortality at the onset of a dietary
      intervention will improve participant adherence to the dietary intervention. Further, the
      investigators hypothesize that EVOO and tree nut supplementation in participants with MetS
      and advanced epigenetic age could help reverse MetS and potentially slow epigenetic aging.
      Therefore, the investigators plan to conduct a feasibility pilot study to:

        1. To determine the proportion of participants with MetS with epigenetic age acceleration

        2. To assess adherence to daily EVOO and tree nut consumption over a 4-week intervention in
           participants informed of their epigenetic age acceleration at baseline compared to the
           control group

        3. Qualitatively explore how participants perceive epigenetic age, and how participants'
           experiences would impact the feasibility of a larger clinical intervention in terms of
           challenges and motivators

        4. Compare epigenetic age acceleration before and after the 4-week intervention

      For this study the investigators will recruit ~50 individuals with MetS aged 35 years or
      older. An in-person assessment visit will be scheduled for a morning time and participants
      will be asked to be fasting and will be instructed to bring their medications to the visit.
      Candidates will review the informed consent document at an in-person screening with study
      staff prior to beginning their participation. For all participants providing informed
      consent, who were fasting and met the MetS criteria at the initial in-person assessment
      visit, collected blood samples will be used to calculate epigenetic age acceleration. Other
      measures to be collected include body weight, height, waist circumference, blood pressure,
      and questionarries about demographics, health history and health habits. All participants
      with positive epigenetic age acceleration will be invited to participant in the tree nut and
      extra virgin olive oil intervention and will be contacted to schedule a baseline intervention
      visit.

      At the baseline intervention visit, all participants will receive a 2-week supply of EVOO and
      tree nuts, including unsalted English walnuts, almonds or pistachios (approximately 3-day
      supply of each type). Participants will be asked to supplement their normal diets with these
      products and will be provided recipes and other information that will allow them to replace
      other foods with the nuts and oil. The investigators will ask participants to consume one
      ounce of tree nuts per day and two tablespoons of EVOO per day by incorporating these foods
      into their diet. Dietary adherence diaries will be given to measure incorporation of the
      study foods.

      Participants will be randomized to learn about their epigenetic age acceleration (arm 1) or
      not to learn about their epigenetic age acceleration (arm 2) in a 1:1 allocation at the
      baseline visit. Those in the intervention arm 1 that are to learn about epigenetic age
      acceleration will receive some educational materials and a brief description of epigenetic
      age acceleration.

      Another visit will be scheduled at the end of week 1 for additional diet counseling, to
      assess safety/potential side effects, to collect adherence diaries, and for participants to
      receive the final 2-week supply of EVOO and tree nuts. A follow-up phone call for compliance
      assessment and to answer participant questions will be conducted at the end of week 2. A
      final measurement visit will be scheduled for the end of week 4 for a morning time and
      participants will be asked to be fasting. At the final measurement visit, the same measures
      as listed in the in-person assessment visit will be performed and study questionnaires, with
      the exception of demographics and health history, will be distributed.

      After the intervention, 10 randomly selected participants of the intervention arm 1
      (participants informed of their advanced epigenetic age), will be selected for a 30-minute
      phone interview to qualitatively explore participants' perception of epigenetic age, and
      challenges and motivators for behavior change during the intervention. The open-ended
      questions will be designed to ascertain understanding of epigenetic age, and assess the
      challenges and motivators participants encountered during the intervention. All interviews
      will be audio-recorded.

      This feasibility study, incorporating epigenetic age estimates with a dietary intervention in
      individuals with MetS, is an initial step in building our understanding of 1) the
      relationship between MetS and epigenetic age, 2) how epigenetic age estimates may be
      perceived by patients at high risk for CVD, and 3) will provide preliminary longitudinal data
      examining the potential to slow epigenetic age acceleration predictions after a 4-week
      dietary intervention to provide feasibility for a larger future study.
    
  