
    
      This study is a single site, patient and assessor blinded, non-inferiority randomised control
      trial of patients with a clinical diagnosis of trigger finger, de Quervains tenosynovitis or
      carpal tunnel syndrome, treated with a corticosteroid injection co-administered with or
      without local anaesthetic.

      The aim is to determine whether pain experienced during the 24 hours after a corticosteroid
      injection to the hand and wrist is no worse than (not inferior to) the pain experienced after
      a corticosteroid and local anaesthetic injection.

      The primary outcome is to investigate whether there is a difference in pain VAS scores at
      1-hour after a corticosteroid injection for trigger finger, de Quervains tenosynovitis or
      carpal tunnel syndrome co-administered with or without local anaesthetic. Secondary outcomes
      look at differences in pain VAS scores within the first 24-hours after the injection, at the
      time of the injection and enquires about effects on hand function.

      Patients attending elective hand and wrist outpatient clinics at the University Hospitals
      Plymouth NHS Trust with a clinical diagnosis of trigger finger, de Quervains tenosynovitis
      and carpal tunnel syndrome will be screen for eligibility for recruitment.

      All patients over the age 18 years old with a clinical diagnosis of trigger finger, de
      Quervains tenosynovitis or carpal tunnel syndrome and who are able to give written informed
      consent for treatment will be included. Patients will be excluded if they have had previous
      surgery or corticosteroid injection for the condition being treated at the site considered
      for injection. A previous corticosteroid injection elsewhere in the hand does not exclude a
      patient from the trial. Those who are pregnant, breast-feeding or who have a history of
      hypersensitivity to corticosteroid or local anaesthetic will be excluded.

      The study will run for a 12-month period or until 100 patients have been recruited to the
      trial.
    
  