
    
      Background:

      Heart transplantation is a major advance in the care of patient with terminal heart failure.
      But, despite the spectacular prognosis improvement obtained with this treatment, coronary
      vasculopathy remains the leading cause of decreased survival after the first year
      post-transplantation (8% of death at 1 year, 42% at 5 years). This coronary artery disease
      (CAD) has a particular feature involving immunological and inflammatory process, also
      favoured by classical risk factors in the context of immunosuppression, with rapid and
      diffuse involvement. Because of the denervation of the transplant heart, it remains mainly
      asymptomatic and let non invasive stress tests with poor accuracy for CAD screening. It
      explains the current use of systematic coronary angiogram to transplant heart recipient's
      survey.

      But coronary angiogram remains an invasive technique and exposed to potential serious adverse
      events.

      The recent advance in coronary multidetector computed tomography (CT) may allow non invasive
      visualization of the coronary tree. Indeed, 64-row CT has already showed its accuracy for the
      screening of CAD in symptomatic patient in sinus rhythm. However, they are very few studies
      in the setting of heart transplantation with small sample size and mainly using 16-row CT.
      Only two small sample size studies (20 patients each) have been conducted using 64-row CT in
      the setting of heart transplant recipients. None of them compared X-Ray and contrast iodine
      exposure.

      Aim :

      Our primary aim is to compare the diagnostic accuracy value of the 64-row CT and 256-row CT
      to the gold standard (conventional coronary angiogram) in the setting of CAD screening in a
      large population of heart transplant recipients (= 110 pts). We make the assumption that the
      sensitivity of CT is enough to allow switching the coronary angiogram by CT for the screening
      of asymptomatic CAD in heart transplant recipients without CAD or with CAD not suitable for
      revascularization.

      We plan also to compare X-Ray and contrast agent exposure.

      Methods :

      All the transplant heart patients systematically followed in the cardiovascular and thoracic
      surgery service will be prospectively included. All the patients will sign the informed
      consent, then CT will be performed 24 H before the coronary angiogram.

      multidetector coronary computed tomography : The Electrocardiogram (ECG)-gated
      contrast-enhanced multidetector computed tomography coronary angiography will be performed
      with a 64 or 256-row CT Philips, Brilliance. The contrast medium (Iomeron*, ioméprol,
      Bracco-Altana Pharma GmbH) mean quantity used is 80-100 ml. The CT scan parameters, adapted
      to the patient's weight, include 120 kV, 800mA, 0.625 mm slice thickness, 0.42-s rotation
      time and 0.2 pitch. To determine X-Ray exposure, Dose Length Product (Gycm) will be measured.

      After the scan, the reconstruction will be performed at 40 and 75 % of the cycle using ECG
      gating. Additional reconstructions at different phase can be performed in case of coronary
      calcification or motion artefacts.

      A semi quantitative analyse (N=normal, I=intermediate, S=stenosis) of coronary narrowing will
      be performed blindly to coronary angiogram results by two experienced radiologists. The CT
      quality will be determined using a quality scale (scale from 1 to 5).

      A Calcification score will also be determined. A segment analyse will be performed according
      to AHA classification (17 segments model). Only more than 1.5 mm diameter vessel segments
      will be analysed.

      Coronary angiogram :

      According to good practice, patients will receive 0.9 % saline serum intravenously at a dose
      of 1000 ml per 12 H before and 1000 ml per 12 H after contrast medium injection.

      Coronary angiogram will be performed according to standard protocol, using radial access with
      4 or 5 French sheath under continuous invasive survey of blood pressure and ECG monitoring.
      The contrast medium quantity used (Hexabrix*, sodium and méglumine ioxaglate, Guerbet) as the
      X-Ray dose era product (Gy.cm²) will be measured.

      Quantitative coronary analysis will be performed by two experienced interventional
      cardiologists blind to the CT results. Significant stenosis is defined by a > 50% vessel
      narrowing.

      Serum creatinine will be controlled the day before, the day after and 72 H after the coronary
      angiogram.

      Statistical analysis :

      Comparison of the two techniques will be done by segments, by artery and by patients with
      determination of the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of CT
      for the screening of significant coronary stenosis (> 50%). Statistical analysis will be made
      with Statview 5.0.

      Ethical comity :

      All the patient receive and sign an informed consent. The ethical comity (CPP Ile-de-France
      VI) approves the protocol and the French Society of Cardiology supported the study.

      Expected Calendar :

      We plan to perform the CT during systematic annual hospitalisation for invasive coronary
      angiogram. In the cardiovascular department, approximately 8 patients benefit from coronary
      angiogram per week. Thus we plan to include 110 patients within 30 months, taking in account
      the exclusion criteria and the availability of both techniques.
    
  