
    
      The successful care of patients undergoing liver transplantation and support of their
      caregivers consumes significant personal, institutional and community resources before and
      after surgery. Depression and anxiety are common after transplant, leading to apprehension
      about the ability to care successfully for oneself and poor adherence with complex medication
      and health behavior regimens.1,2 Although a patient's quality of life improves immediately
      following transplantation, when compared with the general population the vast majority of
      liver transplant recipients have significant deficiencies in most quality of life domains.3,4
      This is most evident in minorities and patients of low socioeconomic status who have
      difficulty adjusting to the demands of complex medical and surgical care and are challenged
      by lack of literacy and cultural bias.5-7 Indeed, the reoperation and readmission rate in the
      first 90 days are the highest of any surgery performed in the United States.8 Effective
      perioperative care is critical following surgery in this high acuity patient population.
      Optimizing care in the perioperative period should improve recovery and outcomes, including
      depression, general health maintenance and long-term adherence.9,10 While practice guidelines
      for care after liver transplant exist, they lack specifics and are based on outdated models
      that do not reflect patient preferences, needs or expectations. Improving current processes
      in health care delivery before and after liver transplantation is critical to optimize
      outcomes that matter: survival, function, and independence. The improvement of care may have
      profound effect in the first 90 days after transplant on important long-term health
      parameters that affect clinical outcomes such as depression, weight gain, blood pressure
      control and diabetes management.11 Through a stakeholder engagement process with the
      University of Cincinnati Liver Transplant Program designed to find ways to improve post
      transplant care, increasing "care between visits" is the top priority for patients to improve
      function, quality of life and independence. Patients said that medication adherence and
      hospital readmissions are their largest barrier to success, and that they believe care
      immediately post-transplant in the first 90 days is the most important determinant of
      long-term outcomes. A twenty-patient pilot program assessed the feasibility of a
      patient-designed telehealth monitoring program after liver transplant, and it met with an
      extraordinary level of enthusiasm by our patients. In this proposal, the ability of this home
      management program (HMP) will be tested, developed by patients for patients, to improve
      transition care from hospital to home and patient adherence with a self-care regimen
      following liver transplantation.

      The medical community must develop innovative health delivery systems following complex
      surgeries like transplantation in order to maximize post-operative care, adherence to a new
      and complex self-care regimen, independence, and ultimately survival. Our proposed telehealth
      delivery model will optimize the quality, efficiency and outcomes of post-discharge care
      following liver transplantation. The HMP model will advise providers, health care systems,
      and transplant centers how to improve patient care, especially among those at greatest risk
      of poor outcomes, specifically minorities and those of low socioeconomic status. The
      objective of this proposal with the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Perform a randomized clinical trial to evaluate the impact of an enhanced,
      telehealth-based home management program (HMP) on medication and behavioral self-care
      adherence rates, and on 90-day and 1-year readmission rates following discharge for liver
      transplantation.

      Hypothesis: Through enhanced patient engagement, HMP will increase medication and self-care
      adherence rates and reduce 90-day and 1-year readmission rates when compared to a traditional
      care model.

      SubAim 1A: To determine whether underserved and minority patients achieve greater benefit
      from the HMP compared with more advantaged patient populations.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the impact of the HMP on more distal clinical outcomes post liver
      transplantation including weight control, diabetes management, blood pressure regulation and
      depression.

      Hypothesis: Enhanced home monitoring will have persisting health benefits beyond the 90-day
      time frame of the HMP intervention on a variety of chronic disease measures important in this
      population, including weight loss, diabetes management, blood pressure control, and
      depression.
    
  