
    
      The investigators propose a randomized trial to compare the effectiveness of two different
      approaches to early childhood obesity prevention in children 0-2 years of age. The
      investigators will randomize 900 parent-infant dyads, recruited from six newborn
      nurseries/primary care clinics. The participating organizations are part of both CORNET, a
      national practice-based research network of pediatric residency primary care practices
      supported by the Academic Pediatric Association (APA), and PCORnet, the national research
      network supported by PCORI. In the nursery or at the first newborn clinic visit, eligible
      families will be consented and randomized to one of two arms. In Arm 1 ("Greenlight"), during
      each of the recommended well child visits from 0-24 months, pediatric residents, trained in
      clear health communication skills and shared goal-setting, will use the Greenlight Toolkit of
      low literacy, age-specific, parent education booklets to promote healthy family behaviors and
      obesity prevention. In Arm 2 ("Greenlight Plus"), families will receive the Greenlight
      intervention plus a health information technology (HIT) intervention aimed at supporting
      family goal-setting and behavior change. This design allows us to determine if HIT and the
      asynchronous support it provides between well-child visits can promote additional behavior
      change and obesity prevention.

      Specific Aims & Hypotheses (H) include:

      Aim 1: Compare the effectiveness of the 2 arms on weight-for-length and other weight measures
      through age 2.

      H1: Arm 2 will be significantly better than Arm 1 in supporting healthy child
      weight-for-length trajectory over 2 years;

      Aim 2: Compare the effectiveness of the two approaches on parent-reported outcomes, including
      child feeding and physical activity behaviors, parent feeding beliefs and behaviors, media
      use, and quality of doctor-patient communication.

      H2: Arm 2 will be significantly better at improving parent-reported health behaviors.

      Aim 3: Examine differences in main outcomes by social determinants, including race/ethnicity,
      language, health literacy.

      H3: A literacy- and culturally-sensitive approach to obesity prevention will result in equal
      subgroup improvements.

      Aim 4: To compare weight-for-length trajectory over 2 years in both intervention arms with a
      non-enrolled comparison group, using data from the PCORnet Common Data Model at participating
      sites.

      H4: PCORnet analysis will reveal the benefit of both Greenlight approaches (Arms 1 and 2)
      compared to before Greenlight intervention implementation and the added benefit of Arm 2
      (Greenlight Plus) over other approaches.
    
  