
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The long-term goal of the proposed project is to develop an effective pharmacological therapy
      for patients with mild TBI to improve functional outcomes. The main objective is to compare
      the effects of ibuprofen versus acetaminophen for reducing the short-term development
      post-concussion symptoms in patients with mild TBI. We will conduct a double-blinded
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) with the specific aim of measuring the comparative effects of
      equipotent doses of ibuprofen versus acetaminophen on the incidence of concussion symptoms to
      be measured 7 to 10 days after mild TBI in emergency department patients with isolated closed
      head injury. The main study hypothesis of our research project is that patients with mild TBI
      who are treated with ibuprofen will have a lower incidence of post-concussion symptoms
      compared to patients treated with acetaminophen. The proposed investigation is novel because
      it will be the very first RCT to compare analgesic medications for the specific treatment of
      mild TBI.

      BACKGROUND

      Pathophysiology of Mild TBI. TBI results from external mechanical force applied to the
      cranium leading to parenchymal brain damage. This resultant brain injury can range from mild
      temporary impairment to severe disability. TBI transpires in two phases: (1) primary brain
      injury occurs at the moment of the application of mechanical force on the cranium and results
      in lacerations, contusions, hematomas and shearing injuries of the brain; and (2) secondary
      brain injury begins immediately after the primary brain injury and results from the cellular
      mediation of neuroinflammation.15,16 The principal injury of mild TBI is diffuse axonal
      injury from shearing forces that is not usually identified by CT brain scan.17-20 Secondary
      brain injury activates multiple cellular pathways that are initially adaptive, but become
      pathological with overexpression and persistence.21-23 The biochemical consequences of these
      responses develop over a period of hours with the accumulation of arachidonic acid from
      cellular membrane stores and the induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression and
      enzyme activity.15,16 Arachidonic acid is then converted to detrimental vasoactive
      prostanglandins and free radicals by COX-2 enzyme leading to neuronal cell death (Figure 1
      see appendix). Neural COX-2 enzyme activity remains elevated for 1 to 3 days.24 Severity of
      neuronal injury is correlated to COX-2 overexpression which results in a "vicious cycle" of
      neuroinflammation when secondary injury propagates further COX-2 activity.15,16

      Potential Effect of COX-2 Inhibition. If COX-2 overexpression causes neuronal cell damage
      after brain injury, then COX-2 inhibition may provide neuroprotective effects through two
      important mechanisms: (1) by reducing detrimental vasoactive prostanglandins and free radical
      synthesis; and (2) shunting of arachidonic acid down alternate pathways that produce
      beneficial eicosanoids.15 These cellular mechanisms are based on findings from several animal
      studies over the past 30 years that strongly suggest potential beneficial effects of NSAID
      inhibition of the COX-2 enzyme as a treatment for TBI-activated neuroinflammation.25-35
      Although these studies examined different NSAID COX-2 kinhibitors and utilized different
      animal models of TBI, they found an overall consensus of beneficial effects (i.e., reduced
      prostaglandin synthesis, reduced brain edema, improvement in cognitive and motor function,
      improvements in memory, and reduced mortality) suggesting COX-2 inhibition may have effects
      beyond analgesia in patients with mild TBI. In fact, COX-2 inhibition has been shown to be
      beneficial for animal models for other types of brain insults including ischemic brain
      injury.36-40

      If we identify a beneficial effect of ibuprofen for patients with mild TBI that is confirmed
      with validation studies, then new standards and guidelines will be developed to improve the
      ED management of this common form of brain injury. Future studies will be conducted to
      elaborate the effects of ibuprofen and other NSAIDS on both the short-term and long-term
      complications of mild TBI and possible other forms of TBI. Discovery of a beneficial effect
      of NSAIDs for mild TBI could be especially useful for combat-related and sports-related brain
      injuries.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Study subjects will be identified and enrolled in the emergency department. They will be
      followed for a 7 to 14 day period only. The proposed project will be completed over a
      one-year period with tasks and milestones as follows: Month 1 - develop protocol, create data
      collection instrument and codebook, test and modify instrument, create electronic database,
      and train assistants; Months 2 and 10 - identify and enroll eligible study subjects in the ED
      setting, create database, enter and edit data; and Months 11 and 12 - analyze data and
      interpret findings, prepare and submit papers to journals.

      Study Design and Participants. We will conduct a double-blinded RCT to compare the effects of
      ibuprofen versus acetaminophen on the incidence of post-concussion symptoms measured 7 to 14
      days after mild TBI.

      Treatment Variable. The treatment variable will be equipotent oral doses of either ibuprofen
      (800 mg TID) or acetaminophen (1000 mg TID). Ibuprofen is a nonselective NSAID that inhibits
      both COX-1 and COX-2 isoenzymes. COX-2 inhibition prevents arachidonic acid from converting
      to vasoactive prostaglandins and reactive oxygen species in brain cell. The analgesic,
      antipyretic, and antiinflammatory activity of ibuprofen operates mainly through inhibition of
      COX-2.55,56 Acetaminophen is a poor inhibitor of both COX isoenzymes in the CNS and has
      significantly weaker antiinflammatory effects than NSAIDs. Acetaminophen does not inhibit COX
      in peripheral tissues and is less effective in the presence of peroxides.57,58 Both ibuprofen
      and acetaminophen are frequently prescribed for headache pain related to mild TBI in the ED
      and other primary care settings and have excellent safety profiles for short-term use. In
      fact, both ibuprofen and acetaminophen have been used for the antipyretic treatment of
      children with severe traumatic brain injury.59 Subjects will receive the first medication
      dose in the ED and will be given the remaining 5 doses to take over 48 hours as outpatients.
      This time period was selected based on animal models identifying maximum COX-2 activity. Both
      medications will be identically prepared to prevent subjects from identifying the type of
      treatment regimen. Treatment assignment will be randomized by the NMH research pharmacy and
      blinded to both the patients and the investigators. Standard methods for blinding will be
      implemented by using tablets that are identical in size, shape, color and taste for both
      ibuprofen and acetaminophen.

      Data Collection and Variable Measurement. Information concerning the outcome and secondary
      study variables will be obtained by research assistants using standardized data collection
      instruments. Follow up outcome assessment will be conducted through telephone interviews at 7
      to 14 days after head injury. We will implement best practice methods for accurate and
      complete data collection, including the following: (1) training assistants in data collection
      methods; (2) blinding assistants to the subjects' treatment assignment; and (3) conducting
      meetings with assistants to review data collection processes and difficulties. Subjects with
      persistent mild TBI symptoms at time of follow up will be referred to the Rehabilitation
      Institute of Chicago Concussion Clinic for further treatment.

      Research Location. Northwestern Memorial Hospital is a state-of-the art, two million square
      foot, 873-bed tertiary teaching hospital in downtown Chicago that is the primary teaching
      hospital affiliated with the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. The
      Northwestern Memorial Hospital Emergency Department is an urban, academic, 56 bed, Level I
      trauma center with an annual patient volume of over 85,000 patients per year or approximately
      230 patients per day. The Emergency Department is staffed exclusively by board-certified
      emergency medicine physicians that also supervise the care of 48 residents and four fellows.
      The reported demographic distribution of the overall Emergency Department patient population
      is as follows: 7% Hispanic; 2% Asian; 35% Black; and 63% White.

      SATATISTICAL ANALYSES

      Data Analyses Plan. We will conduct all statistical analyses based on the American
      Statistical Association Ethical Guidelines for Statistical Practice67,68 and include the
      following:

        1. Univariate Analyses. We will first conduct univariate analyses to assess potential
           demographic and clinical differences between the two treatment groups. We will also use
           ANOVA to compare the effects of ibuprofen versus acetaminophen treatment on the
           incidence of mild TBI symptoms using continuous measures of pain scores and Neural-QOL
           measures of pain and cognitive function.

        2. Multivariate Analyses. We will use log binomial regression modeling to adjust for
           potential residual confounding to estimate the effects of ibuprofen versus acetaminophen
           on the incidence of mild TBI symptoms. We will also conduct survival analyses using
           Kaplan-Meier graphs and Cox proportional hazards regression modeling to estimate
           adjusted hazards ratios for the effects of ibuprofen versus acetaminophen on the main
           outcomes of mild TBI symptoms. We will also conduct likelihood ratio and goodness-of-fit
           tests to identify and include specific covariates for the regression models and
           diagnostic methods to evaluate overall model fit and plausibility of model assumptions.

        3. Advanced Methods for Causal Inference. We will use advanced statistical methods to allow
           assessment of causation: (1) instrumental variables to estimate the effects of ibuprofen
           versus acetaminophen with potential treatment regimen noncompliance by using treatment
           randomization as a perfect instrument;69,70 (2) marginal structural modeling to account
           for time-varying confounders and to assess for direct versus indirect effects in the
           presence of intermediate factors.71-74

      Sample Size Estimation. Sample size estimation is especially challenging because there are no
      prior human studies measuring the effect of COX-2 inhibition on the incidence of mild TBI
      symptoms. Notwithstanding this limitation, we will use the presence of headache pain at 7 to
      14 days as a binary outcome. Sample size estimation is based on the following: (1) 40%
      expected frequency of headache pain in the ibuprofen group versus 60% expected frequency in
      the acetaminophen group; (2) the use of two-sided tests performed at a significance level of
      0.05; (3) a power of 0.80 to detect a true difference in headache pain between subjects
      receiving ibuprofen versus acetaminophen; and (4) one to one distribution of study subjects
      receiving ibuprofen versus acetaminophen. With these assumptions, the estimated number of
      study subjects needed to statistically assess ibuprofen versus acetaminophen for the
      treatment of mild TBI is a total of 214 subjects.60 Our plan to enroll over 400 subjects will
      provide an adequate sample size to conduct our statistical analyses. The Northwestern
      Memorial Hospital Emergency Department provides care to about 2,000 head injured patients
      with mild TBI each year.
    
  