
    
      The main objective of this split-mouth, randomized, controlled clinical trial was to compare
      the clinical efficacy of platelet rich fibrin (PRF) in combination with the coronally
      advanced flap (CAF) to the use of subepithelial connective tissue graft (SCTG) in combination
      with CAF in the treatment of localized gingival recessions.

      Primary outcome variables were percentage of complete root coverage and change in gingival
      recession expressed as recession reduction in millimeters at follow-up visits. The secondary
      outcome variables included keratinized tissue and gingival thickness gain.

      Sample size has been estimated in 22 subjects per treatment groups. Random allocation of the
      treatment sites to test (CAF+ PRF) and control (CAF + SCTG) groups will be performed using a
      computerized selection of random numbers for allocation of the study groups.

      Periodontal parameters including plaque index (25) (PI), gingival index (26) (GI), probing
      depth (PD), clinical attachment level (CAL), and gingival recession parameters including
      recession depth (RD), recession width (RW), recession area (RA), keratinized tissue width
      (KTW), gingival thickness (GT) were assessed by a calibrated examiner. At baseline and 1, 3
      and 6 months, RD, RW, RA, KTW were evaluated by means of both clinical and digital
      assessment. GI and PI were recorded at baseline and 1, 3 and 6 months, however PD, CAL, and
      GT were evaluated at baseline and 6 months. PD and CAL were recorded by a Williams probe
      accurate to the nearest 0.5 mm. GT was evaluated at baseline and 6 months using #15
      endodontic reamer attached to a rubber stopper inserted perpendicularly into the gingival
      tissue 2 mm below the gingival margin; thickness was measured to the nearest 0.1 mm using a
      caliper.

      Clinical images obtained at baseline and 1, 3 and 6 months after surgery from each treatment
      site and digitized in a computer image analysis system. Using a 4-mm length wire was used to
      check the reproducibility of the pictures. RD was measured from the cement-enamel junction
      (CEJ) to the gingival margin, RW was measured tangentially at the mid-facial CEJ, RA was
      calculated as the area within the contour of denuded root. KTW recorded as the distance from
      the mucogingival junction (MGJ) to the gingival margin. Duplicate measurements were made for
      RD, RW, RA and KTW. Percent root coverage and complete root coverage was calculated RA
      according to the following standard formulae.

      Follow-up of subjects will be 6 months.
    
  