
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Socioeconomic structure refers to aspects of communities -- their industries, physical
      resources, occupational and income distributions -- that create the conditions for change in
      health-related exposures, behaviors, and availability of quality medical care. Preliminary
      studies suggest growing inequalities in ischemic heart disease mortality in communities at
      different levels of socioeconomic structure that probably reflect both differences in timing
      of onset of decline and rate of decline of mortality. Despite the beginning of a national
      decline of ischemic heart disease mortality for white men in the middle 1960's, some
      communities only began the decline some years later, at which time the national decline
      accelerated. Late declining communities were more likely to be nonmetropolitan and in the
      South. Further analyses showed that the onset of decline was strongly related to measures of
      socioeconomic structure, and that income-related characteristics could account for much of
      the previously observed metropolitan differential. Another study showed that the decline of
      ischemic heart disease in both white men and women has been greater in county groups with
      occupational structures characterized by higher levels of white collar employment. The trend
      toward greater relative geographic inequality of mortality appears to be stronger for
      ischemic heart disease than for stroke, all cardiovascular disease or all-cause mortality.
      Prevention strategies should take account of these processes not only to achieve a more
      equitable distribution of health but to target populations with the greatest excess risk
      available for reduction.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Several analyses were conducted using mortality data from the National Center for Health
      Statistics and population and socioeconomic data from the Census Bureau. The onset of decline
      of ischemic heart disease in white women and Black men was analyzed in relation to geographic
      region, metropolitan status, and socioeconomic structure. The association between onset of
      decline of ischemic heart disease and its rate of decline was studied. The relationship of
      occupational structure and other aspects of socioeconomic structure to the rate of decline of
      ischemic heart disease mortality in Blacks and whites was quantified by age. Geographic
      variations in levels and trends of stroke mortality were described in relation to
      socioeconomic structure. The associations of socioeconomic structure, cardiovascular disease
      risk factors, blood pressure treatment, and mortality were quantified in geographic areas
      sampled in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Socioeconomic
      structure-mortality trend associations for ischemic heart disease and stroke were compared to
      associations for all cardiovascular disease, all-cause and non-specific causes. A detailed
      analysis was made of socioeconomic structure-mortality associations in the United States
      South with special attention to impact on Black/white mortality differentials.
    
  