
    
      Permanent implant prostate brachytherapy is recognized as the treatment method for prostate
      cancer that results in the least amount of sexual side effects including erectile dysfunction
      (ED). However prostate brachytherapy is often limited to patients with a prostate volume less
      than 50cc because of dosimetric and technical considerations. To counter this fact patients
      with a prostate larger than 50cc are offered neoadjuvant hormonal therapy to reduce their
      prostate volume to a value less than 50cc. The pharmacological method most often employed
      involves treatment with an LHRH agonist, which also involves multiple adverse effects for
      patients including ED in the majority of patients.

      This approach may also involve other disadvantages including a possibility of increased
      cardiovascular mortality a possible increase in urinary toxicity and a reduction in
      health-related quality of life in patients treated with neoadjuvant hormonal therapy. Despite
      theses facts, neoadjuvant hormonal therapy remains essentially the sole method used to reduce
      prostate volume prior to prostate brachytherapy. One study has evaluated the efficacy of a
      neoadjuvant regimen without an LHRH agonist, comprised of Dutasteride and Bicalutamide to
      reduce prostate volume. This treatment could theoretically have fewer effects on sexual
      function and quality of life and could also possibly reduce urinary toxicity of
      brachytherapy. Nonetheless, these factors have never been evaluated. The cytoreductive
      efficacy of Bicalutamide and Dutasteride have never been directly compared to standard
      treatments. The current study is necessary to determine the effects of a neoadjuvant regimen
      of Bicalutamide and Dutasteride on prostate volume, sexual function, urinary toxicity and
      quality of life as compared to standard treatment. If it can be determined that there is an
      advantage with Bicalutamide and Dutasteride this regimen could become a standard of care for
      prostate cytoreduction prior to brachytherapy.
    
  