
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To test the hypothesis that an association between common genetic variations, reported
           by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in relevant candidate genes, is associated with
           individual patient variability in normal tissue radiation response and toxicity.

      Secondary

        -  To compare different clinical scoring systems for late normal tissue effects,
           specifically Late Effect of Normal Tissue Subjective Objective Management Analysis (LENT
           SOMA), Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG), quality of life, and in a subset common
           terminology criteria (CTC) version 3.

        -  To compare clinical scoring systems with analytical measures of normal tissue outcome in
           a minority of patients, using volume change in the breast measured by laser camera.

        -  To correlate family history information with SNP analysis to produce a polymorphism risk
           score (PRS) for family history.

        -  To compare a detailed 3D dose-volume analysis in a subset of patients with late effects
           and SNP results.

        -  To correlate actuarial analysis of late effects changes over time with PRS.

        -  To conduct PRS analyses against tumor control probability (TCP), using survival as a
           surrogate for TCP where necessary, and normal tissue complications vs tumor control
           probability.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are recruited from clinical trials in which their late normal tissue effects have
      been measured. Blood samples are collected from these patients for analysis of genetic
      variation by DNA extraction and single nucleotide polymorphism analysis. Sixty different
      genes, including those involved in cell cycle checkpoint control, DNA damage recognition and
      repair, induction of apoptosis, and cytokine production (including TGFβ pathways) are
      assessed.
    
  