
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine condition that impacts one in ten
      women of reproductive age worldwide. It is characterized by a collection of signs and
      symptoms, including: (1) oligo- or anovulation, (2) hyperandrogenism, and (3) polycystic
      ovarian morphology. Because obesity worsens the reproductive and metabolic features of the
      condition, lifestyle intervention aimed at weight loss is recommended as the first-line
      therapy in overweight / obese patients. Many studies have shown that modest weight loss
      (5-10%) can improve symptomology in women with PCOS. Yet, the mechanism whereby weight loss
      might stimulate ovulation or restore menstrual cyclicity remains unclear.

      Hence, the goal of this study is to explore the effects of weight loss on body composition,
      metabolic status, reproductive hormones, and ovarian follicle development in obese women with
      regular menstrual cycles versus obese women with irregular menstrual cycles and/or PCOS. The
      researchers believe that a hypocaloric and low-glycemic index eating pattern, based on the
      nutrition recommendations of the USDA Dietary Guidelines for Americans and American Diabetes
      Association, will reduce endocrine and metabolic disturbances and consequently improve
      ovulatory and menstrual cyclicity in PCOS.

      To accomplish this objective, the researchers plan to recruit up to 50 obese (i.e. body mass
      index >30 kg/m*m) women with regular menstrual cycles and up to 50 obese women with irregular
      menstrual cycles and/or PCOS. Exclusion criteria will include ages <18 or >35 y and the use
      of hormonal contraception, fertility therapy, or insulin-sensitizing medication in the three
      months prior to enrollment. This study entails one month of data collection during a baseline
      interval (Month 1) and six months of data collection during a commercial weight loss program
      (Nutrisystem® D; Month 2 thru Month 7).

      Participants will be evaluated every other day (in Months 1 and 7) or twice per week (in
      Months 2 thru 6) by transvaginal ultrasonography and venipuncture. Ultrasound images of the
      ovaries will be assessed for the total number and diameter of individual follicles. Serum
      samples will be assessed for follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, estradiol,
      and progesterone. Participants will also be evaluated at up to four time points using
      multiple metabolic and behavioral tests. Time points of interest will include: (1) Month 1
      (i.e. pre-intervention), (2) after 5% weight loss, (3) after 10% weight loss, and (4) Month 7
      (i.e. post-intervention). Assessments and endpoints of interest will include: (1) fasting
      blood tests (to detect serum androgens and markers of metabolic syndrome); (2) an oral
      glucose tolerance test (to characterize glucose and insulin dynamics at 0, 30, 60, 90, and
      120-minutes post-glucose ingestion); (3) a physical examination (to measure height, weight,
      waist and hips circumference, blood pressure, heart rate, and hirsutism score); (4) a dual
      x-ray absorptiometry scan (to quantify total and regional fat and lean mass); and (5) a
      quality of life questionnaire (to evaluate health-related quality of life).

      To evaluate further changes in ovarian morphology, reproductive hormones, metabolic status,
      and body composition after the intervention, participants will be invited to return to the
      research unit six months after the study ends. The aforementioned procedures (transvaginal
      ultrasound scan; fasting blood tests; oral glucose tolerance test; physical examination; dual
      x-ray absorptiometry scan; and quality of life questionnaire) will be repeated.
    
  