
    
      Before the research starts (screening, the participant will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to find out if the participant can be in the research study.
      Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be
      done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in the research study. If
      the participant has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have
      to be repeated.

      Additional research procedures to be performed at the time of screening:

      A research tumor biopsy will be taken before the participant beginning study treatment. This
      is different from the first biopsy done to establish the diagnosis of breast cancer. A
      research biopsy is required to participate in this research study because the research done
      on the tumor tissue is a very important part of this research study. The researchers want to
      learn why some cancers shrink with this study treatment while others do not.

      Tumor tissue will be collected again for research either during the participant's subsequent
      breast surgery, or, if the tumor has not responded well to the end of study treatment, by a
      tumor biopsy before the participant is changed to another regimen.

        -  A small clip may be placed in the tumor bed at the time of the first research biopsy,
           particularly if one was not placed at the time of the participant's diagnostic biopsy.
           The clip is placed so that the surgeon can locate the site of the tumor at the time of
           surgery. This is considered a standard of care procedure for breast cancer. The research
           biopsy is done in an outpatient setting using a local anesthetic.

        -  If the participant takes part in the study, the investigators will collect a piece of
           the participant's tumor tissue from their original biopsy and, if there is any tumor
           remaining at the time of the final surgery, a piece of that as well. As described above,
           the participant will undergo a breast biopsy and tumor tissue will be collected from
           that procedure. All of this tissue will be used for research. The research on the
           participant's sample may include looking at genes (DNA), proteins, or the substances
           that make proteins (called RNA) in the tissue sample. Collectively, this research is
           called biomarker research and may help doctors to better understand the disease, how the
           drug is working in the participant's body, and may help to identify which breast cancers
           may benefit most from treatment with cisplatin or paclitaxel. Specifically, the
           researchers will measure the HRD assay by analyzing the tumor tissue, and determine if
           the results of this assay help predict whether the cancer will respond to the
           preoperative chemotherapy received. As the researchers do not know whether the results
           of this test will be predictive, the participant will not receive the results from this
           research test.

      The tissue samples will be given the same code as the participant's other study information
      and kept in locked storage. The tests on the participant's tumor tissue are for research
      purposes only and would not be done if the participant were not in this study; this is
      biomarker research.

        -  These tests will be performed at laboratories that may be within or outside of the study
           center where the participant receive the study drug. The samples will be coded with a
           unique number. The participant's name or other personal information will not be given to
           these laboratories, and only the study doctor will be able to identify the participant
           by this number. This research biopsy is not optional and may be stored for future
           research.

        -  The participant will have 2 additional tubes of blood collected for research purposes.
           These research blood samples may be collected at any time during the course of this
           research study. The blood that is being collected so researchers can look at the
           participant's DNA. It is important to have the DNA in order to compare it to the DNA in
           the participant's tumor. The investigators will also be performing genetic testing on
           one of the blood samples, looking for gene mutations which may increase risk of
           developing certain types of cancers. The blood may also be used for future research
           studies. The blood will be stored by the study sponsor or its authorized agents until it
           has been exhausted. This research blood collection is not optional and may be stored for
           future research.

      The participant will be "randomized" to receive either Cisplatin or Paclitaxel chemotherapy
      prior to removal of their breast cancer. Chemotherapy administered before removal of the
      cancer is known as preoperative chemotherapy.

      Study Drugs:

        -  Cisplatin: If the participant is randomized to receive Cisplatin, the participant will
           receive Cisplatin once every 3 weeks for a total of 4 doses. Note, doses can also be
           referred to as cycles. The participant will be given Cisplatin by vein (IV). The
           Cisplatin infusion can take approximately 1 hour. Before and after receiving Cisplatin,
           the participant will receive fluid hydration by vein, and the participant will also be
           given medicine to help prevent side effects such as nausea. The total time of the
           infusion of Cisplatin and the additional fluid and medications will take approximately 6
           hours.

        -  Paclitaxel: If the participant is randomized to receive Paclitaxel, the participant will
           receive Paclitaxel once a week for 12 weeks for a total of 12 doses. The participant
           will be given Paclitaxel by vein. The Paclitaxel infusion can take approximately 1 hour.

        -  The study treatment will be stopped if the participant has serious side effects or if
           the tumor grows despite receiving Cisplatin or Paclitaxel chemotherapy. The
           participant's doctor will then discuss with the participant alternative treatment
           options.

        -  Physical exams: Every 3 weeks, and approximately 2-4 weeks after the last chemotherapy
           dose, the participant will have a physical exam (including weight and vital signs, as
           well as tumor measurements) and the participant will be asked general questions about
           their health and any medications the participant may be taking, as well as specific
           questions about any side effects the participant may be experiencing while receiving
           study treatment.

        -  Blood tests: Prior to each cycle of chemotherapy, the participant will have standard
           blood tests to check their blood counts. About 1 tablespoon of blood will be drawn for
           these tests.

        -  Surgery to Remove Tumor: This will occur within six weeks after the last dose of
           chemotherapy (either Cisplatin or Paclitaxel). The participant and their surgeon will
           decide on the type of surgery (i.e. lumpectomy or mastectomy) as the participant would
           as part of standard care for their disease.

        -  After receiving the total course of Cisplatin or Paclitaxel chemotherapy, if the
           response in the breast cancer is not adequate before surgery, there is the option to
           receive additional chemotherapy outside of the trial prior to surgery. This is a
           decision the participant can make with their treating physicians. If it is determined
           that additional chemotherapy is needed, a second biopsy of the tumor tissue will be
           performed before the next chemotherapy is started.

        -  Tumor assessments: The treating physician or nurse practitioner will examine the
           participant every 3 weeks. A measurement of their tumor will be performed as part of
           their physical exam.

      When the tumor is removed, a research sample will be obtained from the hospital and used to
      confirm the participant's response to the chemotherapy that the participant has received. It
      will also be used to see if the investigators can learn which breast cancers are likely to
      respond to either Cisplatin or Paclitaxel. Tumor specimens from the initial breast cancer
      biopsy and from surgery after chemotherapy will be sent to the study pathologist so that the
      response of the tumor to the study treatment can be assessed. After these tumor specimens are
      reviewed, they will be returned to the hospital at which the biopsy and surgery were
      performed.
    
  