
    
      Squamous cell carcinoma of the anus or "anal cancer" is an uncommon disease in the Western
      world. In Sweden approximately 100 patients are diagnosed each year. Most patients are
      treated by chemotherapy and radiation, but a small subgroup of non-responders and patients
      with recurrent disease undergo abdominoperineal excision with a permanent colostomy. In most
      reports of results these patients have a worse prognosis and a higher risk of local
      recurrence than anal cancer as a group(1, 2), possibly a result of a selection bias. Recently
      the results in a large Nordic cohort were presented, indicating that a further factor
      connected with successful outcome was that the patient was included in a treatment
      protocol(3).

      A small number of patients with very small cancers are operated on primarily. This is
      especially true for anal margin tumours(4). However, for the most part patients will be
      primarily treated with radiotherapy, as their curative treatment.

      In Sweden the treatment has been centralised for many years. The radiotherapy is normally a
      long course therapy with many smaller doses resulting in a high dose of radiation. There are
      well known complications such as skin problems and to some extent chronic radiation effects
      on deeper structures, which can result in functional side effects. If the treatment includes
      an abdominoperineal excision, the effects of a colostomy on quality of life as well as
      functional aspects of this surgical procedure are largely unknown in this group of patients.
      In our research group we have earlier studied large cohorts of patients who have undergone
      abdominoperineal excision for rectal cancer, and also unselected groups of patients with
      rectal cancer, studying both functional aspects and quality of life using detailed
      questionnaires (5, 6). Further we have results on quality of life from a cohort of Swedish
      inhabitants, representing men and women aged 30 to 90 years. The majority of the questions in
      these questionnaires are similar making comparisons possible.

      In other studies within the SSORG network we have used the "Steineck concept" to investigate
      patient experiences of health, functional results and quality of life (7-11). We use specific
      questionnaires with detailed questions about experiences and symptoms asking about severity
      and duration as well as questions on socioeconomic functioning and life style factors (12,
      13). Our experience is that patients are motivated to answer such questionnaires, with a
      compliance at 3 months >90% and at 12 months >85%.
    
  