
    
      This was a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, multiple dose, placebo-controlled,
      parallel group, 48- week, Phase III study. Women age 45 and over who were postmenopausal and
      had a diagnosis of osteoporosis were eligible for the study and were randomly allocated to
      one of three treatment groups; placebo tablets, oral rsCT tablets or calcitonin nasal spray.
      Each patient was given a treatment kit, which contained the study medication to which she had
      been assigned and a placebo of the treatment to which she was not assigned, or placebo nasal
      and oral preparations, as well as the required dietary supplements (calcium and vitamin D
      tablets). The study medication and supplements were self-administered at home. It was
      anticipated that approximately 545 patients would participate in the study.

      EFFICACY: Bone Mineral Density (BMD) was recorded at Screening, Week 24, and Week 48. CTx-1
      and N-telopeptide of collagen 1 (NTx-1), biochemical markers of bone resorption and total
      Procollagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide (P1NP),a marker of bone formation, were assessed at
      Week 0, Week 24, and Week 48. SAFETY: Adverse events were assessed at the clinic at Weeks 0,
      12, 24, 36 and 48, and by interim phone calls at Weeks 4, 8, 16, 20, 28, 32, 40, 44, and 52.
      At Screening, Week 12, and Week 48, a physical examination, including nasal exam, was
      performed and specimens for safety laboratory analysis (clinical chemistry, hematology, and
      urinalysis) were collected. Sera for immunogenicity evaluations were collected at Baseline,
      Week 12, and Week 48.

      EFFICACY: The primary comparison of interest was the percent change from baseline to 48 weeks
      in axial lumbar spine (L1 to L4) corrected BMD comparing the rsCT oral tablet group and the
      calcitonin nasal spray group. The model included the factors of the covariate (baseline BMD),
      treatment group, and center. The hypothesis to be tested was performed to examine the
      non-inferiority of the oral tablet group to the nasal spray group with respect to the percent
      change in axial lumbar L1-L4 spine corrected BMD. Specifically, the null hypothesis to be
      tested was: [Mean(oral) - Mean(placebo)] - 0.5 x [Mean(nasal) - Mean(placebo)] < 0 The
      alternative hypothesis was that the above expression was > 0, which implied that the oral
      tablet group was non-inferior to nasal spray group. The primary analysis of interest employed
      the modified intent-to-treat population.

      SAFETY: Adverse events were summarized descriptively. Mean vital signs and clinical
      laboratory test results in each treatment group were compared using a one-way analysis of
      variance. Additionally, shift tables were prepared for each laboratory variable.
    
  