
    
      The Ablation of the typical atrial flutter can be considered substantially anatomical, the
      aim of the study is to test a protocol that foresees the use a lesion index and that respects
      the Inter-Lesion Distance ≤ 6 mm on the cavo-tricuspid isthmus to prove how the introduction
      of a lesion index combined with the continuity of lesion can allow a "first pass block" of
      the CTI decreasing total Radio-Frequency times With the aim of reducing the use of the
      fluoroscopy and ionizing radiations, an anatomical map of the right atrium will be
      reconstructed with a mapping catheter in all patients, and a 10-pole catheter will be placed
      in the coronary sinus.Then, the anatomy of the isthmus will be precisely defined with a
      catheter equipped with a force sensor ,identifying the tricuspid valve as the initial point
      of ablation and the inferior vena cava- right atrium junction as the end point of the
      line.Once the reconstruction has been completed, the ablation phase will start. Considering
      the values already validated for the left atrium, the protocol foresees the point-by-point
      ablation with the use of AI ≥ 500 and ILD≤ 6 mm.

      The Visitag setting will be the following:

        -  Respiration Adjustment;

        -  Catheter Position Stability Min. Time = 3 sec, Max. Range = 5 mm;

        -  Force Over Time Time = 30% Min. Force = 4 gr. The power can be set between 35 and 40
           watts. At the end of the isthmus ablation, line block will be evaluated by proximal CS
           pacing, acquiring at least 3 distinct points from the ablator catheter around the
           tricuspid annulus ,typically ostium of coronary sinus (CS), lateral tricuspid annulus
           and a point more proximal to the line of ablation.

      Once this phase has been completed, 20 minutes of waiting time has to be considered. After
      this waiting time the block of the isthmus will be validated again with the same protocol
      described above.

      Primary Endpoint -Anatomical first Pass block of the CTI.

      Secondary Endpoint

      -Reduction of procedural, RF and fluoroscopy times.
    
  