
    
      Currently, all brain tumors are routinely evaluated using gadolinium contrast-enhanced
      (Gd-CE) MRI, in combination with T2-weighted or fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR)
      MRI, which are used to determine the extent of tumor involvement to guide treatments, and to
      assess therapeutic response. However, Gd-CE only depicts disruption of the blood brain
      barrier and is not specific for tumor activity. Therefore, standard MRI may not be optimal in
      defining the true extent of tumor, defining as abnormal areas that may contain only edema
      related to mass effect or surgery and miss tumor extensions that do not sufficiently disrupt
      the blood-brain-barrier. In addition, in the setting of radiation therapy which also disrupts
      the blood brain barrier, it does not serve as an early marker of tumor response.

      The primary goal of the current observational study is to explore whether Amide Proton
      Transfer (APT) imaging can better determine the extent of tumor involvement. APT signal is
      created by mobile cytoplasmic proteins, which are increased in malignant brain tumors and
      have been found in preclinical and clinical studies to be associated with a high APT weighted
      signal in glioma. Such imaging may provide information that may improve the ability of MR
      imaging to guide targeting of radiotherapy. In particular, it may (1) detect tumor bearing
      brain that is not contrast enhancing on the standard brain MRI scan for patients with high
      grade glioma and/or (2) fail to confirm tumor in areas of brain identified as abnormal on
      standard MRI. The investigators will also explore patterns of disease failure in patients
      with malignant gliomas to validate the observations, and whether such imaging may predict
      outcome.

      Similar questions may be important in the therapy of low grade glioma, and an exploratory
      informational cohort of patients with this less common diagnosis will be accrued during the
      study period to inform decisions about whether further study is desirable.

      A second APT image will be obtained during the final week of treatment for enrolled patients
      to determine whether changes in APT signal occur, and whether there is evidence that this may
      be prognostic for treatment success or failure when correlated with progression free survival
      and survival outcome. Currently, there is no imaging method to assess tumor response and
      predict outcome within the first several months as a result of the confounding effect of
      radiation on both the tumor and surrounding brain. In addition, standard brief apparent
      diffusion coefficient (ADC) MRI sequences will be performed as part of the pretreatment
      imaging and the end of treatment scan as an additional potential early imaging biomarker that
      may be a part of multiparametric assessment of response to radiotherapy as identified in
      preclinical studies performed at Johns Hopkins.

      These first steps may form the basis for possible future studies to assess new approaches to
      radiation planning for patients with brain cancer.
    
  