
    
      This is a Phase 1/2, open-label, dose-escalation trial of Ad MAGEA3 and MG1-MAGEA3 in
      combination with pembrolizumab in patients with NSCLC (histological subtype of squamous and
      non-squamous NSCLC). In Phase 1, patients who have progressed after treatment with a
      platinum-based regimen and/or PD-1/PD-L1 targeted antibody therapy will be enrolled. In Phase
      2, only patients who have progressed after treatment regimen containing PD-1/PD-L1 targeted
      antibody therapy will be enrolled. In the Phase 1 portion of the study, MG1-MAGEA3 treatment
      will be escalated in a sequential dose-escalating design. In the Phase 2 portion of the
      study, MG1-MAGEA3 treatment will be at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the maximum
      feasible dose (MFD). The Ad-MAGEA3 and pembrolizumab dose is fixed in both the Phase 1 and
      Phase 2 portions of the trial.

      Phase 1 Enrollment

      Cohorts 1 through 5:

      Three patients will be treated at each dose level unless a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), as
      defined below, is observed. Patients will be observed for a DLT through Day 29. After
      enrollment of the first patient in each cohort, 2 additional patients will be enrolled after
      the initial patient reaches Day 29 without experiencing a DLT. Treatment with MG1-MAGEA3 will
      proceed to the next dose level if 0 of 3 patients experiences a DLT. If one of the first 3
      patients experiences a DLT, additional patients will be enrolled until a second patient
      experiences a DLT (which defines the toxic dose) or until 6 total patients have been treated,
      whichever comes first. If a second DLT is not experienced within that cohort, dose escalation
      may continue.

      If 2 DLTs are observed within a cohort, enrollment into the cohort will cease and the dose
      level immediately preceding that dose will be determined as the MTD.

      Ad-MAGEA3 will be administered by intramuscular (IM) injection at a dose level of 2 x 1011
      virus particles (VP) on Day 1. MG1-MAGEA3 will be administered by intravenous (IV) infusion
      at escalating dose levels on Day 15 and Day 18. In Cohorts 1 through 5, patients will receive
      pembrolizumab at a dose of 200 mg IV on Day 22, and every 3 weeks thereafter until confirmed
      radiographic progression or unmanageable toxicity.

      Cohort 6:

      Upon determination of the MTD/MFD (safety assessment) in Cohorts 4-5, the treatment regimen
      will next be optimized such that pembrolizumab will begin on Day 1 (concurrent treatment).
      The Day 15 and Day 18 doses of MG1-MAGEA3 will be the doses defined as the MTD/MFD in either
      Cohort 4 or5. Specifically, the regimen evaluated in Cohort 6 is as follows:

        -  Day 1: Patients will receive 2 x 1011 VP IM of Ad-MAGEA3 and 200 mg IV of pembrolizumab
           (the Pembrolizumab will be continued every 3 weeks [Q3W]).

        -  Day 15: Patients will receive IV MG1-MAGEA3 at the MTD/MFD established for the first
           infusion from Cohort 4 or Cohort 5.

        -  Day 18: Patients will receive IV MG1-MAGEA3 at the MTD/MFD established for the second
           infusion from Cohort 4 or Cohort 5.

        -  Three patients will be treated according to the dose schedule above unless a DLT is
           observed between Day 1 and Day 29, at which time three additional patients will be
           enrolled onto this cohort. If 2 DLTs occur within these six patients treated in Cohort
           6, this cohort will be stopped and a new Cohort will be initated again with patients
           treated concurrently with pembrolizumab but with a 0.5 log lower dose of MG1-MAGEA3 than
           used in Cohort 6 for the Day 15 and Day 18 doses.

      Phase 2 Enrollment Phase 2 enrollment will commence upon completion of dose escalation and
      determination of the MTD/MFD. In Stage 1 of the 2-Stage design, 18 evaluable patients will be
      treated at the MTD/MFD (this will include patients treated at the MTD/MFD in Phase 1 who meet
      Phase 2 inclusion criteria). If 1 or more patients respond, the study may continue to Stage
      2, and an additional 14 evaluable patients will be enrolled for a total of 32 evaluable
      patients.

      A patient will be defined as being evaluable for the primary endpoint (EPPE) and included in
      the Simon 2-stage study design if they are seronegative to adenovirus Type 5, the virus used
      in the prime.

      Preliminary data from two other Turnstone Ad/MG1-MAGEA3 trials indicates that patients
      without pre-existing anti-adenovirus antibodies (seronegative) prior to treatment have a
      greater likelihood of generating MAGEA3 specific T-cell responses than those that are
      seropositive at baseline. Therefore, this study is designed to primarily determine the
      response rate and clinical outcome for this homogenous population of Ad5 seronegative
      patients whom are most likely to benefit from Ad/MG1-MAGEA3 treatment. However, there is a
      small subset of seropositive patients who developed significant anti-MAGEA3 T-cell responses
      after Ad/MG1-MAGEA3 treatment. In addition, the presence of Ad5 seropositivity would not be
      expected to have any significant impact on the potential benefit of MG1-MAGEA3 tumor
      oncolysis. Therefore, exploratory data on clinical and immune response in the Ad5
      seropositive population will be conducted and the study will enroll both Ad5 seronegative and
      positive patients.

      It is anticipated that approximately half of the patients enrolled will be seronegative to
      Ad5, therefore Stage 1 of the Simon 2-stage design above will enroll approximately 18
      patients and Stage 2 will enroll approximately 14 patients. Total study enrollment is
      projected to be between 2 and 100 patients.

      Safety Committee:

      Prior to each dose level increase or the initiation of Phase 2, a safety committee composed
      of independent voting members and treating physician(s) will review toxicity and other
      relevant data to determine suitability of dose escalation or expansion with regards to
      patient safety. Interim assessments of toxicity will be conducted throughout the trial to
      monitor for safety trends and identify any new or increased toxicity not previously
      associated with the IPs.
    
  