
    
      Aim: Assess the value of MRI features in predicting prognosis in patients with endometrial
      cancer

      Background:

      Endometrial cancer is the commonest gynaecological cancer in the United Kingdom. MR Imaging
      is used to provide pre-treatment local staging in Endometrial Cancer based on the FIGO
      staging system. This MRI stage is used by clinicians, in combination with pre-operative
      histology and clinical assessment of the patient, to counsel patients about their prognosis.

      Currently the information obtained from the MRI study is largely anatomical and concerns the
      extent of local tumour spread at the time of diagnosis. Each stage under the FIGO system is
      associated with a prognosis based on data from the literature. Important prognostic
      indicators include the depth of tumour invasion in the uterine muscle (myometrium), invasion
      of the cervical stroma by tumour, spread to lymph node tissues and the histological sub-type
      of tumour present.

      However, with ever improving MRI technology there are now newer sequences employed as part of
      the staging study which may potentially yield more information. In other cancer types, e.g.
      prostate, breast and liver, textural analysis of the tumour on pre-treatment imaging
      (CT/PET-CT/MRI) is being analysed to try and identify features which could be used as
      prognostic markers for patient outcome.

      The Study:

      All patients with confirmed cancer on histology will receive an Ultrasound and MRI as part of
      routine care. The MRI scan will include T1, T2, DWI and contrast enhanced sequences. Patients
      referred to Hammersmith Hospital from other trusts who are diagnosed with endometrial cancer
      will be approached for consent and enrolment into latter part of study. These patients will
      have had an MRI but may not have had all the sequences needed and may therefore require a
      further MRI scan with additional sequences. These images will be saved and analysed.
      Pathological findings (e.g. type and grade of cancer) will be correlated with the
      radiological results.

      Definitive management of endometrial cancer includes a hysterectomy for most patients.
      Following surgery patients will continue with routine standard of care and follow up.
      Patients will be followed up for 5 years to provide 5 year survival data. Images from
      ultrasound and MRI pelvis will be analysed to see if they can predict the 5 year survival.

      This prospective study will also be used to validate a retrospective model using MRI textural
      features in endometrial cancer patients.
    
  