
    
      Sahlgrenska Univeristy Hospital is tertiary university endoscopy center. At our endoscopy
      unit physicians/endoscopists train EUS under the supervision of an experienced
      endosonographist. Endosonographists examining patients referred for a routine, clinical EUS
      at the Sahlgrenska Univeristy hospital are candidates for being study subjects. Patients will
      not be examined by the study endosonographists if supervision is lacking.

      External, collaborating centers will be invited to participte in the study given that the
      study inclusion criteria and ethical standard will be ensured.

      The investigators of this study have developped a score sheet for the assessment of
      endosonographists in training to be used in a standard clinical setting. The score sheet is
      to be used by both the endosonographist in training (performer) for self-assessment and by
      the supervisor (observer) for assessment of the performer.

      First, background data of the performer is recorded (pervious endoscopy experience etc). Then
      the performer starts the examination under the guidance of the observer. The observer
      performs continuous evaluation and assessment of the performer according to the skill
      parameters (N=5) of the Observer score sheet. Each parameter is ranked on a 1-5 scale
      (1=non-satisfactory performance, 5= excellent performance). Finally the observer is taking
      over, reevaluates the findings of the performer and finishes the examination.

      After the examination the performer fullfills the Performer score sheet. Finally, both the
      performer and the observer record their preliminary diagosis of the lesion examined.

      Adverse events and complications are recorded.

      A follow-up of the medical records of the patient is performed 8 weeks after the
      EUS-examiantion with respect to the final diagnosis of the lesion of interest. The reference
      standard is set to best available combination of surgery, pathology and imaging reports. The
      performer´s assessment of the diagnosis is the categorized as CORRECT or FALSE. A correct
      diagnosis equals 3 Points and a false diagnosis equals 0 Points.

      Results in terms of the total and mean score of all perfomers is calculated and collected in
      a study database. Feasibility of the study assessment sheet is evaluated. Statistical
      analysis of categorical data is finally applied for evaluating the results with respect to
      the progress and learning curve of the study participants.
    
  