
    
      This is an open-label, two arm interventional exploratory study to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of 5-ALA-Phosphate-SFC during the vaccination of subjects against SARS-CoV-2
      (COVID-19) virus infection to define the safety and to activate the immune system during
      SARS-CoV-2 vaccination.

      Arm 1: 100 subjects that were vaccinated with the first dose of a COVID-19 Vaccine (any brand
      approved in Bahrain is permitted) and that will be treated with 150mg 5-ALA Phosphate/SFC for
      28 days and

      Arm 2: 100 subjects that were vaccinated with the first dose of a COVID-19 Vaccine (any brand
      approved in Bahrain is permitted) only (Control)

      The duration of this clinical study will depend on the type of the vaccine, the subject was
      administered with.

      Primary Endpoints: All treatment emergent AEs and SAEs Grade III and IV (CTC) with reasonable
      possibility of causal relationship to 5-ALA-Phosphate + SFC

      Secondary Endpoint:

        -  Serum levels of biomarkers (CD4+/- and CD8+/- ) before and after vaccination with and
           without ALA/SFC administration.

        -  Total antibody level and neutralizing antibody level

      Exploratory Endpoints:

        1. Measurement of total IgA, IgM and IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV 2.

        2. Measurement of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2.

      Safety:

      The following safety endpoints will be assessed:

        -  Clinical laboratory assessments (hepatic function,)

        -  All reports of AEs and SAEs Grade III and IV (CTC) with reasonable possibility of causal
           relationship to 5-ALA-Phosphate + SFC

      Efficacy:

      Efficacy will be assessing the immune system related T-helper cells and antibodies after
      SARS-CoV-2 vaccination for each subject.

      From day 0 onwards, all subjects keep a subject diary, which they fill out daily in order to
      record the dosage with the study treatment. Patients must meet the testing requirements on
      the day of the first vaccination (Day 0) and on the Day of the second vaccination and on Day
      28 and on Follow-up visit.

      The food supplement 5-Aminolevulinic acid phosphate and Sodium ferrous citrate
      (5-ALA-Phosphate + SFC) will be administered orally daily for 4 weeks at the following TOTAL
      daily doses:

      Subjects in the vaccination + ALA/SFC arm (Arm 1) will receive:

      • In total 3 capsules of 50 mg 5-ALA-Phosphate and 28.68 mg SFC (3.04 mg as Fe) per day, 2
      capsules in the morning and 1 capsule in the evening resulting in 150 mg 5-ALA-Phosphate and
      86.04 mg SFC ( 9.12 mg as Fe) total daily dose for 28 days

      Heme is critical for appropriate oxygen binding and delivery to remote site and without the
      heme contained within the hemoglobin tetramer, multicellular organisms would be unable to
      survive. Furthermore HO-1 degrades heme into biliverdin, carbon monoxide (CO), and iron, and
      biliverdin is immediately reduced and turned into bilirubin by biliverdin reductase.
      Biliverdin/bilirubin and CO both have anti-oxidative functions and they regulate important
      biological processes like inflammation, apoptosis, cell proliferation, fibrosis, and
      angiogenesis. Therefore, HO-1 is deemed to be a promising drug target (Ryter 2006). HO-1 is a
      major anti-inflammatory enzyme and a key regulator that induces immune tolerance.

      5-ALA-Phosphate + SFC increases heme metabolism and HO-1 via enhancement of porphyrin biology
      and utilizes the HO-1 for endothelial pacification strategy. Nishio reported 2014 that
      5-aminolevulinic acid, a precursor of heme, in combination with divalent iron (SFC) is also
      able to induce HO-1 in vitro (Nishio 2014). This was attributed to the upregulation of heme
      synthesis and that 5-ALA+SFC transiently increased the intracellular heme amount through the
      phosphorylation of ERK / p38 and the nuclear translocation of a transcription factor Nrf2, as
      well as the depletion of a repressor protein BACH1 binding to the promoter site of HO-1.
      Similarly, Nakaso et al., 2003, Nishio et al., 2014, Ogawa et al., 2001, Saito et al., 2017
      found that hemin administration promoted Nrf2 nuclear translocation and BACH1 dissociation
      leading to HO-1 induction.

      Ito found in 2018 that the combination of 5-ALA 600 mg and sodium ferrous citrate (SFC) 942
      mg upregulated HO-1 in PBMC at 8 h after administration while sole administration of 5-ALA or
      SFC was unable to induce HO-1. HO-1 in blood myeloid and plasmacytoid dendritic cells was
      also upregulated by the combination of 5-ALA + SFC.

      In summary the versatility of the administration of 5-ALA plus iron citrate (SFC) enables the
      body to counteract the inflammatory reactions that the virus induces in the endothelial
      system and multiple organs in the event of a virus attack by increasing the formation of
      HO-1.
    
  