
    
      The study does not investigate any health related interventions, neither a therapy nor
      medical device. The study aims to provoke peripheral nerve stimulation from time varying
      magnetic (so-called "gradient") fields in volunteers in order to measure gradient threshold
      levels in different configurations (different gradient coil units, different positions and
      postures). The experiments will provide new data regarding the interaction of gradient fields
      and function of the peripheral nervous system. These measurements are of general interest to
      quantify associated modeling uncertainties and validate current or future computational
      modeling techniques.

      The experiments will use an MR scanner to generate the gradient fields used to induce
      stimulation. In normal mode the maximum gradient field allowed by the manufacturer may lead
      to peripheral nerve stimulation in approximately 50% of subjects. However, depending on the
      position and posture it may induce PNS in even fewer than 50% of subjects. Therefore, for the
      purpose of measuring stimulation thresholds it is necessary to operate the gradient units in
      experimental mode (with respect to the gradient field) as described in IEC 60601-2-33, i.e.
      the gradient limits set by the manufacturer will be disabled. As described in the standard,
      the gradient field will be increased slowly from non-stimulating levels until the volunteer
      perceives first stimulation sensations, at which point the gradient field will be stopped.
      This protocol does not lead to an increased risk of cardiac muscle stimulation compared to
      the normal mode, but only an increased likelihood of PNS with non-painful sensations in the
      skin, e.g. tingling, twitching or poking. PNS is not considered a health concern. The
      radio-frequency (RF) field will remain switched off, i.e. there is no risk of heating (the
      scanner will not acquire images in this mode).
    
  