
    
      Neuropathic pain is estimated to affect 2-3 % of the population and the condition is
      difficult to treat with conventional analgesics. The drug of first choice is typically a
      tricyclic antidepressant drug (TCA) or the antiepileptic drug gabapentin. TCAs have
      well-documented effects, but the use is commonly interrupted due to intolerable adverse
      effects. Gabapentin, on the other hand, is generally well tolerated in patients. Clinical
      trials have proven that gabapentin is efficacious for neuropathic pain of various origins.
      Nevertheless, monotherapy is seldom sufficient for the management of severe neuropathic pain.
      Combination therapy, e.g. of gabapentin and an analgesic with complementary mechanism of
      action, may be a rational strategy to obtain improved results at lower doses and with fewer
      side effects. Although many neuropathic pain patients receive a combination of drugs, there
      is an absence of clinical evidence for optimal drug combinations.

      Gabapentin binds to the alpha-2-delta subunit on presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels,
      which results in modulation of the release of neurotransmitters from presynaptic nerve
      terminals. Recent studies in animal models of neuropathic pain have shown that gabapentin is
      effective on supraspinal structures, to activate the descending pain inhibitory
      noradrenergic-cholinergic cascade. Thus, it might be possible to potentiate the analgesic
      effect of gabapentin by concomitant administration of a drug able to prolong the action of
      noradrenaline or acetylcholine in the synapse cleft. In this study, the adjuvant effect of
      the noradrenaline and serotonin reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine and the cholinesterase
      inhibitor donepezil will be investigated in neuropathic pain patients treated with
      gabapentin.

      The study consists of two periods. All patients are treated with gabapentin in the first
      period, and receive randomised adjuvant therapy of venlafaxine or donepezil in the second
      period. Repeated pain intensity ratings and blood samples for analysis of gabapentin plasma
      concentrations will be collected over one dosing interval of gabapentin at the end of each
      period.

      Data will be analysed by means of nonlinear mixed effect modeling. The NONMEM programme will
      be used to develop models describing the PK and the PK-PD relationship of gabapentin in
      patients with neuropathic pain. The potential effect of concomitant treatment with
      venlafaxine or donepezil will be evaluated by covariate analysis in the developed PK and
      PK-PD models of gabapentin.
    
  