
    
      Part A: Validation Study This study involves inter-professional care with rural-based
      physical therapists and urban-based rheumatologists, it will be a valuable first step to
      validate comparability of the physical examination. We shall compare physical examination
      accuracy between and within examiner disciplines. Examiners will include the three
      rheumatologist study investigators and three participating physical therapists with
      additional training in inflammatory rheumatic diseases and experienced in musculoskeletal
      assessment.

      Procedures: All examiners will undergo a standardized review of examination techniques and
      documentation prior to participating.

      Comparison groups will be:

        1. Rheumatologist A. to Rheumatologist B.

        2. Physiotherapist A. to Physiotherapist B.

        3. Rheumatologist A/B to Physiotherapist C/teleconferenced Rheumatologist C. We will use
           web-based videoconferencing software. This desktop-based solution is currently being
           piloted by Telehealth Saskatchewan and is used extensively in Ontario. This technology
           satisfies Health Information Protection Act (HIPA) as well as the Saskatchewan privacy
           and security concerns. An examining room with telehealth/videoconference equipment will
           be available for patient distance examination for comparison group C as listed above.
           The rheumatologist will be in a physically separate room with viewing equipment in a
           mock distance evaluation. The proposed study will be conducted in cooperation with the
           Canadian Centre for Health and Safety in Agriculture (CCHSA) within the ≈1350 m2
           National Agricultural-Industrial Hygiene Laboratory. Clinical visits will be conducted
           at the CCHSA.

      Part B: Randomized Controlled Rheumatoid Arthritis Care Delivery Model Trial Randomization:
      Participating patients will be randomly allocated to two arms, either to be followed by
      telehealth/videoconferencing in or near their home community or to continue traveling to
      their Saskatoon rheumatology clinic.

      Intervention: One study arm will be followed in traditional rheumatology clinic (in-person
      examining rheumatologist). The second study arm will be followed by
      telehealth/videoconferencing. Patients in the telehealth/videoconferencing arm will be
      examined by a rural-based physical therapist who will report exam findings during telehealth
      review with the urban-based rheumatologist. Follow-up visits will be every three months in
      both arms. All patients will complete standardized history/data-collection forms. Patients
      will be followed in their respective study arms for nine months, and then will be evaluated
      in-person in rheumatology clinic for final face-to-face disease activity evaluation.
    
  