
    
      Currently, type II diabetes mellitus (DM), has reached epidemic levels in the world. Risk
      stratification is paramount in patients with DM due to not all patients with DM have a
      similar cardiovascular (CV) risk. Imaging has thus taken a central role in the assessment of
      CV health and in the diagnosis, evaluation, and management of CV diseases in DM. The
      prognostic value of relative myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) using single-photon emission
      tomography (SPECT) is well established. Consistent with this data, DM patients with abnormal
      relative MPI results also have higher rates of death and non-fatal MI than those with normal
      results. However, DM patients with normal stress tests also have higher rates of cardiac
      events than non-DM counterparts with normal tests and despite that most guidelines recommend
      a systematic screening of asymptomatic high risk patients with diabetes for silent ischemia,
      real benefit of this strategy has not been demonstrated compared with optimal medical
      treatment without ischemia detection. New more sensitive noninvasive imaging to assess MPI
      abnormalities is needed.

      Coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMVD) is closely associated with coronary artery disease;
      it is an independent risk factor and predicts future coronary events or clinically manifest
      disease up to 10 years later. To date, non-invasive measurement of CMVD myocardial perfusion
      heterogeneity imaging (MPHI) by SPECT is not available into clinical practice. We developed a
      new method to study the CMVD by SPECT. In this study, we use a mathematic technique from
      entropy analysis to provide precise, objective, automated quantification of MPHI at stress
      and at rest with SPECT. We sought to assess the prognostic value of MPHI in high-risk
      diabetic patients being investigated for ischemia. Therefore, we prospectively evaluated the
      incremental prognostic value of MPHI in patients with type 2 DM during long-term follow-up.
      Coronary microvascular dysfunction is closely associated with coronary artery disease; it is
      an independent risk factor and predicts future coronary events or clinically manifest disease
      up to 10 years later.

      In this study, we use a new mathematic technique from entropy analysis to provide precise,
      objective, automated quantification of perfusion heterogeneity at stress with camera SPECT.
      This method may be a non-invasive imaging to assess coronary microvascular dysfunction.

      The main hypothesis is that the presence of myocardial perfusion heterogeneity is predictive
      of 5-year cardiovascular events in patients referred to the Nuclear Cardiology Department for
      routine evaluation of known or suspected CAD in diabetes patients with very high risk
      cardiovascular.
    
  