
    
      Strength training of a limb muscle on one side of the body produces functionally and
      clinically meaningful increases in motor output of the same muscle on the opposite side of
      the body. Such adaptations occur without muscle hypertrophy, implying a role for the
      ipsilateral motor cortex and the spinal cord in force transfer. The goal of this project is
      to determine the interhemispheric and spinal mechanisms of force transfer in healthy young
      adults. We hypothesize that the effects of unilateral practice on interhemispheric inhibition
      (IHI) and on the excitability of the contralateral corticospinal projections are linked, and
      these effects are graded according to the nature of muscle activation. In a series of
      experiments on healthy adults age 18 to 60, we will characterize the motor cortical
      inhibitory and excitatory mechanisms of interhemispheric practice-induced transfer of muscle
      force.

      We will use a longitudinal design that will include three exercise groups. In 20 sessions
      over 4 weeks, subjects will strengthen their first dorsal interosseus (FDI) muscle of the
      dominant hand either with voluntary, electrically stimulated, or imagined contractions. The
      design also includes three control groups, a sham-stimulated group, a repetitive transcranial
      magnetic stimulation (1HzTMS) group, and a no-intervention group. Before and after the
      training programs, we will determine the changes in the outcome measures, including voluntary
      and electrical stimulation evoked force of the trained and the untrained FDI. Measures of
      excitability of the involved and uninvolved motor cortex, assessed with TMS, and measures of
      spinal cord excitability, assessed with peripheral nerve stimulation, are the additional
      outcome measures. The results of these studies will substantially increase our understanding
      of central nervous system (CNS) control of voluntary movement in health and disease.
    
  