
    
      Aim of the study:

      The aim is minimize morbidity in treatment of TMJ dislocation. Hypothesis: Alternate
      hypothesis that treatment tmj dislocation with PEEK eminoplasty will be more efficient than
      using autogenous inlay technique

      PICO:

      Problem (P): patients with un pleasant painful dislocated tmj Intervention (I): eminoplasty
      with patient specific poly ether-ether ketone (PEEK) onlay implant Control Group (C):
      autogenous inlay (sandwich) eminoplasty Outcome (O): patient Satisfaction, dislocation
      treatment (normal range of mouth opening), less morbidity.

      8. Trial design: Type: Parallel, two arm, randomized clinical trial. Allocation ratio: 1:1
      Superiority framework

      III. Methods A) Participants, interventions & outcomes 9. Study settings: Diagnosis in
      outpatient clinic of Oral and Maxillofacial surgery at the faculty of dentistry, Cairo
      University, Urban area, Cairo Governorate, Egypt.

      The surgery will be in O.R rooms or in the outpatient clinic of the same faculty.

      11. Interventions

      Control Group:

      Patient preparation The operation can be performed under general anesthesia. mental nerve
      blocks will be given and infiltration for hemostasis.

      After allowing adequate time for vasoconstrictor effects to take place, the incision is
      initiated in a layered approach through the labial mucosa and is continued through the
      mentalis muscles and periosteum.

      Exposure of the symphyseal bone is undertaken using periosteal elevators and the mental
      nerves are visualized bilaterally.

      The roots of the incisors and canines should be localized and bone cuts should be made at
      least 5 mm inferior to the root apices.

      The roots of canines can impede the operation and limit the size of graft. Similarly, the
      surgeon should stay at least 5 mm away from the inferior border of the symphysis and the
      mental foramina.

      Bone cuts can be made with a bur or reciprocating saw under copious saline irrigation. When
      the desired bone cuts have been completed, thin straight or curved osteotomes are then used
      to deliver the graft Hemostasis can be achieved using resorbable hemostatic agents or fibrin
      glue. Long-lasting local anesthetic, e.g. bupivacaine, can be applied to the area to achieve
      longer analgesia.

      The wound closure is done in two layers with a resorbable suture for the muscle layer and
      fast-resorbing suture for the mucosa.

      Flexible skin tape can be used on the chin for 3-5 days to reduce swelling and prevent wound
      dehiscence.

      Layered Endural approach to TMJ making wedge in eminence by mallet & chisel (green stick
      fracture), then wedging piece of chin graft to increase the height of the eminence creating
      an obstacle to treat dislocation by manipulation of patient mandible intra operative.

        -  Functional mandibular movements were reproduced to confirm absence of subluxation and
           checked for interference and any required adjustments made.

        -  A multilayer closure of the incisions will be accomplished using Vicryl sutures (88).

      Intervention group ; CT scan will be done with the following criteria;

      bony window for facial bones, axial cuts, minimal slice thickness, minimal intervals between
      the cuts, guantry tilt equals zero and finally DICOM files on CD .then, Using cad cam
      software (mimics 15) , the virtual design and surgery will be done.

      Patient Preparation;

        -  All surgeries will be performed under general anaesthesia (naso-endotracheal intubation)

        -  Then the entire periarticular region and overlying skin will be infiltrated by 2%
           lidocaine (20 ml lidocaine + adrenalin 1%) via a 25 gauge needle as an additional
           anaesthesia.

        -  Benzyl penicillin 2 MIU in combination with dicloxacillin 1 g will be administered
           intravenously as prophylactic antibiotics.

        -  A line is drawn between the lateral eyebrow and tragus. The articular fossa and condylar
           head is located 10 mm anterior to the tragus and 2-5 mm below this line.

        -  The temporofacial branch has relatively a constant course and vector being on a line
           located 0.5 cm below the tragus of the ear, in the direction of the eyebrow and passing
           1.5 cm above the lateral eyebrow. Just anterior to the condylar head where the articular
           eminence will be identified by palpation and marked.

      The TMJ will be exposed using the endural incision line and the articular eminence will be
      identified

        -  To locate the articular eminence precisely, tissue must be exposed layer by layer until
           the articular eminence is located. Then, a tunnel will be formed using blunt dissection
           so that the front wall of the articular capsule can be exposed completely.(89-90-91 )

        -  The patient specific PEEK eminence will be inserted and secured with two to three
           pre-planed screws .

        -  Functional mandibular movements were reproduced to confirm absence of subluxation and
           checked for interference and any required adjustments made.

        -  A multilayer closure of the incisions will be accomplished using Vicryl sutures.

      For both groups masseter muscle scarification through intra oral approach will be done with
      post-operative intermaxillary fixation using ivy loops

      Post-operative instructions:

      According to Oral Maxillo-fac Surg Clin North Am (Quinn PD, 2000):

      The following postoperative protocol will be used for patients of both groups:

        -  Broad-spectrum antibiotics (penicillin V 1 g, or clindamycin 600 mg) and non-steroidal
           anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) will be prescribed for 1 week.

        -  The patients will be told to stay on a soft diet for 5 days and encouraged to resume a
           normal diet as soon as possible.

        -  Physiotherapy will start on postoperative day 1, and patients will be encouraged to
           increase the exercise program as soon as possible.

        -  Patients will be advised to continue physiotherapy for at least 1 year and possibly
           longer.

        -  Cone Beam CT (CBCT) imaging will be performed at the first follow-up visit in order to
           visualize the position of the patient specific titanium eminence, as well as the
           position of the retention screws and their relationships to the surrounding vital
           structures following surgery.

      Visit: (every month till 4 month after operation) For group I: Regular follow up with
      measuring maximum inter incisal distance with a caliper , check normal mandibular movement &
      other problems like pain ,discomfort & swelling For group II: Regular follow up with
      measuring maximum inter incisal distance with a caliper , check normal mandibular movement &
      other problems like pain ,discomfort & swelling
    
  