
    
      Background: Chronic pain in the elderly is highly prevalent, often underestimated, and
      associated with adverse outcomes. Most available analgesic drugs are often either ineffective
      or not tolerated, and burdened with many side effects. Palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) is an
      endogenous widely distributed N-acylethanolamina involved in neuroinflammation and pain
      generating processes. Formulations containing ultra-micronized Palmitoylethanolamide (um-PEA)
      are available on the market but their effectiveness on chronic pain in highly heterogeneous
      geriatric patients is not clear and likely not generalizable. Investigators planned to adopt
      the N-of-1 trial approach to objectively test the effectiveness of ultra-micronized PEA at an
      individual level in our older outpatients.

      Methods/Design: 65 years old or older persons referring to the Geriatric Unit of the
      Fondazione IRCSS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico of Milan complaining of noncancer
      chronic pain of any origin will be eligible. Each trial will be a placebo-controlled
      randomized crossover trial including two um-PEA (600 mg twice a day) and placebo treatment
      pairs. um-PEA or placebo 3-week periods will be separated by 2-week washout intervals to
      overcome the possible carryover effect. Pain intensity, need for on-demand analgesic
      medications, and impact on daily activities will be evaluated. Also, cognitively impaired
      patients will be eligible as long as the expression of pain can be recognized and its
      frequency assessed by a caregiver. Trial results will be then discussed with the
      patient/caregiver and the treating physician to decide whether to continue the treatment. The
      impact of the N-of-1 approach on the physician's management plan and confidence will be
      assessed. Investigators will secondarily meta-analyse the performed N-of-1 trials to obtain
      an estimate of the average effect of um-PEA compared with placebo using a frequentist and
      Bayesian approach.

      Discussion: While pursuing an ultimate clinical objective, i.e. to empirically and
      objectively decide the best treatment choice for an individual older patient with chronic
      pain, these series of geriatric N-of-1 trials on PEA will bring the Evidence Based Medicine
      principles into the care of patients not usually represented in conventional randomized
      controlled trials, and realize a patient-centered outcome approach necessary to improve
      appropriate prescribing in elderly patients with multimorbidity and polypharmacy.
    
  