
    
      1. Aim of the study: To see the efficacy of transarterial chemotherapy in prolonging the
      survival of patients with unresectable HCC when compared to oral chemotherapy 2. Diagnostic
      criteria

      o Cirrhosis of liver- Diagnosis will be founded on the basis of clinical, biochemical,
      imaging and endoscopy findings.

      o Hepatocellular carcinoma- when any one of the following is present

        1. Two imaging modalities (dual phase CT (DPCT)/ contrast enhanced MRI) showing
           arterialization of the hepatic mass

        2. Alpha feto protein (AFP) more than 400ng/ml along with arterialization on one imaging
           modality (DPCT/ contrast enhanced MRI)

        3. Fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC)

      3. Definitions

      3.1. Unresectable HCC- • Liver mass larger than 5cm in diameter (single/ multiple) ,
      involving main portal vein with underlying cirrhotic liver

      3.2. Tumor response This will be based on Dual phase CT findings

        -  Complete response (CR)- Tumor fully covered with lipiodol showing no viable tissue

        -  Partial response (PR)- Tumor partially covered (>75%) by lipiodol

        -  Mild response (MR)- About 50 to 75% coverage of the tumor by lipiodol

        -  No response (NR) - About 25 to 50% coverage of the tumor by lipiodol

        -  Fresh lesions (FL)- Appearance of new mass lesions in the liver with or without
           recurrence at the site of previous mass

      3.3 Patient tolerance Grade 1: no side effects Grade 2: moderate side effects Grade 3: severe
      side effects Grade 4: life threatening side effects

      3.4 Performance status (PST score) PST score of 0-5 would be assessed on the following basis
      0- No cancer related symptoms. Normal life style

        1. Minor symptoms related to cancer. Capable of non-strenuous activity. Fully ambulatory

        2. Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities.
           Confined to bed less than 50% of waking hours

        3. Capable of only limited self-care. Confined to bed more than 50% of waking hours.

        4. Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed.

        5. Death

      4. Sample Size Systematic review of RCT's for TAC show a 2-year survival of 40 %. Expecting
      that oral chemotherapy has a 2-year survival of 40% with 5% non-inferiority margin with 80%
      power and 5% error, a sample size of 124 patients in each arm would be required.(Total 248
      patients)

      5. Randomization

      • Patients will be randomized after the confirmation of diagnosis and obtaining written
      consent

        -  Sequences will be generated by the Statistician

        -  Stratified randomization will be done. Two strata of child's A and B will be made

        -  Randomization will be done by drawing consecutively numbered opaque sealed envelopes
           Randomization into A (TAC) and B (oral chemotherapy) will be done

           6. Follow up post TAC

      6.1 Clinical follow up

        -  All patients would be followed up in the Liver clinic monthly unless their clinical
           condition warrants earlier follow up

        -  Liver function tests/ complete blood count would also be done at each visit and AFP (if
           elevated earlier) every six months

        -  Patient tolerance, child's status would be estimated.

      6.2 Imaging follow up

        -  At one month, a dual phase CT would be done to ascertain the response to therapy and the
           need to repeat the procedure. Subsequently, the DPCT would be done at 3 and 6 monthly
           intervals.

           7. Repeat TAC on follow up This would be done if any of the following is noted

        -  DPCT shows viable tumor

        -  Fresh lesions appear

        -  Elevated serum AFP occurs with or without appearance of viable mass on DPCT
    
  