
    
      In the past, all pregnant patients were started on an iron supplement (in addition to that
      which is in prenatal vitamins), with the presumption that they had low or inadequate iron
      stores. That "habit" has gone by the wayside. Now, health care providers wait until a patient
      is already anemic and then start iron supplementation. In general, the first opportunity to
      determine if a patient is anemic as the pregnancy progresses comes at about 28 weeks of
      gestation when routine laboratory testing includes a Hemoglobin level. It is the author's
      hope that there is some middle ground.

      d. Specific Aims/Objectives:

      The aim of this study is to test if ferritin levels taken in early pregnancy can predict the
      development of iron deficiency anemia later in pregnancy.

      Hypothesis: Serum ferritin levels, when tested prior to 20 weeks gestation, can identify
      women who will develop iron deficiency anemia before delivery.

      e. Methods, Procedure, Sample

      Design: This is a prospective pilot study to test for anemia in a cohort of pregnant women.

      Sample:

      Participants will be recruited for participation from the Women's Medicine Center at
      Charleston Area Medical Center's Women and Children's Hospital in Charleston, WV. Enrollment
      will continue until a sufficient sample size is attained. A total of 130 obstetric patients
      will be enrolled in this pilot study with the target of a final sample size of 100 (lab work
      completed). Based on an anemia prevalence of 35% at this institution and accounting for a
      potential loss to follow up rate around 23%, study staff expect to have 35 women test
      positive for anemia (defined as Hgb < 11 g/dL). There is no published data in the literature
      regarding ferritin in the first trimester to predict anemia.

      The following inclusion/exclusion criteria will be applied:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age 15-45 years old at intake

        -  Confirmed intrauterine pregnancy by 1st trimester ultrasound

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Antepartum iron supplementation, other than prenatal vitamins

        -  Placental abruption or hemorrhage

        -  Initial visit >20 weeks gestation

        -  Diagnosis of sickle cell disease or thalassemia

        -  Diagnosed with anemia at initial prenatal visit

        -  Diagnosis of autoimmune issues that could effect iron levels

      Data Collection/Instrumentation

      Patients will be enrolled in this study through the resident and midwife clinics at the
      Women's Medicine Center. Staff from the Charleston Area Medical Center Health Education and
      Research Institute Outcomes Research will obtain consent from interested obstetric patients.
      All patients in this clinic undergo routine laboratory testing that comprises a standard
      "Prenatal Panel" following their intake prenatal visit. This includes universal screening for
      anemia. Willing participants will have a serum ferritin level added to this laboratory panel,
      which will not result in any deviation from standard care or additional phlebotomy. An amount
      of 2.5 mL aliquots of serum per study participant will be used for study analysis and will be
      stored in a -30 degree Centigrade freezer until a sample size of 130 participants is met. All
      samples will then be processed simultaneously, which will likely reduce inter-assay
      variability. 2µL of serum will be processed using SIEMENS Dimension Vista® System. The
      results will be expressed as the concentration of ferritin in ng/mL[µg/L] (9). Participants
      will not be charged any additional fee for having the serum ferritin level added to their
      laboratory panel.

      Patients in the study will continue with routine prenatal care and testing, which includes a
      repeat Complete Blood Count around 28 weeks gestation. The study will conclude once the final
      participant completes her 28 week standard lab draw. The hospital and clinic records of all
      participants will be reviewed once all patients in the study have delivered. Any
      documentation of significant antepartum blood loss, such as placental abruption or trauma,
      will exclude patients from the data analysis unless clinical anemia was documented prior to
      the event. All hemoglobin values obtained during the antepartum period will be used in the
      final data analysis. These values will come from standard outpatient laboratory testing
      ordered by healthcare providers, as well as any visits to the antepartum triage unit or
      hospital admissions. Clinical anemia will be defined based upon the World Health Organization
      definition of a hemoglobin level that is less than 11 mg/dL. The data will be used to
      determine if patients who have a low serum ferritin will go on to develop anemia at some
      point during their antenatal course.
    
  