
    
      Recognizing patient-to-patient variability, key data scarcity, and insight into traditional
      reductionist therapy, the BCG model offers exceptionally compelling opportunities to
      understand how immune system behavior in health and disease emerges from local, systemic,
      genetic, epigenetic, cellular, and environmental modulating factors.

      The application seeks to change the current clinical practice and research paradigms, by
      using new theoretical concepts, challenging bladder cancer patients with a highly effective,
      safe, and affordable immunotherapy, the gold standard in the last 40 years of NMIBC, and in
      light of new concepts and methodologies brought by the paradigm of immune-checkpoint
      inhibitors that justified the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2018.

      The current proposal has the potential to impact the prognosis and identification of those
      who are unlikely to respond to immune-checkpoint inhibitors, scenarios in which important
      unanswered questions remain, particularly as this class of agents advances along the spectrum
      of non-metastatic disease.

      In a mechanistic approach, patients diagnosed with NMIBC and with the indication for
      intravesical BCG treatment will be randomized to placebo versus a priming intradermic BCG 14
      days before the intravesical treatment and followed up to 180 days.

      The investigators will define important clinical paradigms:

        1. The role of the priming effect on the immune system and better understanding of BCG
           immunotherapy, with a clear potential for improvement of bladder cancer treatment in
           NMIBC and MIBC scenarios;

        2. The potential of BCG, a widely used vaccine, to improve or impair the results of new
           immunotherapies, given its long-lasting effect;

        3. Rational to develop future treatment associations of BCG and immune-checkpoints. \

      Under the new immunological concepts, a better understanding of tumor-associated immune
      responses in BC patients could provide more informed clinical decisions and treatment
      optimization.

      Considering the growing need of assessing the value of treatment at the expense of cost, part
      of our proposal strategy is to limit financial toxicity as an important issue in cancer
      treatment and new immunotherapies.
    
  