
    
      Medical history and Kidney transplantation This will include age at transplantation, gender,
      race, weight, height of both recipient and donor; Recipients: previous history ,BMI ,primary
      kidney disease including biopsy proven diagnosis (if present), historic dialysis，pregnancy
      history (female). Donor: the catalogue (DCD,DBD,DBCD), ECD or not，the cause of death,
      received CPR or not; zero biopsy results if done, ABO blood type match, HLA-MM, cold and warm
      ischemic time.

      Clinical data at baseline and 12months follow up period:

      Clinical assessments, laboratory, comorbidity, immunosuppressive therapy, and selected
      concomitant therapy (anti-hypertension anti-hyperlipidemics, anti-diabetics and drugs known
      to affect renal function) will be collected at transplant day（Day 0, visit 0）and 8 subsequent
      visits scheduled Day 3, Week1, Week2, Week 4，Week 12，Week 26，Week 40，Week 52 post
      transplantation. MPA-AUC, acute rejection episodes and graft loss will be collected at visits
      scheduled Day 3, Week 1，Week 2, Week 4，Week 12， Week 26(6 month)，Week 40，Week 52 (12 month)
      post transplantation. On day 3, MPA-AUC will be tested by full time sample
      (0h,0.5h,1h,2h,3h,4h,6h,8h,10h,12h post receiving MMF). LSS (0h, 0.5h, 2h post receiving MMF)
      will be used for testing MPA-AUC on other visits. PRA will be tested on week 4, week 12, week
      26, week 52. If PRA is positive, DSA will be tested following once. All the PRA and DSA MFI
      and phenotype will be collected（including the clinical-drive test）.

      Statistical analysis:

      The primary endpoint in this study is the incidence of DSA formation in 12-months
      post-transplantation in Chinese kidney transplant recipients with MMF-based IS regimen. The
      proportion and its 95% CI will be provided.

      The influential factors of DSA formation will be estimated using logistic regression
      including relevant influential factors, where the influential factors are defined as {age,
      gender of donor / recipients recipient: BMI, blood transfusion, previous AR （before DSA
      appears）, ECD , cold ischemia time, HLA-MM, Tac trough concentration, MPA-AUC, DGF,
      introduction therapy (including use or not and the drugs )}. .

      The full MPA-AUC0-12h will be calculated using the trapezoidal rule. The calculated formula
      with Limited Sample Strategy (LSS) will be established to predict the MPA-AUC0-12h in the
      Chinese patients. Correlation coefficients will be calculated and multiple stepwise
      regression analysis will be used to determine the time points and best equation for
      evaluating MPA-AUC0-12h.

      Estimates for the time-to-event variable(s), such as Overall Survival(OS), will be obtained
      by using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) approach together with associated 95% CI.

      The other secondary endpoints will be summarized descriptively depended on the variable type.
      The comparison between patients with and without DSA-positive will be performed according to
      the variable type.
    
  