
    
      A 52-week, randomized, crossover study design will be employed to examine the impact of
      financial incentives on MVPA among cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program graduates. Two
      experimental therapies, (1) online self-monitoring plus 'virtual rewards' (i.e. badges)
      (ExTrack.ca) and (2) online self-monitoring plus 'financial incentives' (ExTracker.ca), will
      be administered for six months, one after the other.

      Study participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to receive these therapies in one of two
      orders: Group A will receive ExTrack.ca (virtual rewards) for six months, followed by
      ExTracker.ca (financial incentives) for the next six months; Group B will receive the
      financial incentive condition first, and the virtual rewards condition second. While exposed
      to the incentive condition, participants will be eligible to earn financial reward per day
      exercise is tracked.

      This study design allows for the assessment of 'real world' uptake of an incentive program
      among CR patients, since both Groups A and B will be able to earn incentives. This design
      will also help determine if incentives sustain MVPA in the first six months post-CR compared
      with the virtual rewards condition. Finally, the crossover design will allow the exploration
      of incentive 'timing' - that is, figuring out if incentives more effectively sustain MVPA
      post-CR if they are offered immediately, versus six months after graduation when patient
      motivation tends to wane.

      In addition to tracking exercise sessions using the online self-monitoring tool, participants
      will be asked to record steps per day, and 10-minute MVPA bouts per day, using a StepsCount
      accelerometer. To check the accuracy of participant entries, participants will be asked to
      mail-in their accelerometers at the study mid- and end-points (26 and 52 weeks,
      respectively). Participants will also be asked to complete the Behavioural Regulation to
      Exercise Questionnaire (BREQ-3) at baseline (T1), study mid-point/crossover (T2), and study
      end-point (T3) as well as cardiopulmonary fitness assessments at T1 and T3.
    
  