
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of conducting a weight maintenance intervention, in terms of
      recruiting and retaining participants.

      II. To obtain preliminary data on the effectiveness of an intervention to prevent weight gain
      on body composition, self-efficacy, perceived stress, fatigue, depression, exercise capacity,
      and health-related quality of life (HRQL). Changes in physical activity and dietary intake
      will also be monitored.

      III. To determine if the weight control protocol requires refinement for use in a randomized
      controlled trial.

      IV. To determine how many participants opt to enroll in a short-term healthy lifestyle
      program at completion of the final testing visit.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants undergo four 30-60 minute health education sessions and 3 follow-up phone
      sessions with an interventionist trained in behavioral science, physical activity and
      nutrition, and positive psychology over 12 months.

      EDUCATION SESSION I: Participants receive information from the interventionist concerning
      healthy diet choices and exercise and begin to keep a food log.

      EDUCATION SESSION II: Interventionists review information from session I and patient food
      logs. Participants receive recommendations for exercise and set activity goals.

      EDUCATION SESSION III: Participants receive information on how to determine portion sizes and
      the importance of strength training and building lean muscle mass.

      EDUCATION SESSION IV: Interventionists review information from the previous 3 sessions and
      discuss the importance of planning and goal setting with participants. The interventionist
      also discusses physical and mental barriers to exercise.

      After completion of the education sessions, patients receive 3 phone calls at times
      convenient to the patient to answer questions about information learned in previous
      educational sessions.

      After completion of study, participants are followed up for 12 months.
    
  