
    
      This is a cross-sectional study prospectively collecting data from all patients who had their
      first Transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) prostate biopsy at the Stone and Prostate Treatment
      Center of St. Luke's Medical Center-Quezon City . Data will be collected uniformly for the
      purpose of building a clinical care prostate biopsy database. The indication for prostate
      biopsy is either a suspicious DRE findings or elevated Prostate specific antigen (PSA) level
      (>4.0ng/ml) or both. The clinical information gathered will include the 1. Identified risk
      factors (age, family history, race, Body Mass Index (BMI) - kg/cm2, prostatitis, and
      medications) 2. Clinical indicators of prostatic diseases (abnormal digital rectal
      examination, hypoechoic lesion on transrectal ultrasound), and 3. PSA (ng/ml) and its
      derivatives (age-specific PSA, PSA density, PSA velocity, Free PSA percentage). (Refer to
      Data Collection Form). Basic demographic data such as patient's height and weight will be
      measured using standard weight scale (Detecto 439 Mechanical Scale with Height rod, Webb City
      MO, USA). A urologist member of the team will perform DIgital Rectal Exam (DRE) on all
      patients before or after the TRUS. Serum free and total PSA level is measured at the
      Institute of Pathology using Siemens ADVIA Centaur Free PSA and PSA (Seimens Healthcare
      Diagnostics, USA) within a month prior to the prostate biopsy. Prior to prostate biopsy, the
      prostate will be scanned using a biplanar 7.5 Megahertz probe (GE Medical Systems Kretz
      Ultrasound, Zipf, Austria. Prostate volume is measured by a radiology technician [member of
      the staff team] of the center using the transverse and sagittal planes with the standard
      equation of measurement for prolate ellipsoid [width (w) x height (h) x length (l) x 0.523].

      All prostate biopsy will uniformly required 12 cores (extended scheme) or more prostate
      tissue strips under ultrasound guidance with Fr 18 25cm biopsy device (Bard Urological, US),
      it is performed systematically to covers lateral and medial aspects of the apex, midgland and
      base of the right and left prostate lobes. Two additional biopsies are obtained if the
      ultrasound image or DRE findings indicate suspect areas.

      All acquired specimens are placed in a formalin-filled container and sent for histopathologic
      examination. All specimens are examined by at least 2 board-certified pathologists at the
      Institute of Pathology to determine the presence of inflammation (acute/chronic prostatitis),
      other disease entity, or carcinoma (if positive for carcinoma, reading include grade using
      Gleason score, cancer length in biopsy specimen, percent of cancer involvement. All
      pathologists are blinded from the clinical indicators of the patients. An intermediate result
      is further subjected to immunohistostaining for a definitive conclusion. At least two
      pathologists are required to release the final report.

      Data collection and extraction will use the pre-tested and standardized form. All collected
      forms will be submitted to the Clinical Information Service of St. Luke's Medical Center for
      encoding and preliminary analysis of incidence and prevalence. Additional analysis will be
      sent to a third party statistician for validation and reliability check.

      Confidentiality of all data acquired will be assured. All patient record will be coded in the
      database as PIN. Patient name will not be included for encoding into the databank. Only the
      investigator team and clinical information service section of St. Luke's Medical Center will
      have access to the data set encoded. Hospital policy on safekeeping of the hospital record
      will be strictly followed and stored by Medical Record section of the medical center.
    
  