
    
      Background The pneumothorax may be defined as presence of air in the pleural cavity which
      then leads to a decrease in lung expansion, and consequently lung collapse. The pneumothorax
      occurs due to air lodged at the pleural space either between the pleural cavity and the
      alveolar between the pleural cavity and the atmosphere; or the presence of organisms that
      produce gases (1).

      The pneumothorax can be classified into spontaneous or traumatic. The spontaneous
      pneumothorax (SP) is either classified into primary SP that has no underlying lung disease;
      or secondary SP that occurs in underlying lung disease as Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Diseases (COPDs), or in conjugation with menstrual period causing catamenial pneumothorax
      (1).

      The exact pathogenesis of primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) is controversial. The
      theories beyond the pathology of PSP has includes: emphysematous like changes (ELCs) which
      cause formation and rupture of the blebs or bullae; increased pleural porosity which is an
      abnormality of the visceral pleura seen under fluorescein lighting; and inflammation of the
      distal airways which lead to fibrotic change and compensatory emphysematous bulla (2). The
      development of the previous etiologies are linked to genetic predisposition, anatomical
      abnormalities, connective tissues abnormalities, body mass index under 18.5 kg/m2, decrease
      caloric intake, and apical ischemia(3).

      In the literature there was a superiority in treatment of PSP with the Video-assisted
      thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) is in compare to thoracotomy, as it has less tissue damage, less
      postoperative pain, less hospitalization stay, better cosmetic outcome, and earlier return to
      normal daily life activities (4). The debate on the ideal preventive method of PSP recurrence
      using VATS spotlights on the main etiologies of the treatment of bleb and bullae by the
      bullectomy and the pleural abnormalities by pleurodesis(5).

      VATS with bullectomy alone is an effective method of decreasing the chance of PSP recurrence,
      while additive of mechanical pleurodesis is questionable as different studies showed variable
      results(6-8). This multicenter randomized control trial study will compare the recurrence
      rate of PSP post thoracoscopic bullectomy alone in compare with thoracoscopic bullectomy in
      addition to mechanical pleurodesis.

      Methodology Study setting This is a randomized control trial study which will be held at the
      following hospitals: King Fahad Hospital of University (KFHU), Qatif Central Hospital (QCH),
      King Fahad Specialist Hospital Dammam (KFSH), and John Hopkins Aramco Healthcare.

      The Study will include all Saudi and non-Saudi patients, male or female, age between
      16-45-year-old, diagnosed with PSP. The exclusion criteria: any patient with previous thorax
      surgery history, patient undergoing thoracotomy and patient with hemothorax.

      Sample Size In order to calculate the sample size, the recurrence rate of the Thoracoscopic
      Bullectomy and Mechanical Pleurodesis (TB+MP) was conservatively estimated to be lower than
      2%, whilst the recurrence rate of the Thoracoscopic Bullectomy (TB) group was estimated to be
      12%. To attain a study power of 80% with an alpha error of 0.05 the sample size was estimated
      to be 202. Assuming a 15% loss to follow-up rate, at least 232 subjects between groups will
      be selected.

      Randomization and Masking Computer generated randomization will be used, and to ensure random
      allocation and concealment, surgeons from the multiple centers that have been included will
      contact a central randomization service provided by a distant and blinded research fellow not
      involved in treatments upon arrival of patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria that have
      been set a priori to either the TB group or the Thoracoscopic TB+MP group.

      Surgical technique The patients will be operated under general anesthesia with ventilation of
      one lung using double-lumen endotracheal tube.

      Two or three ports thoracoscopic technique will be used to open and visualize the thoracic
      cavity. The procedure whether bullectomy alone or bullectomy with pleurodesis will be
      selected randomly preoperatively after informed consent. Wedge resection using an endoscopic
      stapler will target the bullae. In addition to the bullectomy the investigators will do
      mechanical pleurodesis according to the randomization by pleural abrasion, and consistent
      techniques for pleural abrasion the investigators will maintain with regard to the extent and
      aggressiveness of abrasion. In the mechanical pleurodesis, the mesothelial layer of the
      parietal pleura will be abraded from the cupola of the thoracic cavity apex to the 5th
      intercostal space.

      Post-operatively a traditional chest drainage system will be connected to the patient's chest
      for monitoring the air-leak and fluid drainage. The traditional chest drainage consists of
      drainage chamber, water-seal chamber, and suction control.

      Data Collection Medical records; chest x-ray or Computed Tomographic Scan (CT-scan) result;
      presenting symptoms; operative time; intraoperative blood loss; postoperative thoracic
      drainage amount, air-leakage duration, chest tube duration and pain scale score; length of
      hospital stay; and details of follow-up will be assessed by the same treating inverstigator.

      All patients will be followed-up in one week, one months, three months and six months looking
      for pneumothorax recurrence. Nevertheless, patients will be instructed to return to the
      emergency department if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath, or if symptoms are
      suggestive of pneumothorax recurrence. All recurrence cases will be confirmed by chest X-ray
      or CT-scan.

      Statistical analysis STATA Statistical Software version 15 will be used for data analysis.
      Analyses will commence with a description of the population where percentages and means along
      with their respective standard deviations will be reported. Multi-variate analyses will be
      based on the intention-to-treat principle. All tests of significance will be 2-sided. A
      comparison will be made between the two treatment groups based on the amount of drainage in
      (ml) using the hazard ratio and its respective confidence interval which will be calculated
      from a Cox proportional hazards model. All outcome measures will be adjusted for age, sex,
      smoking index, BMI, and physical activity. A p-value of less than 0.05 will be considered as
      statistically significant.
    
  