
    
      Anthracyclines are major drugs in the treatment of childhood cancers. The main factor
      limiting their use is the occurrence of delayed cardiac toxicity, irreversible, in an dilated
      form of potentially fatal cardiomyopathy. This delayed cardiotoxicity secondary to the
      destruction of myocardial cells is histologically proven after administration of the first
      dose of anthracyclines. The main known risks factors for delayed cardiotoxicity are: the
      cumulative dose of anthracyclines, young age at the time of administration, and association
      with mediastinal radiotherapy. All pediatric protocols with anthracyclines therefore provide
      a prolonged cardiac monitoring.

      However, there are no validated predictive early markers of progression to cardiomyopathy:

      i) the standard echocardiography, routine surveillance method does not detect subclinical
      myocardial injury,

      ii) the predictive value of biomarkers (ultrasensitive troponin, NT-pro-BNP) is controversial
      because of conflicting results.

      Among the echocardiographic innovative techniques, myocardial strain imaging by speckle
      tracking echocardiography analyses via a software myocardial displacement of natural acoustic
      markers, and enables rapid evaluation, precise and objective of the segmental and global
      myocardial function, expressed as a percentage (strain) and speed of myocardial deformation
      (strain rate) by reference segment and by reference dimension (longitudinal, radial,
      circumferential).

      Only four recent studies analysing the myocardic function in ST of the patients treated with
      anthracyclines in childhood (Yiu-fai, Cheung, Yu W, Poterucha) find unmatched and/or
      incomplete results, on a limited number of patients, but suggest the existence of alterations
      of the left ventricle the strain before the appearance of deteriorations of the fraction of
      ejection of the left ventricle (LVEF). None of these studies studied the strain of the right
      ventricle and none compared the data of the strain with the cardiac biomarkers.

      Primary objective

      Compare the values of echocardiographic parameters obtained by the technique of ST on
      myocardial function among patients under 18 years treated with anthracyclines in childhood,
      with healthy age and sex mached volunteers.

      Secondary objectives

      To compare conventional echocardiographic parameters and ST them in terms of deviation from
      the norm To assess the impact of known risk factors for cardiotoxicity with anthracyclines
      (cumulative dose, young age at administration, female association with mediastinal
      radiotherapy) on ultrasound parameters obtained by the technique of ST.

      To evaluate the association between biomarkers for cardiotoxicity (ultrasensitive troponin
      and NT-pro-BNP) and echocardiographic parameters obtained by the technique of ST.

      To correlate indices of Speckle Tracking methods to classical sonographic data
    
  