
    
      The hallux valgus surgery is often characterized by a significant post-operative pain
      difficult to control with oral analgesics. Consequently, large doses of parenteral opioids
      are often required Various nerve blocks (popliteal, saphenous, sciatic) can give excellent
      post-operative pain control. Among loco-regional anesthesia techniques, the sciatic nerve
      block provides good post-operative pain relief after foot surgery. Thus, sciatic nerve block
      with long-acting local anesthetics (with or without a peri-neural catheter) has been
      recommended as a primary option. This analgesic approach should cause a difficult discharge
      in ambulatory and one-day surgery patients, due to the prolonged motor recovery and loss of
      proprioception and protective pain reflexes. Therefore, it would be preferable to use the
      sciatic nerve block just for intra- operative anesthesia without affecting motor recovery,
      and to apply multimodal analgesia for post- operative pain management. Hallux valgus repair
      can now be done percutaneously, a minimally invasive technique called ''mini-invasive hallux
      valgus repair'', consisting in osteotomies through 3 to 5 mm incisions, without internal
      fixation. This approach requires less dissection and exposure, determining a smaller
      inflammatory response and theoretically causing less pain. Ideal anesthesia for these
      procedures should provide rapid patient recovery, minimal nursing care requirements in the
      post- anesthesia care unit and an earlier hospital discharge. It must provide effective
      analgesia, since the foot surgery is known to induce a moderate-to- severe post-operative
      pain, that represents one of the major limitations to hospital discharge on the day of
      surgery and is the main cause of re-admission.

      The aim of this matched-control study was to evaluate two different techniques of
      post-operative analgesia after hallux valgus correction in one-day surgery patients.
    
  