
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Neuromuscular diseases affect more than 5% of the population in Western countries. Some of
      the more rare neuromuscular disorders are patients with metabolic myopathies, which are
      hereditary disorders caused by enzymatic defects of intermediary metabolism. The disorders
      are generally subdivided in two major groups affecting either carbohydrate metabolism (the
      glycogenosis) or lipid metabolism. Patients suffer from recurrent episodes of exercise
      intolerance, muscle pain and muscle contractures/stiffness, and in severe cases
      rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of skeletal muscle fibers) and myoglobinuria. Recognition of the
      metabolic block in the metabolic myopathies has started the development of new therapeutic
      options. Enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant lysosomal acid alpha-glucosidase (rGAA)
      has revolutionized treatment of early onset Pompe's disease, glycogen storage disease (GSD)
      II.(1-3) Supplements of riboflavin, carnitine and sucrose show promise in patients with
      respectively riboflavin-responsive multiple acyl-Coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase deficiency
      (4), primary carnitine deficiency (5-7) and McArdle disease (8). However, for many of the
      glycogenosis treatment primarily relies on avoiding precipitating factors, and dietary
      supplements that bypass the metabolic block.(9) Only a few of the used supplements are
      validated, and further studies are needed to define efficacious treatments.

      A promising product for treatment of glycogenosis is Triheptanoin. Triheptanoin provides
      patients with medium-length, odd-chain fatty acids that are metabolized into ketones, which
      replace deficient intermediates in the Tricaboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, thus supporting glucose
      production through gluconeogenesis, resulting in a lower turnover of glycogen.(10)
      Triheptanoin has primarily been used in lipid metabolism disorders, where it has shown a
      remarkable improvement of cardiac and muscular symptoms in three children with VLCAD
      deficiency and in seven patients with Carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT) II deficiency
      after dietary Triheptanoin supplementation.(10,11)

      Metabolic studies in patients with the glycogenosis McArdle disease and Debrancher deficiency
      has showed that these disorders are associated with an energy deficit caused by reduced
      skeletal muscle oxidation of carbohydrates and a compensatory increase in fatty acid
      oxidation. Despite increasing availability of free fatty acid (FFA) during exercise, fatty
      acid oxidation (FAO) is not increased further, even though the energy deficit is
      maintained.(12,13)

      McArdle disease is one of the largest and most investigated groups of the muscle
      glycogenosis, caused by mutations in the myophosphorylase gene (PYGM) on chromosome 11 that
      encodes muscle glycogen phosphorylase.(14). It is know that TCA cycle intermediates are low
      during exercise in patients with McArdle disease, and most likely the impaired FAO relates to
      a slowing of the TCA-cycle by limited supply from glycolysis.(15) Triheptanoin, most likely
      can correct the suspected shortage of anaplerotic intermediates to spark the TCA-cycle in
      patients with glycogenosis as well, and studies are ongoing in patients with McArdle disease
      at our research unit Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center. Clinical-Trials.gov Identifier:
      NCT02432768.

      Other glycogenoses as Debrancher deficiency, Phosphofructokinase deficiency and Glycogenin 1
      deficiency, all involved in either glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis might benefit from
      Triheptanoin treatment.

      Glycogen storage disease III (GSD III) also known as Debrancher deficiency or Cori-Forbes
      disease is caused by deficient activity of glycogen debranching enzyme (GDE) due to mutations
      in the AGL gene on chromosome 1p21. (16) More than 20 different disease-causing mutations
      have been identified in this gene.(17) Debranching enzyme is required for complete hydrolysis
      of glycogen and GSD III is associated with an accumulation of abnormal glycogen with short
      outer chains.(18) Four subtypes are described:

        1. Type IIIa (the most common) that affects enzymes in the liver and the skeletal and
           cardiac muscle.

        2. Type IIIb (about 15% of patients) involves only the liver enzyme.

        3. Type IIIc (rare) with a selective loss of only one of the two GDE activities affecting
           muscle.

        4. Type IIId (rare) with loss of the transferase affecting muscle and liver (19) Dominant
           features during infancy and childhood are hepatomegaly, hypoglycaemia, hyperlipidaemia,
           and growth retardation.(16) Muscle weakness (myopathy) and wasting typically present in
           the third decade. Weakness can be both proximal and distal. Electromyography (EMG) and
           muscle histology show myopathic changes and large glycogen deposits in the muscle.(20)
           Treatment is symptomatic. GSD III is associated with fixed skeletal muscle weakness and
           some patients have exercise-related dynamic symptoms, most likely caused by a reduced
           skeletal muscle oxidation of carbohydrates and a compensatory increase in fatty acid
           oxidation.(13,21) Phosphofructokinase deficiency (GSD VII) is another glycogenosis
           inherited in an autosomal recessive manner causing a defect in the rate-limiting enzyme
           of glycolysis, phosphofructokinase (PFK).(22) The defect results in a complete block in
           muscle glycolysis and glycogenolysis. Clinical features are exercise intolerance,
           myopathy and muscle contractures that can lead to myoglobinuria. The exercise
           intolerance is due to a severely restricted oxidative metabolism. An increase in blood
           glucose will actually decrease exercise tolerance in GSD VII contrary to GSD IIIa where
           it has an increasing effect. Therefore, the GSD VII subjects depend on the availability
           of blood borne fuels such as free fatty acids and ketones seen during fasting. (23)
           Glycogenin-1(GYG1) deficiency (GSD XV) (OMIM #613507) is an inborn error of glycogen
           synthesis caused by mutations in the GYG1 gene. GYG1 works as the initial building block
           in the biosynthesis of glycogen in skeletal muscle. It is a glycosyl-transferase that
           uses UDP-glucose as substrate for autoglycosylation, forming an oligosaccharide by the
           process of UDP-alpha-D-glucose + glycogenin -> UDP + alpha-D-glucosylglycogenin.(24)
           GYG1 deficiency is inherited autosomal recessively, and is the most recently discovered
           muscle glycogenosis.

      Most patients present with a slowly progressive adult-onset myopathy with a variable clinical
      presentation.(25) Some adult patients also report exercise intolerance.(26-28) Metabolic
      studies show that patients with GYG1 deficiency, not only have abnormal formation of
      glycogen, but also have impaired muscle glycogenolysis, as suggested by impaired lactate
      production during exercise and improved exercise tolerance with glucose infusion; results are
      accepted for publication in Neurology.

      At present, there is only 1 known patient with Debrancher deficiency, no patients with PFK
      deficiency and two patients with GYG1 deficiency in Denmark. Therefore the study will aim to
      include patients from abroad. Patients will fly in for studies in Copenhagen, as the
      investigators have done many times before.(12,29-31)

      Based on observation from Roe et al. and Mochel et al. the first effects of Triheptanoin
      appears within 48 hrs of treatment. Furthermore, based on these observations the treatment
      period will consist of a week of dosage escalation to avoid potential gastro-intestinal side
      effects.(10,11,32-34) Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that 14 days of treatment with
      Triheptanoin oil will improve exercise tolerance, indicated by heart rate, and fatty acid
      oxidation during steady state cycling exercise using indirect calorimetry and stable isotope
      technique in patients with the glycogenosis Debrancher deficiency, PFK deficiency and GYG1
      deficiency.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT:

      UX007 (Triheptanoin) is an artificially made oil of a triglyceride of three 7-carbon fatty
      acid chains (heptanoate) that can be used in the treatment of patients with several types of
      inborn errors of metabolism associated with an impaired functioning of the
      TCA.(10,11,32-34)(See Investigator's Brochure). UX007 (Triheptanoin) is a liquid, intended
      for PO administration. UX007 is a colorless to yellow oil supplied in 1 L round amber-colored
      glass bottles. UX007 is manufactured, packaged, and labeled according to Good Manufacturing
      Procedure (GMP) regulations.

      Processes that replenish the stores of TCA-intermediates are called anaplerosis. Metabolism
      of odd-numbered carbon fatty acids such as Triheptanoin provides anaplerotic substrates
      through ketone body production in the liver and beta-oxidation in peripheral tissues, which
      forms propionyl- and acetyl-CoA that both enter the TCA-cycle.(32-35) The effect of the
      UX007-intake will be compared to intake of a placebo substance. Placebo will consist of
      safflower oil and will match the appearance of UX007, which is orally administered in the
      same manner as UX007.
    
  