
    
      If you are willing to participate in this research study, you will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests and procedures to confirm that you are eligible. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out
      that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or
      procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures will
      include a medical history, routine physical exam, performance status, assessment of your
      tumor, routine blood tests, a blood sample to check your kidney function and a serum or urine
      pregnancy test if applicable. If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the
      research study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility
      criteria, you will not be able to participate in this research study.

      There are two phases to this study. Phase I involves FOLFIRINOX and Losartan. The treatment
      plant will begin with 8 cycles of FOLFIRINOX. Each cycle is 14 days, or 2 weeks long.
      FOLFIRINOX is comprised of four drugs: Oxaliplatin, irinotecan, fluorouracil and leucovorin.
      On Day 1 of each 14 day cycle, you will receive oxaliplatin via IV infusion over a period of
      2 hours. Irinotecan will be administered via IV infusion on Day 1 of each cycle over a period
      of 90 minutes.

      You will receive fluorouracil (5FU) on Day 1 of each cycle via IV infusion over a period of
      2-4 minutes. You will then be fitted with an ambulatory infusion pump that will be delivered
      continuously over 46-48 hours.

      In addition to these infusions, FOLFIRINOX will always be administered along with a two hours
      IV infusion of leucovorin, a drug composed of reduced folic acid, which helps enhance the
      effects of chemotherapy. You will be give leucovorin through a vein in your arm for 2 hours a
      day on Day 1 of each cycle.

      You will also receive an injection of Neulasta after each FOLFIRINOX treatment. Neulasta is
      used to reduce the chance of infection from chemotherapy by boosting your white blood cell
      count. It will be administered 24-48 hours after your FOLFIRINOX infusion (on Day 3 or 4).

      You will take one dose of Losartan by mouth every day during Phase I for all 8 cycles of
      FOLFIRINOX. If the dose of Losartan given to you during the first week does not give you any
      serious side effects, your dose will be increased once for the remainder of Phase I. We have
      provided a drug diary for you with instructions on how to take this tablet and what to do
      incase of any missed or vomited doses. We will monitor your response to treatment with a
      chest/abdominal CT after four cycles of FOLFIRINOX therapy (8 weeks).

      Phase II involves Restaging/Proton Beam Radiation Therapy and Capecitabine. At this time your
      study doctor will assess for any progress in your cancer after the FOLFIRINOX + Losartan
      treatment again via CT scan. If your cancer has progressed, you will be removed from the
      study and continue with standard of care treatment. If it has not progressed, you will
      continue to the proton radiation therapy and capecitabine phase of the study.

      During this phase you will receive proton beam radiation therapy at the Francis H. Burr
      Proton Therapy center for 1 week, Monday through Friday. Each visit is expected to take 30-45
      minutes.

      During the week of proton radiation therapy and for the week after, you will take
      capecitabine by mouth on Monday through Friday, for a total of ten days. You will be given a
      drug diary with instructions on how to take capecitabine and what to do in case of a missed
      or vomited dose.

      You will receive the following tests and procedures at various time points during both
      portions of the study. These tests and procedures will include: routine blood tests, blood
      sample to check kidney function, CA19-9 and CEA blood tests, Chest CT/Abdominal-Pelvic CT,
      assessment for side effects, vital signs, performance status, routine physical exam and blood
      pressure monitoring.

      After the final dose of study drug you will come into the clinic for follow-up visits for
      some assessments every 3 months until your cancer progresses. You will undergo the following
      tests: routine physical exam, vital signs, performance status, routine blood tests,
      assessment for side effects. In addition you are required to have a chest and
      abdominal/pelvic CT every 6 months for the first two years, and yearly for years 3-5. We
      would like to keep track of your medical condition for the rest of your life. We would like
      to do this by calling you on the telephone once a year to see how you are doing. Keeping in
      touch with you and checking on your condition every year helps us look at the long term
      effects of the research study.
    
  