
    
      The investigators will examine the training effects in the elderly by comparing the
      behavioral and EEG measures before and after training. The investigators will include 20
      young participants and use their baseline as target performance for training in the elderly.
      40 elderly participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two training groups and will
      be asked to undergo 5 days of active or passive training (see Table 1). Upon each day of
      training, the temporal order judgment (TOJ) task will be given pre- and post-training.
      Additionally, prior to the first day of training and at the end of the 5-day training,
      participants will perform the audiovisual temporal recalibration testing, auditory and visual
      TOJ tasks, as well as the EEG recording. Follow-up behavioral and EEG assessments will be
      carried out 7 days after training to examine the persistence of training effects. Changes in
      the multisensory temporal binding window induced by active training are shown to be stable
      for at least one week in young adults.

      Stimulus presentation. Visual and auditory stimuli will be generated using MATLAB and the
      psychophysics toolbox. In behavioral and EEG experiments, visual and auditory stimuli will be
      delivered via Display++ system and an AudioFile stimulus processor, respectively (Cambridge
      Research Systems). The use of these two devices allows for precise control of stimulus
      timing.

      Active training. The investigators will use adaptive training tailored to each individual's
      thresholds. Specifically, a two-alternative forced-choice TOJ task will be used, where
      participants will be presented with an auditory beep (1000 Hz pure tone presented at 75 dB)
      and a visual flash (a white circle presented on grey background) with varying stimulus onset
      asynchronies (SOAs) and will be asked to judge the temporal order of the stimulus pair. On
      each training day, the investigators will establish the range of SOAs for individuals based
      on their thresholds determined from the pre-training TOJ assessment given on the same day.
      The maximum SOA will be 0.2 log units greater than their estimated threshold and will be used
      for both visual leading (positive SOA) and auditory leading (negative SOA) stimuli.
      Participants will be exposed to a total of 160 trials in the training phase (8 SOAs x 20
      repetitions). Feedback will be provided after each response.

      Passive training. To control for pure practice or exposure effects, a second group of elderly
      participants will undergo passive training. Participants will be exposed to an auditory beep
      (1000 Hz) and a visual flash (a white circle) with varying SOAs, similarly as in the active
      training group. The maximum SOA for each individual will be likewise determined by his or her
      threshold from the TOJ assessment. However the participants will not be asked to perform the
      TOJ task and no feedback will be provided. Instead, participants will perform an oddball task
      in which they are asked to detect a dark grey circle or a high pitch beep (1500 Hz) that
      occurs less frequently than the standard stimuli (i.e., a white circle or a 1000 Hz beep).
      Having an oddball task in both auditory and visual modalities will ensure that participant's
      attention is divided between the two modalities as required in the active training task 16.
      There will be a total of 160 trials in the training phase (8 SOAs x 20 repetitions).

      Behavioral assessment before and after training. The investigators will carry out a series of
      behavioral studies to measure training effects on multisensory and unisensory temporal
      functions using tasks such as the precision in TOJ and the temporal recalibration.

      EEG assessment before and after training. The investigators will carry out a series of EEG
      studies to measure training effects on electrophysiological measures such as ERP amplitude
      during audiovisual temporal tasks.
    
  