
    
      Our overall objective is to improve patient satisfaction with nasogastric (NG) tube placement
      (placement of a flexible tube through the nose into the stomach) in the emergency department.
      Placement of an NG tube into the stomach is often performed in the emergency department (ED)
      setting to evacuate air, blood, or other contents. Generally performed by nursing staff at
      the bedside in the emergency department, the procedure may produce significant pain and
      discomfort for the patient despite typical measures including local medications to constrict
      and numb the nasal mucosa. In one questionnaire of emergency department patients at a large
      university hospital, placement of an NG tube was reported to be the most painful procedure,
      ahead of fracture reduction, abscess drainage, and urethral catheterization (Singer et al.
      1999). The typical medication used for placement of an NG tube placement is administration of
      local, topical medications; the use of intravenous drugs to improve patient tolerance of the
      procedure varies widely in clinical practice (Juhl and Conners 2005). Midazolam (Versed) is
      an FDA-approved agent for procedural sedation, which has been used frequently at this
      institution for the placement of NG tubes in the emergency department. In our experience, it
      facilitates placement by relaxing muscles, thereby decreasing gag, and its anxiolytic and
      amnestic properties improve patient satisfaction. However, there are no published studies of
      midazolam for NG tube placement in the ED or any other setting.

      The investigators will perform a randomized controlled trial to determine if a single 2mg
      unit midazolam dose administered intravenously decreases discomfort for patients undergoing
      nasogastric tube placement in the emergency department. Adult emergency department patients
      who require NG tubes will be screened and following informed consent they will be randomly
      assigned to receive either midazolam or saline control. Medications are provided by pharmacy.
      Registered nurses will perform the placement and administer medications; researcher, nurse
      and subject will be blinded to the treatment arm. Following the procedure, subjects will be
      asked to assess their level of discomfort and complete a brief researcher-assisted
      questionnaire about their experience. The nurse will also complete a questionnaire that
      addresses the difficulty of the procedure, level of success, and occurrence of unanticipated
      problems or adverse events. This study may provide support for a clinical practice to improve
      care for patients requiring NG tube placement in the ED.
    
  