
    
      Initial descriptions of the COVID-19 pandemic have focused on its acute severe
      manifestations. After several months, data have emerged about the mild disease and Post-COVID
      syndrome. The diminished senses of smell (or hyposmia/anosmia) and taste (or
      hypogeusia/ageusia) have been commonly reported in the pandemic. Hyposmia/anosmia and
      hypogeusia/ageusia have also been reported with previous coronaviruses. In late March, the
      professional society of Ear, Nose, and Throat (ENT) in the United Kingdom (UK) published an
      advisory on evidence from South Korea, China, and Italy that signiﬁcant number of COVID-19
      positive patients also lost smell and/or taste. Based also on several other reports which
      reported that 66-88% of patients have lost smell and/or taste due to COVID-19 infection, the
      American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery and World Health Organization (WHO)
      have added anosmia and ageusia to the list of symptoms of COVID-19. The prognosis of such
      deficits seems variable. Some reported recovery within few weeks; while many reported
      persistence of deficits for several months or even more than a year after the onset of the
      condition. Furthermore, some patients developed respiratory symptoms later after anosmia
      while others remained asymptomatic. The exact mechanisms for these deficits are still under
      research. In animal models, the investigators found that coronaviruses could impair the
      olfactory neuroepithelium through the expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme type 2
      (ACE2) in the sustentacular cells or damage the receptors. Treatment trials of post-COVID
      anosmia included the application of nasal corticosteroids, regular snifﬁng of different odors
      and strong scents, and treatment with antioxidants and vitamins. However, none was
      therapeutically effective. Previous preclinical and clinical studies have shown that
      treatment with neurotrophic polypeptides can promote neurological recovery for many
      neurodegenerative and acquired nervous system diseases. As the olfactory neurons are capable
      of regeneration, the researchers propose that treating patients with prolonged post-COVID
      anosmia or ageusia with cerebrolysin, a drug of neurotrophic and neuroprotective properties
      may promote recovery of olfactory and gustatory dysfunctions. Cerebrolysin is a mixture of
      peptides purified from pig brains, including (and not limited to) brain-derived neurotrophic
      factor (BDNF), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF),
      and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF).
    
  