
    
      The endometrium is the tissue that lines the inside of the uterine cavity and whose function
      is to enable implantation of the embryo at the right moment. When implantation of the embryo
      does not occur, the endometrium is partially destroyed and menstruation takes place,
      producing a new generation of tissue in the next menstrual cycle. It is therefore a high
      dynamic tissue undergoing changes of growth, differentiation and shedding every 28 days
      during 400-500 cycles during a woman's reproductive lifetime. This level of tissue
      regeneration is comparable to other tissues with high cellular turnover, such as epidermis,
      gut epithelium and bone marrow. This highly regenerative self-renewal capacity of the
      endometrium seems to be regulated by stem cells. An increased number of studies about
      endometrium-derived stem cells have been published in the last years. Furthermore, bone
      marrow-derived stem cells (BMDSCs) have been shown to contribute to the repair and
      regeneration of tissues and organs, including human and murine endometrium.

      Asherman's Syndrome (AS) is characterized by intrauterine adhesions and is associated with
      infertility due to loss of normal endometrium. Hysteroscopy is the gold standard of methods
      for diagnosis of these intrauterine adhesions. However, it has certain potential
      complications such as uterine perforation and the possibility of adhesion recurrence in
      moderate and severe cases.

      Therefore, stem cell therapy targeting the endometrium with the aim of replacing the damaged
      tissue, offers a promising approach for treating AS and Endometrial atrophy (EA). In a pilot
      trial, our research group demonstrated, for the first time, that CD133+ BMDSC autologous cell
      therapy may be useful in treating patients with AS and EA and a wish to conceive. These cells
      are capable of inducing proliferation of the neighbouring endometrial cells in the damaged
      endometrium. Given these results, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the
      designation of orphan drug (ODD) to the investigational product IGX1 (treatment with
      autologous CD133+ stem cells) for the experimental treatment of Asherman's Syndrome
      (EMA/OD/313/16).

      Based on these previous facts, a phase I/II clinical trial "ENTIRE" (code IGX1-ENT-XS-16-01
      and European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials -EudraCT- number
      2016-003975-23) was designed.

      In order to study relevant effects of stem cell therapy in AS and respond to the
      clarifications requested by the AEMPs (Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos
      Sanitarios), the main objective of the present study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability,
      as well as the biodistribution, expression and cellular characterization of IGX1 (CD133+
      cells selected after mobilization and collection of peripheral blood progenitor cells - CPSP)
      in a murine model with Asherman-induced Syndrome (preclinical study). In addition, other
      possible endothelial and blood markers of this cellular subpopulation will be characterized
      by flow cytometry, as well as the viability and potency of these cells.
    
  