
    
      Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) is a rare, genetic disorder caused by impaired stimulatory G
      protein (Gsα) signaling through downregulation of the gene, GNAS. The resultant hormone
      abnormalities can be treated with hormone replacement therapy, but other aspects of the
      disorder such as early-onset obesity and premature epiphyseal closure are without effective
      treatment options. Gsα signaling is essential for the normal hormonal function of the
      pituitary, thyroid, gonads, renal proximal tubules and hypothalamus. While many of the
      resulting hormone deficiencies can be treated with hormone replacement therapy (HRT), HRT is
      not an effective therapy for the severe early-onset obesity and short stature which are major
      features of the PHP phenotype. Therefore, the goal of this proposal is to test the efficacy
      of upstream therapy aimed at correcting the function of two Gsα-dependent receptors
      responsible for the obesity (melanocortin-4 receptor, MC4R) and short stature (parathyroid
      hormone, PTH, receptor) phenotype in children with PHP. Gsα-coupled receptor signaling
      cascade begins with an increase in cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) which is rapidly
      degraded by the enzyme phosphodiesterase (PDE). PDE inhibitors act by prolonging cAMP
      signaling by decreasing the rate of degradation. Given that patients with PHP have reduced,
      but not completely absent, cAMP production, the investigators seek to test the hypothesis
      that the PDE inhibitor theophylline will reduce BMI, glucose intolerance, and hormone
      resistance in children and young adults with PHP through improved Gsα-coupled receptor
      signaling. The investigators will conduct a 52-week randomized, placebo controlled clinical
      trial of theophylline in children and young adults with PHP. Theophylline is a non-selective
      PDE inhibitor that is generically available and has a long history of use in pediatric
      patients, making it an ideal drug for re-purposing in youth with PHP. Furthermore, the
      pharmacokinetics of theophylline are well understood and serum drug levels are easily
      measured. The investigators primary outcome is change in body mass index. Secondary outcome
      measures include change in glucose tolerance and HRT dose. Anticipating a 10% dropout rate,
      the investigators will enroll 34 patients and expect that 30 patients will complete the
      study.
    
  