
    
      Hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage (HICH) is a type of stroke that is caused by
      hypertension-induced intracranial arterial, venous, and capillary ruptures. In recent years,
      the incidence of HICH has become higher, which has exposed society greatly to heavy social
      and economic burdens. Therefore it is necessary to find therapeutic strategies. ICH causes
      primary white matter injury by direct mechanical compression and hematoma expansion, and then
      it induces secondary injury through toxic product from the blood out of the vessel. The
      inﬂammatory response that follows ICH also contributes to the white matter injury.
      Additionally, post-ICH complications that include cortical thinning, cerebral edema, and
      hydrocephalus further aggravate the subcortical white matter damage.

      The complex injury mechanisms that follow ICH implies that a multi-target neuroprotective
      agent might be able to achieve better neuroprotective eﬀects than current single-agent
      neuroprotective therapies.

      Cattle encephalon glycoside and ignotin Cattle encephalon glycoside and ignotin (CEGI)
      injection (drug approval H22025046; Jilin Sihuan Pharmaceutical Co. LTD., Jilin, People's
      Republic of China) is a multi-target neuroprotective agent that includes polypeptides,
      various gangliosides, free amino acids and nucleic acids, which were extracted from muscle
      tissue of healthy rabbits and cattle brain gangliosides, and was approved by the Chinese Food
      and Drug Administration in 2011, commonly used as neuroprotectant in the treatment of central
      and peripheral nerve injuries in China.

      It has been proven by basic research that CEGI treatment significantly alleviated the
      neurobehavioral dysfunction, promoted hematoma absorption, effectively up-regulated MBP/MAP-2
      expression, and ameliorated white matter fiber damage [1]. CEGI was frequently used in the
      treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage, yet there is still a lack of high quality study to
      demonstrate its clinical efficacy. To achieve more clinical evidence of CEGI in treatment of
      Hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage, we designed this study to further evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of CEGI in the treatment of Hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage.
    
  