
    
      In the United States, 50,000 patients with carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning are admitted to the
      hospital emergency departments annually, resulting in 1,500 deaths. CO poisoning can have
      serious neurologic sequelae. Immediate treatment, within 24 h after poisoning, is a
      reasonable recommendation for patients with CO poisoning. Most physicians do not treat with
      hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO2) 24 h after CO poisoning.

      Weaver et al. conducted a double-blind randomized control trial (RCT) satisfying all
      Consolidated Standards for the Reporting of Trials guidelines, which showed that HBO2
      significantly reduced the rate of cognitive sequelae than normobaric oxygen therapy (NBO2) 6
      weeks and 12 months post-treatment in patients with acute symptomatic CO poisoning. Although
      the aforementioned study used a maximum poisoning-to-HBO2 interval of 24 h in the inclusion
      criteria, more than 60% of enrolled patients were treated with HBO2 in less than 6 h after CO
      poisoning and the mean poisoning-to-HBO2 time was 5.8 h. In addition, in a subgroup with
      poisoning-to-HBO2 interval > 6 h, the mean interval was 8.6 h. Therefore, their study results
      were actually powered to determine the benefit of HBO2 within 6 h post-CO poisoning; hence,
      it is unknown whether HBO2 reduces the neurocognitive sequelae occurrence rate if performed
      beyond 6-12 h from CO poisoning.

      Currently, there is no consensus on a CO poisoning-to-HBO2 interval that would not be
      beneficial. Therefore, the investigators aimed to evaluate the difference in therapeutic
      effect depending on the poisoning-to-HBO2 interval after CO exposure in patients with acute
      CO poisoning who received HBO2 within 24 h. The investigators compared the neurocognitive
      outcomes of patients according to HBO2 time intervals based on the outcomes of patients
      treated within 6 h (control group) with propensity score matching to make tight adjustments
      to significant differences in patient baseline characteristics using the CO poisoning
      registry of our hospital.

      The investigators classified the patients included in the study into two groups: an early
      group (≤ 6 h, control group) and a late group (6-24 h, case group), based on the time from
      patient rescue from CO source to the start of the first HBO2 session. In addition, patients
      who received HBO2 at 6-24 h were divided into case 1 group (> 6 h and ≤ 12 h) and case 2
      group (≥ 12 h and ≤ 24 h), and outcomes were compared with those of patients who received
      HBO2 within 6 h from CO exposure. Moreover, the investigators classified poisoning severity
      based on the necessity for intubation; mildly and severely poisoned patients were defined as
      those not requiring and requiring intubation, respectively
    
  