
    
      The aim of the study is to evaluate ridge width gain in patients with narrow alveolar ridges
      following osseodensification as compared to ridge splitting with simultaneous implant
      placement using CBCT.

      Interventions:

      I. Pre-operative phase:

      Clinical Examination:

        1. Visual examination, palpation and inspection of the entire oral and Para-oral tissues.

        2. Preoperative alginate impressions for both the maxillary and the mandibular Ridges.

        3. Full mouth scaling and root planing, followed by oral hygiene instructions.

        4. The Bucco-Lingual/Palatal alveolar ridge width measurement at site of interest using a
           bone caliper.

        5. Study casts will be made in order to properly evaluate the inter-arch space, occlusion
           type and direction of forces in regard to the site of the future implant.

      Radiographic Examination:

        1. A panoramic radiograph for screening purposes:

             -  Estimating the residual bone height.

             -  Verify the absence of any pathology in the bone.

        2. Cone beam computed Tomography (CBCT) for Diagnostic purposes:

             -  Detect the Bucco-lingual/palatal alveolar ridge width and height at the site of
                interest.

             -  Detect approximation to any anatomical boundaries (e.g.mental foramen, maxillary
                sinus floor.)

             -  Detect bone type.

      II. Surgical phase:

      All procedures will be done under strictly aseptic conditions

        1. Patients will be anesthetized at the surgical site by the appropriate method using
           Articaine Hydrochloride 4%.

        2. At the site a horizontal incision will be created, extending the entire length of the
           edentulous area, extending one tooth mesial and distal. Anterior and/or posterior
           vertical releasing incision will be made as needed.

        3. Full thickness mucoperiosteal flap will be raised with complete exposure of the alveolar
           bone.

        4. Bone width will be reconfirmed intrasurgically using a bone caliper. Measurements will
           be taken at around 1 mm below the crestal margin, to the nearest 0.5mm. Alveolar ridge
           width measurements will be repeated at second stage surgery.

        5. A.For the intervention:

             1. Drilling of bone will commence using the Pilot Drill to the desired depth (Drill
                speed 800-1500 rpm with copious irrigation).

             2. Osseodensification drilling will begin with the narrowest Densah Bur.
                (Counterclockwise drill speed 800-1500 rpm with copious irrigation). If when
                running the bur into the osteotomy a feeling of haptic feedback of pushing up and
                out of the osteotomy, repetitively lifting off and reapplying pressure with a
                pumping motion will be applied until the desired depth is reached.

             3. Densah Burs will be used sequentially in small increments. As the bur diameter
                increases, the bone will slowly expand to the final diameter.

             4. The osteotomy final preparation diameter would be an average diameter that measures
                0.5-0.8 mm smaller than the implant average diameter in soft bone, and In hard
                bone, diameter that measures 0.2-0.5 mm smaller than the implant average diameter.

             5. Implant placement using the drill motor initially, then Finishing placement of the
                implant to depth with a torque-indicating wrench.

             6. If < 1mm of buccal bone thickness has resulted after osseodensification, bone
                grafting post implant placement and complete implant coverage will be considered

      5.B.For the control:

        1. A bone crestal incision will be created, using the piezo-electric surgical tips. The cut
           will be done through the cortical bone to reach the trabecular bone.

        2. One/two vertical cuts will be created by piezo-drill as needed connecting, to the
           crestal cut.

        3. Conventional Drills will be used for osteotomy preparation by wedging it between the two
           plates of bone.

        4. The implant with the proper length and diameter will be gradually engaged to separate
           the buccal and Lingual/palatal bone until full seating is achieved.

           6. Cover screws will be placed on the implants. 7.Closure of the flap will be done by
           interrupted sutures using 4-0 resorbable suture materials.

           III. Post-operative phase:

           Post-operative instructions and medication:

           Patient is recommended to:

             1. Maintain a soft diet to avoid trauma to the surgical site.

             2. Place a cold compress superficially on the skin overlying the surgical site
                immediately. Apply for 30 minutes, then off for 20-30 minutes. This should be done
                on a near continuous basis (or as much as possible) for the first 48 hours.

             3. Maintain Oral hygiene but avoid surgical site for the first 4 days after surgery.

             4. Medications (Ferrigno et al. 2005)( Garcez-Filho et al.2015) • Augmentin* (1g
                tablets) will be prescribed twice daily for 5 days to avoid possibility of
                infection.

                • Ibuprofen** 600mg four times daily for one week.

                • Voltarene*** (75 mg injection I.M.) will be used in case of severe pain, as a
                rescue.

                • Hexitol**** 0.12% chlorhexidine mouth rinse for 2 weeks.

             5. Sutures will be removed after 2 weeks

             6. Final restoration will be completed after 6 months

                  -  Augmentin 1g. Medical union pharmaceuticals co. Abu Sultan, Ismailia, Egypt.
                     **BRUFEN 600 (Ibuprofen 600 mg). Kahira Pharm. & Chem. Ind. Co., Under licence
                     from: Abbott Laboratories.

                       -  Voltarene® 75mg/3ml (IM). Diclofenac natrium. NOVARTIS PHARMA. S.A.E.

                            -  Hexitol Chlorhexidine Hcl 125 mg / 100 ml. Arab Drug Company (ADCO).
    
  