
    
      Wound complications are common in general surgical patients after laparotomy. The rate of
      Surgical Site Infections after elective surgery ranges between 3-30%, depending of the study.

      There are subgroups of patients with co-morbid conditions that put them at high risk of wound
      complications. These co-morbid conditions include increase BMI, known malignancy, diabetes
      mellitus, emergency surgery, malnutrition, smoking and diffuse atherosclerotic disease
      involving arteries. Management of these complicated wounds are a significant source of
      psychological trauma to patients and significantly increases hospital stay and cost.

      Since its introduction, Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT) has been used mainly to deal
      with chronic wounds. Mechanism of action of NPWT includes protection of wound bed, splinting
      of soft tissues, reduction of oedema, increasing blood perfusion of wound and enhancing
      granulation tissue. Application of Negative Pressure Wound Therapy to prevent wound
      complications is a new concept, which has been successfully applied in acute wounds in
      orthopaedics, gynecological and cardiothoracic surgery patients.

      There is limited data about the use of Negative Pressure Wound Therapy in high risk general
      surgical patients with acute wounds, but available studies suggest significant reduction in
      wound complication rate and hospital costs. There is a need for a randomised controlled study
      to assess the reduction of wound complication ratio.

      Patient will be randomized to two groups:

      Group 1. Standard wound treatment, Group 2. Treatment with negative pressure wound therapy
      (NPWT). If a patient is randomized to standard wound treatment group - he/she will receive
      standard skin closure and standard Mepore dressing, which will be changed on a daily basis.

      Patients randomized to negative pressure group will received negative pressure dressing (Pico
      Wound Management System - manufacture by Smith & Nephew) associated with Acticoat Flex
      dressing which will be applied immediately after skin closure in a conventional way and left
      in place for 7 days. Negative pressure dressing will be changed once during 7 days period -
      after day 2 to 4. Wound complications within first 30 days of surgery will be recorded on
      clinical examination.

      Participants will be recruited from patients undergoing elective and emergency surgery in
      Connolly Hospital, Beaumont Hospital, St Vincent University Hospital and Mater Misericordiae
      University Hospital based on inclusion or exclusion criteria.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. One from below:

             -  High BMI

             -  Malignancy

             -  Malnutrition

             -  T2 DM

             -  Emergency surgery

             -  Post radio chemotherapy

             -  On steroids

             -  Open colorectal resection

        2. At least two from below:

             -  Smoking

             -  Age>75

             -  Diffuse atherosclerotic disease involving arteries

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Low risk laparotomy wound (none of the above criteria)

        -  Age < 18

      Patient who fulfills inclusion criteria will be contacted prior to surgery by a research team
      member. Details of the study and risks and benefits will be explained to the patient. After
      obtaining consent the patient will be randomized to one of two groups - standard wound
      treatment or negative pressure treatment - by senior research team member. depending on the
      randomisation patient will recived appropriate dressing. Surgical wound will be asses on day
      2 to 4, on day 7 and on day 30. Prior to first dressing application, after 2-4 days and on
      day 30 a wound swap will be obtain for C&S. Any wound complication will be recorded in
      research evaluation form.
    
  