
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the partial and complete response rates in patients with relapsed, CD20
           positive, aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with dexamethasone,
           cisplatin, and cytarabine in combination with etoposide, ifosfamide, and methotrexate
           with or without rituximab followed by carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan, and
           autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (APBSCT).

        -  Compare the effect of APBSCT with or without rituximab on the overall and event-free
           survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive DHAP induction chemotherapy comprising dexamethasone orally or
           IV on days 1-4, cisplatin IV continuously over 24 hours on day 1, and cytarabine IV over
           3 hours every 12 hours on day 2. Beginning 3-4 weeks after DHAP, patients receive VIM
           induction chemotherapy comprising etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, and 5;
           ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5; and methotrexate IV on days 1 and 5. Beginning
           3-4 weeks after VIM, patients with partial or complete response after DHAP and VIM
           receive a second course of DHAP (patients with progressive or unresponsive disease after
           DHAP but responsive disease after VIM receive a second course of VIM) followed by
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 10 and continuing until a target
           number of cells are collected.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive induction chemotherapy and G-CSF as in arm I. At 1 day after
           the last dose of each chemotherapy course, patients also receive rituximab IV once for a
           maximum of 3 courses.

      At 4-5 weeks after the completion of the last induction chemotherapy course, responsive
      patients in both arms receive BEAM conditioning chemotherapy comprising carmustine IV over 60
      minutes on day -6, etoposide IV over 60 minutes and cytarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -5
      to -2, and melphalan IV over 15 minutes on day -1. Patients undergo autologous peripheral
      blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. After transplantation, patients in partial
      remission may undergo radiotherapy to nodal sites with residual tumor mass.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 296-340 patients (148-170 per treatment arm) will be accrued
      for this study within 4-5 years.
    
  