
    
      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are commonly used for the treatment of
      inflammatory pain. Pain is a highly subjective experience, and selecting an analgesic regimen
      that provides optimal pain relief for a specific patient can be challenging. Moreover,
      patients often express a preference for a particular NSAID, raising the possibility that the
      efficacy in relieving pain is variable among individuals. However this has never been studied
      systematically. The clinical decision-making process has been further complicated by the
      recognition that NSAIDs cause serious thrombotic adverse events in some patients (1).
      Elucidating the factors that influence an individual patient's risk of cardiovascular
      complications and the likelihood of analgesic efficacy will enable clinicians to prescribe
      NSAIDs rationally in order to maximize their therapeutic benefit while minimizing the risk of
      adverse cardiovascular events.

      NSAIDs are a chemically diverse class of therapeutic agents that exert their analgesic and
      anti-inflammatory effects via inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and/or COX-2, enzymes that
      catalyze the first committed step in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. PGs produce a diverse
      array of biologic effects via activation of prostanoid receptors, and play important roles in
      a variety of pathologic and homeostatic processes (2). COX-2 is readily induced in response
      to pro-inflammatory stimuli and has been considered the primary source of inflammatory PGs.
      In contrast, the production of PGs with homeostatic functions, such as gastric epithelium
      cytoprotection, has been ascribed to COX-1, which is constitutively expressed in most tissues
      (2). Consequently, COX-2-selective NSAIDs, including rofecoxib, valdecoxib, and celecoxib,
      were developed in order to retain the anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects of inhibition
      of COX-2-derived PG formation, while avoiding the gastrointestinal toxicity of traditional
      NSAIDs (i.e. aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, etc) that inhibit both isoforms. Although fewer
      gastrointestinal complications were observed in clinical trials, treatment with
      COX-2-selective NSAIDs increased the risk of serious cardiovascular adverse events, including
      myocardial infarction, stroke, and heart failure (1,3).

      The risk of thrombotic events associated with the use of NSAIDs, particularly those selective
      for COX-2, is mediated via suppression of COX-2-derived prostacyclin formation in endothelial
      and vascular smooth muscle cells (4,5). Prostacyclin possesses potent anti-thrombotic and
      vasodilatory effects, and thus acts as a general inhibitor of platelet activation in vivo
      (2). Traditional NSAIDs also inhibit COX-2 in the vasculature, but the associated risk of
      thrombosis is mitigated to some extent by inhibition of formation of thromboxane A2 (TxA2), a
      COX-1-derived PG released by activated platelets that promotes platelet activation and
      aggregation (1,3). Thus, the risk of thrombosis for a particular NSAID is dependent upon its
      relative selectivity for COX-2 over COX-1 (3,6). In addition to their effects on vascular PG
      production, all NSAIDs inhibit renal PG formation, resulting in sodium retention and
      hypertension, which may further augment cardiovascular risk (1,3,7).

      Currently, it is recommended that NSAIDs be avoided or used only for a limited duration in
      patients classified as high cardiovascular risk (8). These recommendations are supported by
      studies demonstrating that even short-term NSAID use increased the incidence of
      cardiovascular events in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (9,10) and
      following a myocardial infarction (11,12). However, long-term treatment with COX-2-selective
      NSAIDs also increased the incidence of cardiovascular events in patients considered to be at
      low baseline risk (13,14), consistent with risk transformation due to atherogenesis and
      indicating traditional cardiovascular risk factors alone are not sufficient to guide
      therapeutic decisions. Thus, additional studies are necessary to define comprehensively the
      factors that modify the cardiovascular risk of NSAID use and facilitate the progressive
      personalization of NSAID therapy.
    
  