
    
      Twenty consecutive patients with DME, wet-AMD and macular edema secondary to vein occlusions
      will be enrolled. A complete examination including full-field ERG, visual acuity, central
      retinal thickness (CRT) and evaluation of systemic and ocular complications will be performed
      before and 24 weeks after intravitreal injections of ziv-aflibercept. The twenty patients
      will be submitted to 6 consecutive intravitreal injections of ziv-aflibercept with a 4 week
      interval.

      The safety and efficacy of Eylea in the treatment of macular edema following CRVO were
      assessed in 2 randomized, multicenter, double- masked, sham-controlled studies: COPERNICUS
      and GALILEO. A total of 358 patients were treated and evaluable for efficacy (217 with Eylea)
      in the two studies. In both, patients were randomly assigned in a 3:2 ratio to either 2 mg
      Eylea administered every 4 weeks, or sham injections (control group) administered every 4
      weeks for a total of 6 injections. After 6 monthly injections, patients continued to receive
      Eylea treatment during weeks 24 to 52 only if they met pre-specified retreatment criteria
      (PRN), except for patients in the sham control group in the GALILEO study who continued to
      receive sham injections through week 52. In the COPERNICUS study, after 6 months, 56% of
      patients receiving Eylea 2 mg monthly gained at least 15 letters of BCVA from baseline, as
      measured by ETDRS, compared to 12% of patients receiving sham injections (p<0.01), the
      primary endpoint of the study. Patients receiving Eylea 2 mg monthly gained, on average, 17.3
      letters of vision compared to a mean loss of 4.0 letters with sham control injections
      (p<0.01), a secondary endpoint.

      Ziv-aflibercept or zaltrap6 (Sanofi-Aventis US, LLC, Bridgewater, NJ/Regeneron
      Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Tarrytown, NY) is FDA approved for the treatment of metastatic
      colorectal cancer. During Bascom Palmer Eye Institute's Angiogenesis, Exudation, and
      Degeneration February 2014 conference, Michel Eid Farah, João R. Dias, Fernando M. Penha, and
      Eduardo B. Rodrigues investigated the safety of ziv-aflibercept in vitro and in vivo. In
      vitro toxicity was verified using ARPE-19 cultured cells exposed to anti-angiogenic vs
      balanced salt solution (BSS) for 10 minutes. Viability was assessed by
      3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, which evaluates
      cell viability by mitochondrial activity. No signs of cell toxicity were observed, and cell
      viability was similar for ziv-aflibercept, aflibercept, and BSS. For the in vivo study, they
      tested 1 injection of 0.05 mL ziv-aflibercept vs aflibercept in the right eyes of 18 rabbits,
      9 eyes in each group. BSS was injected in the fellow eyes and served as control. After the
      injections, all animals were examined by funduscopy, SD-OCT), and ERG at baseline, 24 hours,
      and 7 days. Aqueous, vitreous, and serum samples were collected at baseline, 24 hours, and 7
      days for pH and osmolarity analysis. The animals were sacrificed and the eyes were enucleated
      for morphologic study by light and electron microscopy. No abnormalities were found at 24
      hours or 7 days after intravitreal injection of either drug when assessed by fundus exam and
      SD-OCT, ERG, and histology as well as transmission microscopy. There were also no changes in
      osmolarity in the aqueous humor or vitreous samples in any group after 24 hours and 1 week.
    
  