
    
      Study design: Single-blind randomized control trial.

      Participants: Study participants will be enrolled from the Bipolar Disorders Program of the
      Hospital Clinic of Barcelona (Spain) and the Bipolar Disorders Unit.

      Procedure: At baseline, the sample will be evaluated with respect to sociodemographic,
      clinical and neuropsychological variables. Subsequently, patients will be randomly assigned
      (1:1) to two different groups. The experimental group (62 patients) will take part on the
      integrative group program consisting of 12-sessions, 90 minutes each, once a week (4 focused
      on psychoeducation, 1 directed to the family relatives, 3 on mindfulness and 4 on functional
      remediation) whilst the control group (62 patients) will not receive any type of add-on
      psychotherapy. All the patients will maintain a standard psychiatric treatment during the
      study. Together with the baseline assessment, the whole sample will be assessed after the
      intervention and at the 12 months of follow-up. Psychiatric medication will be recorded
      during the follow-up and the reasons for eventual modifications. All the subjects will be
      evaluated by researchers blinded to the treatment condition. Semi-structured interviews will
      be conducted and complemented with clinical records and with assessment instruments to
      collect variables related to the course of the illness. This study will be conducted in
      accordance with the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical
      Practice and approved by the Hospital Clinic Ethics and Research. All participants will be
      asked to provide written informed consent prior to their inclusion in the study.

      Variables assessed:

        1. Demographic variables: gender, age, marital status, educational status and work
           situation.

        2. Clinical variables: age at the onset of BD, age at first hospitalization, total number
           and type of previous episodes, hospitalizations, history of psychotic symptoms, polarity
           of the first episode, seasonal pattern, presence of rapid cycling, bipolar subtype (I or
           II), comorbidities, familial psychiatric history, familial history of affective
           disorder, familial history of complete suicide, previous suicide attempts, number of
           attempts, method and medical severity of attempts, history of drug use.

        3. Clinical scales: Temperament Evaluation of the Memphis, Pisa, Paris, and San Diego
           Autoquestionnaire (TEMPS-A, Akiskal et al, 2005), Barratts Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11,
           Barratt et al, 1983), Biological Rhythms Interview of Assessment in Neuropsychiatry
           (BRIAN, Rosa et al., 2007), and Cognitive Complaints in Bipolar Disorder Rating
           Assessment (COBRA, Rosa et al., 2013).

        4. Psychosocial functioning: Functional assessment short test (FAST, Rosa et al., 2007).

        5. Wellbeing and quality of life: WHO (Five) Well Being Index (WHO, 1998), Quality of Life
           in Bipolar Disorder scale (QoL.BD, Michalak y Murray, 2010).

        6. Scales of mindfulness: Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ, Baer et al., 2006),
           Mindful Attention Awareness Scale (MAAS, Brown y Ryan, 2003).

        7. Neuropsychological assessment: WAIS-IV (Wechsler, 2012), with the following subtests:
           vocabulary, arithmetic, digit span, letter-number sequencing, symbol search, coding;
           Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST, Heaton et al, 1981); Stroop Color-Word Interference
           Test (Golden y col., 1995); F-A-S Verbal Phonemic Fluency Test (Benton & Hamser, 1978);
           Trail Making Test (TMT, Reitan y Wolfson, 1985); Continuous Performance Test (CPT-III,
           Conners 2014); California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT-II, Delis et al, 2000);
           Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test (Osterreith, 1944; Rey, 1941); the Mayer-
           Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT, Mayer et al., 2003) and the Iowa
           Gambling Test (IGT, Bechara et al, 1994).
    
  