
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the complete histological response rate in patients with inflammatory
           HER2-negative breast cancer treated with bevacizumab and concurrent chemotherapy
           followed by bevacizumab and concurrent hormonal therapy after surgery and radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the progression-fee and overall survival of these patients at 3 and 5 years.

        -  Evaluate the tolerance of bevacizumab in these patients.

        -  Assess circulating metastatic disease before, during, and after treatment.

        -  Assess circulating endothelial cells before, during, and after treatment.

        -  Assess predictive factors of response by genomic and proteomic studies on frozen tumor
           samples and fluid samples (i.e., serum and plasma).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant induction therapy:

             -  Courses 1-4: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, fluorouracil IV,
                epirubicin hydrochloride IV over 10 minutes, and cyclophosphamide IV over 5 minutes
                on day 1.

             -  Courses 5-8: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes and docetaxel IV
                over 1 hour on day 1.

      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo surgery 4-6 weeks after completion of bevacizumab.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning 2-4 weeks after surgery, patients undergo radiotherapy for 6
           weeks. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes beginning 2-4 weeks after
           surgery, during the radiotherapy period. Treatment with bevacizumab repeats every 3
           weeks for 30 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Patients who are estrogen receptor- or progesterone receptor-positive (≥ 10% by IHC)
           receive the following concurrent hormonal therapy beginning in week 7:

             -  Premenopausal patients: Patients receive tamoxifen citrate for 5 years.

             -  Postmenopausal patients: Patients receive aromatase-inhibitor therapy (or tamoxifen
                citrate if unable to tolerate anti-aromatase therapy) for 5 years.

             -  Perimenopausal patients: Patients receive tamoxifen citrate for 2-3 years and
                aromatase-inhibitor therapy for 2-3 years OR tamoxifen citrate for 5 years followed
                by aromatase-inhibitor therapy for 2-3 years (if follicle-stimulating hormone > 30
                IU/L and/or estradiol < 30 ng/L).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 3 years.
    
  