
    
      The proposed study is a prospective, unblinded, single center, 2-arm randomized controlled
      pilot trial. In the intervention arm serial measurement of NT-proBNP will be made available
      to the treating physician. A control group continuing to undergo care according to the 2016
      ESC Guidelines will serve as comparator. Changes in NT-proBNP levels, safety laboratory
      parameters such as sodium, potassium, creatinine, Heart failure (HF) medication, vital signs,
      body weight and BMI, Quality of Life (QoL), length of hospital stay, New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) functional class, adverse events, transfer to the Intensive Care Unit and
      mortality will be recorded in patients with ADHF.

      The Kantonsspital Baselland (KSBL) Liestal will be the only study center. All members of the
      study group will the thoroughly instructed regarding study procedures. Inclusion visits will
      be conducted only by a member of the study group. All Patients with ADHF on the medical ward
      of the KSBL Liestal will be provided an information sheet regarding goals and procedures of
      the study and the informed consent. Inclusion criteria will be checked after admission.
      Patients not matching the inclusion criteria at the screening visit cannot participate in
      this study. Patients will be provided sufficient time for their decision. The investigators
      communicate clearly that participation in the study is absolutely voluntary and refusal of
      participation has no influence on treatment during hospitalization.

      In order to minimize bias that may be introduced by even minor differences in executing and
      interpreting technical exams, all study related measurements and procedures will be performed
      in a centralized manner at the KSBL Liestal.

      Patients will be included only after approval of informed consent. Randomization is performed
      using 50 closed envelopes containing a paper shit with either the letter A or B. In total
      there are 25 A's and 25 B's. The letter A stands for the control group and the letter B for
      the intervention group. These envelopes are mixed initially, numbered for order purposes and
      the order maintained throughout the study. The name of the patient will be written down on
      the envelope. Then it will be open and the patient will be allocated to the study group
      depending on the letter in the envelope. All patients will undergo an inclusion and discharge
      visit. General demographic data, including age, gender, nationality, smoking status, alcohol
      consumption, current profession, exercise behavior, allergies, medication, HF history and
      comorbidities will be recorded. Assessment of vital signs and body weight will be performed
      together with an electrocardiogram, several laboratory tests (NT-proBNP, potassium, sodium
      and creatinine). In addition, questionnaires concerning QoL (SF-12, KCCQ, MLWHFQ) will be
      filled in by the participants. Women who can get pregnant (not yet in menopause and last
      menstrual period less than 12 months, not surgically sterilized, ovaries and/or uterus not
      removed) will have to undergo a pregnancy test prior to inclusion into the study.

      Patients allocated to the intervention group (POC-available group) will undergo serial
      measurements of NT-pro BNP, potassium, sodium, and creatinine every second business day. The
      investigators have chosen this time-lag because an earlier time point would not show the
      change of the security parameter creatinine due to longer half-life-time. For this test,
      blood is collected from the patients. These samplings will be done in the morning together
      with the regularly blood collection through the attending nurse according to the established
      procedure of the KSBL Liestal in the morning. 10ml blood will be collected for this study
      during each blood sample with a standard Lithium-blood-collection tube. Members of the study
      team will collect the blood samples and analyses them on the study devices. The result of the
      test will be provided directly to the responsible physician of the medical department at the
      KSBL Liestal. Treatment changes are at the discretion of the responsible physician. The
      physician will be alerted by a phone call of a study member if the NT-proBNP hasn't decreased
      by 10% or more between two measurements. But no specific recommendations with regards to
      therapy will be provided by the investigator or his team. However, diagnostic and therapeutic
      decisions will be based on the current 2016 ESC guidelines on the diagnosis and therapy of HF
      as established at the KSBL Liestal.

      Patients allocated to the control group will undergo the measurements at inclusion and
      discharge visit. The control group conduces to compare the NT-proBNP and HF medication
      changes under therapy monitoring with serial NT-proBNP measurements to the NT-proBNP and HF
      medication changes with sign and symptom guided HF therapy. As in the intervention group,
      diagnostic and therapeutic decisions in the control group will be based on the current 2016
      ESC guidelines on the diagnosis and therapy of HF as established at the KSBL Liestal. At
      discharge, the same measurements as at the inclusion visit will be repeated in all patients
      to monitor the effects associated with the participation in this trial.

      Total study duration will cover a period of approximately 3 years. Patients will be screened
      until a total of 25 patients are included per study group.

      Overall, 50 patients are planned to be recruited. Recruitment is estimated to start in
      September 2017 and end at the latest in March 2020 after discharge of the last hospitalized
      patient included in the study. Data collection of the study is expected to be completed by
      May 2020 and data analysis by December 2020.

      The expected duration of the study for each patient will be defined by the time period from
      inclusion to discharge and is expected to be in the range of 8-12 days (=average time for HF
      hospitalization of our institution).

      As an university institution, the KSBL Liestal mandates its physician and nursing staff to
      provide evidence-based medical care and to follow recognized and established national and/or
      international guidelines whenever possible. Nevertheless, deviation from guidelines may be
      necessary in specific cases. The decision whether and when to deviate from guidelines is at
      the discretion of the responsible physician and nursing staff and is taken to the best
      individual knowledge. Patients with ADHF admitted to the Intensive Care Unit are not included
      in this study. Patients not requiring intensive care treatment will be hospitalized on a
      regular medical ward and treated with diuretics to improve symptoms of congestion. In case a
      patient is transferred to the Intensive Care Unit after study inclusion, further data from
      date of transfer onwards will not be collected, to avoid discomfort to patients and medical
      personal while the patient is in a critical situation. The study itself is also composed for
      treatments on a regular medical ward. The transfer to the Intensive Care Unit will serve as
      the endpoint.
    
  