
    
      Any number of factors could affect the dosage needs for an anti-epileptic medication,
      however, various lines of evidence suggest that characteristics of the patient's epilepsy
      itself could be important determinants. Baseline (i.e., at the start of the study) patient
      characteristics, particularly seizure frequency, may predict dosage needs when TOPAMAX®
      (topiramate) is initiated as monotherapy and titrated to an individualized optimal dose.
      Topiramate is an anti-epileptic drug that is approved for epilepsy either alone (i.e.,
      monotherapy), or in combination with other anti-epileptic medications, in adults and children
      2 years of age and above. This is a multicenter, outpatient, open-label, single-arm study to
      evaluate the dosing, tolerability, effectiveness and safety of topiramate as initial therapy
      for epilepsy in clinical practice. Patients who have been identified by their physicians as
      candidates for initial anti-epileptic monotherapy will be enrolled. Patients will begin
      therapy with topiramate tablets starting at 50 milligrams per day and be titrated to an
      individualized optimal dose, up to a maximum of 400 milligrams per day, by the end of week 6.
      Changes to this schedule will be based on a risk-benefit assessment of the patient's clinical
      condition by the investigator, such as tolerability, or reaching a stable dose sufficient to
      control their seizures. Treatment with topiramate will last for a total of 24 weeks. The
      primary outcome of the study is a comparison of the mean stabilized topiramate dose during
      the last 28 days of treatment for patients reporting 1 to 3 seizures during the 3 months
      prior to study entry versus patients reporting more than 3 seizures during the 3 months prior
      to study entry. The study hypothesis is that the average stabilized dose of topiramate will
      be lower in patients that have had fewer seizures in the 3 months prior to beginning the
      study. Topiramate tablets starting at 50 milligrams per day and titrated to an individualized
      optimal dose, up to a maximum of 400 milligrams per day by the end of week 6. Patients will
      take topiramate tablets by mouth twice a day (morning and evening) for 24 weeks.
    
  