
    
      Urinary incontinence is a distressing and embarrassing condition that occurs in around 70%
      older people who live in nursing or residential care homes. It is common in those who have
      dementia as well as those with other medical conditions. Urinary incontinence has a major
      impact on an older person's dignity and quality of life and is linked to other health
      problems and relationship difficulties. It also affects a person's ability and willingness to
      socialise. There are not many options for treatment of urinary incontinence in older people,
      especially those with dementia. There are several drugs available but these can have
      unpleasant side-effects. Sometimes pelvic floor muscle exercises, or going to the toilet at
      regular intervals are tried but these can be difficult to do by those who find it hard to get
      around or have memory problems. They are also hard to maintain in the longer term and so
      older people who experience bladder leakage usually rely on the use of absorbent pads to hold
      the urine, rather than trying to treat the cause of the problem. Transcutaneous posterior
      tibial nerve stimulation (TPTNS) involves placing two sticky pads (surface electrodes) on a
      person's ankle and connecting these to a small, pocket sized electrical stimulator. This
      sends an electric pulse to the nerve near the ankle which also controls the bladder. Each
      treatment lasts half an hour and a total of twelve are given over a six week period. The
      treatment is similar to a TENS machine which is sometimes used for treating pain. It is a
      gentle pulsing and its strength is altered to suit the person and what is comfortable for
      them. TPTNS helps people with bladder leakage because it reduces the feeling of sudden
      urgency and the need to rush to the toilet and so gives people more warning and more time to
      find a toilet before they leak. TPTNS also increases the volume of urine the bladder is able
      to hold, so people do not need to empty their bladder as often. TPTNS has been tested in ten
      small studies but only one involved older people living in care homes and it only included 30
      people. So far the studies have all indicated that TPTNS is safe and acceptable and that it
      can help bladder problems. However better quality evidence is needed that it works before it
      can be recommended for use in everyday treatment.

      In this research the investigators will test TPTNS compared to dummy treatment in 500 people
      living in care homes who have urinary incontinence and who wear absorbent pads. The amount of
      urine they leak into participants' pads will be measured over a 24 hour period after six
      weeks (at the end of the TPTNS treatment programme) and after three and five months. This
      will tell the investigators if the treatment works and if it decreases leakage and if so, for
      how long. The investigators will ask the older person whether they feel their bladder leakage
      has changed and about any impact on their quality of life. The opinions of close family
      members and care home staff will be sought regarding whether they think TPTNS has had any
      effect on the participant. The investigators are also interested to learn about experiences
      of TPTNS, from residents, family and friends and all the staff involved. Costs of providing
      this treatment compared to the costs of providing continence care and pads will be determined
      and. the best ways to give TPTNS treatment in a care home, long term, will be explored with
      the care home staff.
    
  