
    
      Post-9/11 Veterans who served in OEF/OIF face many challenges as they re-enter civilian life
      after structured military careers. Yet, underutilization and resistance to mental health
      treatment remains a significant problem. Recent investigations of community reintegration
      problems among returning Veterans found that half of combat Veterans who use Veterans
      Administration (VA) services reported difficulty in readjusting to civilian life, including
      difficulty in social functioning, productivity in work and school settings, community
      involvement, and self-care domains. High rates of marital, family, and cohabitation discord
      were reported, with 75% reporting a family conflict in the last week. At least one-third
      reported divorce, dangerous driving and risky behaviors, increased substance use, and
      impulsivity and anger control problems since deployment. Almost all Veterans expressed
      interest in receiving services to help readjust to civilian life, and receiving reintegration
      services at a VA facility was reported as the preferred way to receive help. Mental health
      and anger problems are often cited as driving Veterans' difficulties readjusting to civilian
      life. Anger is becoming more widely recognized for its involvement in the psychological
      adjustment problems of post-9/11 Veterans. Research has shown that anger directly influences
      treatment outcome. In fact, history of untreated PTSD and aggression have been demonstrated
      to be pervasive among post-9/11 Veterans who die by suicide in the months before death.
      Veterans with probable PTSD report more reintegration and anger problems, and greater
      interest in services than Veterans without. Reintegration and anger problems continue for
      years post-combat and may not resolve without intervention.

      Research on TBI in post-9/11 Veterans underscores the need for programs that utilize an
      interdisciplinary approach to reintegration. Programs designed to address challenges of
      Veterans as they reintegrate in vocational environments, particularly integrative approaches,
      are greatly needed. The STEP-Home intervention provides such a program. STEP-Home includes
      focused cognitive and emotional regulation skills training and is informed by the most recent
      research with returning Veterans and available programs focused on reintegration in VA and
      military settings (e.g., Battlemind training).

      Phase 1: Years 1 and 2 The investigators will initiate the study at the Boston VAMC and
      develop Standard Operating Procedures for the addition of site 2 in Phase 2.

      Phase 2: Years 3 and 4 The investigators will initiate the study at the second site, the
      Houston VAMC, in Year 3. The investigators will apply in Year 2 for IRB approval to initiate
      site 2.

      Hypotheses & Aims

      Primary Aim 1. Examine treatment effects of STEP-Home on primary outcomes relative to Present
      Centered Group Therapy (PCGT):

      Hypothesis 1A. Participants randomized into the STEP-Home intervention will show improvement
      on reintegration, readjustment, and anger post-intervention (expressed by lower scores; less
      difficulty).

      Military to Civilian Questionnaire (M2CQ), Post-Deployment Readjustment Inventory (PDRI), and
      State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory (STAXI-2) scores post-intervention (T4) < baseline
      (T1)

      Hypothesis 1B. Participants randomized into STEP-Home will show greater improvement in
      primary outcomes as compared to PCGT.

      Change scores baseline (T1) to post-intervention (T4) STEP-Home > PCGT change scores
      Post-intervention (T4) primary outcome scores STEP-Home < PCGT primary outcome scores (T4)

      Primary Aim 2. Examine maintenance of treatment effects on primary outcomes:

      Hypothesis 2: Treatment effects will be maintained at follow up in both groups. Differential
      treatment effect of STEP-Home over PCGT post-intervention (T4) will be maintained at follow
      up (T5).

      Exploratory Aim 1. Explore treatment effects of STEP-Home on measures of mental health,
      functional and vocational status and cognitive secondary outcomes targeted indirectly in the
      workshop.

      Exploratory Hypothesis 1. Acquisition of core skills (problem solving, emotional regulation,
      attention training) will mediate the effect of treatment on primary outcomes
      post-intervention and at follow up.

      The successful completion of the aims proposed has the potential to significantly improve
      skills to foster civilian reintegration in post-9/11Veterans. Furthermore, the STEP-Home
      SPiRE feasibility study demonstrated that the workshop also serves as a gateway for Veterans
      who are hesitant to participate in traditional mental health treatments to promote openness
      and engagement in additional, critically needed, VA services. Given the high rate of
      treatment resistance in this cohort, developing acceptable interventions that promote
      treatment engagement and retention, and open the door to future VA care, is necessary to
      improve functional status and to reduce long-term healthcare costs of untreated mental health
      illnesses.
    
  