
    
      Haemophilia is a rare constitutional hemorrhagic disease whose drug management is based on
      the use of chronic lifelong replacement therapy. For many years, the reference treatment,
      particularly in children, has been based on the use of anti-haemophilic drugs for prophylaxis
      requiring repeated injections several times a week according to a personalized schedule. In
      contrast, on-demand treatment is less and less used, particularly in patients with severe
      forms of haemophilia. Clinical and biological diagnosis, as well as the implementation and
      monitoring of treatments, are carried out within specialized hospital care structures
      affiliated with the French national reference center. Medications are dispensed as part of
      hospital retrocessions. This organization imposes constraints on patients and their
      caregivers due to their limited accessibility.

      The burden related to this disease is probably due to the systematic use of specialized
      hospital teams such as doctors, nurses for self-injection training for example, and
      pharmacists. It now seems important to reflect on the evolution of patient pathways that were
      previously exclusively hospital-centred towards ambulatory care. To do this, various
      reflections need to be undertaken, including that relating to the accessibility of
      medication. Indeed, the monthly renewals of these chronic treatments force patients and their
      caregivers, as well as the parents of children, to go to the hospital, which frequently makes
      the organization of daily and professional life more cumbersome.

      The PHAREO study aims to investigate patients' perception of accessibility to
      anti-haemophilia drugs in relation to an evaluation of spatial accessibility in order to
      consider, if necessary, ways of improving the pathway for patients and their caregivers.

      The expected benefits of the study are to have: 1) an exhaustive description of the spatial
      accessibility of the cohort of people living with haemophilia to anti-haemophilia medication
      within the Auvergne Rhône Alpes region (France) and 2) a better understanding of their needs
      and their perceptions regarding access to on-demand and prophylactic treatments.
    
  