
    
      Both natriuretic peptides (NP), namely B-type NP (BNP) and amino-terminal fragment of proBNP
      (NT-proBNP), have an established role in the management of patients with heart failure
      (HF).[1] However, the clinical utility of BNP has recently been questioned with the
      PARADIGM-HF trial, which demonstrated increased BNP and reduced NT-proBNP levels following
      the administration of Entresto, a newly approved angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor
      (ARNI).[2.3] The increase in BNP was thought to be reflective of reduced metabolism of BNP as
      a result of neprilysin inhibition.[2] However, this claim was based on observations of three
      points in time and with wide confidence intervals.[3] In addition, there has been no attempt
      to demonstrate dose relationships. Furthermore, although both BNP and NT-proBNP have each
      been shown to predict HF readmission in hospitalized patients [1,4,5] the relative utility
      between the two NPs for this prediction remains unclear. We therefore hypothesize that once
      beyond the initiation of ARNI therapy, BNP and NT-proBNP will be equally predictive of
      clinical events in patients with HF.

      The studies comprise of two separate protocols:

      A. Outpatient Protocol - the effect of Entresto measuring the changes in the NT-proBNP and
      BNP test results. This protocol will be conducted on ambulatory outpatients initiating on
      Entresto. Patients will have blood sampling for the measurements of BNP and NT-proBNP at
      baseline, at the first and second up titration in dose of Entresto, and at 6 months and 1st
      year after starting Entresto.

      B. Inpatient Protocol-predicting outcomes. This will be conducted on patients admitted for
      acute decompensated HF. Blood sampling for BNP and NT-proBNP will be collected in different
      time points (admission, hospital discharge, 30th day, 90th day, and 180th day) and measure
      its changes.
    
  