
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic, inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology
      that primarily involves synovial joints, typically symmetrically. If untreated and/or
      uncontrolled, joint destruction due to erosion of cartilage and bone can cause joint
      destruction, joint deformities, loss of physical function, severe disability, and
      difficulties maintaining employment. American College of Rheumatology (ACR)/EULAR 2010
      classification criteria is a score-based algorithm which adds scores of 4 categories
      including, joint involvement, serology, acute-phase reactants and duration of symptoms. A
      score of >6/10 is needed for classification of a patient as having definite RA.

      Non-pharmacologic and supplementary therapies include patient education, rest, exercise,
      nutrition counseling, cardiovascular disease risk reduction, and immunizations to decrease
      risk of infectious complications of immunosuppression. These are important in the
      comprehensive management of RA in all stages of disease and are used in addition to drug
      therapy.

      Pharmacologic therapies typically start with a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD),
      preferably as soon as possible after diagnosis. DMARDs are commonly used in combination with
      anti-inflammatory drugs such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and
      glucocorticoids which are often used as bridging therapies until the DMARDs become effective.
      The goal is disease remission. To assess response, disease activity scores are used along
      with inflammatory markers.

      Three patients with active RA treated in the multi-place hyperbaric facility at David Grant
      Medical Center (DGMC), Travis Air Force Base, California, for non RA-related indications, all
      noted significant improvement in arthralgias, sleep patterns and overall well-being during
      the course of therapy. Two were treated at 2 atmospheres absolute (ATA) oxygen for 90 minutes
      daily Monday through Friday. One patient received 2 ATA air on the same treatment protocol as
      a participant in a research study, and a subsequent course of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) at 2
      ATA.

      This is a pilot study. Patients will be recruited through the Rheumatologists, IRB-approved
      HIPAA waiver to contact patients that have been seen in the military treatment facility (MTF)
      within the past year with a diagnosis of RA, flyers in the Rheumatology Clinic or thru
      Commander Calls.

      During the initial screening visit:

      The rheumatologist will discuss the trial and at this point the subject will be consented and
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be reviewed. If subject qualifies they will see the
      Hyperbaric physician who will do physical examination to determine if it is safe for the
      subject to receive HBO2. An human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) by point of care testing
      (POCT) will be completed by the coordinator in women capable of pregnancy. After this exam is
      done the subject will be scheduled for a trial Hyperbaric session.

      Baseline visit will be done after the subject has tolerated the trial hyperbaric session.
      This visit includes:

        1. A visit with the rheumatologist to do routine assessments to establish baseline
           measurement using the Disease Activity Scale (DAS28)

        2. Labs (CRP and Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR), basic metabolic panel (BMP) and
           microparticles), will be completed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with and without
           contrast and ultrasound will be done on both hands from wrists to proximal phalanges the
           wrist. BMP is done pre-MRI to guarantee adequate kidney function.

        3. Subjective patient reporting will be captured using the Routine Assessment of Patient
           Index Data (RAPID 3)

        4. Sleep quality will be tracked using the Pain and Sleep Quality Questionnaire (PSQ-3).

        5. Visual Analog Scores (VAS) for pain will be tracked.

        6. Surveys will be done by a study team member

      The subject at this time will be scheduled to start HBO2 treatments. Screening, baseline,
      first HBO2 treatment all in one month. Participants will complete 30 sessions within 10
      weeks.

      If the subject reports pain relief (> 40% or zero pain) during the HBO2 treatments the will
      be referred to the rheumatologist for assessment. Pain improvement will be based on a pain
      assessment (1-10 scale reported verbally) at hyperbaric treatment visits. Labs will be drawn
      at this time. RAPID 3, PSQ-3 and VAS will be done at least six times while undergoing HBO2
      treatment to track subject progress. Labs (CRP, ESR, microparticles) will be repeated at the
      conclusion of the HBO2 treatments.

      At the month 3 and month 6 visit (+/- 2 week window) the subject will see the rheumatologist
      to track disease activity using the DAS-28. The date of the visit will be scheduled for three
      and six months from the baseline visit. The rheumatologist will order the MRI, ultrasound and
      lab studies prior to the visit. RAPID 3, PSQ-3 and VAS will be administered at this time. Lab
      samples will be collected prior to the Rheumatology appointment.

      The six month visit marks the end of the trial. Patients will continue to be followed in
      Rheumatology Clinic every three months.

      If the patient's RA symptoms worsen during the study, the physicians will institute measures
      to address the cause. The medical monitor will be notified and if any adverse events are
      involved, they will be recorded and reported to the Institutional Review Board (IRB).

      Data:

      Data will be entered by authorized study personnel only. Demographic information will be
      collected including sex, age and ethnic background in accordance with HIPPA compliance.

      Data collected during this study will be analyzed at various points in time to include
      physician exams, labs (CRP, ESR, BMP, analysis of microparticles, neutrophil and platelet
      activation), radiologic studies, joint inspection.

      Changes in joint pain will be determined by self-reporting and results of the standard
      outcome measures questionnaires (RAPID 3, PSQ-3 and VAS). A separate sleep survey will be
      administered.
    
  