
    
      Background:

      Numerous studies have shown that many long term care (LTC) residents receive inadequate staff
      assistance with eating, which places them at risk for under-nutrition, dehydration and weight
      loss. Moreover, improvements in feeding assistance care have been shown to improve residents'
      daily food and fluid consumption and weight loss outcomes. However, these improvements have
      only been achieved through the use of research staff as opposed to indigenous LTC staff due
      to staffing resource limitations that exist in most LTC facilities. The purpose of this
      program evaluation project is to train indigenous LTC staff how to improve nutritional care
      within the constraints of existing staffing resources.

      Objectives:

      The PI of this proposal has developed standardized assessment, monitoring and staffing needs
      projection tools that can be used by long-term care (LTC) providers to improve feeding
      assistance care delivery and unintentional weight loss outcomes. The primary objective of
      this project is to train indigenous LTC staff how to (1) identify residents in need of
      feeding assistance, (2) effectively monitor daily care delivery; and, (3) utilize existing,
      non-nursing staff for some mealtime tasks to improve care.

      Methods:

      A multiple baseline design was used to evaluate the effectiveness of the program in one
      federal and one state VA long-term care (LTC) facility. Research staff collected baseline
      measures related to organizational characteristics, including staffing, nutritional care
      processes and resident outcomes including oral food and fluid intake and weight status. All
      LTC units in each of the two sites were divided into two groups for program implementation
      purposes (for a total of 4 groups across the 2 sites) based on the proximity of a unit to
      other units, resident and staff characteristics. The program was implemented with staff and
      residents on the units in the first site/group; while, the second site/group remained in
      usual care and continued to be monitored monthly for all care process and resident outcome
      measures. Research staff trained LTC staff in the implementation of program protocols during
      a 12-week intervention period. Research staff then monitored LTC staff implementation of the
      program monthly following intervention to determine the sustainability of the program in the
      absence of research staff. All staff training and monitoring was repeated for the LTC units
      in groups three and four. The intent of this program evaluation study was to determine the
      effectiveness and cost of translating efficacious research protocols into care practice to
      improve the nutritional status of LTC veterans.

      Status: This study is officially complete.
    
  