
    
      INT230-6 is comprised of a 3 agents in a fixed ratio - a cell permeation enhancer and two,
      potent anti-cancer payloads (cisplatin and vinblastine sulfate). The penetration enhancer
      facilitates dispersion of the two drugs throughout injected tumors and enables increased
      diffusion into cancer cells. (Nonclinical safety studies showed no findings following drug
      injection into healthy tissues.)

      Historically physicians administer the two active drugs comprising INT230-6 by intravenous
      (IV) infusion to achieve a systemic blood level at the limit of tolerability. The objective
      is destroy both visible tumors and unseen circulating cancer cells (micro-metastases).
      Unfortunately, dosing drugs IV delivers only a small amount with a low concentration at the
      tumor site. This approach especially for late stage cancers is not highly effective and often
      quite toxic to the patient.

      Attempts at direct intratumoral injection with chemotherapeutic agents have not shown the
      ability to treat the injected tumor, non-injected tumors or micro-metastases. This lack of
      efficacy for local administration is due possibly to poor dispersion and a lack of cell
      uptake of the agents.

      Due to the use of the novel cell penetration enhancing agent INT230-6 treatment demonstrates
      strong efficacy in animals having large tumors. The Sponsor's in vivo, non-clinical data
      shows that INT230-6 thoroughly saturates and kills injected tumors. In addition, the drug
      induces an adaptive (T-cell mediated) immune response that attacks not only the injected
      tumor, but non-injected tumors and unseen micro-metastases. Cured animals become permanently
      immunized against the type of cancer that INT230-6 eliminates.

      Clinical trial IT-01 seeks to determine the safety and potential efficacy of dosing INT230-6
      directly into several different types of cancers. In addition animal studies showed a strong
      synergy of INT230-6 with immune modulation agents. Thus as part of study IT-01 the Sponsor
      seeks to understand the safety and efficacy of INT230-6 when administered in combination with
      immuno-therapeutic agents such as antibodies that target Programmed Cell Death (PD-1 or
      anti-PD-1) and Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Associated Protein 4 (CTLA-4 or anti-CTLA-4) receptors.

      This study seeks to understand whether tumor regression can be achieved and patient outcomes
      improved.
    
  