
    
      Patient registries were carried out in two different Databases: one included general
      information on patients and epidemiological data. The other database stored the monitored
      data obtained every 48 hours.

      Quality assurance and source data verification was achieved by retrieving general information
      on patients from the Hospital Electronic Medical Record. Moreover epidemiological information
      was assessed by the Principal Investigator who removed outlier values and assessed the
      occurrence of sharp changes in temporal series (e.g. changes >0.5Kg in two days).

      Patients were recruited at the acute unit of the Geriatrics Service. When they were admitted
      due a heart failure exacerbation a trained nurse performed the initial assess. If the patient
      was suitable, a geriatrician explained to him /her the study and if the patient accepted we
      was asked to sign the informed consent. Then he was assigned randomly to a group. For those
      in the intervention group, they were trained by the geriatrician and the nurse on how to
      perform the measurements in the mobile phone. For those in the control group, the staff
      recorded the baseline characteristics, and during the follow-up the emergency visits,
      readmissions and death was recorded. These latter variables were also recorded in the
      patients of the intervention group.

      The data dictionary included variables identifying patients and others describing their
      status and evolution:

        -  Oxygen saturation, measured as an integer (80-100)

        -  Heart rate, measured in beats/minute (0-200)

        -  Diastolic blood, measured in mmHg (0-100)

        -  Systolic blood pressure, measured in mmHg (0-100)

        -  Respiratory rate, measured in breaths/minute (0-100)

        -  Skin temperature, measured in Celsius

        -  Weight, measured in kg

        -  Glucose, measured in mg/dl (0-500)

        -  Short Physical Performance Battery, time to walk for 4.3 meters, measured in seconds
           (0-100)

        -  Short Physical Performance Battery, gait speed for 4.3 meters, measured in decimal
           meters/second (0-1)

        -  Short Physical Performance Battery, chair stand test once, measured in seconds (0-100)

        -  Symptom question Q1: Do you feel worse than the last time?, measured as a Boolean
           variable (YES/NO)

        -  Symptom question Q2: Do you feel worse than the day of the hospital discharge?, measured
           as a Boolean variable (YES/NO)

        -  Symptom question Q3: Do you feel shorten of breath?, measured as a categorical variable
           (effort/DLA/at rest)

        -  Symptom question Q4: Do you feel your legs swollen? ?, measured as a Boolean variable
           (YES/NO)

        -  Symptom question Q5: Have you woken up during the night feeling fatigue? ?, measured as
           a Boolean variable (YES/NO)

        -  Symptom question Q6: Have you needed more pillows to sleep than last time? ?, measured
           as a Boolean variable (YES/NO)

        -  Symptom question Q7: Have you taken all your drugs? ?, measured as a Boolean variable
           (YES/NO)

        -  Symptom question Q8: Have you followed the food and drinks indications of your
           physician?, measured as a Boolean variable (YES/NO) Sample size was calculated to reduce
           readmission rate by 10% in 3 months time. Having a significant level of 0.05. Sample:
           50-60 per group. With the first 20 patients included, sample size was recalculated, only
           40 were needed in each group. However, we included more patients in the intervention (up
           to 50) to face drops, only 3 dropped the study, so we obtained data from 47 in the
           intervention group.

      Missing data were excluded from the analysis, the registry was excluded. If a patient
      registered more than one measurement for the same expected data, the latest remained, and the
      rest was deleted.

      Statistical analysis:

      First, we carried out a descriptive analysis of the data. Later, we analysed the effects of
      the intervention with telemedicine and the predictive values of the different measured
      variables through logistic regressions.

      Descriptive data are presented as median values (IQR). Baseline characteristics between
      control and intervention groups were compared using non-parametric tests (Mann-Whitney).

      In order to determine the effects of the intervention, the analysis was divided in two parts.
      First, a logistic regression model was fitted to determine if the patient monitorization
      (yes/no) significantly predict worsening using age and sex as covariates. Then, a new
      variable, hospitalization length of stay, was created with the length of stay for any
      readmission in each group to assess whether the use of telemonitoring affected the length of
      hospitalisation. Both control and intervention groups were compared using Mann-Whitney.

      Finally, in the intervention group, the same logistic regression model was fitted to
      determine the factors that significantly predict worsening.

      All analyses were made with the Statistical Package R for windows (Vienna, Austria)
      (http://www.r-project.org), version 3.1.1. P-value was set at level <0.05.
    
  