
    
      Context : The most efficient treatment of the terminal chronic renal insufficiency is the
      renal transplantation, but in spite of the realization of more than 2000 transplants a year
      in France, the waiting list increases every year in a important way. The decrease of the
      offer of transplants from deathly donors led numerous countries to develop the renal
      transplant from alive donors. This type of transplantation represents in 2007 only 8,1 % of
      transplants in France (report of ABM on 2007), but the deficit in renal transplants and the
      new laws of bioethics should increase this donation (it represents until 70 % of the renal
      transplantations in certain centres of North America or the Northern Europe).

      Although the French urology is at the top of the laparoscopic technique, the classic surgical
      taking by lombotomie stays the reference technique, practised by 58 % of the centres, with
      for the patient its consequences in terms of pain, of duration of hospitalization,
      convalescence and possible side effects. The development of the taking by cœliosurgery,
      mini-invasive technique, allowed to increase the number of wishes of organ donation in the
      centres which developed it. It is however a difficult technical gesture, requiring an
      important experience. This technique has the inconvenience of a more painful scar and more
      subject to complications than the section known pubic of "Pfannenstiel" used for the taking
      by pure cœliosurgery.

      The surgical robot Da Vinci (Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, California), with a 3D mink, the
      joints of the instruments inside the body, the reduction of the movements, the best
      ergonomics, improves the precision of the cœlioscopic gesture, but has a sharply upper cost.
      The CHU of Nancy was the pioneer in Europe to develop this technique from 2002, with very
      encouraging results on a series from now on more than 80 patients.

      Only retrospective studies compared the quality of life between these techniques, and in
      spite of the major financial impacts (10 years of dialysis represent 100 K€; the price of the
      robot is of 1700 K€) and the important differences of quality of life according to these
      various surgical approaches, no prospective comparative medico-economic study was realized up
      to now. In France, where the hospital bears the load of all the expenses concerning the
      donor, including its daily allowances during its medical certificate, the shortening of the
      hospitalization and of the convalescence of the donor as well as the results improved by the
      transplantation at the receiver of a kidney living donor would allow a fast amortization of
      these expensive technologies.

      Main objective : To compare the cost and the efficiency of the three techniques of taking of
      kidney living donor.

      Main assessment criterion : The quality of life of the donor tested by generic measuring
      instruments EUROQOL and SF-36 (both to D-1 (the day before the renal transplantation), D4 (4
      days after) and D90 (3 months after) and SF-36 to D-1 and D90). It will be realized at the
      donor's in preoperative (D-1), in postoperative (D4) and in the visit of follow-up in 3
      months (D90). It will be also collected at the receiver's in preoperative (D-1),
      postoperative immediate (D4) and in the visit of follow-up in 3 months (D90).

      The combination with the cost estimate will allow to build the marginal cost-efficiency
      ratio.

      Secondary objectives envisaged:

        -  The evaluation of the quality of life of the receiver by measuring instrument becomes
           generic EUROQOL and SF-36 to D-1, D4 (only Euroqol) and D90.

        -  The comparison of the comfort of the surgeon and his physical and psychic investment by
           index card(form) of specific evaluation (Borg and NASA-TLX).

        -  The comparison of the coelio-surgical techniques : pure coelioscopy, coelioscopy "
           hand-assisted " and coelioscopy assisted by robot will concern the quality of life and
           the marginal cost-efficiency ratio.
    
  