
    
      The aim of this pilot trial is evaluate the efficacy and safety of ECP as induction therapy
      for prevention of AR in recipients affected of cystic fibrosis in the first year after lung
      transplantation.

      The investigators postulate that ECP could induce graft immunotolerance avoiding the
      development of chronic rejection. Exposing T-cells to ultraviolet light results in DNA damage
      and apoptosis; such form of cell death does not typically stimulate a prolonged inflammatory
      cascade. When re-infused to the patient, apoptotic T-cells are surrounded by antigen
      presenting cells (APCs). The large number of APCs encircling the damaged T-cells limits the
      inflammatory response and stimulates specific signalling cascades in APCs that result in
      anti-inflammatory cytokine production; finally, immature dendritic cells could gain
      tolerogenic phenotypes. Based on this process, a theory postulates that the immuno-modulation
      secondary to ECP is related to a general increase in regulatory T-cells that cause a
      down-regulation of immune responses involved in chronic rejection onset. Another theory
      assumes that suppressor T-cells may acquire anti-clonal immunity prompted by the APCs;
      therefore, a sort of T-cell vaccination is the result of leukocyte apoptosis. The intention
      is to use this T-cell regulation to induce immunotolerance toward the graft before the
      development of chronic rejection, in spite to operate when the damage is in progress. To
      activate this effect from the first hours after transplantation, it can be useful the
      immunomodulatory activity of extracorporeal photopheresis, already established by clinical
      studies applied to the treatment of acute and chronic rejection.

      The efficacy of ECP as induction therapy will be measured with the identification of AR rate
      in the study group versus the control group. AR is diagnosed with trans-bronchial biopsy and
      graded using standard histological criteria: A0 (none), A1 (minimal), A2 (mild), A3
      (moderate) or A4 (severe). A stable 10% decrease of forced expiratory volume in 1 second
      (FEV1) on baseline will be considered as AR even though trans-bronchial biopsy is not
      available. In addition, lymphocyte immunophenotype (with particular regard to CD4 + and CD25
      +), the cytokine profile (interleukine (IL) 4, IL-10, IL-12 measured by High Resolution
      Cytokines Array) and the extracellular vesicles content are tested to assess the therapeutic
      response. Finally, anti-HLA antibodies are tested to understand their dynamics.

      The ECP safety is assessed by recording every adverse effect with specific attention to
      opportunistic infections.

      In conclusion, this study aims to verify whether the induction therapy with ECP can
      dramatically decrease the rate of acute rejection in order to impact positively on the main
      cause of mortality in lung transplantation: the chronic rejection.
    
  