
    
      While post-operative pain seems to be slightly decreased compared to open nephrectomies, pain
      from laparoscopic nephrectomy is still significant and opioid consumption is similar.Adequate
      management of post-operative pain is imperative in early post-operative mobilization.
      ¬Although opioids have been a mainstay for the treatment of post-operative pain, other
      strategies should be considered as opioids are associated with adverse effects, the potential
      for long-term opioid use, and even death. There have been an increasing number of opioid
      related deaths with 2,066 apparent opioid-related deaths in Canada over the first half of
      2018. With the need to address the worsening opioid crisis, it is essential that other
      non-opioid strategies are explored and considered. Multimodal anesthesia has been one effort
      to reduce opioid use post-operatively. Increasingly, the literature shows that peripheral
      nerve blocks reduce post-operative opioid consumption in a vast variety of surgeries.

      Traditionally patients undergoing laparoscopic nephrectomy have opioid patient controlled
      analgesia pumps (PCAs) for post-operative pain control. PCA is widely recognized as an
      effective technique after laparoscopic nephrectomy to reduce pain scores. A meta-analysis of
      49 articles showed PCA had better postoperative pain control than nurse administered
      analgesics over most time intervals with higher patient satisfaction. Complications of a PCA
      include respiratory depression, confusion or sedation, nausea, pruritus, ileus, and
      insufficient analgesia. Paravertebral blocks (PVB) have recently showed promise and
      increasing clinical uptake due to a growing use of ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia.
      They provide good pain control in patients undergoing thoracic and abdominal surgeries. In
      PVB, local anesthetic is injected near the thoracic spinal nerve at its exit from the
      intervertebral foramina, which results in unilateral somatic and sympathetic nerve blockade
      in multiple continuous thoracic dermatomes above and below the site of injection. However,
      this technique is technically challenging, time consuming, and carries a risk of
      pneumothorax. Fascial plane blocks are increasingly used as an alternative regional
      anesthetic strategy for abdominal surgery.

      Recently ultrasound-guided Erector Spinae Plane (ESP) block was described in which local
      anesthetic is injected around the erector spinae muscle which tends to block the dorsal and
      ventral rami of the thoracic spinal nerves. There is growing evidence of its use in a wide
      range of surgeries. The appeal of the ESP block is in providing analgesia without the
      potential for needle pleura interaction and the consequent risk of pneumothorax. This
      interfascial block involves ultrasound guided injection of local anesthetics under the
      erector spinae muscle and superficial to transverse process of thoracic vertebrae at
      appropriate level. The ESP block targets the dorsal and ventral rami of the spinal nerves as
      they leave the intervertebral foramen. Cadaveric examination of ESP block showed extensive
      cranial-caudal spread of the block, approximately four dermatomes above and below the site of
      injection. The fact that the site of injection is distant from the spinal cord and pleura,
      increases the safety of the ESP block as compared to a paravertebral block. The transverse
      process is easily visualized on ultrasound and acts as a backstop for the needle, preventing
      excessively deep placement. Of importance, a catheter can also be placed easily during the
      ESP block allowing continuous infusion and prolonged analgesia. Given the importance of
      providing adequate analgesia in patients undergoing laparoscopic nephrectomy and the lack of
      consensus amongst surgeons and anesthesiologists for the optimal analgesic technique, we are
      proposing a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) to determine the feasibility of a larger
      RCT to compare continuous ESP blockade vs a Sham blockade. Both groups will receive opioid
      PCA and other multimodal analgesia combined with opioid PCA versus opioid PCA alone.

      Literature review: We conducted a review via Pubmed looking at all studies associated with
      "erector spinae block". Of the studies found, 123 relevant studies were reviewed. The studies
      included 92 case reports and 4 randomized control trials, with the others being anatomical
      reviews, editorials, or small review articles. Of these, there were only 4 patients from 1
      case series article where patients received ESP blocks for laparoscopic nephrectomies. None
      of these patients required post-operative opioids in addition to their ESP block infusions.
      We also reviewed clinicaltrials.gov for ongoing and proposed trials related to the ESP block.
      Currently, we identified 51 studies involving the ESP block. The vast majority of these
      revolved around thoracic and general surgery, including some randomized controlled trials.
      There was only 1 proposed trial studying the use of the ESP block with nephrectomies, but
      this one was evaluating surgeries
    
  