
    
      Maintenance therapy refers to systemic therapy that may be given for patients with advanced
      NSCLC after 4 to 6 cycles of first-line chemotherapy. However, patients are only candidates
      for maintenance therapy if they have responded to their previous treatment or have stable
      disease and their tumors have not progressed. Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine
      kinase inhibitors (EGFRTKIs) such as Iressa and Erlotinib have proved effective in first or
      second line therapy for advanced pulmonary adenocarcinoma. Targeted therapy maintenance can
      be partly extend patient's TTP, but the toxicity and the side effects of targeted therapy
      will decrease QOL. Besides, high cost of targeted therapy will cause greater economic
      pressure on patients.The investigators' preliminary studies have shown that traditional
      Chinese medicine (TCM) can prolong survival time and improve QOL, but high-level evidences
      are needed.

      The investigators perform a multicenter, randomized, double blind controlled, prospective
      study in advanced pulmonary adenocarcinoma patients with stage Ⅲ～Ⅳ. Advanced pulmonary
      adenocarcinoma patients after first-line chemotherapy will choose maintenance therapy
      according to the patient's wishes, including targeted therapy maintenance, chemotherapy
      maintenance and TCM maintenance therapy. Patients who choose targeted therapy maintenance are
      randomized over observational group (TCM granules plus targeted therapy maintenance),and
      control group (TCM placebo plus targeted therapy maintenance). The treatment should be
      continued until evidence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, and after that
      regular follow-up will be arranged. The primary efficacy assessments are: OS (overall
      survival); Secondary efficacy assessments are: (1) PFS (progression-free survival); (2)
      Objective response rate; (3) QOL (Functional Assessment of Cancer therapy-lung, FACT-L4.0
      scales; Lung Cancer Symptom Scale, LCSS); (4) other efficacy assessments are: 1) TCM symptoms
      changes; 2) Toxicity, side effects and security of the treatments will be assessed at the
      same time. The investigators expect that integrated TCM combined with targeted therapy
      maintenance has a better efficacy on prolonging progression-free survival time, overall
      survival, improving QOL of patients than that of targeted therapy maintenance. Therefore the
      study can provide evidences for optimizing and promoting integrated TCM combined with Western
      Medicine treatment.
    
  