
    
      Infections caused by resistant gram-negative bacteria are becoming increasingly prevalent and
      now constitute a serious threat to public health worldwide because they are difficult to
      treat and are associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. Among nosocomial
      infections, the most major threat represent infections caused by multidrug-resistant (MDR)
      and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) Gram-negative pathogens. The most problematic are the
      ESKAPE microorganisms, an acronym of the most frequently isolated MDR bacteria (Enterococcus
      faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas
      aeruginosa and Enterobacter spp).

      Extended-spectrum β-lactamases (ESBLs) have emerged as a major source of antimicrobial
      resistance in gram-negative pathogens. Generally encoded by plasmid-borne genes, these
      enzymes confer resistance to penicillins, cephalosporins, and aztreonam. In addition, their
      presence in bacteria has been associated with resistance to other classes of nonpenicillin
      antibiotics, including fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and
      β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitor combinations. Thus, ESBL-producing organisms often possess a
      multidrug resistance phenotype. Furthermore ESBL production has been associated with severe
      adverse clinical and economic outcomes, including increased mortality, increased length of
      stay, delay in the institution of effective therapy, decreased functional status on
      discharge, and increased cost of care.

      The recent emergence and spread of infections caused by carbapenem-resistant
      Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) are concerning because carbapenems have represented a last line of
      defense against resistant strains of gram-negative pathogens [6]. The most clinically
      relevant carbapenemases in Enterobacteriaceae are the class D enzymes of the OXA-48 group,
      class A enzymes of the KPC type and the zinc-dependent class B metallo-β-lactamases (MβLs),
      represented mainly by the VIM, IMP, and NDM type.

      Carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteria cause serious infections in debilitated and
      immunocompromised patients, in association with prolonged hospital stays and increased
      mortality rates, ranging from 24% to as high as 70%, depending on the study population [8,9].
      Given the critical condition of these patients, treatment should be timely and rapidly
      efficacious. However, therapeutic options are obviously limited.

      The environmental bacterium P. aeruginosa is one of the most important nosocomial pathogens,
      especially in intensive care units. Intrinsic and acquired antibiotic resistance makes P.
      aeruginosa one of the most difficult organisms to treat. The high intrinsic antibiotic
      resistance of P. aeruginosa is due to several mechanisms: a low outer membrane permeability,
      the production of an AmpC β-lactamase, and the presence of numerous genes coding for
      different multidrug resistance efflux pumps[10]. Loss of OprD is the most prevalent mechanism
      of resistance to carbapenems and is associated with resistance to imipenem and reduced
      susceptibility to meropenem [11].

      In the United States, there has been a steady increase since 2000 in rates of
      extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing Enterobacteriaceae, carbapenem-resistant
      Enterobacteriaceae, and multidrug-resistant strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
      Acinetobacter baumannii, particularly among hospitalized patients with intraabdominal
      infections, urinary tract infections, ventilator-associated pneumonia, and bacteremia [12].

      In Russia there are some key issues of antimicrobial resistance according to the national
      multicenter surveillance study on antimicrobial resistance of nosocomial pathogens,
      "MARATHON" (2011-2012). Data were collected in 25 hospitals of 18 cities of Russia (1700
      isolates). Enterobacteriaceae isolates jointly comprised 33.7% of all bacterial nosocomial
      isolates. Production of ESBL was detected in 78.2% of all isolates [13]. Thus there is an
      extremely high frequency of resistance to 3rd gen. cephalosporins in all species of
      Enterobacteriaceae (> 80%) and especially K. Pneumoniae (> 90%), due mainly spread of ESBL
      (78%), which complicates the possibility of their use in the empirical treatment of
      nosocomial infections caused by Enterobacteriaceae [14].

      The level of resistance to carbapenems among Enterobacteriaceae was: non-susceptibility to
      meropenem - 2.8%, to imipenem - 8.4%, to ertapenem - 14.0%, including conferred by
      carbapenemases - 3.7% of isolates OXA-48 (3.3%), NDM (0.4%) [13].

      Despite the fact that the carbapenems are active against most (86-97%) of nosocomial
      Enterobacteriaceae strains, the proportion of isolates resistant to carbapenems is increasing
      rapidly [14].

      In Russia P. aeruginosa is the most common nosocomial pathogen, comprising 20.2% of all
      bacterial nosocomial isolates. The high level of resistance P. aeruginosa to carbapenems and
      high level of MBL were detected: resistance to imipenem - 88.0%, to meropenem - 66.8%,
      including resistance conferred by VIM-type MBL in 28.3% of the isolates [15].

      The above date shows the need to develop novel antimicrobials. In an era of increasing
      resistance to antimicrobials, ceftolozane-tazobactam provides clinicians with an additional
      treatment option for infections caused by multidrug-resistant Gram-negative organisms,
      including ESBL-Enterobacteriaceae and carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa[16]. In vitro,
      ceftolozane-tazobactam has been shown to be active against P. aeruginosa and demonstrates
      high activity against Enterobacteriaceae [17]. Ceftolozane-tazobactam demonstrated in vitro
      activity against Enterobacteriaceae in the presence of some ESBLs and other betalactamases of
      the TEM, SHV,CTX-M, and OXA groups.

      This study will assess the activity of ceftolozane-tazobactam against contemporary clinical
      isolates of the family Enterobacteriaceae and P. aeruginosa, including those with resistance
      to extended-spectrum cephalosporins and carbapenems. It will also assess the prevalence of
      various ESBLs of TEM-, SHV-, CTX-M- and GES-types, as well as carbapenemases of class A (KPC,
      GEScarb.), class D (OXA-48-like) and class B (NDM, VIM, IMP) and will evaluate the in vitro
      activities of ceftolozane-tazobactam and other antimicrobials against nosocomial isolates
      with respect to their beta-lactamase content. The results of this study will help to advance
      the understanding of ceftolozane-tazobactam's role in Russian hospitals.
    
  