
    
      Nowadays, more and more patients are receiving anticancer treatment by mouth. In this
      context, the development of oral chemotherapy represents a challenge to our health system as
      it means adapting the hospital's organization and making it safer to manage patients who are
      becoming autonomous and responsible for following their oral anti-cancer treatment at home.

      According to the French National Cancer Institute, around 5,000 new cases of multiple myeloma
      (MM) are detected each year, and this figure is on the increase year by year. It is more
      common in people aged over 70. Patients treated have several risk factors for not respecting
      medication adherence such as age, polypharmacy related to the presence of other chronic
      pathologies, and associated comorbidities. Furthermore, the patterns of administering oral
      anticancer medication for multiple myeloma are complex.

      In a previous study we designed a clinical pharmaceutical consultation guide with a view to
      improving patients' adherence to their oral anticancer treatment. This guide was designed and
      validated by a multidisciplinary workgroup to ensure that it was readable, understandable and
      easy to memorize for the patients being treated for multiple myeloma. The guide was designed
      so that the information given was reproducible from one patient to another, whoever the
      pharmacist might be, by standardizing the information given. Our hypothesis is that the
      guided consultation would make it possible to minimize the rate of discordance observed
      compared with the usual, standard type of management.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of the guided consultation
      (Intervention) by evaluating the rate of discrepancies observed compared with the theoretical
      therapeutic pattern prescribed, compared with a control group(standard management) for
      patients with multiple myeloma on their first cure of oral anticancer medication.

      Secondary objectives are:

      A. For both groups in the study, evaluate the patients' level of knowledge and understanding
      of their treatment.

      B. In the interventional group, evaluate the acceptability of the intervention by the
      patient.

      C. For both groups in the study, evaluate the attitude of the patients when faced with
      intercurrent events (foreseeable with oral anticancer treatment) for example : fever over
      38.5°C, nosebleeds and /or bleeding gums, breathlessness, respiratory difficulties, chest
      pain, swelling, pain or redness in the legs, digestive difficulties, insomnia, fatigue,
      tingling, numb fingers or toes.

      D. For both groups in the study, evaluate the adherence to treatment (adherence rate in
      percentages).

      E. Evaluate the rate of discrepancies per item : treatment started in due time, right
      molecule taken at the right moment, respect of days when no medication is to be taken, day
      when treatment is to be stopped.
    
  