
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      International, multi-centre, prospective, partially randomised patient-preference trial.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Study population: Eligible patients are aged 12-25 years with luminal Crohn's disease (CD) or
      ulcerative colitis (UC), who have three consecutive faecal calprotectin (FC) results in the
      target range (i.e. <250 µg/g for CD patients; <150 µg/g for UC patients) over a period of 6
      months at study entry or recently confirmed endoscopic remission.

      DE-ESCALATION STRATEGY:

      In patients treated with adalimumab, the dosing interval will be lengthened from 2 to 3
      weeks. In patients treated with infliximab, the dosing interval will be lengthened from 8 to
      12 weeks. FC rapid tests will be performed every 4 weeks and rapid tests for anti-TNF trough
      levels will be performed every 12 weeks.

      MAIN STUDY ENDPOINTS:

      The primary outcome is the cumulative incidence of out-of-range FC results at 48 weeks
      follow-up. Secondary endpoints include time to get out-of-range FC results, cumulative
      incidence of anti-TNF associated adverse effects, proportion of patients progressing from
      out-of-range FC to loss-of-response and identification of predictors of successful
      de-escalation.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS:

      Patients with reduced anti-TNF exposure may have a higher risk of out-of-range FC results
      and, on the other hand, may benefit from fewer hospital visits or injections and possibly a
      decrease in adverse effects of anti-TNF therapy. Tight monitoring of FC levels (i.e.
      4-weekly) will allow institution of re-escalation before the patient manifests clinical signs
      of relapse. This study cannot be conducted without the participation of minors and young
      adults, who typically have a short disease duration. Early treatment with anti-TNF agents
      possibly modifies the course of their disease, which makes provision for safe deescalation.
    
  