
    
      On 12 January 2020, a novel coronavirus was identified as the cause of an outbreak of
      unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. This coronavirus was later named
      SARS-CoV-2, and the disease it causes COVID-19.

      SARS-CoV-2 is a non-segmented, positive sense RNA virus and part of the family of
      coronaviruses. Similar to the Systemic Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) virus, it binds to
      the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor located on type II alveolar cells and
      intestinal epithelia. SARS-CoV-2 can result in a severe Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome
      (ARDS) which is characterised by diffuse alveolar damage and direct viral cytopathic effect
      on pneumocytes. Some patients who develop COVID19 may respond with a fulminant "cytokine
      storm" reaction.

      As of 23 March 2020, a total of 374,921 COVID-19 cases have been reported in 168 countries
      with a total of over 16,411 deaths (case fatality amongst confirmed cases of 4.4%) (John
      Hopkins's Coronavirus Resource centre). Over 293,425 cases and 13,258 deaths have been
      reported from countries outside mainland China. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared
      on the 12th of March the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak a pandemic in the context of a Public Health
      Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) [4]. Europe has rapidly become the epicentre of
      the pandemic and in the UK, cases are increasing daily. There have been 6,724 confirmed cases
      in the UK as of 23 March 2020, including 190 confirmed inpatients at St George's Hospital NHS
      Trust (23 March 2020 , Dr. Breathnach, personal communication).

      Because of the lack of a validated serological test, the actual number, and therefore the
      proportion, of people that develop asymptomatic infection remains unknown. This means that an
      accurate case fatality estimate remains elusive. Due to the rise in the number of diagnostic
      samples, tests are taking longer than expected. Among the foremost priorities to facilitate
      public health interventions is a reliable laboratory diagnosis. Prompt case ascertainment is
      necessary to ensure rapid and effective contact tracing, implementation of infection
      prevention and control measures according to WHO recommendations, and collection of relevant
      epidemiological and clinical information.

      Because of the lack of a validated serological test, the actual number, and therefore the
      proportion, of people that develop asymptomatic infections remains unknown. This means that
      an accurate case fatality estimate remains elusive. Due to the rise of the number of samples
      to diagnose, tests are taking longer than expected. Among the foremost priorities to
      facilitate public health interventions is a reliable laboratory diagnosis. Prompt case
      confirmation is necessary to ensure rapid and effective contact tracing, implementation of
      infection prevention and control measures according to WHO recommendations, and collection of
      relevant epidemiological and clinical information.

      The experience in China has been that around 15% of patients with confirmed infection develop
      severe disease and around 5% become critically ill. In the UK, a modelling analysis by the
      Imperial College COVID-19 Response Team suggests that even with the implementation of
      self-isolation measures (household quarantine and social distancing) the surge limits for
      both general wards and ICU beds will be exceeded 8-fold. Furthermore, a relaxation of these
      mitigation measures is likely to lead to a rebound of cases until there is an effective
      vaccine - which is not expected for some 12-18 months. We can therefore clearly expect a
      significant number of inpatients with COVID-19 infection in the UK in the coming months.

      The SARS-CoV-2 antigen and antibody lateral flow assay (LFA) development has been led by
      Mologic, a company based in Bedford. We will use prototype LFA and ELISA that are ready for
      preliminary evaluation, and subsequently use these tests on-site to evaluate the test at POC.
      LFA have been developed for SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection in throat/ nose swabs and detection
      of IgG and IgM in blood/serum and SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection, IgG, IgM and IgA in saliva.
      Saliva is an exciting sample to use as it is far easier to use than blood or throat / nose
      swabs for potential self-testing.

      Additionally, it is currently unknown why some patients develop severe COVID-19, while others
      affected by the same SARS-CoV-2 infection display only mild symptoms. Co-morbidities such as
      hypertension, kidney disease and diabetes have been linked to poorer prognosis and clinical
      outcomes. However, a proportion of patients of younger age and without comorbidities also
      develop severe disease- and there is a need for greater understanding of the
      immunopathogenesis of severe COVID-19 infection is important.

      The use of diagnostics developed within this study will improve the management of cases of
      COVID-19. The LFA are rapid, easy to use and designed to be affordable globally. The rapid
      diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 with antigen detection will allow patients to be rapidly triaged in
      hospital, GP surgeries and other places such as immigration areas. They are sufficiently
      cheap to be appropriate for use in low- and middle-income countries. The use of antibody
      detection will allow both for diagnosis of immunological response to acute infections as well
      as after patients have recovered later . To utilise these tests appropriately an
      understanding of dynamic immunopathological changes over time is necessary.

      Characterisation of immune response and susceptibility and its association with viral
      clearance and disease progression on in large cohorts with varied disease severity is
      important to assist clinical risk prediction outcomes and evaluate the potential for novel
      immunotherapeutic interventions. Immune response characteristics may have predictive and
      prognostic value, with early adaptive immune responses possibly correlated with improved
      clinical outcomes.
    
  