
    
      Research questions include:

        1. What is the average magnitude of placebo or nocebo effects on pain and on itch, across
           included studies?

        2. Across studies that tested multiple learning processes for placebo and nocebo effects on
           pain, is the magnitude of a placebo or nocebo effect on pain different based on the
           learning process used to induce the effect?

        3. Does the magnitude of placebo or nocebo effects differ between the sensations of pain
           and itch?

        4. Are nocebo effects on pain and itch stronger than placebo effects on pain and itch, as
           measured by their relative magnitude?

      Dependent upon search results, the researchers intend to answer questions 1 and 2 with
      meta-analysis, and questions 3 and 4 with systematic review.

      Search Strategy:

      PubMed, PsycINFO, EMBASE, and the Cochrane CENTRAL Methodology Library will be searched.
      Languages are restricted to English, Dutch, and German. Publication period is not restricted.
      Searches were initially conducted on March 18th, 2019. The detailed key-worded search
      strategy will not be made publicly available until this review is complete.

      Condition or domain being studied:

      Experimental induction of placebo or nocebo effects on somatosensory sensations (i.e., pain
      and/or itch). For the purposes of in- and exclusion, studies are considered to have induced a
      placebo or nocebo effect if the (supposed) administration of an inert treatment, is paired
      with a given learning process attempt to induce positive or negative outcome-effects

      Participants/population:

      Healthy, adult human volunteers. Patient samples will not be included to improve homogeneity
      of the results.

      Data extraction:

      Titles and abstracts of articles retrieved using the search strategy and those from
      additional sources will be screened by two independent reviewers to identify studies that
      potentially meet the inclusion criteria outlined above. The full text of these articles and
      articles about which doubts exist based on the title and/or abstract will be retrieved and
      assessed for eligibility by two independent reviewers. Full texts that are considered to be
      possibly eligible for inclusion or about which doubts exist will also be assessed for
      eligibility by a third reviewer. Two independent reviewers will use a standardized form to
      extract data from the included studies to derive study characteristics, assess study quality,
      and for data analysis. Extracted information will include details of the intervention,
      control condition, study population, sensation type and how sensations were measured (e.g.
      self-report), type of experimental induction (i.e., learning method used), type of expectancy
      (i.e., placebo or nocebo), information for quality assessment, and outcome data for
      meta-analysis (e.g., sample size, mean, and standard deviation). Doubts regarding
      data-extraction will be resolved through discussion with a second review author. Missing data
      will be requested from the study authors.

      Risk of bias assessment:

      Risk of bias will be assessed using the method developed by Marcuzzi and colleagues in 2013
      specifically for quantitative sensory testing studies. This method assesses 1) whether the
      sample was clearly described, 2) whether the sample is representative of the population, 3)
      whether the somatosensory assessment methods are standardized, validated, and well described,
      4) adequate blinding if relevant, and 5) whether potential confounders were taken into
      account.

      Strategy for data synthesis:

      A quantitative synthesis, using aggregate data, of the data is planned. The (standardized)
      mean difference (with a 95% confidence interval) will be calculated for all included studies
      for which sufficient data are available. Both between and within subject designs will be
      included; sensitivity analyses will be conducted to test for a difference in design type
      (within/between). If significant differences are detected, design type will be included in
      the analyses as a moderator variable). Subsequently, the pooled effects for each of the
      experimental induction will be analyzed using a random-effects model. The effects of
      experimental inductions will also be compared between placebo and nocebo effects. If
      sufficient data are available, the effects of the experimental inductions will be compared
      between different somatosensory sensations (see below). Where statistical pooling is not
      possible, the findings of the systematic review will be presented in narrative form.
      Heterogeneity will be assessed with the I2 statistic, by visual inspection of the forest
      plot(s), and by subset analyses (see below). The presence of publication bias will also be
      assessed (e.g., via inspection of a funnel plot).
    
  