
    
      Phase 1 will recruit 8-12 obese women from the target population. Initially, 4-6 women will
      explore dietary guidance and study interventions and to determine how best to tailor the
      intervention. A repeat set of structured interviews will be conducted with the
      community-based modifications to provide an assessment of the perceived efficacy of the
      intervention. Structured interviews will provide feedback on dietary interventions including
      specific advice on caloric recommendations during pregnancy, level of reassurance by negative
      ketonuria on urine specimens (which indicates the diet is supplying the nutrition necessary
      to maintain a healthy pregnancy), general level of trust/interaction with providers,
      maintaining food diary, and how obesity issues directly affect their lifestyles and health.

      Phase 2 will be a prospective randomized trial in which obese women will be recruited in the
      first trimester. Study participants will be identified by providers in the Truman Medical
      Center clinic population and includes obese pregnant women less than 16 weeks in gestational
      age during the pregnancy. Dates will be confirmed by standard practices including using last
      menstrual period and obstetric ultrasound. Once potential women are identified they will be
      directed to study coordinators who will determine study eligibility (BMI >30, 16 weeks or
      less pregnant, willing to participate, singleton pregnancy, normal 1 hour glucola) and
      consent patients for the study. Women will be randomized to usual care or dietary
      intervention using opaque numbered envelopes that are generated by blinded statistician.

      The dietary intervention will be conducted by a registered dietician once. Patients in the
      study arm will receive a detailed intake and specific dietary guidelines. The dietary
      guidelines for study participants will be similar to those for gestational diabetes including
      18 to 24 kcal/kg diet with 40% carbohydrates, 30% protein, 30% fat. No participant will be
      given a diet that is less than 2,000 kcal per day. Recording daily food/beverage intake in a
      diary has been associated with improved adherence to dietary recommendations and is one of
      the more effective interventions for behavioral modification. Therefore, study participants
      will be asked to record a food/beverage diary and to bring it to prenatal visits. Recent
      evidence suggests that highly dense and acellular processed foods are associated with an
      inflammatory state that leads to more absorption of lipids and deposition of fat.18,19 Study
      participants will be counseled to limit intake of highly calorie dense and acellular
      processed foods and beverages to 1-2 times per week if at all and to increase total
      percentage of fruits and vegetables to 5-9 items per day.

      It is expected that some women may lose weight during this clinical trial as 40% of women
      lost weight in a similar trial8. Although those women lost weight, there were no instances of
      starvation or ketonuria on routine screening and there was no difference in infant birth
      weights between the two groups.8 Routine urinalysis is performed during pregnancy and
      screening for ketonuria can indicate metabolic evidence of starvation.

      Therefore, to monitor safety during our study, routine urinalysis will be inspected and
      evidence of starvation ketonuria (2+ on urine dip, or 40mg/dl) will prompt investigation by
      study staff on the cause and determine whether it is related to the study protocol. No
      evidence of maternal ketonuria was documented in over 200 women in the previous study.8

      Data safety and monitoring will be conducted every 6 months by the medical monitor for the
      study, Michael Sheehan, MD (neonatologist). The medical monitor is specifically chosen
      outside of the department of ob/gyn to allow for objectivity. Adverse events which would
      require immediate suspension of the study for review would include maternal death, maternal
      ICU admission, or a total of 2 perinatal deaths in the study group. Unanticipated adverse
      events will be reported immediately to the Human Subjects Committee, and its recommendations
      for temporary cessation or continuation of the study will be followed. The natural frequency
      of perinatal death at Truman after 16 weeks in obese women is a maximum of 2 perinatal deaths
      in the 50 women in the study group. If we assume the intervention is no better than current
      standard of practice then a maximum of 2 perinatal death cases should serve as the rule for
      study suspension and review. If more than 4 perinatal deaths occur then the study should be
      concluded as this is more than the expected deviation.

      Women will complete an intake assessment including maternal height and weight, food frequency
      and quality of life questionnaires and these will be repeated in the 3rd trimester and at 12
      months postpartum.

      Missing data will be handled in two separate ways for analysis. Numerical values such as
      missing weight, height, birth weight, etc. will be handled as follows. Three separate
      attempts will be made to locate the data. For instance, if a patient delivered at another
      hospital then the patient and hospital will be contacted on 3 separate occasions to obtain
      the delivery records. Initially, missing data will be excluded from the analysis. Second,
      missing data will be imputed from last values reported for study participant (for maternal
      weight, height if within 2 weeks) or the average value for the group will be imputed as the
      value (ex: birth weight, maternal weight at delivery) if feasible to determine if missing
      values alter the analysis. Both methods will be reported.
    
  