
    
      Children under two are consuming less than half of their daily energy requirements (560 kcal)
      and lower than recommended levels of micronutrients (one-third of reference nutrient intake
      for Iron and one-half for Zinc). Overall, less than 4% of children were receiving an
      acceptable, diverse diet. Food security and nutrition situation in Sindh province is even
      more dramatic. According to the National Nutrition Survey, 2011, GAM prevalence exceeds 18%
      while anemia levels amongst children under five reached the alarming level of 72.5%. With
      this high level of poverty and food insecurity, a food based approach to prevent stunting,
      together with non- food based approaches is needed.

      Therefore, Division of Women and Child Health, Aga Khan University proposes a research study
      for stronger evidence base on the effectiveness of preventive food/nutrient based
      interventions on reduction of stunting and developing viable programmes on nutrition under
      "real" operational conditions. The effectiveness of the project will be measured in terms of
      the impact of the proposed interventions on the stunting and micronutrient deficiency
      prevalences in the target group (children and mothers). Given the conditions of project
      implementation, a quasi-experimental "double difference" design would be appropriate to
      assess the impact of the intervention. We propose to compare the intervention and
      non-intervention (control) groups before (first difference) and after the intervention
      (second difference). Then, the operational implementation of the research comprises a
      baseline and end line surveys. In addition, a nested cluster randomized controlled trial will
      be implemented to track the evolution of key variables related to the quality of intervention
      delivery and intermediate nutrition outcomes. The control clusters will receive routine
      public and private health services available in the area.

      To achieve its purpose and objectives the project design includes core interventions such as
      complementary feeding using food/nutrient based supplements along with behavior change
      communication, complemented with other non-food interventions. Using a preventative (blanket)
      approach, three types of food/nutrient supplements (Wawamum, MNP & WSB) are considered as
      part of the interventions.
    
  