
    
      Carmustine, cytarabine, etoposide, melphalan, and rituximab are all standard chemotherapy
      drugs.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups. Participants in one group will receive
      high dose rituximab with transplantation and high dose chemotherapy. Participants in the
      other group will receive standard dose rituximab with transplantation and high dose
      chemotherapy. The first 10 patients enrolled on this study will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group. After the first 10 participants are enrolled, the remaining
      participants will have a higher chance of being assigned to the group that has proven to be
      more effective.

      All participants will have a plastic tube (catheter) inserted under their collarbone. This
      catheter will be left in place for the entire treatment period. The catheter will be used to
      deliver most of the drugs and for the collection and transfusion of the stem cells. When
      possible, all drugs that need to be given by vein will be given using the catheter.

      Stem cell collection is done on a separate study and patients will take part in this study
      only after the stem cell collection is complete. You should have an adequate number of stem
      cells collected and stored before you can be eligible for high-dose chemotherapy and
      transplantation.

      All treatment will be given at M. D. Anderson. You will be admitted to the hospital to
      receive high dose chemotherapy and will stay in the hospital for 3-4 weeks. You will be given
      carmustine by vein over 1 hour on Day 1. On Days 2 - 5, you will be given cytarabine by vein
      over 1 hour and etoposide by vein over 3 hours. This will be repeated every 12 hours on Days
      2-5. On Day 6, you will be given melphalan by vein over 30 minutes. On Day 7, the stem cells
      that were collected earlier will be given back to you ("transplanted") through the catheter
      over 30-45 minutes.

      You will also receive either high dose or standard dose rituximab by vein over 4-6 hours one
      day after the transplant (Day 1) and then again 1 week later (Day 8).

      You will receive G-CSF injections staring at Day 1 (one day after transplant or stem cell
      infusion). These will continue our cell count reaches the appropriate level for at least 3
      days in a row. Blood tests (2 teaspoons) will be done every day while you are in the hospital
      to track the effects of the transplant.

      You will be asked to return to M. D. Anderson at 3 months and 6 months after transplantation,
      then every 6 months for 3 years, and then once a year up to 5 years from the transplant date.
      At each visit you will get blood work (1-2 tablespoons), CT scans, and other tests like bone
      marrow (if needed) to determine the status of your lymphoma.

      This is an investigational study. All of the drugs used in this study are FDA approved and
      are commercially available. Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  