
    
      Early rehabilitation is crucial for patients in a minimally conscious state (MCS). The
      reorganization of neuronal structures and the recovery of cognitive processes as well as
      emotional and physical functions are most important. To reach these goals, animal-assisted
      therapy (AAT) is part of the therapeutic concept at REHAB Basel. Regarding the results of our
      previous studies at REHAB Basel, patients with brain-injuries can profit from animal-assisted
      therapy in terms of socioemotional skills and therapy motivation. Furthermore, patients with
      severe disorder of consciousness showed more behavioural reactions and arousal during AAT
      compared to standard therapy sessions. However, there is no research investigating if AAT can
      help to facilitate reaching rehabilitation goals in patients in a MCS and therefore advance
      neurorehabilitation. Hence, this study investigates if animal-assisted occupational therapy
      can facilitate attainment of therapeutic goals.

      The main outcome is the amount of achievement of predefined, patient-specific therapeutic
      goals. This will be measured via the JFK Coma Remission Scale revised (CSR-R), the Basler
      Vegetative State Assessment (BAVESTA) and on a goal attainment scale in %, filled out by the
      therapist.

      Secondary outcomes are:

        1. Behavioural reactions via behavioral video coding

        2. Heart rate, Heart rate variability (HR/HRV)

        3. Electrodermal activity (EDA) / Galvanic skin response (GSR)

      The investigators will include 30 patients fulfilling the following inclusion criteria:
      Inpatients of REHAB Basel in a minimally conscious state (defined via the CRS-R according to
      the Aspen criteria); Minimum age of 18 years; Informed consent documented by signature by the
      patient's legal representative. The presence of any one of the following exclusion criteria
      will lead to exclusion of the participant: Medical contraindications for contact with animals
      such as allergy, phobia etc.); Enrollment of the investigator, his/her family members,
      employees and other dependent persons.

      The study has a randomized, controlled cross-over design including 30 patients in a minimally
      conscious state. Patients will be randomized and allocated to either study arm 1 or 2 with an
      allocation ratio 1/1. In study arm 1, patients (N=15) receive three weeks of two AAT sessions
      per week followed by three weeks of two control sessions (TAU) per week. In study arm 2,
      patients (N=15) receive three weeks of two control sessions (TAU) per week followed by three
      weeks of two AAT sessions per week. Each session lasts 30 minutes. Before starting the study
      arm 1 or 2 therapists will define individual therapy goals for each patient.

      Measurements will be taken before the study start (pre-measurement, t0), at the end of the
      first 3 weeks therapy (post-measurement I, t1), at the start of the second 3 weeks
      (pre-measurement II, t2) as well as at the study end (post-measurement II, t3).
    
  