
    
      This is a randomised, non-blinded, two-period crossover, non-inferiority study. Stethee®, a
      new wireless digital stethoscope, is designed to minimise ambient noise associated with
      electronic stethoscopes. To date, its acoustic capability in comparison to the conventional
      stethoscope in the auscultation of heart sounds is not known. Therefore, it is important that
      Stethee®'s capability as a stethoscope with sound amplification be evaluated alongside the
      conventional stethoscope prior to its use in the clinical setting. As acoustic performance is
      the primary endpoint, a non-inferiority design is proposed to enable the comparison of the
      mutual functionalities of the two stethoscopes. The rationale for a non-inferiority design is
      that: (a) electronic stethoscopes have shown a marginal benefit over conventional
      stethoscopes in terms of acoustic performance; (b) electronic stethoscopes have several
      functional advantages over conventional stethoscopes: the ability to analyse heart sounds and
      record heart sounds, the availability of a database for storage of heart sounds for remote
      analysis; and (c) electronic stethoscopes were rated better than conventional stethoscopes in
      terms of the overall quality of auscultation.

      The relative capability of Stethee® is compared to that of 3M™ Littmann® Classic III™ by the
      identification of heart sounds simulated by a manikin, which functions as a surrogate
      patient. A random sample of non-specialist doctors stratified by health centres in Perak,
      Malaysia, who meet eligibility criteria and provide written consent to participate, will be
      randomised to initial testing with Stethee® or 3M™ Littmann® Classic III™ to perform cardiac
      auscultation on a manikin and identify a set of 10 heart sounds. After a 10-minute break,
      they will repeat the auscultation of the same 10 simulated heart sounds but played in a
      different sequence with the alternate stethoscope. Following the completion of both tests,
      the doctors will be asked to complete a questionnaire that asks about their preference for
      either Stethee® or 3M™ Littmann® Classic III™ with respect to ease of use, audio clarity, and
      diagnostic accuracy. At the end of the study, answer sheets and preference questionnaires
      will be collected for grading and analysis.
    
  