
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Pawtucket Heart Health Program was a community-based research and demonstration project
      in cardiovascular disease prevention in the town of Pawtucket, Rhode Island and in the
      non-intervention comparison town of New Bedford, Massachusetts. The study was initiated by
      the NHLBI in August, 1980. See also Study 1022.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were four major areas of analysis: 1) gender differences in trends from 1980 to 1991 in
      total event rates, hospital discharge rates, in-hospital case-fatality and out of hospital
      deaths for coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke; 2) gender specific analyses of
      methodological issues which may affect the interpretation of morbidity and mortality
      surveillance data; 3) gender differences in the presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of CHD
      and stroke which may influence morbidity and mortality trends; and 4) gender differences in
      the association between population trends in risk factors and morbidity and mortality trends.

      The study was conducted using morbidity and mortality data collected by the Pawtucket Heart
      Health Program between 1980 and 1993, and risk factor data obtained through biennial
      cross-sectional household health surveys conducted in random samples of residents in the two
      study communities. Morbidity and mortality data were obtained according to standardized
      epidemiologic surveillance methods. Hospitalized cases of coronary heart disease and stroke
      were identified through hospital discharge records and were validated using a standardized
      diagnostic algorithm based on data abstracted from medical records. Out-of-hospital deaths
      identified through death certificate data were validated using an algorithm based upon
      medical history data and information concerning the circumstances of death obtained from
      informant interviews.

      Gender specific trends in both age-adjusted and age specific morbidity and mortality were
      compared. Trends in rates estimated from events classified according to ICD-9 discharge and
      death certificate codes were contrasted with those estimated from cases validated by
      standardized diagnostic algorithms. Data regarding circumstances of death and in-hospital
      treatment were assessed in relation to potential influences on morbidity and mortality
      trends. Absolute changes over time and average annual percent change over time were evaluated
      using linear and log-linear regression regression techniques. Other analytic methods included
      logistic regression and analysis of variance. Expected annual event rates in men and women
      were estimated from risk factor data using equations based upon accelerated failure time
      Weibull models, and the impact of risk factors on mortality rates was assessed by comparing
      predicted with actual rates.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  