
    
      Corneal abrasion (CA) is one of the most common eye injuries, accounting for 10% of
      eye-related emergency visits.1 A 1985 survey showed that around 3% of all visits to US
      general practitioners were for corneal abrasions. In addition, in 2008, approximately 27,450
      work-related eye injuries and illnesses occurred that caused missed time from work.1Due to
      the large number of nerve endings even small corneal injuries can produce significant pain.
      The discomfort is typically most pronounced in the first 24-48 hours, and in many cases
      showed a loss in time at work and disruption of daily activities. The current standard of
      care in the emergency department includes topical analgesia and antibiotics with a change to
      oral analgesics upon discharge. Despite the ineffectiveness of oral analgesics in treating CA
      pain, most physicians do not prescribe topical analgesics based on standard medical teaching.
      This teaching is extrapolated from data from case reports and animal studies reporting
      complications associated with long-term use; including addiction, infection, ulceration, and
      increased healing time. Previous studies have also rejected topical analgesia citing
      equivocal effectiveness and inconclusive safety data. However, all of the early human case
      reports described patients who used topical anesthetics inappropriately-either far too
      frequently, for too prolonged a treatment period, or with too concentrated an anesthetic.
      Contrary to the medical cannon, studies have now begun show the effectiveness of topical
      anesthetics in reducing pain, and safe application when given at low doses and when given in
      quantities lasting only 24-48 hours. A recent prospective, randomized trial, published in
      Academic Emergency Medicine, observed the efficacy and safety of tetracaine compared to
      normal saline in 116 patients presenting with uncomplicated CA. The intervention was either
      undiluted topical tetracaine hydrochloride 1% or saline, applied up to every 30 minutes for
      24 hours. The study showed topical tetracaine used for 24 hours was safe, revealing no
      difference in complications between the two groups, with all individuals attaining full
      healing within 1 month. Additionally, median visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores were lower
      in the tetracaine group at all study time points after presentation, however statistical
      significance was not observed. Furthermore, patient surveys on overall effectiveness revealed
      that patients perceived tetracaine to be significantly more effective than saline. In fact,
      several researchers now recommend that the short-term use of tetracaine eye drops for 24
      hours for pain relief from simple corneal abrasions should become routine practice.
      Nevertheless both skeptics and supporters agree that more research is needed in order to
      appropriately establish topical analgesics as a the standard of care. The importance of
      conducting research in the management of CA is underscored by the significant impact topical
      analgesics may provide in reliving patients pain compared to standard treatment. The study's
      aim is to further investigate the role of tetracaine in the outpatient management of CA
      utilizing models already established to ensure safety. This study will employ a prospective,
      double blind, randomized control model to compare undiluted 1% tetracaine hydrochloride to
      normal saline in patients presenting to the ED with uncomplicated corneal abrasions.
      Tetracaine will be supplied in three plastic prefilled, commercially available vials, each
      containing 0.5 mL of preservative-free, undiluted 1% tetracaine hydrochloride (a total of 1.5
      mL or approximately 50 drops will be provide to avoid overuse). Saline will also be supplied
      in three plastic prefilled, commercially available vials, plastic bullets. Follow up visits
      or calls will be provide at 48 hour to reevaluate symptoms an asses the patients perceived
      pain using VAS provided in participant introduction packet during the informed consent
      process.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      a. Study visits and parameters to be measured Patients will be assessed using a VAS upon
      follow up at 48 hours. Patients will also be evaluated for complications either by phone or
      at a follow-up visit, which is at the participants discretion. All patients will be
      encouraged to follow up with ophthalmology as-per standard protocol.

      c. Drugs to be used (dose, method, schedule of administration, dose modifications,
      toxicities), include Toxicity Grading Scale (if applicable) Tetracaine will be supplied in
      three plastic prefilled, commercially available vials, each containing 0.5 mL of
      preservative-free, undiluted 1% tetracaine hydrochloride (a total of 1.5 mL or approximately
      50 drops will be provide to avoid overuse). Patient will be instructed to use no more than
      1-2 drops in the affected eye every 30 minutes while awake for 24-48 hours

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

        1. List of variables and their definition Variables will include perceived pain using a
           VAS, and overall perceived effectiveness of solution provided.

        2. Outcome measures,endpoints The outcome of interest is weather-or-not tetracaine is
           superior to placebo in controlling pain caused by CA

        3. Type of analysis A two sample T-test will be used comparing the average pain scale
           between the tetracaine and placebo group

        4. Sample size of 100-200 patients is expected
    
  