
    
      The study will be conducted on patients with colorectal cancer with synchronous or
      metachronous liver metastases. Included will be 10-15 patients.

      Predominantly, patients with synchronous metastases will be included into the study. These
      patients present liver metastases at the time of primary tumor resection. Electrochemotherapy
      will be performed on one metastasis not more than 3 cm in largest diameter at the time of the
      primary tumor operation, but patients have to have at least 2 to 8 metastases. These
      metastases will be aimed to be resected in the following operation. It is a standard
      procedure that liver metastases are resected 2-3 months after the primary tumor resection, in
      the meantime they are on standard chemotherapeutic protocol (FOLFOX, FOLFIRI, Capecitabine).
      Only in the case of solitary metastasis smaller than 3 cm in diameter, it is resected during
      the resection of the primary tumor. In the study additional antitumor effectiveness of
      electrochemotherapy to other treatment (chemotherapy) will be evaluated, compared to
      non-electrochemotherapy treated metastases. Treatment effectiveness will be evaluated by
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasonography (US), in a monthly interval. Two to
      three month after the first operation the treated and untreated metastases will be resected
      and thorough histological analysis performed.

      The second group of patients will be with metachronous liver metastases not larger than 3 cm
      in diameter, that location is in the vicinity of hollow liver structures and would not be
      possible to resect them without extensive and potentially jeopardizing liver resection. One
      of them will be treated by electrochemotherapy. In a month interval treatment effectiveness
      will be evaluated by MRI. In the case that metastases will decrease in size and to the
      situation that metastases are resectable, second operation will be performed, metastases
      resected and thorough histopathological evaluation performed. Otherwise standard treatment
      procedure will be performed (chemotherapy).

      All patients will be treated after the procedure is thoroughly described to them, and have
      signed informed consent.
    
  