
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the toxic effects of gadolinium texaphyrin administered to patients
      receiving cranial radiotherapy for glioblastoma multiforme. II. Determine the maximum
      tolerated dose of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile
      of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the biodistribution of gadolinium texaphyrin
      in both neoplastic tissue and normal brain parenchyma. V. Evaluate the effect and
      accumulation of this regimen in normal brain parenchyma and neoplastic tissue by following
      the change in enhancing volume and percent change in signal intensity over time.

      OUTLINE: This is an open label, multicenter study. Arm I: Patients receive radiotherapy once
      a day, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Gadolinium texaphyrin IV is administered every other day
      within 2-5 hours prior to radiotherapy. Patients are evaluated at 1 month, and if no more
      than 1 of 3 patients experiences unacceptable toxicity, 3 patients are entered on the imaging
      portion of the study. Once arm I has successfully entered 3 patients with acceptable toxicity
      profiles and 3 patients in the imaging portion of the study, patient enrollment begins for
      arm II. Arm II: Cohorts of 3-9 patients receive radiotherapy as in arm I and escalating doses
      of gadolinium texaphyrin IV administered within 2-5 hours prior to each radiation dose. The
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of gadolinium texaphyrin is defined as the dose at which no more
      than one third of the patients experience dose limiting toxicity. Arm III: Patients
      experiencing dose limiting toxicity in arm II requiring dose reduction below predetermined
      once a day limit receive gadolinium every other day, with radiotherapy as in arm II. The MTD
      is defined as in arm II. Arm IV: An additional 3 patients are enrolled at the MTD and enter
      the imaging portion of the study. Patients are followed for 1 month after final radiation
      therapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 18 patients will be accrued for this study within 6 months.
    
  