
    
      1. Current knowledge about the field under investigation

           Clinical evidence demonstrates that treatment with immune checkpoint blocker (ICB)
           agents benefit to patients across multiple tumor type. However, development of
           predictive biomarkers is needed to identify patients who are most likely to respond to
           immunotherapy.

           An emerging biomarker for response to immunotherapy is the total number of mutations
           present in a tumor specimen. This biomarker is named mutation load or tumor mutational
           burden (TMB). It is hypothesized that highly mutated tumors are more likely to harbor
           neoantigens targeted by activated immune cells. This metric, allowed by recent advances
           in next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies, notably whole-exome sequencing (WES)
           and RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), has been shown, in several tumor types, to correlate with
           patient response to ICB. Indeed, the TMB has been correlated with clinical benefits of
           anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 therapy in various tumor types, including malignant melanoma
           (Snyder et al., 2014; Van Allen et al., 2015) with a threshold of more than 100
           nonsynonymous single-nucleotide variants (nsSNV) per exome, non-small cell lung cancers
           (NSCLC) (Rizvi et al., 2015) with a threshold defined as superior to 178 nsSNVs per
           exome, and several DNA repair-deficient tumors (Howitt et al., 2015; Le et al., 2015,
           2017). A recent study prospectively confirmed that the PFS among patients with a high
           tumor mutational burden was significantly longer with nivolumab plus ipilimumab than
           with chemotherapy in NSCLC (Hellmann et al., 2018). Overall, a direct link between DNA
           repair deficiency, mutational landscape, predicted neoantigen load, and clinical
           activity of ICB is suggested.

           TMB was defined as the number of somatic, coding, base substitution, and indel mutations
           per megabase of genome examined. All base substitutions and indels in the coding region
           of targeted genes. It has been shown that TMB calculated using cancer gene panel (CGP)
           assay agrees well with whole exome measures of mutation burden (Chalmers et al., 2017).
           This indicates that CGP, targeting the entire coding region of several hundred genes,
           covers sufficient genomic size to accurately assess WES mutational burden. It was found
           that filtering out germline alterations and rare variants was important to obtaining
           accurate measurements of TMB, and this will especially be important in patients from
           ethnic backgrounds not well represented in sequencing datasets. These findings indicate
           that CGP is an accurate, cost-effective, and clinically available tool for measuring
           TMB. The results of down sampling analysis show that the variation in measurement due to
           sampling when sequencing 1.1 Mb is acceptably low, resulting in highly accurate calling
           of TMB at a range of TMB levels. This sampling variation increases as the number of
           megabases sequenced decreases, especially at lower levels of TMB. While targeted CGP can
           be used to accurately assess TMB, it is not currently suited for identification of
           neoantigens, which might occur in any gene. Nevertheless, the theragnostic impact of TMB
           has been also determined with a targeted CGP by the FoundationOne CDx assay (Hellmann et
           al., 2018).

           The failure to assess the TMB may occur at different steps in the analytical process. It
           can be at the sample acquisition with a low level of DNA (5-10%). The NGS processing
           depending on the method can lead to a process failure around 2-3%. And finally, the
           bioinformatic curation will lead to a 3-5% of failure. At the end, the TMB will be
           undetermined with an attrition rate at 15% of the samples (Fondation Medicine Personal
           communication).

           The implementation of tumor mutational burden assessment in a nation-wide perspective is
           challenging and large efforts should be done. Whatever the method, WES or large CGP, the
           measurements of TMB will change the scale of gene sequencing in the molecular platforms.

           It is important that the platforms, where the tumor mutational burden measurement will
           be implemented can be able to calibrate their CGP and compared it to a standard
           reference for the measurement of TMB. Moreover, with the limited quantity of DNA, the
           implemented method needs to produce reliable result for most of the samples. The
           platforms need also to deploy their wet benches processes and their bioinformatics
           pipeline to be able to produce the TMB in a turnaround time compatible with clinical
           patients management.

        2. Description of the population of study participants and justification for the choice of
           participants

           As mentioned above the TMB seems to be is an important marker for ICB efficacy. It is
           therefore important to implement the TMB measurement at a nationwide level to assure the
           equal access to the ICB.

           The French National Cancer Institute (INCa) has labelled molecular platforms which are
           in charge of the different molecular tests should establish their processes to be able
           to face to this new test. This study is designated to test different CGP methods to
           assess tumor mutational burden in lung cancers in order to compare the different methods
           and to identify the drawbacks and failures of the different methods. Results of this
           study should allow to estimate the needs for the implementation of TMB at the nationwide
           level, recommend cancer gene panels, propose validated bioinformatics pipelines and
           finally recommend preanalytical processes for reducing the failure rate of the tests.

           For this purpose this study will determine the TMB on patients with a lung cancer. 200
           patients with a non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and naive of treatment will be
           recruited.

           Three cohorts will be recruited:

             -  100 patients will be included without resection and we will determine the TMB on
                the biopsy specimen

             -  100 patients will be included after surgical resection of their tumor and we will
                determine the TMB on the resected specimen

                  -  Within this cohort, TMB will be assessed both on the biopsy specimen and on
                     the resected specimen for 20 patients 200 patients will be enrolled in order
                     to perform 220 TMB analysis.

           Participating sites are large platforms which were selected on the basis of their
           capacity to implement new tests and which have all facilities for conducting the
           described research. The patients included in this study will correspond to those that
           will receive immune checkpoint inhibitors during the course of their disease. This study
           in a non-interventional study, as it will not modify the clinical care of the patients.
           The tissue sampling will be taken during clinical procedure needed for patient care. The
           study will be proposed to patients after the verification that tissues have been
           collected in a way that is compatible with the present study. Only tumor material and no
           germline DNA will be collected.

           Selected patients will be close to those that receive ICB and the target population will
           be enriched with patients who had been surgically resected, in order to be able to have
           enough tissues to compare in these samples different methods to assess TMB and also to
           compare pre surgical biopsies and surgical specimen.

        3. Description of the element or elements under investigation

      Elements under investigation are the TMB of NSCLC patients. The attrition rate (number of
      cases without result) in the TMB estimation will be assessed. The gold standard for the
      determination of TMB is the WES as it covers all coding regions. Several others Cancer Gene
      Panel methods (CGP) have been described based on cancer gene panels sequencing. The CGP
      included in this study will be the panel from Illumina (TS500), Thermofisher (Oncomine Tumor
      Mutation Load Assay), home-made panel with Agilent technology (Dedicated XT HS) and
      Foundation medicine F1 CDx. It is recognized that size of the cancer gene panels should be
      close to 1Mb to be able to measure reliably the TMB in different type of cancer.

      Different methods of measurement of TMB will be compared in this series on NSCLC in order to
      validate different CGP available on the market or in the different INCa platforms.
      Bioinformatics modelling will try to correlate the TMB results from WES and CGP. For this
      purpose, based on results of mutational load calculated from results of WES, results of
      mutation load will be extrapolated based on a random selection of 1000 genes repeated 1000
      times. The mean of the correlation coefficient (R2) between the tumor mutational burden
      calculated by the whole exome sequencing and by the different random gene panels is 0.88 IQR
      [0.84-0.91] showing that the selection of genes to estimate the TMB should be evaluated
      carefully before to be used in clinical practice (unpublished results). The material that
      will be collected during the study will allow to determine the performance of the CGP
      implemented in the molecular biology platforms.
    
  