
    
      Detailed Description

        1. Study Rationale:

           Attention has been focused recently on the development of modalities that can protect
           healthy organs from the harmful effects of radiation applied during different cancer
           treatment schedules. As radiation-induced DNA and cellular damage involve oxidative
           stress, the protective role of antioxidants will be tested on the toxic condition
           induced by radiotherapy in breast cancer treatment. Consumption of polyphenol-rich
           foods, such as fruits and vegetables, and beverages derived from plants, such as cocoa,
           red wine and tea, may represent a beneficial diet in terms of oxidative protection.
           Indeed, a retrospective study reports that that moderate wine consumption can reduce the
           side-effects of radiation therapy in patients with breast cancer. This effect was
           presumably due to the polyphenol non alcoholic fraction of wine, a finding in agreement
           with a cross-over intervention study in adult male volunteers, on protection by
           de-alcoholized red wine from ex vivo radiation-induced DNA damage. However, there are no
           studies that address the relationship of polyphenol-rich food consumption with the toxic
           effects of radiations in patients undergoing radiotherapy for breast cancer treatment.

        2. Aim of the study. The main objectives of this study are to evaluate the association
           between the effect of polyphenol-rich food supplementation and toxicity of radiotherapy
           for breast cancer.

        3. Study design: Randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind trial with 2 parallel arms:
           soluble corn flour at high content in anthocyanins and placebo. Placebo consists of
           soluble corn flour poor in anthocyanins. The treatment will start one week before
           starting radiotherapy, and continue during all radiotherapy treatment (of 3 or 5 weeks).

        4. Study Population and recruitment: A total of 300 consecutive breast cancer patients
           eligible for radiotherapy. Participants will be identified at the Department of
           Radiotherapy of the Giovanni Paolo II Foundation of Campobasso.

      Eligible subjects will be recruited at their first consultation and subsequently referred to
      the research investigators. The research staff in charge of the recruitment will pre-screen
      participants on the basis of inclusion/exclusion criteria and will explain the study at this
      time.
    
  