
    
      As of 30 April 2020, there were over 3 million confirmed cases worldwide, of which over
      200,000 were fatal. In Russia at the time of writing, 106 thousand cases of COVID-19 were
      registered in 78 regions, with 11619 recovered and 1073 dead. Initial prospective analysis of
      clinical data from 41 patients in Wuhan, with laboratory confirmation of the 2019-nCoV-2
      virus, showed that 2019-nCoV-2 caused severe illness, clinically similar to SARS, which
      sometimes led to the need for hospitalization in the intensive care unit (13 out of 41 [32
      %]) and death (6 out of 41 [15%]). All patients with pneumonia in this study had changes in
      the chest CT scan: preliminary reports indicated that all patients had bilateral lung
      infiltration.

      Given the current prevalence of the disease and the nonspecific symptoms, we expect a
      significant increase in chest CT scans shortly. A low-dose chest CT scan can be performed
      with an effective dose of no more than 3.5 mSv, which is much lower than the dose received
      with a standard protocol - 8-10 mSv.

      The investigators hypothesize that a patient with suspected pneumonia can have a low-dose
      chest CT scan instead of a standard CT while maintaining the accuracy of the method in the
      diagnosis of inflammatory pulmonary tissue infiltration. The advantage of participating in
      the study for the patient is the possibility of obtaining an image without motion artifacts
      that may be associated with coughing, possibly affecting the patient's management tactics.

      The study is intended to provide answers to the following questions:

      The primary point of the study is to evaluate the correlation between standard CT and
      low-dose CT scans for the detection of community-acquired pneumonia. The expected correlation
      percentage is 90%.

      The secondary point of study No. 1 is the threshold value of the infiltration zone size
      detected by low-dose CT scan compared to standard CT scan. Expected threshold - 10 mm.

      The secondary point of study No.2 is the number of infiltration zones of pulmonary parenchyma
      corresponding to viral pneumonia detected by low-dose CT scan in comparison with standard CT
      scan. Expected number - more than two zones.

      In the future, it is planned to use the obtained anonymized data to enter the international
      registers of images of pneumonia caused by COVID-19.
    
  