
    
      The cells that line the airways act as a barrier to infections and proteins that cause
      allergy, and also release a host of signalling molecules. It known that these airway cells in
      children with established asthma react abnormally to viruses, but not known if this is cause
      or consequence of asthma. Also, little is known about how the immune system develops in new
      born babies and how it responds to the bacteria which they meet.

      This research arises from a £4.64 million Wellcome Trust strategic award. The importance of
      the underlying question was established with by the investigators, and the grant was
      developed by the collaborators at an all-day meeting followed by further telephone
      conferences. The Wellcome Trust also guided the development of the grant, it was
      peer-reviewed, it was interviewed after answering a series of questions from the referees,
      and subsequent to the interview, a further set of questions were answered before the Award
      letter was issued.

      The overarching research hypothesis is that babies who develop asthma have abnormal
      epithelial function at birth, which further deviates from normal during the first 3 years of
      life. The vision is to understand what initiates asthma; facilitate development of biomarkers
      predicting progression of preschool wheeze to asthma; and eventually, outwith this study (in
      which there is no therapeutic intervention), design randomised controlled trials targeted at
      high risk children. The ultimate goal is preventing asthma initiation and improving lifelong
      lung health.

      Asthma is predominantly a childhood onset disease affecting over 300 million people
      worldwide, and over a million children in the United Kingdom. At birth, babies who
      subsequently wheeze have airflow obstruction and altered immune responses. Babies who will
      develop asthma have airflow obstruction at birth, which worsens to age six. Thereafter, all
      birth cohorts have shown that lung function tracks, one of the longest (Melbourne) going on
      into the sixth decade of life. The first six years of life are therefore critical in
      determining adult lung function. Mouse data suggest that airway epithelial function is
      abnormal but translational evidence is lacking. Genetic and environmental factors are
      important in evolution of wheeze. Viral infection is a major cause of acute wheeze, but
      bacteria are at least as important, and early bacterial colonisation is associated with
      abnormal mucosal immunology. An abnormal airway microbiome skews systemic immunity to an
      allergic phenotype. The airway is no mere passive barrier, but also secretes innate
      cytokines, e.g. IL-33, which are implicated in early wheeze. Aeroallergen sensitization in
      the first 4 years of life, but not thereafter, is strongly predictive of subsequent asthma.
      Taken together, this suggests that understanding developmental changes in epithelial
      functions, and interactions with genes, immunity and pathogens, are crucial if progression to
      asthma is to be halted. The first 4 years of life represent a unique window during which
      adverse effects have irreversible consequences. However, understanding of the developing
      immune system and underlying epithelial-immune interactions during this critical period is
      very superficial, and it is this which the present application addresses. A significant
      limitation of all birth cohorts to date is the absence of airway epithelial samples to
      determine the mechanisms that underlie the development of early airflow obstruction and
      identify molecular targets for disease prevention. This project will be the first to
      investigate the three way interactions between airway epithelial cell function, immune
      responses and airway microbiota in the first four years of life to elicit the mechanisms
      underlying the development of preschool wheeze and its progression to asthma. The vision is
      to understand what initiates asthma; facilitate development of biomarkers predicting
      progression of pre-school wheeze to asthma; and ultimately, design interventions targeted
      only at high risk children, evaluated in randomised controlled trials outwith this grant. The
      ultimate goal is preventing asthma initiation and improvement of lifelong lung health.

      Key research questions are:

        1. How does epithelial function evolve from birth to 3 years in children who develop
           asthma, and how does the epithelium interact with the evolving immune system and airway
           microbiome?

        2. What are the mechanisms whereby pathogens and aeroallergens modulate epithelial-immune
           interactions, skewing airway responses towards asthma rather than resolution?

        3. Can these pathways be used to identify biomarkers of asthma development, enabling future
           preventive strategies?

      The aims are:

        1. To establish uniform clinical phenotyping and protocols for longitudinal and prospective
           sample acquisition

        2. To utilise bioinformatics and systems biology to identify phenotypic clusters

        3. To utilise an integrated clinical/basic science (systems based) approach to investigate
           molecular interactions between respiratory epithelium, genetics, infections, and the
           developing immune system and airway microbiome.

      Specific objectives are:

        1. Recruit newborn babies with detailed antenatal history, and obtain nasal epithelial
           cells at one week of age, and follow them longitudinally for three years with serial
           sampling, retrospectively phenotyping them depending on whether they develop wheeze or
           not.

        2. Compare the evolving changes in immune and epithelial function in this group with the
           pathobiology of established mild and severe wheezers.

        3. Use these samples to understand the normal and abnormal developmental interactions
           between the airway epithelium, the host immune system and the airway microbiome.

        4. Utilize the rich longitudinal data on childhood wheezing, relevant biomarkers and
           genetics assembled through the birth cohorts to model the biological complexity of
           preschool wheezing and generate hypotheses that can be tested in vitro in age-
           appropriate epithelial cell cultures
    
  