
    
      Senior centers provide social, health, nutritional, and recreational services to older
      adults. Ten percent of older adults in these settings experience clinically significant
      depression. Although many aging services now screen for depressive symptoms, an IOM report
      indicates that the number of geriatric mental health providers nationally is insufficient.
      Further complicating treatment delivery is the reluctance of depressed elders to accept a
      mental health referral or pursue treatment. It has been proposed that lay workers may be able
      to offer psychosocial interventions for geriatric mental health disorders. Lay
      volunteer-delivered interventions may improve depression outcomes, may do so by engaging the
      same target variables as professionally-delivered interventions, and may be both more cost
      effective and acceptable to seniors. Limitations include uncertainties about training and
      supervision needs, reliable methods to assure intervention fidelity and patient safety, and
      comparability of outcomes to those attained by professionally- delivered interventions.
      Building on senior centers' volunteer programs, this proposal utilizes senior volunteers to
      meet the mental health needs of depressed urban clients. To this end, the investigators
      simplified Behavioral Activation (BA) to match the skill set of lay senior volunteers
      (Volunteer BA). The investigators chose BA because it is an effective treatment for late-life
      depression, can be administered by paraprofessionals, and its primary mechanism (target) of
      action has been validated by efficacy studies. Based on preliminary data, the investigators
      aim to test the feasibility and acceptability of Volunteer BA for an underserved and
      difficult to engage population. The investigators propose further developmental work on the
      delivery of Volunteer BA in senior centers, so as to arrive at a sustainable intervention
      with standardized procedures. The investigators propose a small RCT testing the impact of
      Volunteer BA versus MSW-delivered standard BA on increased client activity (the target) and
      reduced depressive symptoms (clinical outcome). The Volunteer BA delivery model: 1. Makes use
      of existing volunteer resources; 2. has potential for being an acceptable and sustainable
      intervention; and 3. is expected to engage BA targets. However, its capacity to yield
      comparable outcomes to MSW-delivered BA is yet to be determined.
    
  