
    
      Study Design:

      This is a single center nonrandomized observational study led by the PI. However, patients
      will be recruited from other centers to participate in this trial. The recruited patients
      will be ineligible for cardiac transplantation at the referring institution. The study
      institution will also evaluate the patient for cardiac transplantation. If the patient is
      determined to be ineligible for transplantation at the study institution, the patient will
      have met the study inclusion criteria pertaining to two institutional turn downs for
      transplant. The protocol has been designed this way to attract the proposed 20 study
      patients, and to allow for a second opinion as to whether the patient is a transplant
      candidate. The patient may pursue cardiac transplantation at an institution that deems
      him/her transplant eligible, if applicable.

      Those patients who are not candidates for transplantation could then be considered for the
      proposed research study. Patients will need to sign an informed consent to be screened for
      the study.

      Patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be implanted with the HeartMate
      II VAD and data will be collected as described below in the section "data collection".
      Patients who fail to meet the study inclusion and exclusion criteria will be asked to
      participate in a sub-study. The sub-study will collect screening and baseline data, as
      clinically indicated.

      Primary Endpoint:

      The primary endpoint is to examine survival without a disabling stroke at two years (defined
      as a score of four or greater on the Modified Rankin Scale). Patients that reach the primary
      endpoint of survival without a disabling stroke at two years will be considered a success in
      this study. The percent of patients that have a successful outcome should be targeted at 80%
      of patients that survive to 2 years without a disabling stroke in the general Destination
      Therapy patient population at Providence Sacred Heart Medical Center. The current survival
      rate is 53% survival at 2 years. Therefore, a primary endpoint of 40% survival (8 out of 20
      patients) to 2 years without a disabling stroke is purposed. Data related to freedom from a
      disabling stroke is roughly based on the work published by Tsukui et al. that showed 33-75%
      freedom from cerebrovascular accidents at 6 months in differing device groups of patients
      waiting as bridge-to-transplant candidates.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Safety, functional status, total-days-alive following hospital discharge, and quality of life
      assessments will be evaluated as secondary endpoints. Secondary endpoints will be evaluated
      throughout the study and at one- and two- year follow-up time points after the last patient
      has been enrolled into the study. The study is designed to improve quality of life, in
      addition to length of life.

        -  Safety will be evaluated for all cause mortality, incidence of serious adverse events,
           as per the Interagency Registry for Mechanically Assisted Circulatory Support
           (INTERMACS) definitions (except for modified bleeding and neurocognitive event
           definitions), and Incidence of device replacement or device repair due to failure.

        -  Functional status and hospitalizations will be evaluated by the cardio-pulmonary stress
           test (V.O2 peak), New York Heart Association class, 6-minute walk test, and total number
           of days alive out-of-hospital.

        -  Quality of life will be assessed through the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure and
           Euro-QOL questionnaires.
    
  