
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative disease characterized by the loss of articular
      cartilage, causing destruction in periarticular bone tissue, leading to a decrease in daily
      life and quality of life due to pain despite its slow progression.

      When the knee osteoarthritis Looking at the prevalence among people living in Turkey,
      compared to males more can be seen, 14.8% of the 50 and older population in knee OA
      incidence, 22.5% of the incidence in women, while men were determined to be 8%.

      Risk factors that affect the development of knee OA include obesity, traumas,
      chondrocalcinosis, nutritional factors, genetics, smoking, estrogen replacement, muscular
      weakness, and professional or sports activities. The individual with knee OA especially; It
      is applied to the physician with the complaints of increased pain during walking, climbing
      and climbing stairs, stiffness in the joint, crepitation and limited range of motion.

      Diagnosis is determined based on knee OA, clinical and radiological evaluations; According to
      the radiological changes seen, the stage of the disease is determined by Kellgren Lawrence
      staging (Stage 0-4). Purposes in the treatment of knee OA; patient education, pain control,
      increasing functionality and reducing the impact of disability on daily life. The optimal
      treatment approach involves the application of non-pharmacological and pharmacological
      treatments together.

      Functional evaluation methods are of great importance in planning the right treatment
      approach and evaluating treatment effectiveness due to the negative impact of individuals on
      daily life activities. Functional evaluation of the individual; daily life activities,
      professional activities, leisure activities, social relationships and their skills in
      performing these tasks are carried out with objective, generic or disease-specific scales.
      Various scales have been developed in individuals with knee OA that allow an objective
      evaluation of functions. Among these scales, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities
      Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index: WOMAC),
      Lequesne Index, Knee-Hip Osteoarthritis Life Quality Scale (Osteoarthritis of Knee Hip
      Quality Of Life Questionnaire: OAKHQOL), Knee osteoarthritis and Knee Injury and Knee Injury
      and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score: KOOS.

      These questionnaires, which are reported by the patients, are not routinely used in the
      clinic due to the length of the questionnaires, which are used to determine the problems
      caused by joint problems in daily life and quality of life. Therefore, patient-based scales
      that can be used in the clinic should be short, and include questions that can evaluate pain,
      function and quality of life. Although the short form of the KOOS questionnaire has been
      developed, KOOS-PS only measures the effects of knee osteoarthritis on physical function.
      Consisting of 12 questions considering that the KOOS scale is long in routine, clinic use; A
      short form of KOOS-12 was created, which included the assessment sections of pain, function
      and knee-specific quality of life. The application of the KOOS-12 scale takes 2 minutes. The
      short form of KOOS-12 was found to be a valid and reliable scale in individuals who underwent
      total knee arthroplasty. The purpose of our study; Turkish reliability and validity of the
      Knee Osteoarthritis and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Result Score-12 scale.
    
  