
    
      Malaria is a major contributor of disease burden in Sub-Saharan Africa, with pregnant women
      and children being the most vulnerable population. P. falciparum infection in pregnancy leads
      to parasite sequestration in placental vascular space, with increased risks of abortion,
      stillbirth, prematurity, intrauterine growth retardation, maternal anaemia, low birth weight
      (LBW), perinatal, neonatal and infant mortality. In low transmission areas, malaria can
      evolve towards severe disease with high risk of mortality. In endemic areas, it is still
      associated with maternal anaemia, LBW and stillbirth. For prevention and control of malaria
      in pregnancy, WHO recommends Intermittent Preventive Treatment (IPT), insecticide treated
      nets (ITNs) and case management for malaria and anemia.

      HIV in pregnancy increases the risk of malaria, LBW, post-natal mortality and also anaemia,
      suggesting a synergistic interaction between HIV and malaria.

      In pregnant women, HIV-1 infection decreases the efficacy of
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine(SP)IPT, although 2 or more doses in 2nd and 3rd trimesters still
      reduce peripheral parasitaemia, placental infections and maternal anaemia.

      To date, SP is the only treatment with data on efficacy and safety in IPT: WHO recommends at
      least 2 doses after the first trimester. But there is a documented increase in SP resistance,
      so cotrimoxazole (CTX) could be an alternative: many studies in Zambia and Uganda
      demonstrated that it reduces mortality and morbidity in HIV infected individuals, and CTX
      prophylaxis significantly improves birth outcomes in women with CD4 count <200. Concurrent
      administration of SP and CTX has been associated with increased incidence of severe adverse
      reactions in HIV-infected patient.

      WHO has promoted CTX as alternative to SP for IPT in immuno-compromised HIV-infected pregnant
      women. Unfortunately, there is no information on effectiveness of daily CTX for preventing
      placental malaria infection, maternal anaemia and LBW. In the past, CTX has been used to
      treat malaria in children and daily use of CTX by non-pregnant HIV-infected adults has been
      associated with a 70% reductions of the incidence of clinical malaria.

      In this study, we will target both HIV infected and non-infected pregnant women with CD4≥
      200/µL, with the aim to establish the safety and efficacy of daily CTX in preventing malaria
      infection during pregnancy and its consequences, by assuming that CTX is not inferior to SP
      in reducing placental parasitaemia: such information is urgently needed to assist to issue
      guidelines on IPT in pregnant women.
    
  