
    
      Obesity is associated with increased risk of mortality, atherosclerotic cerebrovascular
      disease, coronary heart disease, colorectal cancer and death from all causes (Flegal et al.,
      2005), is credited with over 111,000 deaths annually in the US (Flegal et al., 2005),
      shortens the lifespan by 5-20 years (Fontaine et al., 2003) and results in $150 billion in
      annual health-related expenditures (Finkelstein et al., 2009). Despite alarming increases in
      both adult and childhood obesity in recent decades, obesity rates in adolescents have grown
      at an even faster rate (Ogden et al., 2012; NCHS, 2012). Adolescent obesity has more than
      tripled in the past 30 years and continues to rise (Ogden et al., 2012; NCHS, 2012). Obese
      adolescents are more likely to have high cholesterol and high blood pressure, prediabetes,
      bone/joint problems, sleep apnea, and social and psychological problems such as
      stigmatization and poor self-esteem (DHHS, 2010; CDC, 2011). Unfortunately, virtually all
      obesity treatments result in only transient weight loss (Turk et al., 2009). Evidence
      suggests that it is nearly impossible for individuals to maintain behavioral weight losses
      once they have been obese for an extended period of time (Ochner et al., 2013). Although
      bariatric surgery can result in more persistent weight loss, this invasive procedure is
      contraindicated for numerous individuals, particularly children (Martin et al., 2010). Thus,
      a pressing public health priority is to develop simple and effective obesity prevention
      programs.

      In 2010, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) issued recommendations for
      screening and treating childhood and adolescent obesity. They endorsed comprehensive
      moderate-to high intensity programs including counseling for weight loss, healthy diet, and
      physical activity as well as instruction and support for the use of behavioral management
      techniques including self-monitoring, stimulus control, eating management, contingency
      management, and cognitive behavioral therapy techniques. The USPSTF further defined moderate-
      to high-intensity programs as > 25 hr of contact and states that "such interventions would
      not be feasible for implementation in a primary care setting." (USPSTF, 2010, p. 365).
      Further, they assert that less intensive (< 25 contact hours) programs do not produce
      significant improvements. "Low-intensity interventions, defined as < 25 contact hours over a
      6-month period, did not result in significant improvement in weight status" (USPSTF, 2010, p.
      364). The implication is that, since most centers cannot provide this level of service, it is
      not worthwhile for adolescent health centers to provide any kind of obesity intervention at
      all. According to the USPSTF's website, "its recommendations are considered the gold standard
      for clinical preventive services." Such recommendations could discourage the testing and
      implementation of brief interventions designed to prevent obesity. Thus, to refute USPSTF
      statement, we propose to show that a 6-hr intervention led by graduate students can produce
      significant reductions in risk for both obesity and eating disorders, suggesting that this
      brief and inexpensive intervention could and should be rolled out nationwide.
    
  