
    
      OBJECTIVE: Describe the clinical and physiological characteristics of obstructive sleep apnea
      (OSA) and comorbid chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and study the impact of
      treatment on neurocognitive outcomes in elderly Veterans.

      RESEARCH PLAN: The investigators will study if elderly Veterans with OSA and comorbid COPD
      have increased neurocognitive deficits and sleepiness with reduced quality of life compared
      to patients with either OSA or COPD alone (Aim 3) and whether treatment with PAP/NIPPV and
      supplemental oxygen compared to CPAP alone in elderly Veterans with moderate-to-severe OSA
      and concomitant moderate-to-severe COPD will improve cognitive function, sleepiness and
      quality of life (QoL).

      Aim A: To determine if elderly Veterans with OSA and comorbid COPD have increased
      neurocognitive deficits and sleepiness compared to patients with either OSA or COPD.

      Hypothesis: Elderly veterans (age 60 years) with moderate-to-severe OSA and concomitant
      moderate-to-severe COPD will have significantly increased cognitive deficits and daytime
      sleepiness compared with similar patients with OSA alone or COPD alone.

      To study this aim the investigators will prospectively administer and compare the results of
      a battery of cognitive tests, and sleepiness and QoL questionnaires in elderly patients with
      OSA, COPD, and the Overlap Syndrome.

      Aim B. To determine if treatment with PAP/NIPPV and/or supplemental oxygen compared to CPAP
      alone in elderly Veterans with OSA and concomitant moderate-to-severe COPD will improve
      cognitive function, sleepiness, and QoL.

      Hypothesis: Therapy with PAP and supplemental oxygen will reverse neurocognitive deficits in
      one or more domains, reduce sleepiness, and improve QoL compared with CPAP alone in patients
      with moderate-to-severe OSA and concomitant moderate COPD. This aim will evaluate which
      specific deficits in neurocognitive function in patients with moderate-to-severe Overlap
      Syndrome are reversible and most sensitive to the effects of positive airway pressure (PAP)
      and oxygen vs CPAP alone.

      To study this aim the investigators will randomize patients with the Overlap Syndrome to
      3months of therapy with PAP and/or oxygen vs CPAP alone for 3 months and evaluate impact on
      neurocognitive function, sleepiness and quality of life before and after therapy.
    
  