
    
      The overarching goal of the project is to improve access to early abortion by reducing
      barriers that patients face obtaining services. Currently, patients are prescribed and
      receive Mifeprex速 and misoprostol directly from a clinician, who evaluates patients for
      medical eligibility and contraindications. The Mifeprex速 may be taken in the facility or at
      home, and the misoprostol is taken 24-48 hours later at home. The FDA recommends a follow-up
      visit, which can be over the phone.

      The purpose of this study is to pilot test the model of advance provision of medication
      abortion (MAB). In this model, patients at risk of unintended pregnancy and with a desire to
      avoid pregnancy will be assessed by a clinician and provided counseling on pregnancy
      recognition and testing, as well as how to administer MAB at home. For this pilot study, only
      patients who have previously had a MAB will be included, since this population has reported
      the highest interest in the model, and they are also already familiar with how to use the
      medications. The clinician will provide Mifeprex速 and misoprostol to the patient at the time
      of counseling in case the patient becomes pregnant and wants to terminate the pregnancy using
      the medications up to 10 weeks gestation. Patients will contact a study clinician for an
      over-the-phone assessment of eligibility for MAB, including assessment of gestational age,
      before self-administration of Mifeprex速 and misoprostol, and then attend a follow-up visit
      with the clinician.

      Patients will sign the Danco Patient Agreement Form prior to receiving the medication.
      Clinicians dispensing the medications will have signed the Prescriber Agreement Form, and the
      medications will be dispensed in a clinic or hospital. Study investigators will monitor
      participant activity through surveys throughout the study. Participants will be given clear
      instructions on study participation and returning unused medications in an appropriate time
      frame. Clinicians will also re-evaluate participants by telephone before they take the
      medications and evaluate them in person at a subsequent follow-up visit.
    
  