
    
      Esophageal cancer has a high incidence rate in the United States, and novel approaches to its
      treatment are being studied. Itraconazole, an antifungal agent, has been shown to inhibit the
      Hedgehog (Hh) and AKT signaling pathways, which are upregulated in esophageal cancer and
      promote tumor cell growth. This study will evaluate whether the use of itraconazole leads to
      increased rates of pathological complete response (pathCR) by at least 15% from the
      historical pathCR rate of 25% in patients with esophageal cancer or gastroesophageal junction
      (GEJ) adenocarcinoma. The investigators will enroll approximately 78 patients with esophageal
      cancer or GEJ adenocarcinoma who will then undergo standard of care staging work-up with a
      PET/CT and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). In a subset of patients, biopsies will be obtained to
      assess the status of the Hh and AKT signaling pathways by PCR, Western blot, and
      immunohistochemistry in the primary tumor before treatment. If no distant metastases are
      found, all patients will undergo 5-6 weeks of standard of care neoadjuvant chemoradiation.
      Following this, all patients will be given itraconazole 300 mg twice daily for 6-8 weeks.
      Adverse effects to itraconazole will be monitored in oncology clinic. If standard restaging
      PET/CT following neoadjuvant chemoradiation does not reveal new metastases, the patient will
      undergo an esophagectomy. Samples from normal esophageal tissue will be analyzed for presence
      of itraconazole and its metabolites to determine if the patients were taking the study drug.
      Tumor tissue will be evaluated for status of Hh pathway activation, AKT and VEGFR2
      phosphorylation, Ki67 immunostaining, and other molecular pathways with comparisons made to
      pre-treatment biopsies if available. The final pathology report will indicate whether the
      patient has achieved pathCR. Because the Hh signaling pathway is a resistance pathway that
      can be upregulated in response to chemoradiation, the investigators believe that
      administering itraconazole following neoadjuvant chemoradiation will lead to a higher pathCR
      rate. This in turn should be able to improve treatment outcomes in patients with esophageal
      cancer and GEJ adenocarcinoma.
    
  