
    
      Modern medicine is focused on individualized treatment, including a personalized anesthesia
      administration. This implies to maintain the patient hypnotic state as closer as possible to
      a set target. TIVA with propofol and remifentanil has increased in popularity in recent
      years. Automatic systems can free the anesthesiologist of repetitive tasks. So, closed loop
      administration has been proposed to adjust propofol infusion rate without anesthesiologist
      intervention apart from supervising the procedure. A desired target of BIS is chosen by the
      clinician and feedback from the BIS monitor is used to adjust the rate of drug delivery
      continuously.

      Closed loop control offers the opportunity of adjust the administration of anesthetics in an
      individualized way. It is also expected to overcome the individual pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic variability and to show a better adaptation to different levels of surgical
      stimulation. Closed loop control of propofol administration provides a greater stability in
      the level of hypnosis with a lower total dose of drug administered. Therefore, the recovery
      after anesthesia can be shorter. This can promote a better quality anesthetic care.

      Previous studies with a PI controller showed in some patients a tendency to oscillate around
      a target value. This can be originated by the delay present in the system. One of the most
      known strategies in engineering to face the delay in closed loop is the Smith predictor. The
      purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare the feasibility and efficacy of a
      closed-loop control with a PI plus a Smith predictor algorithm versus manual control for
      propofol administration guided by the bispectral index (BIS) in adults patients.

      Two groups of 25 adult patients scheduled for gynecological, urologic or abdominal surgery
      with an estimated duration > 30 minutes will be enrolled and randomized to one of the 2
      groups. In the Manual control group (MC), the propofol infusion rate will be adjusted at the
      discretion of the anesthesiologist. In the PI+Smith group, propofol will be administered
      automatically by the closed-loop anesthesia system. The controller calculated automatically
      the error (target BIS - actual BIS) every 5 s and governed the infusion pump adapting the
      rate of propofol. The goal in both groups is to maintain BIS between 40 and 60 during
      maintenance phase of anesthesia. This is the recommended range of BIS for an adequate level
      of hypnosis during general anesthesia. Remifentanil will be infused for analgesia with the
      objective of to avoid an inadequate level of analgesia that could affect the stability of BIS
      signal.
    
  