
    
      The recruitment of cancer patients into clinical trials may be hindered by several factors
      such as limited understanding of medical research, a lack of information about the type of
      research on offer for patients, over load of information when given a new and life limiting
      diagnosis. Nor does the Churchill Hospital inform patients that research is an integral part
      of the every day life and business of the hospital.

      Does increasing research awareness impact on accrual?

      This initial study aims to establish the feasibility of a larger study to gather the evidence
      required to investigate whether patients need some information indicating that a hospital
      participates in research, and what it may mean to the individuals to participate, including
      new terminology; thus reducing fear and anxiety and ultimately increasing the accrual of
      cancer patients into cancer clinical trials. Prior knowledge of patients' attitudes to
      involvement in clinical trials might assist communication about trials and encourage more
      doctors to approach eligible patients. In the NHS there is always a fear of cost
      implications, however a study comparing two New Patient Information Packs (NPIPs) showed no
      differences were detected between a full pack and a mini pack and given the cost, the
      mini-New Patient Information Pack (mini-NPIP) was the preferred approach. This has influenced
      the decision to provide only a brief leaflet of information to patients prior to their first
      appointment.

      The National Cancer Research Network (NCRN) was formed three years ago with the aim to
      provide the NHS infrastructure to support and improve patient care by speeding up access to
      the best treatment and care, provide information and support to our patients and improve the
      speed of research by increasing the number of patients into clinical trials. In the Thames
      Valley Cancer Research Network (TVCRN) accrual has increased from 2.7% in 2001-2 to 8.3% in
      2003-4. The infrastructure to support research is in place, clinicians are informed and have
      relevant nursing and administrative support to offer trials to patients and cope with the
      increased numbers of patients taking part. There appears to be a deficit in the research
      knowledge and understanding of the general public. It is easier and less stressful to 'opt
      out' when faced with a new diagnosis and complicated treatment options than to consider, in
      addition, a clinical trial. By measuring accrual and evaluating the patients' response to
      information about research I intend to investigate the feasibility of a larger study to
      provide the evidence to investigate the need for pre-first-visit research information. Thus
      investigating the requirement, importance and need for information for the patients before
      their first oncology appointment and the general public.

      Ellis, Buttow and Tattersall have published two studies conducted with breast cancer
      patients: the first in 2001 found that that women who have a better knowledge of clinical
      trials are more willing to consider participating in a clinical trial, however in 2002
      patients who had received a booklet of information about research for patients were
      significantly less likely to consider participating in a randomised clinical trial (RCT).
      Using a very large sample (n=2331) Jenkins, Fallowfield and Saul showed that the vast
      majority of cancer patients questioned wanted a great deal of specific information concerning
      their illness and treatment.
    
  