
    
      I. Background of the subject:

      Paget's disease of bone is a condition characterized by a focal exuberant increase in bone
      remodeling, resulting in a number of important architectural abnormalities, potentially
      leading to bone deformity and bone fragility. This condition may be polyostotic or
      monostotic. Biological markers of bone remodeling, mainly alkaline phosphatase and markers of
      bone resorption such as urinary hydroxyproline, are commonly utilized to assess Paget's
      disease activity.

      However, a monostotic Paget's disease is most frequently accompanied by biological markers
      still in the normal range (1). Conventional 99mTc MDP bone scan is able to localize the
      lesion. However, the changes observed with this technique after therapy and when the disease
      recurs do not help much to guide the clinician (3). Indeed, there can be some improvement on
      the conventional bone scans whereas on the X-ray films, worsening of the pagetic lesions
      might simultaneously be observed (4). The recurrence of the condition could also be missed by
      conventional bone scans (4). Therefore, PET scan using 18 Fluoride should by its metabolic
      approach be able to demonstrate the local activity of Paget's disease, to assess the efficacy
      of active drugs and to evidence the local recurrence of the disease, better than the
      conventional existing techniques.

      II. Experimental approach and methods

        1. 20 patients suffering from a Paget's disease of bone (polyostotic: n = 6; monostotic: n
           = 14) will be studied prior to and after 1, 6, and 12 months of bisphosphonate therapy.
           The polyostotic cases will serve to the preliminary feasibility study. A localized
           Paget's disease will include isolated Pagetic lesions in bones of the face and or the
           skull, the spine and of the (lower or upper) limbs.

        2. Paget's disease confirmed by X rays will be quantified by biological parameters of bone
           remodeling: total alkaline phosphatase, bone specific alkaline phosphatase, serum
           C-telopeptide (CTX), urinary NTx corrected by creatinine in a morning spot urine after
           an overnight fast.

        3. Routine biological parameters such as creatinine, full blood count, serum calcium,
           phosphate and magnesium, as well as 25OH vitamin D, 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D and iPTH will
           also be performed at the start and after therapy. A total duration of 5 years should be
           considered for the completion of the whole study. 18 Fluoride will be produced by the
           cyclotron, localized in Louvain-la-Neuve (Belgium).

           18F-fluoride is produced by the 18O(p,n) 18F nuclear reaction by bombarding an enriched
           H218O target with protons. 185 Mbq 18F will be injected.

        4. Scans will be performed on a Siemens ECAT HR+ PET scanner. This machine consists of 32
           rings of BGO (bismuth germanium oxide) detectors (40.5x43.9x30 mm size) yielding 63
           transverse slices (2.425 mm thickness) in a 16.2 cm axial FOV. In 2D mode, the
           resolution of the HR+ scanner is typically 5.4 mm and 5.0 mm FWHM at 10 cm in the
           transaxial and axial directions, respectively. A dynamic acquisition centered on pagetic
           bones will be performed over 60 minutes, starting immediately at tracer injection. Data
           will be reconstructed by filtered backprojection and iterative methods, with attenuation
           correction obtained from a transmission scan performed before tracer injection. Dynamic
           acquisition will allow us to modelize the tracer uptake and calculate the influx
           constants by means of multi-compartmental analysis. Kinetic modeling has been shown to
           better discriminate between normal, osteoporotic and Pagetic bones (Cook et al, SNM
           2001, Toronto) and we assume that small changes in bone metabolism during therapy will
           be more precisely assessed by kinetic modeling than by simple semi-quantitative indexes
           such as standardized uptake values (SUV). Nevertheless, we will prospectively compare
           different models and SUV measurements to further identify the most appropriate
           quantification method.

      Effective radiation dose equivalent is 0.027 mSv/Mbq 18F-fluoride. Target organ is the
      urinary bladder wall (due to the urinary excretion of the unbound fraction of the tracer)
      with an estimated radiation dose of 0.25 mGy/MBq.

      III. References

        1. Cook GJ, Lodge MA, Blake GM, Marsden PK, Fogelman I. Differences in skeletal kinetics
           between vertebral and humeral bone measured by 18 F-fluoride positron emission
           tomography in postmenopausal women. J Bone Miner Res 2000; 15: 763-769.

        2. Kanis JA, Gray RES. Long-term follow-up observations on treatment in Paget's disease of
           bone. Clin Orthop 1987; 217: 99-125.

        3. Smith ML, Fogelman I, Ralston S et al. Correlation of skeletal uptake of
           99mTc-diphosphonate and alkaline phosphatase before and after oral diphosphonate therapy
           in Paget's disease. Metab Bone Dis Relat Res 1984; 5: 167-170.

        4. Merrick MV, Merrick JM. Observations on the natural history of Paget's disease. Clin
           Radiol 1985; 36: 169-174.

        5. Vellenga CLJR, Pauwels EKJ, Bijvoet OLM et al. Scintigraphic aspects of the recurrence
           of treated Paget's disease of bone. J Nucl Med 1985; 54: 273-281.

        6. A. Nzeusseu Toukap, M. Lonneux, J. Installe, A. Bolle, G. Depresseux, J.P. Devogelaer.

      International Symposium of the National Association for the Relief of Paget's Disease. St
      Catherine's college, 17-18 july 2003, Oxford, UK.

      18F-Fluoride Positron Emission Tomography : Preliminary assessment of therapy in Paget's
      Disease of Bone.
    
  