
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate an improvement in disease-free survival in locally advanced renal cell
      carcinoma patients randomly assigned to adjuvant sunitinib (sunitinib malate) (Arm A) or
      sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) (Arm B) versus placebo (Arm C) after radical or partial
      nephrectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival of patients randomized to each of the two regimens with
      placebo.

      II. To further define the toxicity of prolonged administration of sunitinib or sorafenib in
      this patient population.

      III. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics
      and associations: novel approaches to assess angiogenesis markers in tissue, blood and urine
      as predictors of disease-free survival and of therapeutic benefit.

      IV. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics
      and associations: the frequency of oncogene and tumor suppressor gene mutations as predictors
      of disease-free survival and therapeutic benefit.

      V. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics
      and associations: tumor and genetic polymorphisms as predictors of disease-free survival and
      therapeutic benefit.

      VI. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics
      and associations: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation profiles as predictors of outcome
      and of therapeutic benefit.

      VII. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics
      and associations: The relationship of polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes with steady
      state concentrations of sorafenib and sunitinib in selected patients.

      VIII. To study the effect of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) targeted therapy on
      circulating endothelial cells and circulating endothelial progenitors.

      IX. To prospectively assess patient-reported fatigue in order to compare the magnitude and
      trajectory of fatigue among renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients randomized to adjuvant
      sunitinib (Arm A) or sorafenib (Arm B) to placebo (Arm C). (Quality of life objectives) X. To
      evaluate the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue-Short
      Form (SF)1, a newly developed state-of-the-science PROMIS measure for fatigue and to
      calibrate the PROMIS Fatigue-SF1 with the established, validated FACIT-Fatigue scale.
      (Quality of life objectives)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Beginning 4-12 weeks following radical or partial nephrectomy, patients receive
      sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 4 weeks and placebo sorafenib tosylate PO QD
      or twice daily (BID) for 6 weeks.

      ARM B: Beginning 4-12 weeks following radical or partial nephrectomy, patients receive
      sorafenib tosylate PO QD or BID for 6 weeks and placebo sunitinib malate PO QD for 4 weeks
      followed.

      ARM C: Beginning 4-12 weeks following radical or partial nephrectomy, patients receive
      placebo sorafenib tosylate as in Arm A and placebo sunitinib malate as in Arm B.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 9 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  