
    
      Fifty consecutive patients with idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (iNPH) diagnosed
      according to the American-European iNPH guidelines from 2005, are going to be recruited from
      the outpatient clinic at the Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Linköping, Sweden.
      All patients are going to undergo a primary evaluation and examination by a neurologist
      followed by a CT or/and a MRI of the brain. On MRI there should be symmetrical communicating
      ventricular enlargement without cortical infarcts or other lesions of clinical importance,
      except lacunar infarcts (<1 cm3), the Evans ratio should be ≥ 0.3 and the corpus callosum
      angle should be between 50o to 90o. The temporal horns and third ventricle should be
      relatively enlarged. Mild to moderate cortical atrophy and subcortical white matter
      hyper-intensity will be allowed. The motor function will be assessed by a physiotherapist
      using the following tests: time needed for a 10-meter (m) walk in steps (w10ms) and 10-m walk
      in time (w10mt) at a self-selected speed and with their usual walking aid, timed up and go
      test in seconds (TUGt) and steps (TUGs), which is a timed test for standing up from chair,
      walking 3 m, turning and walking back to the chair and sitting down. An occupational
      therapist will perform cognitive testing with Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE). A
      CSF-tap-test will be performed at the Neurology outpatient department, at around 10:00 pm, in
      all patients. For the CSF-TT the patients will lie in a recumbent position, and under sterile
      conditions by using a 10 ml subcutaneous Xylocaine dose as pain prevention, the investigators
      will applicate a spinal needle 18Gx3.50"x1.2mmx90mm. Once CSF is obtained, a spinal fluid
      manometer (Optidynamic, Mediplast, Italy) will be connected to measure the CSF pressure in cm
      H2O. The lumbar pressure will be measured during a period of almost one minute for avoiding
      artificially elevated levels. All patients will be relaxed and have their neck to a neutral
      position and their legs extended. Lumbar pressure will be measured before the CSF-TT. The CSF
      will be analyzed for: cells, lactate, albumin, isoelectric focusing, antibodies against
      Borrelia Burgdofferi, NFL, t-tau, p-tau, β-amyloid 42/40, β-amyloid and GFAP. After a
      multidisciplinary round the investigators will decide who is suitable for a
      ventriculoperitoneal shunt. All probable/possible iNPH patients, included in the study, will
      undergo a preoperative Tracted-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging
      (DTI) investigation one to two days before the operation. All included in this study patients
      will undergo the same work-up almost 3 months after the shunt surgery inclusive the TBSS and
      DTI. All patients will meet a neurosurgeon once after the operation for possible shunt valve
      adjustment.

      In addition, 50 volunteer healthy control subjects (HI) over the age of 60 will be recruited.
      All HI will undergo examination by a neurologist, DTI,TBSS and answer questionnaires included
      in the study. The controls are recruited from relatives, University Hospital employees and
      friends of the research group through advertising and personal inquiries. Exclusion criteria
      are observable gait disorder, diagnosed dementia, obvious gait / balance disorder for other
      reasons, occurrence of claustrophobia, implants that make MRI examination impossible and
      neurological disorder that is detected in connection with MRI examination and urinary
      catheter and / or uro- / intestinal stomia.

      Another part of this project is a qualitative questionnaire based single center prospective
      study. All LiNPH patients and HI are going to answer three questionnaires ( ICIQ-UI, Bowel
      function Questionnaire, Wexners FI) regarding gastrointestinal and urinary symptoms and the
      investigators are going to correlate them with clinical data before and after the shunt
      surgery. The aim of this study is to identify if fecal incontinence is a new unknown symptom
      in iNPH patients. The secondary aim of this study is to correlate DTI and TBSS data with
      urinary- and fecal-incontinence symptoms.

      The primary aim of this study is to distinguish between reversible and irreversible changes
      in iNPH. To establish a new technique in investigation of patients with iNPH and early
      identify this group. A significant correlation between DTI results in one or more brain areas
      with the iNPH-results will give the investigators the opportunity to use a specific DTI
      protocol to easier identify iNPH-patients who will have positive results with a shunt
      operation. The investigators also aim to compare manual-DTI MRI and TBSS-based MRI results
      before and after shunt surgery.
    
  