
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) including CR (complete remission) + CRp
      (complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery) + CRi (complete remission with
      incomplete count recovery) + partial remission (PR) within 3 months of treatment initiation
      of quizartinib and decitabine + venetoclax combination in patients with newly diagnosed or
      relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) (> 10%
      blasts).

      II. To determine the safety and maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of this combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine CR and CR+CRh rates within 3 months of treatment initiation of quizartinib
      and decitabine + venetoclax combination in patients with newly diagnosed or relapsed AML or
      high risk MDS (> 10% blast).

      II. To determine the duration of response (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), overall survival
      (OS), MRD status at response and best MRD response attained by flow-cytometry (all patients)
      and by FLT3-PCR (if applicable) or variant allele frequency monitoring (if applicable) and
      number of patients bridged to hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) and median duration
      to HSCT from the initiation of the combination.

      III. To investigate correlations of response to this combination with a pre-therapy,
      on-therapy, and progression 81-gene panel of gene mutations in AML.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate possible relationships between response and non-response to the combination
      with pretherapy, on-therapy, and progression gene expression signatures.

      II. To investigate the characterization of genetic heterogeneity in tumor cell populations,
      by performing targeted single-cell sequencing on longitudinally collected AML tumor
      populations from patients using a novel microfluidic approach that barcodes amplified genomic
      DNA from thousands of individual leukemia cells confined to droplets (single cell
      sequencing).

      III. To identify individual treatment-resistant cell populations and how their signaling
      state in disease relates to clinical outcomes we will perform CyTOF (mass cytometry) on
      patients' bone marrow samples and peripheral blood at diagnosis, remission and relapse.

      IV. To store and/or analyze surplus blood or tissue including bone marrow, if available, for
      potential future exploratory research into factors that may influence development of AML
      and/or response to the combination (where response is defined broadly to include efficacy,
      tolerability or safety).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10, quizartinib orally
      (PO) every day beginning on day 1 of cycle 1, and venetoclax PO on days 1-14 (days 1-21 if
      persistent leukemia). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  