
    
      The purpose of this study is to analyze biologic samples from the blood, airways and/or urine
      of HIV- and HIV+ smokers and non-smokers to better understand the etiology and pathogenesis
      of emphysema in association with HIV infection. The underlying hypothesis is that the
      combination of HIV infection and smoking creates chronic oxidant stress in the lower
      respiratory tract that promotes cellular loss and contributes to the progressive development
      of emphysema. Preliminary data strongly supports our hypothesis that the accelerated
      development of emphysema among HIV+ smokers is due in part to the interaction of HIV directly
      on the macrophage found in the pulmonary alveolus. The interaction causes a release of
      exaggerated amounts of oxidants in the lower respiratory tract and leads to increased levels
      of oxidized metabolites. HIV+ individuals with emphysema have high plasma levels of apoptotic
      pulmonary capillary-derived micro particles that contain oxidized metabolites. The increased
      release of micro particles is characteristic of an apoptotic process.

      We will study this hypothesis by sampling HIV+ and HIV- subjects alveolar macrophages (AM),
      which are found on the epithelial surface of the lung, and epithelial lining fluid (ELF)
      found in the lower respiratory tract. We will also assess plasma pulmonary capillary-derived
      endothelial microparticles (EMPs) as a biomarker for pulmonary apoptosis. Using newly
      developed mass spectrometry methodologies, we will quantify the oxidant stress of AM, ELF and
      plasma EMPs, and identify specific oxidized metabolites within each of these compartments.
      Finally, we will examine the interaction in vitro to tease apart the contribution of each
      component (AM, ELF, and plasma EMPs) of the interaction.

      To assess this concept, the following aims will be addressed:

      Specific Aim 1 (n=160). To explore the extent of the oxidant stress in the lower respiratory
      tract in association with HIV infection and smoking.

      Specific Aim 2 (n=160). To evaluate plasma levels of capillary apoptosis and oxidation state
      of HIV+ nonsmokers and smokers.

      Specific Aim 3 (n=160). To examine the interaction of pulmonary capillary endothelium and
      various oxidant effector components to identify oxidant-vulnerable pathways relevant to the
      development of new treatment therapies.
    
  