
    
      The initial management and the follow-up of a patient presenting with chronic or intermittent
      obstruction is depending on clinical, biological factors and of imaging data, including the
      presence and degree of dilatation of pelvo-caliceal cavities and of functional consequences
      of such an obstruction.

      The primary objectives of the study are:

        -  to evaluate the feasibility and reliability of the measurement of the relative renal
           function by MR urography compared to renal scintigraphy in the management of patients
           presenting with chronic and intermittent urinary obstruction in adults and children.

        -  if the accuracy of the two methods is demonstrated as equivalent, to conduct a
           medico-economic evaluation of functional MR Urography compared to renal scintigraphy,
           and show potential lower costs.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to compare the diagnostic accuracy of various parameters of analysis of functional MR
           urography data, previously published in the literature, and determine indicators for
           predicting urinary obstruction

        -  to evaluate the interest of these indicators after surgical treatment of obstruction, or
           during the follow-up of patients

        -  to draw up a program of analysis and treatment of MR urography data, available for all
           centres whatever their MR unit.

      The current study has a multicentric, observational, prospective design for the evaluation of
      a diagnostic strategy. It includes 16 French hospitals.

      The main clinical hypothesis is that during one single MR examination, by the association of
      a morphological diagnostic phase and a functional phase, it will be possible to extract
      functional parameters having the same accuracy that renal scintigraphy in the determination
      of relative renal function.

      The targeted recruitment is of 550 patients for two years. The MR and scintigraphy collected
      data will be reviewed in one site by experts at the end of the study. The university hospital
      of Nancy is in charge of coordinating the study.

      Points of expected impact of the study are:

        1. a shortening of the duration of patients management by replacing two examinations (MR
           and scintigraphy) by one single examination (MR )

        2. a reduction of delivered exposure to diagnostic radiation, by eliminating renal
           scintigraphy in the initial diagnostic and follow-up of children an adults.

        3. potential applications in improving the spatial resolution of MR urography after
           correction of artefacts such as respiratory motion.

        4. the publication of clinical recommendations by the National Scientific Societies
           supporting the trial.
    
  