
    
      Upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage (UGIH) is a prevalent, clinically significant, and
      expensive healthcare problem worldwide. The incidence of acute, overt UGIH has been estimated
      to be 50-150 cases per 100,000 adults in the United States population each year.

      Clinical Significance / Rationale EGD is the currently accepted community standard for the
      diagnosis and management of UGIH. Diagnostic EGD in persons presenting with acute UGIH allows
      for (1) differentiating the source of bleeding (variceal vs. non-variceal), (2) defining the
      anatomic location of the bleeding site (e.g., esophagus, stomach, duodenum), (3) providing an
      endoscopic diagnosis, and (4) facilitating patient triage for subsequent level of care (ICU,
      monitored bed, non-monitored bed, early / expedited hospital discharge).

      Capsule endoscopy for the small bowel was cleared by the FDA in 2001, and within a short
      time, has gained acceptance as providing state-of-the-art endoscopic imaging. Capsule
      endoscopy is now commonly used in the evaluation of patients with obscure gastrointestinal
      bleeding, including iron deficiency anemia, suspected and known Crohn's disease,
      malabsorption syndromes (e.g., Celiac disease), and chronic abdominal pain. Capsule endoscopy
      technology is now also being applied to evaluation of the esophagus (PillCam速 ESO, Given
      Imaging, Ltd, Yoqneam, Israel) and the colon (PillCam速 COLON). Recently, a second generation
      esophageal capsule endoscope (PillCam速 ESO 2, Given Imaging Ltd, Yoqneam, Israel) was cleared
      by the United States Food and Drug Administration in June 2007. While having the same outer
      dimensions (length and diameter) as the original PillCam ESO capsule, several significant
      improvements have been made to the internal components of the PillCam ESO 2. Similar to the
      original PillCam ESO, the system includes a sensor array and data recording device which are
      connected to the patient during the procedure. The recorded data is downloaded into the Given
      Imaging RAPID速 workstation for review of the capsule endoscopy video.

      However, there are no published detailed data evaluating the feasibility of utilizing PillCam
      ESO 2 in individuals presenting with acute, overt UGI bleeding. Moreover, there are no data
      comparing PillCam ESO 2 and EGD in the evaluation of this patient population. Therefore, in
      this proof-of-concept pilot study, we will evaluate the feasibility and safety of using
      PillCam ESO 2 in individuals presenting with acute, overt UGI bleeding.
    
  