
    
      Inflammation is a key to atherosclerosis and its serious effects (MI, stroke) and represents
      a potentially transformative therapeutic target. Several recent trials have revealed
      potential outcome benefit in patients with cardiovascular disease who are treated with
      anti-inflammatory therapy. The LoDoCo trial showed a reduction in cardiovascular events in
      patients with known coronary artery disease who were treated with colchicine (1). Although
      the LoDoCo trial did show outcome benefit, and in fact reduced the number of acute coronary
      syndromes in the treatment group, colchicine's mechanism of action at the level of the
      atherosclerotic plaque in patients remains unknown. The COLCOT trial was recently published
      which further demonstrated the potential benefit of anti-inflammatory therapy with
      colchicine. Compared with placebo, colchicine significantly reduced the risk of
      cardiovascular events for patients who recently experienced a myocardial infarction (2). It
      is not clear at the present time whether colchicine mainly reduces the systemic inflammatory
      milieu, thus reducing the likelihood of plaque progression and new lesion formation; or
      whether it has a direct effect on local "hot" inflammatory cell activity, thus pacifying the
      inflammatory plaque to reduce events. Insight into colchicine's mechanism of action may help
      identify the most suitable patients for this novel approach.

      Inflammation imaging may represent a solution. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET-CT imaging
      can define plaque inflammation and identify patients and plaques vulnerable to rupture and
      events. Improved FDG uptake occurs with therapies that effectively reduced vascular events
      but not with therapies with no outcome benefit. It is provocative to consider inflammation
      imaging strategies that may positively impact therapy decisions to yield better patient
      selection and outcomes.

      The long term goal of this research is to determine the pathobiological effect of colchicine
      on plaque inflammation and determine if inflammation imaging can be integrated into clinical
      assessment to personalize decisions for anti-inflammation therapies. As the first step for
      this goal, the investigators propose The CADENCE study is the first step towards this goal;
      it is a mechanistic and proof-of-concept study that will be the basis for a future 2nd phase
      definitive RCT integrating inflammation imaging and biomarker strategies.

      The Primary Objective is to determine colchicine's effect on plaque inflammation in the
      carotids and thoracic aorta using FDG PET in patients with diabetes (T2DM) or pre-diabetes
      and recent vascular events (ACS/MI, TIA, stroke).

      Secondary Objectives include defining if baseline inflammation imaging or biomarkers predict
      the inflammation response.

      Exploratory Objectives will define differences in response to colchicine: i) in patients with
      coronary versus cerebral events; ii) in different vascular beds; iii) relationships of
      inflammation imaging to other biomarkers.

      Methods:

      In CADENCE patients with T2DM or pre-diabetes and a recent NonSTEMI, STEMI, stroke or TIA
      will be recruited to one of 2 arms: colchicine 0.6 mg daily; or placebo. At baseline and 6
      months: patients will have FDG PET-CT of carotids and aorta; at 0, 3 and 6 months: clinical
      evaluation and blood sampling for inflammation biomarkers (eg hsCRP, IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α,
      MCP-1). The primary endpoint will be the change in inflammation over 6 months measured as FDG
      tissue to blood ratio (TBR).

      Expected Outcomes:

      It is expected that colchicine will reduce arterial inflammation measured using FDG PET/CT
      and reduce biomarkers of systemic inflammation. This would validate that colchicine's
      mechanism of action is more than a systemic effect but also a local action at the level of
      the vessel wall and plaque. This would further identify arterial inflammation on imaging as a
      potential novel therapeutic target for those at high risk of CV events. Such proof-of-concept
      data would support a definitive RCT to evaluate and define the potential for new
      biomarker-imaging strategies to direct decisions for novel anti-inflammation therapies in
      this population.

      Current therapies focus on lesion stenosis or ischemia with conflicting results. Use of
      inflammation imaging to direct proven treatments would be a bold practice-changing paradigm
      shift.
    
  