
    
      Main Study

      Primary Objective: Assess the safety of inhaled NO (gNO) in adults & adolescents with NTM,
      Burkholderia, Aspergillus Lung Infections and Viral Lung (COVID-19) Infections

      Safety will be evaluated by unanticipated adverse events in clinical labs (hematology,
      coagulation, and serum chemistries); in vitals; in inspired concentration of NO, O2 and NO2
      delivered to each subject and; in real time methemoglobin and oxygen saturation levels.

      Primary Endpoint:

      Determine the safety of gNO in the NTM population,

        -  as confirmed by no unanticipated adverse events

        -  Absence of a deleterious mean change in FEV1% predicted (absolute) from baseline

      Secondary safety Endpoint: Determine the efficacy of inhaled NO in adults with NTM,
      Burkholderia and Aspergillus Lung Infections

      Efficacy will be evaluated by measuring the change in lung function with spirometry
      (specifically absolute change in FEV1 % predicted) from baseline to Days 5, 12, 19 and 26.

      Secondary Efficacy Endpoint Determine the presence of an efficacy signal of gNO in the NTM,
      Burkholderia and Aspergillus Lung Infections

      Efficacy will be assessed by the antimicrobial effect of inhaled NO on the density of NTM
      species and other microorganisms in sputum. Serial measurements of these microbial colony
      counts in sputum have been previously used as a measure of antimicrobial activity in other
      clinical trials of antibiotics in NTM.

      • as confirmed by an improvement in pre-treatment bacterial colonization and post-treatment
      bacterial colonization on Days 19 and 26 as compared to baseline.

      Efficacy will be assessed by change in Quality of Life Score.

        -  as assessed by an improvement in CRISS Score on Day 5, 19 and 26 as compared to baseline
           measurement;

        -  as determined by improvement in six-minute walk test with one minute recovery as
           compared to baseline measurement.

      COVID-19 Substudy

      Primary Endpoint:

      Efficacy will be evaluated by measuring reduction in the incidence of mechanical assistance
      of BIPAP, CPAP, intubation and mechanical ventilation during the study period.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Proportion of patients with mild COVID2019 who deteriorate to a severe form of the
           disease requiring mechanical intervention like BIPAP/CPAP, intubation and mechanical
           ventilation;

        2. Mortality from all causes during the study period;

        3. Negative conversion of COVID-19 RT-PCR from upper respiratory tract measured as the
           proportion of patients with a negative conversion of RT-PCR from an oropharyngeal or a
           nasopahryngeal swab;

        4. Time to clinical recovery defined as the time from initiation of the study to discharge
           or to normalization of fever (defined as <36.6°C from axillary site, or < 37.2°C from
           oral site or < 37.8°C from rectal or tympanic site), respiratory rate (< 24 bpm while
           breathing room air);

        5. Alleviation of symptoms recorded in the Modified Jackson Cols score with particular
           definition of cough (defined as mild or absent in a patient reported scale of severity).
    
  