
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of gemtuzumab ozogamicin in children with newly diagnosed acute
           myeloid leukemia undergoing intensive remission induction and intensification therapy.

        -  Determine the complete remission rate of patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the feasibility of performing biological studies (e.g., FLT3-ITD and MRD) for
           risk group stratification in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of karyotypic abnormalities on survival in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction I: Patients receive high-dose cytarabine (ARA-C) IV twice daily on days 1-10;
           daunorubicin IV over 6 hours on days 1, 3, and 5; etoposide IV over 4 hours on days 1-5;
           and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 6. Patients with CNS-negative disease
           receive ARA-C intrathecally (IT) on day 1. Patients with CNS-positive disease receive
           ARA-C IT twice weekly for 2-3 weeks. Between days 28-35, patients are evaluated.
           Patients achieving remission or who have no more than 20% blasts proceed to induction
           II.

        -  Induction II: Patients receive ARA-C IV twice daily on days 1-8; ARA-C IT on day 1; and
           daunorubicin IV and etoposide IV as in induction I. Between days 28-35 patients are
           evaluated. Patients achieving complete remission proceed to intensification course I.

        -  Intensification course I: Patients receive ARA-C IV over 1 hour twice daily on days 1-5;
           ARA-C IT as in induction II; and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Patients are
           evaluated at day 28. Patients with a 5/6 or 6/6 matched family donor proceed to
           allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. All other patients in complete remission proceed
           to intensification course II.

        -  Intensification course II: Patients receive ARA-C IV over 2 hours twice daily on days
           1-4; ARA-C IT as in induction II; mitoxantrone IV over 1 hour on days 3-6; and
           gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 7. Patients are evaluated on day 28 and
           then proceed to intensification course III.

        -  Intensification course III: Patients receive ARA-C IV over 3 hours twice daily on days
           1, 2, 8, and 9 and asparaginase intramuscularly on days 2 and 9.

        -  Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: Patients receive a preparative regimen
           comprising busulfan IV over 2 hours 4 times daily on days -9 to -6 and cyclophosphamide
           IV over 1 hour once daily on days -5 to -2. Allogeneic stem cells are infused on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive oral or IV cyclosporine twice
           daily on days -1 to 50 and methotrexate IV once daily on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      In all courses, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed monthly for 6 months, every 2 months for 6 months, every 4 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  