
    
      The study is a randomized, single-blind trial. Measurements will be obtained before the
      randomization, after the intervention period of 10 weeks, and at 12 months. Recruitment will
      begin following institutional review board approval. The patients will participate in the
      study after signing an informed consent form prior to data collection. Patients will be
      included if they were 18 years of age or over; had chronic neck pain (i.e. of more than 3
      months duration[19] ; able to attend a full course of 30 treatments, given three times a
      week. Cervical lordosis measurements (absolute rotation angle ARA C2-C7 using the angle of
      intersection of two lines drawn along the posterior vertebral body margins of C2 and C7,
      respectively) were used as a screen for participants' inclusion. [20][21][22] The anterior
      head translation (AHT) was measured from the posterior superior body of C2 to the vertical
      line passing through the posterior inferior body of C7. AHT distance had to exceed 25 mm and
      ARA C2-C7 had to be less than 20° [20] for subjects to be included. Participants were
      excluded if they presented with any of the following: (i) signs or symptoms of systemic
      pathology and inflammatory joint disease; (ii) prior history of cervical spine trauma and
      musculoskeletal system surgery, or disorders related to the spine and extremities. An
      independent person will assign participants at random to a traditional (control) treatment
      group (55) or to the intervention group (55). A random number generator was used to select
      numbers from sealed envelopes. Randomization was conducted through permuted blocks of diverse
      sizes. These blocks were used to generate a sequence of successively numbered, opaque, sealed
      envelopes that were kept in a locked drawer. The next envelope in the sequence will be opened
      by the researcher in the presence of the participant.

      Both the intervention group and the traditional treatment group will complete a multimodal
      program of 10 weeks consisting of myofascial release, thoracic spine mobilization and
      manipulations, and physical pain relief methods. Additionally, the intervention group will
      receive the denneroll cervical traction orthotic in an attempt to improve the altered
      sagittal cervical spine alignment (AHT and ARA C2-C7). The first follow up evaluations will
      be conducted at the end of the 10-weeks (30 sessions) multimodal program while the second
      follow up was conducted 1 year after finishing the 10-weeks intervention program.

      P All the intervention program will be delivered individually by the same physiotherapist,
      who has received certified training in these manual techniques in order to minimize
      inter-therapist variation and enhance fidelity.
    
  