
    
      Study Design: Randomized, prospective, double-blind, two-arm, parallel group, multi-center
      trial.

      Target Subject Population: Subjects aged ≥18 who have type 2 diabetes (HbA1c of ≥7.5% and
      ≤11.0% and FPG<270 mg/dL (15 mmol/L)) on stable baseline therapy (insulin alone or insulin
      combined with metformin, with insulin at doses of ≥20 and ≤150 units per day total) for at
      least eight weeks at the time of screening. Insulin may be long-acting, intermediate-acting,
      or pre-mixed. 444 patients are planned to be randomized.

      Investigational Product, Dosage and Mode of administration: Active treatment will comprise
      Saxagliptin 5 mg tablets once daily.

      Comparator, Dosage and Mode of administration: Matching placebo tablets will be used as
      comparator.

      Duration of Treatment: The study is divided to a single blind placebo lead in period of 8
      weeks and a double-blind treatment phase of 24 weeks. Patients will be rescued based on high
      FPG values.

      Statistical Methods: The analysis of the primary endpoint of change from baseline to week 24
      of treatment in HbA1c will consist of an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model with treatment
      group and metformin use at enrolment as fixed effects and baseline HbA1c value as a
      covariate. The analysis will be performed on the Full analysis Set (FAS) consisting of
      randomised subjects who received at least 1 randomised investigational product dose and had
      at least 1 non-missing baseline and 1 post-baseline efficacy assessment. Within the framework
      of the ANCOVA model, point estimates and two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CI) for the mean
      change within each treatment group as well as for the difference in mean change between
      treatment groups will be calculated.

      The Per Protocol (PP) analysis set is a subset of the full analysis set and will consist of
      subjects who do not deviate from the terms of the protocol which may affect the study outcome
      significantly as specified in the pre-defined protocol deviation list prior to unblinding the
      study. All decisions to exclude subjects from the primary data set will be made prior to the
      unblinding of the study. The primary efficacy endpoint of change from baseline in HbA1c,
      demographics, and baseline diabetes related characteristics and all secondary efficacy
      endpoints are to be analyzed using the PP Data Set. The analyses of PPG AUC, 120 minute PPG,
      FPG and mean total daily dose of insulin will also be done on the FAS and use a similar
      ANCOVA model as described above. Subjects achieving a therapeutic glycaemic response (A1C
      <7%) will be analyzed using a Fisher's exact test and will include exact 95% confidence
      intervals. The FPG analyses will utilize the mean of the latest two FPG values prior to
      randomization as the baseline value. The endpoint for the FPG analysis will be the mean of
      the week 20 and week 24 FPG values. All analyses (except the analysis of mean total daily
      dose of insulin) will utilize only observations at visits prior to rescue or where the
      subject's mean total daily dose of insulin has not increased by >10% from baseline. If an
      observation at week 24 is missing or does not meet these criteria, the latest post-baseline
      value that does will be carried forward (LOCF). The analysis of mean total daily dose of
      insulin will utilize the latest, non-missing, post-baseline value regardless of rescue.
      Multiplicity for the primary and secondary endpoints will be controlled via a hierarchical
      testing procedure that utilizes the full alpha (0.05) for each test. The sequence of testing
      will be: 1. Change from baseline in HbA1c at Week 24. 2. Change from baseline in PPG AUC at
      Week 24.3. Change from baseline in 120 minute PPG at Week 24. 4. Proportion of subjects
      achieving HbA1c <7.0% at Week 24. 5. Change from baseline in FPG to the mean at Week 20 and
      Week 24. 6. Change from baseline in MTDDI at Week 24.
    
  