
    
      -  Uterine fibroids (UFs) are steroid hormone-responsive, benign tumors of the smooth
           muscle compartment (myometrium) of the uterus .They are the most common neoplasm
           affecting women in their reproductive age. UFs are mainly composed of fibroid cells and
           a significant ECM component which principally consists of fibroblasts. Previous studies
           on the pathogenesis of uterine UF have mainly focused on the differentiation and
           proliferation of fibroid cells. However, the histologic features of fibroid tissue
           suggest that fibroblasts may play an important role in the generation of UF.

        -  Fibroblast activation protein (FAP), fibroblast-specific marker, is a 95 kDa cell
           surface glycoprotein. It is a type II transmembrane serine protease and a member of
           proline-specific proteases family. Recent studies showed that the high expression of FAP
           is closely related to the occurrence of UF .Luo et al 2015 were the first who suggested
           that estrogen could stimulate fibroblast activation. In addition, they revealed that
           proliferative activity of fibroblast and the expression of FAP were significantly
           increased after estrogen stimulation. They also found that estrogen could promote the
           release of cytokines (TGFβ and IGF-1) and ECM components (collagen I, fibronectin, and
           laminin) from fibroblasts. Furthermore they found that silencing of FAP expression
           significantly decreased promotion effects of estrogen on TAF suggesting that FAP plays
           an important role in estrogen-mediated fibroblast activation.

        -  Autophag (eating of self) is a collection of processes that enables the cells to digest
           and recycle their cytoplasmic contents, such as toxic protein aggregates, disused
           organelles and invading microorganisms. Dysregulation in autophagy process have been
           recently described in many neoplasms. However the role of autophagy in the pathogenesis
           of UFs is still unclear and further understanding of its regulation and significance
           will be needed.

        -  The PI3K/AKT/mTOR signalling pathway is considered the main pathway involved in the
           initiation and regulation of autophagy. Previous studies found that reduced FAP
           significantly decreased the expression of phosphorylated AKT suggesting that FAP is an
           upstream factor modulating the PI3K/AkT. This study will be the first to study the link
           between fibroblast activation and autophagy in pathogenesis of UF through PI3K/AKT
           signaling pathway. Although several types of drugs (mostly antiproliferative agents) are
           available for UF treatment, none of them were introduced specifically as antifibrotic
           agents. Targeting such novel signaling pathway may be considered useful for future non
           surgical treatment of UF affecting both proliferative and fibrotic changes.
    
  