
    
      Background:

        -  Accurate localization of prostate cancer (PC) is important in developing targeted
           minimally invasive therapies. While T2 weighted imaging, dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE)
           imaging, diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), and magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy
           imaging performed at 3T is a useful technique for localizing prostate cancer, it has
           limitations both in sensitivity and specificity.

        -  Positron emission tomography (PET) radiopharmaceuticals are more sensitive than magnetic
           resonance imaging (MRI) for the detection of cancers; however, the resolution of PET is
           inferior to MRI. Therefore, a combined PET/MR approach might be desirable.

        -  We propose to evaluate the utility of a PET radiopharmaceutical, (11C) acetate ((11C)AC)
           for the detection of PC within the prostate and compare its distribution with T2
           weighted imaging, dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) imaging, diffusion weighted imaging
           (DWI), and MR spectroscopy imaging preformed at 3T.

        -  Unlike fludeoxyglucose F18(18F)FDG, a routinely used PET radiopharmaceutical which is
           excreted by the urinary system and accumulates in the bladder, limiting its utility in
           pelvic imaging, (11C)AC has low physiologic distribution in the pelvis. Several studies
           involving small numbers of patients have demonstrated that (11C)AC PET imaging can
           localize in pelvic nodes involved with prostate cancer (PC).

        -  Dynamic (11C)AC PET/CT examination will be performed in patients with biopsy proven
           prostate cancer (estimated enrollment 40) who will also undergo prostate/pelvic 3T
           endorectal coil MR/magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) followed by surgical
           resection (+/- pelvic lymphadenectomy).

        -  Histological comparison with the PET/CT and MRI results will be conducted. This study of
           (11C)AC in PC will permit the direct comparison of MR/MRSI and (11C)AC PET/CT in the
           detection of prostate cancer within the prostate.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      - To compare the biodistribution of (11C) acetate ((11C)AC) PET/CT imaging in tumor and
      non-tumorous regions of the prostate in patients with known prostate cancer.

      Secondary Objective:

        -  To examine the diagnostic accuracy of the standardized uptake value (SUV) of (11C)AC
           obtained using PET/CT imaging for detecting region (sextant)-specific malignancy using
           receiver operating curves (ROC).

        -  To examine whether pelvic biodistribution of (11C)AC PET/CT imaging predicts
           sextant-specific malignancy better than T2 weighted imaging, dynamic contrast enhanced
           (DCE) imaging, diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), and MR spectroscopy (MRS) imaging
           performed at 3T.

        -  To evaluate for potential physiological effects of (11C)AC

        -  To correlate the intensity of (11C)AC uptake with histopathologic Gleason Grade

        -  Tabulate the incidence of extraprostatic lesions accumulating(11C)AC PET/CT detection
           which are suspicious for extraprostatic disease by comparing suspicious lesions on
           (11C)AC PET/CT with standard of care diagnostic imaging modalities, additional biopsy
           results, or clinical follow-up performed at the discretion of the referring physician.

      Eligibility:

        -  Participants must be scheduled to undergo standard of care prostatectomy for presumed
           localized prostate cancer at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center.

        -  Recent (within 12 months of study entry) biopsy indicating the presence of
           adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland

        -  Participant must be 18 years or older

        -  Serum creatinine within 1 week prior to MR imaging less than or equal to 1.8mg/dl AND
           epidermal growth factor receptor (eGFR) must be greater than 30 ml/min/1.73m^2

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance score of 0 or 1

        -  Participants may not have received androgen deprivation therapy or pelvic radiation
           therapy

      Design:

        -  Participants with prostate cancer scheduled for prostatectomy at the NIH Clinical Center
           will undergo 30-minute dynamic (11C)AC PET/CT imaging, and endorectal coil/pelvic T2
           weighted, DCE, DWI, and MRS imaging performed at 3T.

        -  We will accrue 40 participants to this study.
    
  