
    
      Despite the public health burden of enterotoxigenic Escherichia (E.) coli (ETEC) on
      travelers, deployed soldiers and, most significantly, young children in the developing world,
      there is no licensed vaccine against ETEC enteritis. The rationale for using an E. coli heat
      labile enterotoxin (LT) (R192G/L211A) vaccine, also called double-mutant LT (dmLT), is that
      it is expected to be especially well tolerated by subjects. If dmLT is safe and immunogenic,
      it may become an anti-toxin vaccine or a component of other ETEC vaccine candidates, as well
      as an adjuvant for mucosal immunization. This is a phase I dose escalation study, in which 4
      cohorts of 6 subjects each will be enrolled and receive 5 micrograms (mcg), 25 mcg, 50 mcg,
      or 100 mcg of dmLT vaccine, plus a fifth cohort of 12 subjects which will be randomized and
      double-blinded to receive either 50 mcg or 100 mcg of dmLT vaccine. A Safety Monitoring
      Committee (SMC) will be convened for this study, and will review available safety data
      through the Day 8 visit for each cohort prior to making a recommendation to the Sponsor on
      whether or not to proceed to the next cohort. If a dose is not well tolerated as determined
      by the SMC review of the safety data, a Confirmation Cohort of 8 subjects will be enrolled
      and administered the previous dose. The first two cohorts will be enrolled simultaneously,
      dosed with investigational product, and observed to ensure the tolerability through Day 8 of
      the 5 mcg and 25 mcg dose levels. The first two cohorts will be dosed simultaneously based on
      the excellent safety record of these doses for the single mutant LT (LTR192G). Thereafter,
      dose escalation and subject enrollment will proceed in a step-wise fashion. Safety will be
      assessed by solicited symptoms/subject memory aid and laboratory evaluations. Adverse events
      (AE)s will be graded according to standardized criteria. The immunogenicity outcome measures
      of interest are the rate and titer of seroconversion with serum and fecal immunoglobulin A
      (IgA) anti-LT antibodies measured by ELISA and stimulation of anti-LT antibody secreting
      cells (ASC). The sample size was chosen based on the exploratory nature of this test article
      study that has not previously been given to humans. Participants will include 36 healthy
      adult male and female subjects, ages 18 to 45 inclusive. The primary objective of this study
      is to assess the safety of dmLT vaccine when administered as a single oral dose over a range
      of dose levels in healthy adult subjects. The primary objective of Cohort 5 will be to
      evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the 50 µg and 100 µg doses of an orally
      administered dmLT vaccine in healthy adult subjects. The secondary objectives are to assess
      long-term safety follow-up from immunization through Month 6 post vaccination and to evaluate
      the immunogenicity of a single oral dose of dmLT vaccine over a range of doses in healthy
      adult subjects.
    
  