
    
      1. Type of study: unicentric quasi-experimental clinical trial

        2. Hypothesis:

           2.1. Patients with MRONJ stage I and II subjected to initial surgical treatment have
           better results than those undergoing conservative (non-surgical) treatment.

           2.2. There is a correlation between clinical and biochemical outcome and the detection
           in saliva of certain biomarkers such as Amino Terminal Crosslinked Telopeptides of Type
           1 Collagen (NTX), Matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9), Interleukin 1a (IL-1a), Interleukin
           1b (IL-1b), Interleukin 6 (IL-6), Interleukin 17 (IL-17) and Interleukin 36α (IL-36α)
           may be useful to monitor treatment response.

        3. Main Objectives:

           3.1. To compare the clinical and radiological outcome after 3 months of conservative
           treatment versus initial surgical treatment in patients with MRONJ stage I and II.

           3.2. To determine the levels of salivary biomarkers at the beginning and after 3 months
           of treatment while correlating them with the clinical outcome.

        4. Secondary Aims

             -  To determine if there is a relationship between the initial surface of exposed bone
                and the outcome.

             -  To determine if clinical and radiological concordance in the outcome at the third
                month for each group.

             -  To determine the rate of postoperative complications in the surgical group.

             -  To determine if there is a relationship between the number of surgical
                interventions and the outcome.

             -  To determine the percentage of patients undergoing conservative treatment which
                eventually end up requiring surgical treatment due to disease progression.

             -  To determine the elapsed time until complete healing for both groups.

             -  To determine the variables associated with a higher cure rate.

             -  To determine the variables associated with increased risk of disease progression or
                recurrence.

        5. MATERIAL AND METHODS 5.1. Sample Size Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of
           0.2 in a bilateral contrast, 21 patients per group are required to detect a cure rate of
           30% and 70% in the conservative and surgical treatment group, respectively. Adding 10%
           to cover possible experimental losses, the sample increases to 23 per group.

      5.2. Main Variables

        -  MRONJ Stage (1. Stage 1; 2. Stage 2).

        -  Type of treatment (GROUP 1/Control: Conservative Treatment, GROUP 2: Surgical
           Treatment).

        -  Clinical outcome at the third month

        -  Radiological outcome at the third month

        -  Levels of biomarkers in saliva at baseline and at the third month (NTX, MMP-9, IL-1a,
           IL-1b, IL-6, IL-17 and IL-36α). In the case scientific evidence of other relevant
           markers appears during the course of the study they may be included in the study.

      5.3. Secondary Variables 5.3.1. Both groups

        -  Age (years)

        -  Sex (1.Man; 2.Mother)

        -  Diabetes (1. Yes; 2. No)

        -  Medication associated with the disease (1. Oral bisphosphonates, 2. Intravenous
           Bisphosphonates, 3. Denosumab, 4: Antiangiogenic).

        -  Underlying disease for antiresorptive therapy (1. Osteoporosis, 2. Cancer)

        -  Duration of treatment with medication associated with the disease.

        -  Factor that triggers the disease (1. Tooth Extraction; 2. Use of removable prosthesis;
           3. Unclear cause)

        -  Suspension of medication associated with the development of MRONJ (1. Yes, 2. No)

        -  Concomitant treatment with corticosteroids (1. Yes, 2. No)

        -  Concomitant treatment with antiangiogenic drugs (1. Yes, 2. No)

        -  Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) pain in the inclusion visit, and in all follow-up visits.

        -  Exposed bone surface (1. mild: <0,5cm2; 2. Moderate: 0,5-2cm2; Severe:> 2cm2) or number
           of intraoral fistulas otherwise.

        -  Dimension of greater diameter of radiolucent area or sequestrum in the CT or Cone
           Beam-CT scan (cm)

        -  Time elapsed until complete healing.

        -  Recurrence.

      5.3.2. Group 1 (Conservative medical treatment)

        -  Need for surgical treatment due to disease progression

        -  Time elapsed until surgical rescue treatment due to disease progression.

      5.3.3. Group 2 (Surgical treatment)

        -  Postoperative complications.

        -  Number of interventions.

      5.4. Inclusion Visit

        -  Patients will be informed about the different aspects of the study and will be given the
           information sheet to read carefully. Informed consent document will be given to read and
           sign.

        -  A thorough medical history will be collected including data about their socio-family
           environment, psychiatric illnesses and addictions.

        -  Complete and careful physical examination of the head and neck area will be carried out,
           including the measurement of the area of exposed bone in cm2 or, otherwise, the number
           of fistulas. Based on the clinical findings, stage 1 or 2 will be assigned according to
           the AAOMS guidelines.

        -  Once verified that the patient meets the inclusion criteria, patients will be assigned
           to the corresponding group according to their chosen treatment strategy.

        -  Radiological assessment will be carried out with Orthopantomography and CT-scan/Cone
           Beam-CT in all patients.

        -  Both groups will receive the same standard conservative treatment according to our
           protocol, meaning group 1 (non-surgical) will serve as control group.

        -  For patients enrolled in the surgical group, routine preoperative exams will be
           requested and surgical intervention will be scheduled within a maximum period of 3 weeks
           from the inclusion visit following a rigorous and standardized surgical protocol.

      5.4.1 STANDARD PROTOCOL FOR CONSERVATIVE TREATMENT (applicable to both groups)

        -  Soft diet.

        -  Suspension of the use of prostheses or intraoral devices.

        -  Oral hygiene guidelines.

        -  Topical antiseptics: in the form of mouthrinses with 0.12% chlorhexidine after every
           meal and clorhexidine gel over the exposed bone or fistula.

        -  Systemic antibiotics: for patients in stage 2 in which active acute infection is
           detected with Amoxicillin/Clavulanic Acid 875/125 mg every 8 hours for 2 weeks. Those
           allergic to penicillin will receive clindamycin 300 mg every 8 hours for 2 weeks or
           Levofloxacin 500 mg / day for 2 weeks. Systemic antibiotics treatment can be prolonged
           indefinitely until infection and symptoms are controlled.

      5.4.2. SPECIFIC PROTOCOL FOR SURGICAL TREATMENT

        -  Wide mucoperiosteal flaps and complete surgical excision of necrotic bone together with
           a mucosa margin of at least 2 mm.

        -  Removal of dental pieces included in the diseased area and regularization of bony
           margins avoiding leaving sharp edges or spicules.

        -  Secure a two layered waterproof closure without tension (simple or with local flaps).

        -  Samples will be sent for Pathological and microbiological analysis.

        -  Stitches removal after two weeks

        -  Postoperative systemic antibiotic following the mentioned protocol until stitches
           removal.

      5.4.3. SALIVA COLLECTION PROTOCOL

        -  Patients must avoid rinsing and ingestion of solids or liquids for at least 1 hour prior
           to collection.

        -  The collection will take place between 8 and 10 am.

        -  Five minutes after an oral rinse with distilled water, 5 ml of unstimulated full saliva
           from the lower lip will be collected.

        -  The samples will be processed within the first hour of collection of the sample by
           centrifuging at 2,600 x g for 15 minutes at 4 ° C. The supernatant will be collected and
           stored at -80 ° C until the biomarkers are analyzed.

      5.4.4. SUCCESSIVE VISITS

        -  Controls will be carried out 2 weeks after the inclusion visit and then monthly until
           the third month when the outcomes will be determined and the second sample of saliva
           will be collected. Long term follow-up will continue every three to six months depending
           on patient characteristics and desires.

        -  At each visit, the following information will be recorded: symptoms with VAS for pain;
           physical examination of head and neck; presence of exposed bone and surface in cm2 or
           number of fistulas otherwise. If complete mucosal healing is found, the time elapsed
           since the start of treatment will be recorded.

        -  Patients in GROUP 1, may develop disease progression refractory to conservative
           management. In that case, the second saliva sample will be collected before the third
           month and previous to surgical treatment.

        -  Patients of GROUP 2 with persistent disease, recurrence or significant worsening will
           undergo revision surgery if accepted.

        -  Radiological follow-up will be carried out with orthopantomography and CT scan/Cone
           Beam-CT at the third month.

      5.4.5. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Normality tests and graphs will be used to determine if the
      variables follow a normal distribution. Variables with normal distribution are expressed as
      mean ± standard deviation and those without normal distribution are expressed as median and
      interquartile range. To evaluate the differences between groups, the student's t test or the
      Mann-Whitney U test will be used for quantitative variables; and the chi-square test or
      Fisher's exact test for qualitative variables.

      The correlations will be examined by the Spearman or Pearson rank correlation. Paired or
      related sample tests will be used to assess intragroup differences. A value of p <0.05 will
      be considered an indicator of a significant difference.
    
  