
    
      1. Hypothesis: Chronic hepatitis B carriers (defined as HBeAg negative hepatitis B patients
      with HBV DNA <2x104 IU/mL, absence of cirrhosis and normal ALT) may experience higher rates
      of HBsAg seroclearance with pegylated interferon therapy.

      2A. Primary Objective

        -  The proportion of subjects with HBsAg loss at Week 24 of followup after treatment with
           24 or 48 weeks of pegylated interferon alpha 2a compared to no therapy.

           2B. Secondary Objective

        -  The proportion of subjects who experience HBsAg loss with 24 versus 48 weeks of
           pegylated interferon at the end of treatment, and at end of followup.

        -  The rate of quantitative HBsAg decline in relation to HBsAg loss

        -  The proportion of subjects with virological response (HBV DNA level <13.5IU/mL) at Weeks
           12 and 24 of treatment, and week 24 of followup.

           2C Study population: 90 patient will be enrolled.

      3.1 Inclusion Criteria

      For entry into this study, the following inclusion criteria must be met:

        -  Males or females age 21-75 years old (inclusive)

        -  Treatment naïve

        -  Documented HBsAg or HBV DNA positive for ≥ 6 months.

        -  Documented HBeAg negative and anti-HBe positive

        -  ALT ≤1xULN

        -  quantitative HBsAg <1,000 IU/ml OR HBV DNA <2x104 IU/mL at screening

        -  Absence of cirrhosis documented by liver biopsy or transient elastography within 6
           months (Fibroscan®; Fibrosis stage >2 (score ≥ 10Kpa) will not be eligible for this
           study.)

        -  Patient has agreed not to take any other investigational drug or systemic anti-viral,
           cytotoxic, corticosteroid, immunomodulatory agents or Chinese traditional remedies
           unless clinically indicated.

        -  Patient is able to give written consent prior to study start and to comply with the
           study requirements.

        -  Women of childbearing age must have a negative urine (ß-HCG) pregnancy test taken within
           14 days of starting therapy

      3.2 Exclusion Criteria

      For entry into this study, the following exclusion criteria must not be met:

        -  Patients who are currently on treatment with nucleoside/nucleotide analogues or have
           been treated for Hepatitis B in the past

        -  Presence of cirrhosis documented by liver biopsy or transient elastography (score ≥
           10kpa)

        -  Active Co-infection with HIV antibody, HCV antibody or HDV antibody positivity.

        -  Evidence of decompensated liver disease defined as a direct (conjugated) bilirubin >1.2x
           upper limit of normal (ULN), prothrombin time (PT) >1.5xULN , serum bilirubin <35g/L, or
           prior history of clinical hepatic decompensation as illustrated by presence of (eg.
           ascites, encephalopathy, variceal haemorrhage)

        -  Evidence of hepatocellular carcinoma

        -  Absolute neutrophil count <1.5x10^9/L or Hemoglobin <12 g/L for men or <11 g/L for
           women, or platelet count < 90x10^9/L

        -  History of depression or psychiatric disease

        -  Uncontrolled thyroid disease defined as thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) >1.2 ULN or
           0.8xLLN or thyroid dysfunction

        -  Any immunomodulators, systemic cytotoxic agents, or systemic cortiosteriods within 6
           months before trial entry

        -  Significant renal, cardiovascular, pulmonary, neurological, autoimmune disease or bone
           disease (e.g., osteomalacia, chronic osteomyelitis, osteogenesis imperfecta,
           osteochrondroses, multiple bone fractures)

        -  Malignant disease within 5 years of trial entry

        -  Women who are pregnant and who are not practicing adequate birth control measures,
           (defined as two methods of birth control with at least one barrier method) or who are
           lactating.

      4.1 Study Treatment

      Product, Dose, and Mode of Administration:

      Peginterferon α-2a (PEG), 180mcg, will be administered weekly by subcutaneous injection for
      the specified period of time (see Study Design, Arms B and C). Pegasys® (Roche
      Pharmaceuticals).

      Reference Therapy, Dose, and Mode of Administration:

      Peginterferon α-2a (PEG), 180mcg subcutaneous injection once weekly

      4.2 Overview The study will be conducted as a computer randomised clinical trial with
      concealment of allocation. Patients fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      randomised after completing screening. Patients will be randomly allocated to three parallel
      arms: no therapy, 24 weeks peg-interferon alpha 2a, and 48 weeks interferon alpha 2a.
      Patients will be monitored 4 weekly initial then 12 weekly till end of therapy, then for an
      additional 24 weeks after completing therapy. Patients on no therapy will be monitored for 72
      weeks.

      4.3 Endpoints/efficacy assessements Primary: HBsAg loss at end of followup for interferon
      arms compared to no therapy
    
  