
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of combining gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) to the
      induction regimen of cytarabine and daunorubicin (DA) and midostaurin.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the frequency of early death associated with study treatment. II. To evaluate
      the preliminary efficacy of the study treatment. III. To assess the safety profile of the
      study treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Quantify CD33 expression on acute myeloid leukemia (AML) blasts. II. Determine the CD33
      single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) status previously reported to correlate with response
      and correlate clinical outcomes of patients with the CD33 genotype.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose finding study to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) schedule
      of GO, and its safety and tolerability in combination with midostaurin in FLT3-mutated newly
      diagnosed AML patients.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) on days 1-7, daunorubicin
      IV on days 1-3 and midostaurin 50mg orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 8-21. Patients also
      receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV either on day or days 1 and 4 or days 1, 4 and 7 depending
      on dose level in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      RE-INDUCTION THERAPY: Between days 14 and 21 of Induction Therapy, patients who achieve at
      least 5% bone marrow blasts after an optional bone marrow biopsy may receive a single 28-day
      cycle of cytarabine and daunorubicin with or without midostaurin per the treating physician.
      Patients who achieve a complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood
      count recovery (CRi) may undergo allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) or receive
      consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY:

      PATIENTS < 60 YEARS: Patients receive high dose cytarabine (HiDAC) IV on days 1, 3, and 5 and
      gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV on day 1 of cycle 1 and midostaurin 50mg PO BID on days 8-21.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PATIENTS >= 60 YEARS: Patients receive cytarabine (MiDAC) IV on days 1, 3, and 5 and
      gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV on day 1 of cycle 1 and midostaurin 50mg PO BID on days 8-21.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.
    
  