
    
      Isthmic spondylolisthesis is considered to represent a fatigue fracture of the pars
      interarticularis of the neural arch, The clinical symptom is activity-related back pain in
      young and athletic patients . The cause of Isthmic spondylolisthesis in these patients is
      repetitive stress of the pars interarticularis with subsequent microfracture, which in turn
      may lead to a bony defect and cause progressive spondylolisthesis in up to 25% of cases.
      Surgical intervention is indicated for patients who are not responsive despite adequate
      period of conservative management such as activity modification , physical therapy, and
      occasionally bracing .

      Techniques for repair of a pars defect include Scott wiring , a Buck screw , a pedicle screw
      and hook , multiple segment fixations or a U-rod . After repair, radiographic healing rates
      range from 67 percent to 90 percent; asymptomatic and return to sports rates range from 80
      percent to 90 percent.

      These methods have achieved variable success .In Buck screw fusion surgery,it is not effect
      on flexion and axial rotation of the spine but bone healing is compromised.

      Stabilization with wiring and titanium cable had less success rate than other methods and
      requires the use of lumbar brace or prolonged immobilization.

      The pedicle screw-vertebral plate hook system may complicated by injury to the dural sac or
      nerves ensues.

      Multiple segment fixation with pedicle screws and rods has good success of stabilization but
      it is effect on flexion and axial rotation of the spine, and may cause degenerative change in
      adjacent normal segments.

      Smiley face shaped rod technique is new method used for repair of isthmic spodylolisthesis
      using pedical screw on effected segment and smiley face rod revolve around spinal process to
      stabilization of pars interarticularis of the same segment so it preserve axial rotation and
      flexion of spin also avoid degenerative change in adjacent levels.
    
  