
    
      Background:

      During recent years, cancer-testis (CT) antigens (CTA), particularly those encoded by genes
      on the X chromosome (CT-X genes), have emerged as attractive targets for cancer
      immunotherapy. Whereas malignancies of diverse histologies express a variety of CTAs, immune
      responses to these proteins appear uncommon in cancer patients, possibly due to low-level,
      heterogeneous antigen expression, as well as immunosuppressive regulatory T cells present
      within tumor sites and systemic circulation of these individuals. Conceivably, vaccination of
      cancer patients with tumor cells expressing high levels of CTAs in combination with regimens
      that deplete or inhibit T regulatory cells will induce broad immunity to these antigens. In
      order to examine this issue, patients with primary lung and esophageal cancers, pleural
      mesotheliomas, thoracic sarcomas, thymic neoplasms and mediastinal germ cell tumors, as well
      as sarcomas, melanomas, germ cell tumors, or epithelial malignancies metastatic to lungs,
      pleura or mediastinum with no evidence of disease (NED) or minimal residual disease (MRD)
      following standard multidisciplinary therapy will be vaccinated with H1299 tumor cell lysates
      with Iscomatrix (Trademark) adjuvant. Vaccines will be administered with or without
      metronomic oral cyclophosphamide (50 mg PO BID x 7d q 14d), and celecoxib (400 mg PO BID).
      Serologic responses to a variety of recombinant CTAs as well as immunologic responses to
      autologous tumor or epigenetically modified autologous EBVtransformed lymphocytes will be
      assessed before and after receiving 6 vaccines.

      Primary Objectives:

      -To assess the frequency of immunologic responses to CTAs in patients with thoracic
      malignancies following vaccinations with H1299 cell lysate/Iscomatrix (Trademark) vaccines
      alone in comparison to patients with thoracic malignancies following vaccinations with H1299
      cell lysate/Iscomatrix (Trademark) vaccines in combination with metronomic cyclophosphamide
      and celecoxib.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with histologically or cytologically proven small cell or non-small cell lung
      cancer (SCLC;NSCLC), esophageal cancer (EsC), malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) , thymic
      or mediastinal germ cell tumors, thoracic sarcomas, or melanomas, sarcomas, or

      epithelial malignancies metastatic to lungs, pleura or mediastinum who have no clinical
      evidence of active disease (NED), or minimal residual disease (MRD) not readily accessible by
      non-invasive biopsy or resection/radiation following standard therapy completed within the
      past 56 weeks.

        -  Patients must be 18 years or older with an ECOG performance status of 0 - 2.

        -  Patients must have adequate bone marrow, kidney, liver, lung and cardiac function.

        -  Patients may not be on systemic immunosuppressive medications at time vaccinations
           commence.

      Design:

        -  Following recovery from surgery, chemotherapy, or chemo/XRT, patients with NED or MRD
           will be vaccinated via deep subcutaneous (SQ) injection with H1299 cell lysates and
           Iscomatrix (Trademark) adjuvant monthly until 6 vaccinations have been given.

        -  Vaccines will be administered with or without with metronomic oral cyclophosphamide and
           celecoxib.

        -  Systemic toxicities and immunologic response to therapy will be recorded. Pre and post
           vaccination serologic and cell mediated responses to a standard panel of CT antigens as
           well as autologous tumor cells (if available) and EBV-transformed lymphocytes will be
           assessed before and after vaccination.

        -  Numbers/percentages and function of T regulatory cells in peripheral blood will be
           assessed before, during, and after vaccinations.

        -  Patients will be followed in the clinic with routine staging scans until disease
           recurrence.

        -  The trial will randomize 28 evaluable patients per arm to either receive vaccine alone
           or vaccine plus chemotherapy in order to have 80% power to determine if the frequency of
           immune responses on the combination arm exceeds that of the vaccine alone arm, if the
           expected frequencies of immune responses on the two arms were 20% and 50%, using a
           one-sided 0.10 alpha level Fisher s exact test.

        -  Approximately 60 patients will be accrued to this trial.
    
  