
    
      HPV is found in the cancer cells of more than half the patients with certain types of cancer,
      suggesting that it may play a role in causing the cancer. The virus makes proteins in the
      tumor cells that should allow the diseased cells to be recognized and killed by a part of the
      body's own immune system called T cells. Unfortunately, tumors are able to avoid being killed
      by making molecules that turn off these T cells. So, the cancer cells infected by HPV are
      able to hide from the body's immune system and escape destruction.

      The investigators have previously studied cancers caused by a different virus, called
      Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). These EBV-cancers are like HPV-cancers, since they turn off the T
      cells that would otherwise destroy them, and so can keep growing. They investigators have
      found, however, that if they removed the T cells from the blood of patients with EBV-cancers
      and grew them outside the body, they could increase the number and the activity of T cells
      directed against the tumors. When these T cells were given back to the patients, the T cells
      eliminated the cancers in over half the recipients. Investigators also found that they could
      engineer the T cells to be even more active against the EBV-cancer cells by making them
      resist an inhibitory chemical called TGF-beta, which is produced by these cancer cells.

      Investigators will collect up to 390 mL of blood. Then they will use this blood to grow T
      cells. First they will grow them in a special type of cell called a dendritic cell, which
      stimulates the T cells. These dendritic cells will then be loaded with bits of proteins from
      the HPV virus called E6 and E7. These dendritic cells will be used to stimulate T cells. This
      stimulation trains the T cells to kill cells with the HPV proteins E6 and E7 on their
      surface. Next, the investigators will grow these HPV-specific T cells by more stimulation
      with dendritic cells and HPV proteins, and, when needed, a special type of cell called K562.
      These K562 cells were treated with radiation so they cannot grow.

      To make these T cells resistant to the TGF-beta released by the tumor, investigators will put
      a new gene in them in the laboratory called a mutant TGF-beta receptor. In cells with this
      new gene, TGF-beta released by the tumor cells will not be able to bind to the mutant
      TGF-beta receptor on the T cell. Investigators hope this will improve the chances that after
      the T cells are injected they will be able to keep working and kill the tumor cells. This
      gene is added to the cells using a mouse retrovirus that has been changed to stop it from
      causing infections. Retroviruses enter the cell's DNA (genetic material) to make permanent
      changes to the cell. After making these cells, they will be frozen.

      For treatment, the cells will be thawed and injected in a vein over 1 to 10 minutes.
      Initially, one dose of T cells will be given (which is considered day 0).

      If, after the 1st infusion, there is a reduction in the size of the subject's cancer (or no
      increase) on CT or MRI scans as assessed by a radiologist, the subject can receive additional
      doses if it would be to his/her benefit, if s/he would like to receive more doses, and if
      there is enough product remaining to give any additional injections (at the same or a lower
      dose).

      If treatment with HPVST cells alone proves safe, additional group of patients (Group B) will
      receive HPVST cells with nivolumab in lymphodepleted environment. One dose of the drug
      nivolumab is given one day before the HPVST cells are infused and then every 2 weeks for a
      total of four doses of nivolumab. Lymphodepletion will be given daily starting day -4 prior
      to administration of HPVSTs.

      This is a dose escalation study. The dose the patient will get will depend on how many
      participants get the agent beforehand and how they react.

      Investigators will follow the patient during and after the injections at predetermined time
      points which may require blood draws and other examinations.
    
  