
    
      Cognitive dysfunction is increasingly recognized as a core feature of amyotrophic lateral
      sclerosis (ALS). With appropriate testing, up to 50% of ALS patients will show evidence of
      frontotemporal dysfunction. Approximately 15% of patients meet formal criteria for
      frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Certain genetic forms of ALS (e.g., mutations in C9orf72) have
      even higher incidences of FTD. The presence of cognitive abnormalities is an adverse risk
      factor for survival, and its presence influences the ability of patients to cooperate in
      clinical trials. However, screening for frontotemporal abnormalities is frequently not
      performed in ALS clinics, and tools for diagnosing cognitive dysfunction are either time
      consuming or insensitive. Additionally, the frequently co-existing dysarthria complicates the
      assessment and may mask more subtle cognitive deficits. Once identified, ways of following
      progressive decline are also lacking. In an ongoing study, it has been shown that a
      sophisticated suite of speech and language analytics, developed by two of the investigators,
      can identify abnormalities in cognitively normal ALS patients without speech symptoms, and
      predict important functional changes outside of the speech domain. In this study,
      investigators will evaluate both speech and language in 50 patients with ALS both with and
      without symptoms of cognitive decline. This evaluation will be paired with two cognitive
      screening tools frequently used in ALS clinics, the ALS Cognitive Behavioral Screen (ALS-CBS)
      and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). The investigators will evaluate the extent to
      which speech and language deficits precede abnormalities as measured by the above tools and
      determine whether cognitive change can be accurately followed over 12 months using speech and
      language measures. It is hypothesized that speech and language measures will accurately and
      sensitively predict cognitive changes. If so, such measures may be very useful in future
      studies of potential therapeutic agents for ALS-FTD and other dementias.
    
  