
    
      Research Method:

        1. Selected respirologists' practices will identify patients at risk of osteoporosis
           (according to Osteoporosis Canada Guidelines):

             1. Who have not had a bone density test in the past 2 years and

             2. Who are not already taking osteoporosis pharmacotherapy.

             3. Other patients not meeting these criteria can also be referred at the discretion of
                the physician

        2. Patients will be given a choice on whether they wish to be referred to the Osteoporosis
           Centre of BC (Vancouver) through an expedited simple referral system OR they may have
           their information sent to their referring/family doctor discussing the need for referral
           for an evaluation of bone health and follow up

           i. Informed consent obtained with an Ethics Committee approved Informed Consent Form.
           Informed consent will be obtained from all patients who will be followed by the research
           team. The consent will allow the researchers to use clinical data and imaging for
           observational research; participation in the research will be optional and will not
           affect patient ability to obtain information on their bone health at OCBC.

      ii. A standard, full evaluation will be undertaken on a single visit (DXA bone densitometry,
      consultation with endocrinologist or geriatrician). Screening for secondary causes of
      osteoporosis including Vitamin D status through blood tests will occur at a community
      laboratory. All information obtained from these tests being reviewed by the physicians and
      clinical treatment decisions will be made based on standard practice.

      iii. Densitometry with OCBC research-calibrated DXA will permit meaningful clinical follow-up
      .

      Respirologists' office process:

      1. Men and women over age 65 with obstructive airways disease would be asked if they have had
      a bone density test in the past 2 years and if they are currently taking an osteoporosis
      therapy (alendronate, risedronate, zoledronate, etidronate, , raloxifene, calcitonin,
      estrogen)

      2 If the answer is no, the respirologists would

      Explain standard of care for patients at risk of osteoporosis and then

        1. Recommend to the referring physician that an osteoporosis evaluation be conducted
           (non-study) or

        2. Ask the patient if they would be interested in taking part of the observational study.
           If patient wishes to participate a consent form would be given to the subject and the
           patient would be asked for permission to have the research coordinator call them in 2-3
           days to discuss the study. The respirologist would then generate an expedited referral
           to the Osteoporosis Centre of BC (candidate for observational study).

      The research coordinator would contact the subject by telephone and with scripted call speak
      to the subject and answer any questions pertaining to the study. During this call the
      research coordinator would determine whether the subject would like to meet prior to the
      appointment so that informed consent could be obtained. Informed consent would be obtained at
      the OCBC prior to the patient's appointment. If the patient does not wish to consent to the
      study but is referred clinically, they will not meet with the study coordinator, but they
      will still be able to access all usual clinical services provided by OCBC.

      i. A simple one-page referral faxed to Osteoporosis Centre of BC

      ii. All arrangements made either with respirologists' office or directly with the patient by
      OCBC

      iii. Consultation reports sent back to both the referring doctor (respirology) and family
      doctor

      Data from osteoporosis clinical history, fracture history, medication history, chemistries,
      and DXA will be collected with data on respiratory function. A database would be made for
      later analysis and correlation.

      Chest Xray films taken in the last 2 years would be reviewed. Chest CT or other imaging will
      be evaluated for vertebral compression fractures (a very potent risk factor for future
      fragility fracture).

      Statistical Analysis:

      This study is observational and descriptive data will be produced. Regressions of continuous
      variables will be analyzed using Pearson correlation coefficients and parametric variables
      analyzed by Chi Squared testing.
    
  