
    
      MS is an inflammatory, demyelinating, and neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous
      system. The most common clinical signs and symptoms are fatigue, spasticity, affecting
      mobility, cognitive impairment, chronic pain, depression, decreased quality of life, and
      bladder and bowel dysfunction.

      In order to increase and maintain the quality of life of individuals with MS these
      disease-related progressive symptoms need to be managed. For this reason, patients need
      long-term rehabilitation. This situation reduces the motivation of the people over time and
      makes the continuity of treatment difficult. Developments in rehabilitation technology aim to
      contribute to the treatment process as well as to increase the active participation of
      individuals with chronic diseases.

      Current literature has shown that video-based physical activity training as
      non-pharmacological therapy may be an effective method for symptoms such as balance, tremor,
      fatigue, cognitive functions in persons with MS.

      The primary purpose of the study was to examine the effects and persistence of 8-week video
      games-based physical activity training in MS patients on upper extremity functions, walking,
      balance, cognitive functions, quality of life, depression and fatigue. The second aim of the
      study was to investigate the effect and persistence of traditional physiotherapy of 8 weeks
      on MS patients on upper extremity functions, walking, balance, cognitive functions, quality
      of life, depression and fatigue. The third aim of the study is to compare the effects of
      8-week videogame-based physical activity training and traditional physiotherapy in MS
      patients.

      Volunteers from persons with MS who are in routine control of the MS Outpatient Clinic of
      Neurology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Dokuz Eylül University will participate in the
      study. In accordance with the inclusion criteria, 51 patients were randomly assigned to three
      groups: 17 patients in the game based rehabilitation group, 17 patients in the conventional
      rehabilitation group and 17 patients in the no intervention group. Based on the physical
      levels of the patients, appropriate games will be selected and video game based physical
      activity training will be started. Video games will be played with Xbox One with motion
      sensor (Microsoft) and a 52'' Liquid Crystal Display. Depending on the prognosis of the
      patients, the grades of the games and types of the games will be changed. The program will be
      administered once a week for 8 weeks. A conventional physiotherapy program including balance,
      upper extremity, and core stabilization exercises will be implemented. Sessions will take
      5-10 minutes warm up, 15-20 minutes exercise and 5-10 minute cool down periods. The program
      will be administered once a week for 8 weeks. No intervention group formed from waitlist will
      receive no intervention.
    
  