
    
      There are no proven treatments for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and associated pneumonia
      caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Recent experience in
      China suggests that convalescent immune plasma(CIP)may be an effective treatment for
      COVID-19. In the pandemic situation where there are no vaccines for COVID-19, specific
      antibodies in convalescent plasma induced by infection may provide passive protective
      immunity. Passive antibody therapy was the first immunotherapy dating back to the 1890's for
      the treatment of infectious diseases before the development of antibiotics 1940's. Experience
      from prior outbreaks with other coronaviruses, such as SARS-CoV-1 shows that such
      convalescent plasma contains neutralizing antibodies to the relevant virus. In SARS-CoV-2,
      passive antibody therapy from CIP probably provided protection by viral neutralization. CIP
      was also used in the 2013 Ebola epidemic. A small non-randomized study in Sierra Leone
      revealed a significant increase in survival for who received CIP4. CIP administration is the
      only approach that provides immediate immunity to patients who have been exposed or who have
      active disease.

      This approach is immediately available from individuals who have recovered, are viral
      free,and can donate immune plasma (IP) containing high titer neutralizing antibodies. Passive
      antibody therapy can be given to a patient recently exposed or a patient who is developing an
      infection with COVID-19 by obtaining plasma units from immune individuals by standard
      plasmapheresis using FDA-approved blood banking procedures, cross matching the unit(s) to the
      recipients and infusing the unit(s) using standard transfusion procedures for blood products.
      Based on the safety and long-term experience with plasma infusions, plasma exchanges, and
      other procedures involving plasma or plasma product, this protocol was designed as a phase II
      single arm trial that involves the administration of antibodies to a given agent to a
      susceptible individual for the purpose of preventing or treating an infectious disease due to
      that agent.

      The only antibody formulation that is available for emergent use is that found in
      convalescent plasma. As more individuals contract COVID-19 and recover, the number of
      potential donors will increase.

      The principle of passive antibody therapy is that it is more effective when used for
      prophylaxis than for treatment of disease. When used for therapy, antibody is most effective
      when administered shortly after the onset of symptoms. The reason for temporal variation in
      efficacy is not well understood but could reflect that passive antibody works by neutralizing
      the initial inoculum, which is likely to be much smaller than that of established disease.
      Alternatively, antibodies may dampen the early inflammatory response leaving the infected
      individual asymptomatic. For example, antibody therapy for pneumococcal pneumonia was most
      effective when given shortly after the onset of symptoms and was of no benefit if antibody
      therapy was delayed beyond the third day of disease. For passive antibody therapy to be
      effective, a sufficient amount of antibody must be infused. The antibody will circulate in
      the blood, reach tissues,and provide protection against infection. Depending on the type of
      antibody, amount, and composition, the half-life can vary from weeks to months. It is under
      these circumstances, the investigators plan to treat patients who are sick enough to be
      hospitalized before the onset of overwhelming disease involving a systemic inflammatory
      response, sepsis, and/or ARDS.
    
  