
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate effectiveness (how well the drug/s work) of
      Nivolumab or Nivolumab combined with Ipilimumab prior to standard of care surgery.

      Nivolumab and Ipilimumab are types of immunotherapy. Immunotherapy works by encouraging the
      body's own immune system to attack cancer cells. Both nivolumab and Ipilimumab have been
      demonstrated to activate the immune system to attack cancer cells in laboratory studies and
      in patients with different types of cancers.

      Nivolumab (Opdivo ™) has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
      treatment of metastatic melanoma (a type of skin cancer), and specific types of previously
      treated advanced lung and kidney cancers. Ipilimumab (Yervoy™) is approved by the FDA for the
      treatment of metastatic melanoma.

      Because Nivolumab and Ipilimumab help the immune system work in different ways, the
      combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab was tested in laboratory studies. The data from these
      studies suggested that giving the two drugs together could be of benefit to patients, and
      this was indeed found to be the case in patients with melanoma. The combination of Nivolumab
      and Ipilimumab is now FDA approved as treatment for patients with metastatic melanoma.
      However, the use of Nivolumab as well as Ipilimumab alone or in combination for the treatment
      of patients with head and neck cancer is not approved. Results from clinical trials
      investigating the safety and efficacy of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab in patients with head and
      neck cancer are not available at this time.

      In the proposed study, either Nivolumab or the combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab is
      being tested is being tested prior to surgery to remove cancers of the oral cavity. By
      stimulating the immune system to attack cancer cells, these drugs may cause the cancer to
      decrease in size prior to surgery and prevent the cancer from coming back.
    
  