
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the event-free and overall survival of younger patients undergoing surgery for
           newly diagnosed, noncirrhotic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treated with neoadjuvant
           cisplatin, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and thalidomide (PLADOTH) followed by
           transarterial hepatic arterial chemoembolization comprising cisplatin and doxorubicin
           hydrochloride and adjuvant cyclophosphamide and thalidomide.

        -  Determine the efficacy and tolerability of PLADOTH in patients with initially
           unresectable noncirrhotic HCC treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the rate of complete surgical resection by encouragement of liver
           transplantation in the treatment strategy as a valid option for tumor removal when
           partial liver resection or other surgical options remain unfeasible for patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the long-term remission and decreased relapse rates of patients treated with
           this regimen based on the postoperative regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate of patients treated with this regimen after treatment with
           PLADOTH.

        -  Determine the short-term toxicity and feasibility of PLADOTH in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the efficacy and toxicity of the postoperative regimen in terms of maintenance
           and duration of complete remission (no more evidence of disease and normal
           alpha-fetoprotein, if initially elevated) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine whether response to PLADOTH by the RECIST criteria can be used for better
           monitoring of response of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine whether the rate of fall of serum VEGF and bFGF levels during PLADOTH can be
           used as prognostic factors for short-term and long-term outcome in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the feasibility of chemoembolization in patients treated with this regimen who
           do not respond to PLADOTH.

        -  Determine which subset of tumors may benefit from an angiostatic treatment approach
           based on radiological, surgical, and pathological data collected from patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Identify possible novel factors that might influence treatment choice and disease
           outcome based on radiological, surgical, and pathological data collected from patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine guidelines for diagnostic, therapeutic, and follow-up management that would
           improve clinical care for patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, nonrandomized, open-label study.

      All patients undergo either tumor biopsy or resection. Patients with localized resectable
      tumors undergo resection. They then proceed directly to the postoperative treatment. Patients
      with initially unresectable tumors undergo biopsy then proceed to the pre-operative regimen.

        -  Pre-operative chemotherapy and thalidomide (PLADOTH): Patients receive PLADOTH
           comprising cisplatin IV continuously over 24 hours on day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride
           IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2 (or IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1 and 3), and
           oral thalidomide daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients whose tumors are
           deemed resectable proceed to surgery. Patients with responding disease but whose tumors
           remain unresectable proceed to chemoembolization or receive 2 additional courses of
           PLADOTH.

        -  Transarterial hepatic artery chemoembolization (TACE): Patients undergo TACE comprising
           cisplatin and doxorubicin hydrochloride administered through a catheter placed near the
           tumor. TACE may be repeated every 3-4 weeks for as long as disease continues to respond
           or until the tumor becomes resectable. Patients also receive oral thalidomide once daily
           during TACE. Once the tumor is deemed resectable, patients proceed to surgery.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo surgical resection of the tumor. Patients undergo either
           partial or total hepatectomy followed by a liver transplant and lung surgery, if
           necessary. Patients then proceed to the postoperative treatment.

        -  Postoperative treatment: Beginning within 6 weeks after surgery, patients receive oral
           cyclophosphamide once every other day and oral thalidomide once daily for up to 1 year
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with metastatic disease who show disease progression at any time during treatment go
      off study and receive individual advice regarding further treatment based on the decision of
      the principal investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 47 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  