
    
      Retinal detachment caused by macular hole predominantly happened in high myopic eyes. This is
      a common type of retinal detachment in Asia and often seen in the old people aged around 50 ~
      60, mainly in female. Treatment of retinal detachment due to macular holes has changed over
      the years, and several methods have been described. Some surgeons have used transscleral
      diathermy or cryotherapy or laser photocoagulation and drainage subretinal fluid without
      sclera buckling, other surgeons have used radial silicone explants beneath the macular
      combined with cryo, diathermy or laser. This method entails the difficulty of placing sclera
      sutures far posterior, especially hazardous if there is a posterior staphyloma with very thin
      sclera. Besides the technically difficult, the extensive macular scarring caused by different
      coagulations limited the functional result to peripheral vision only. Because of this, it is
      not generally used in the initial treatment.

      In 1982, Gonvers and Machemer4 proposed a new treatment technique that combined pars plana
      vitrectomy (PPV), partial air-fluid exchange, and face down positioning for 24 hours. Since
      then vitrectomy with gas tamponade become the most common procedure for retinal detachment
      with macular hole.

      In 1984, Miyake performed a simple gas injection into the vitreous followed by a face-down
      position. The effective of this simplified method was then reported by many observers.But
      these studies may have insufficiency because of small sample, nonrandomized, no defined
      eligibility criteria for patients selection.

      Intraocular gas tamponade with or without pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) has commonly been
      performed nowadays. We conducted a multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial to
      compare their anatomic results and visual outcomes of both surgical techniques, to estimate
      the efficiency of both surgical methods in the treatment of retinal detachment with myopic
      macular hole.
    
  