
    
      The study population consists of patients living in the city of Kuopio or Siilinjarvi area in
      Eastern Finland, who have been treated in Kuopio University Hospital because of acute CAD
      event. After baseline measurements, the patients will be randomized into one of the 3 groups:
      short interval HIT protocol (HIT-S), long interval HIT protocol (HIT-L) or UC group. The
      intervention will be 12 months per patient and the expected duration of the whole study
      (intervention data collection) is estimated to be 4 years. In addition, all groups will have
      annual follow-up examinations scheduled up to 60 months after initiation of the intervention
      phase. The patients recruited for the study will be 750, a total of 250 patients per study
      group.

      All measurements related to intervention will be performed at Kuopio Research Institute of
      Exercise Medicine. Examinations concerning myocardial structure and perfusion will be done at
      Turku PET Center (subsample).

      The study complies with the Helsinki declaration, follows good clinical practice. Patient
      safety will follow normal medical practice. The intervention is not anticipated to cause
      health risks apart from the conventional treatment. All participants will be provided with
      diverse individualized information about their health and physical performance. The research
      methods employed in the study are safe. Physician and nurse will be present at each occasion
      when physically strenuous measurements are performed and careful provisions for appropriate
      first aid will be made. The measurements assessing cardiorespiratory and muscular fitness
      will involve hard effort and it is not unusual to feel innocent muscle pain for a few days
      after measurements demanding maximal effort. The other potential acute complications may
      include accidents (e.g. injuries due to slipping or falling) and medical emergencies like
      acute myocardial infarction.

      Study hypotheses:

        1. Short (15 sec) and long interval (3 min) high-intensity aerobic interval training (HIT)
           combined with resistance training after acute CAD event are equally effective in
           improving cardiorespiratory fitness compared with UC.

        2. Despite higher unit costs, the differences in health-related quality of life effects are
           so large that both HIT interventions are cost-effective compared with UC.

        3. Patient's experiences and interpretation of HIT exercise as well as different social
           processes during rehabilitation explain the cost-effectiveness of the rehabilitation.

        4. Patient groups who will or will not benefit of HIT interventions can be identified and
           predicted.
    
  