
    
      Dementia is the leading cause of dependence and disability worldwide. With the nation's
      fastest growing demographic being adults over 65, the Lewy Body Dementia Association states
      that the current cost puts it higher than either heart disease or cancer; as the financial
      burden was estimated at $818 billion in 2015. Functional limitations such as a slower gait,
      muscle weakness (ex. grip strength), unintentional weight loss and self-reported exhaustion
      adds pressure on healthcare services. Older adults transitioning into assisted living
      facilities (ALF) will need assistance with activities of daily living; as this population is
      the most sedentary. Although exercise interventions show positive effects for the management
      of chronic diseases, as well as cognition and physical functioning, the Canadian Health
      Measures Survey reported that only 13% of older adults 60- 79 years old were meeting the
      physical activity (PA) guidelines set out by the World Health Organization. That said,
      research has yet to establish what benefits may come from the lower end of the PA spectrum;
      and there are no current guidelines for how long older adults should be sedentary. Research
      shows that large amounts of sedentary behaviour (SB) leads to an increased risk of all-cause
      mortality, independent from not meeting the PA guidelines (Ekelund et al., 2016). SB is
      defined as any waking behaviour characterized by an energy expenditure less than or equal to
      1.5 metabolic equivalents while in a sitting or reclining posture. Alzheimer's Disease (AD)
      is the most common form of Dementia, accounting for 60-80% of cases; and Mild Cognitive
      Impairment (MCI) is generally used to refer to the transitional zone between normal cognitive
      functioning and clinically probable AD. With no current cure for AD, the need for effective
      non-pharmaceutical treatments are imperative.

      The purpose of my study will be to investigate the effect of reducing SB on Alzheimer's
      Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive (ADAS-cog) scores among older adults aged 65 years and
      older with moderate cognitive impairment. Also, examine their changes in physical functioning
      and their quality of life. I hypothesize that the decline in ADAS-cog scores will be slower
      and physical scores as well as quality of life (QoL) scores will improve in the intervention
      group vs controls.

      A clustered randomized control pilot study; involving an ALF in London, Ontario will be
      conducted. The intervention group will be prompted to take a 10-minute light intensity PA
      break three times throughout the day. The PA will be any task equating to over 1.5 metabolic
      equivalents and will be recorded in a simplified diary. Eligible subjects will undergo the
      following tests at baseline: 1) the Mini Mental State Examination and 2) the Community
      Healthy Activities Program for Seniors survey, 3) Timed Up and Go test (TUG) for physical
      functioning; 4) ADAS-cog for cognitive functioning; and 5) the Short Form- 36 Health Survey
      to assess QoL. Both groups will wear an activity tracker during a baseline period before the
      intervention to collect baseline levels of physical activity. Both groups will also be
      required to wear the activity monitor for a period during the intervention to check
      adherence. Following the intervention, the CHAMPS questionnaire will be re-administered along
      with the ADAS-cog, TUG and SF-36.

      Research at the bottom end of the PA spectrum is crucial, as residents in ALF have various
      functional limitations; and many cannot meet the current PA guidelines. If improvements are
      shown from my study, this could contribute to the design of a policy that can be implemented
      into all ALF; lessening the burden on the health care system and loved ones.
    
  