
    
      Numerous studies have documented an association between posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      symptoms and intimate relationship problems in both Service Members and Veterans and their
      partners, including relationship distress, physical and psychological aggression, and
      psychological distress in partners. In prior work, the investigators have demonstrated that
      cognitive-behavioral conjoint therapy for PTSD (CBCT for PTSD), a 15-session couple-based
      therapy for PTSD, is efficacious in simultaneously treating PTSD and comorbid symptoms and
      improving intimate relationship functioning. However, the current format of fifteen 75-minute
      sessions over 15 weeks presents challenges for large-scale dissemination for active duty
      Service Members and recently discharged Veterans who have deployed in support of 9/11.

      The purpose of this uncontrolled trial is to pilot a brief, scalable version of CBCT for PTSD
      in which session content is taught in an accelerated, multi-couple group format (AM-CBCT for
      PTSD) that has the potential for rapid dissemination and implementation, while capturing the
      majority of the benefits of the original therapy format. Accelerated, multi-couple group CBCT
      for PTSD (AM-CBCT for PTSD) will be delivered in a single weekend retreat to 24 active duty
      Service Members and recently discharged Veterans with PTSD who have deployed post-9/11 and
      their partners. Participants will be assessed at pre-treatment, one month after treatment,
      and 3 months after treatment.

      The study seeks to answer the following questions:

        1. Will accelerated, multi-couple group CBCT for PTSD delivered in a weekend retreat
           (AM-CBCT for PTSD) be associated with significant improvements in clinician-rated PTSD
           symptom severity, as measured by the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5
           (CAPS-5), one month after treatment and at 3-month follow-up?

        2. Will accelerated, multi-couple group CBCT for PTSD delivered in a weekend retreat
           (AM-CBCT for PTSD) be associated with significant improvements in secondary outcomes
           (e.g., patient self-reported PTSD and comorbid symptom severity, relationship
           satisfaction), one month after treatment and at 3-month follow-up?
    
  