
    
      About 25% of HIV infected people do not know that they are infected. These people lack
      medical care that could prolong their lives and access to counseling services that could
      prevent further spread of HIV. With so many people unaware of their HIV status, there is a
      clear need for more readily available HIV counseling, testing, and referral services
      throughout the United States. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends
      routine HIV testing in U.S. hospitals in which HIV infected patients make up at least 1% of
      the total patient population for that hospital. However, routine HIV testing in such
      hospitals is rarely carried out, which might be because the CDC has not specified who should
      perform routine HIV testing. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of two
      different approaches to providing routine HIV counseling, testing, and referral services in
      an urban hospital emergency department setting. One approach will be led by an HIV counselor,
      and the other approach will be led by an emergency department staff member. For both
      approaches, the study will evaluate to what extent patients accept HIV testing, how well
      follow-up care is established, and the cost-effectiveness of the approach.

      Participants in this study will include adults who visit Brigham and Women's Hospital
      emergency department in Boston, Massachusetts. Participants will be randomly assigned to a
      counselor versus provider and will be asked to fill out a questionnaire while waiting in the
      emergency room. The questionnaire will be anonymous. Participants will then be offered an
      oral rapid HIV test. Test results will be available in about 20 minutes and will be provided
      to participants by either their assigned HIV counselor. Participants who test positive for
      HIV will be offered a more definitive blood test to confirm HIV infection. The blood test
      results will be available 2 weeks from testing, and participants must return to the hospital
      to get their test results. Participants who test positive for HIV will be offered counseling
      support and referral services by either their assigned HIV counselor or emergency department
      staff member. Follow-up care appointments will also be initiated at this time. For
      participants who test positive for HIV, the study will last about 6 months. There will be no
      follow-up visits for participants who do not test positive for HIV during their emergency
      room visit.
    
  