
    
      INTRODUCTION: Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), the fourth most common malignancy across the
      pediatric age spectrum, is a heterogeneous group of lymphoid malignancies. In children, NHL
      comprises four main wide categories: lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL), Burkitt lymphoma (BL),
      diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). The current
      overall survival rate of pediatric NHL exceeds 80% due to dramatic progress in developing
      risk-adapted curative therapy (1), in which methotrexate (MTX) plays a crucial part.

      MTX is used to treat a variety of cancers. A high-dose MTX (HD-MTX) regimen, referred to the
      administration of a dosage ranging from 0.5g/m2 to 12.0g/m2 or even higher, is commonly used
      to treat childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), lymphoma and pediatric osteosarcoma.
      Despite its wide range of therapeutic efficacy, the toxicities of HD-MTX including reversible
      myelosuppression, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity,
      and particularly oral mucositis should not be neglected. Accumulating pharmacogenetic studies
      have revealed that polymorphisms of enzymes involved in folate pathway could lead to
      variability in response to MTX and HD-MTX-related toxicities in various malignancies. The
      most two extensively studied SNPs of MTHFR in relation to the toxicities of MTX are the C677T
      variant (Ala222Val, rs1801133) and A1298C variant (Glu 429Ala, rs1801131), both dampening the
      enzyme activity by 40-70%.

      However, limited evidence is available in pediatric NHL, with results varying considerably in
      different studies. Therefore, the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the
      influence of C677T and A1298C polymorphisms on HD-MTX-related toxicities in children with NHL
      treated according to BFM-modified protocols.

      PATIENTS & METHODS：We reviewed the medical records of all pediatric patients who were
      diagnosed as NHL and received HD-MTX-based chemotherapy at the dose of 5g/m2 in Sun Yat-sen
      University Cancer Center between March 2014 and March 2019. Data were analyzed by chi-square
      test.
    
  