
    
      Spinal anesthesia is the most common anesthetic technique used for Cesarean delivery in the
      United States and across the world. Intrathecal opioids are administered with a local
      anesthetic during spinal anesthesia post-Cesarean delivery analgesia. The effectiveness of
      intrathecal morphine for post-Cesarean pain control is well established, and the use of
      intrathecal hydromorphone in this patient population is growing. No prospective studies have
      been conducted to specifically compare the efficacy of intrathecal morphine versus
      hydromorphone for post-Cesarean analgesia.

      After intrathecal administration, opioid drug disposition depends on the lipid solubility of
      the individual drug. Because of its hydrophilic nature, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      concentrations of morphine decline more slowly than similar doses of lipophilic drugs. This
      accounts for more rostral spread, greater dermatomal analgesia, and longer duration of action
      when compared to highly lipophilic opioids like fentanyl and sufentanil. When used for
      post-cesarean analgesia, intrathecal morphine has a duration of action between 14-36 hours
      with wide variation between individual patients. While hydromorphone is similar chemically to
      morphine, it is more lipid soluble. This decreases its spread within the intrathecal space
      and enhances its penetration into the dorsal horn of the spinal cord where interactions with
      opioid receptors occur. These differences between the two medications may influence their
      duration of action. Theoretically, this would reduce the duration of action of intrathecal
      hydromorphone when compared with intrathecal morphine. Retrospective studies have shown that
      the analgesic benefit for intrathecal hydromorphone appears to extend at least 12 hours after
      cesarean delivery and may extend up to 24 hours.

      Although effective in reducing pain, intrathecal opioids are associated with side effects
      including pruritus, nausea, and respiratory depression. A meta-analysis reviewing
      twenty-eight studies which investigated intrathecal morphine versus placebo demonstrated
      moderate increases in the incidences of pruritus, nausea and vomiting. In fact the incidence
      of nausea with IT morphine has been reported to be nearly 33%. The differences in
      pharmacokinetics between morphine and hydromorphone may also create differences in side
      effect profiles. Some studies have found that hydromorphone causes less nausea and pruritus
      than morphine, while others have not. Although opioid-induced respiratory depression is a
      rare event, studies evaluating intrathecal hydromorphone for post-Cesarean delivery pain have
      not reported any cases of respiratory depression.

      In this study, the investigators aim to compare the duration of analgesia of intrathecal
      morphine vs. hydromorphone for analgesia after cesarean delivery. Secondarily, the
      investigators will compare the side effects of each drug, including nausea and pruritus. To
      achieve the goals of this study, it is important to study equipotent doses of these
      medications. Previous work by the investigators of this study found that the effective dose
      for postoperative analgesia in 90% of patients (ED90) is 75 micrograms for intrathecal
      hydromorphone and 150 micrograms for intrathecal morphine. However, it is not known if these
      two equipotent medication doses provide a similar duration of analgesia.

      The investigators hypothesize that 150 mcg of intrathecal morphine will result in a longer
      duration of analgesia when compared to 75 micrograms of intrathecal hydromorphone.
      Additionally, the investigators hypothesize that there will be more pruritus in the
      intrathecal hydromorphone group early after surgery, and no difference in side effects at 24
      hours after surgery.
    
  