
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      Our underlying aim is to establish a prospective paediatric birth cohort which will have
      access to detailed information on maternal health, fetal growth, and childhood nutrition,
      growth and development in the first 2 years of life. This cohort will have the advantage of a
      stored biobank of maternal and fetal plasma, serum and DNA. This cohort will allow us to
      monitor the effects of intrauterine growth and nutrition on early life illnesses.

      Our specific aims are:

        1. To establish the fetal and early life growth trajectories which foretell later
           neurocognitive disability and metabolic disorder

        2. To establish the incidence and prevalence of food allergy and eczema in Irish children
           and investigate the relationship between Vitamin D deficiency and allergic disorders of
           early childhood.

        3. To establish the prevalence of maternal and neonatal vitamin D deficiency in an Irish
           paediatric population

      Introduction:

      There is increasing evidence that the intrauterine environment has important effects, not
      only on fetal growth, but also on the life-long health of the child. A term infant is the end
      result of nine months of immunological and nutritional interplay between the fetus, placenta
      and mother. Therefore, it is not surprising that this nutritional and hormonal environment
      has far-reaching effects on childhood health and adult health risk. Fetal nutritional status
      has been repeatedly linked with adult risk of hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, Type 2
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Fetal growth restriction may be associated with
      neurocognitive delay and long term behavioural problems. We know that maternal vitamin D
      status has a direct effect on bone growth, not just in neonates, but also on the bone mass
      and fracture risk of the adolescent offspring. More recently there is some evidence that
      maternal vitamin D and E deficiency may contribute to a substantial proportion of the
      increasing incidence of childhood asthma. It is clear, then, that to establish the
      pathophysiology of many childhood diseases we will need to look back to long before birth.

      Previous large birth cohorts in the UK have added greatly to our current knowledge of
      paediatric health and disease. However the early ALSPAC cohort study examining the "Children
      of the Nineties" did not have access to the detailed and serial fetal scanning which the
      SCOPE study will provide to BASELINE. The more recent Southampton Women's Study recruited a
      similar number of maternal and fetal dyads. The SWS study protocol included fetal scanning
      and stored DNA, but does not have a cord biobank of serum and plasma samples. The BASELINE
      study will have access to maternal blood sampling, detailed health questionnaires, serial
      fetal scanning and multiple aliquots of stored umbilical cord blood. In addition our study
      will provide reference data in Irish children, something which overseas cohorts can not
      provide to Irish health care planners and providers.

      We believe that the BASELINE study is Ireland's opportunity to establish a longitudinal birth
      cohort with the potential to answer important questions in the study of diseases in early
      life, later childhood and beyond. We will be able to identify risk factors for common
      disorders such as diabetes, eczema and asthma. The BASELINE genetic biobank will allow us to
      examine candidate genetic markers of disorders as they arise in the cohort. This study has
      the potential to transform the landscape of paediatric research in Ireland.
    
  