
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is currently among the top three leading causes of
      central vision loss in veterans (Chomsky et al., 1995) and is the most prevalent cause of
      blindness among veterans (37.2%, Quillen & Henry, 2000). The loss of central vision
      associated with these diseases has a profound impact on the quality of life to those
      affected, with many suffering depression. It is devastating to no longer be able to read a
      newspaper or recognize facial expressions. The use of preferred retinal locations (PRLs) to
      compensate for diseased foveae has offered hope to these patients in regaining some function.
      The investigators have developed a protocol that includes training in two major visual skills
      areas:

        -  Visual awareness and eccentric viewing; and

        -  Reading practice with sequentially lexical information

      Module 1 focuses on making the patient aware of better vision at an eccentric location
      relative to degraded vision at the diseased fovea. Module 2 is focused on reading practice
      without eye movements. These program curriculums and preliminary results are provided in the
      present proposal. The primary aim of this proposal is to quantitatively assess the relative
      effectiveness for improving reading and to establish the minimum training time need for skill
      improvement. One hundred and twenty patients with macular disease who are already using a PRL
      and similar in visual characteristics (e.g., visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, size of
      scotoma, duration of the disease) will be included the study. All patients will be trained
      with both modules using a repeated measures-completely counterbalanced - design to control
      for training order effects. In addition, all patients will be assessed using the same outcome
      measures of reading (using MNRead Acuity Charts and the View Sentences Test). The performance
      of the patients on the outcomes battery post-training will be compared to their pre-training
      performance on the same battery. Questionnaires (the Veterans Administration Low Vision
      Visual Functioning Questionnaire, CES-D, Short Form-36, and Adaptation to Vision Loss Scale)
      will also be administered to assess perceived abilities to perform everyday tasks, adaptation
      to vision loss, moods, and general health. In addition, patients will also be assessed on the
      exercises practiced during the module at the end of each daily training session to determine
      exactly when in the training protocol an improvement in performance on the exercises being
      trained has occurred. These daily performance measures provide for a finer scale for
      detecting performance changes. Statistical analyses will be conducted to answer the following
      questions:

        -  Does a combination of eccentric viewing awareness and oculomotor training produce
           significant improvements in reading rate?

        -  Which exercises are most effective in training the visual skills associated with reading
           and at what point during the course of training do the patients reach asymptotic
           performance?

        -  How do co-factors such as age, PRL size and location, and cognitive capabilities relate
           to training outcomes?

      Advancements are being made in the area of retinal cell transplantation, gene therapy, and
      retinal prosthetics. When these techniques become part of the standard clinical care, it is
      likely that all the patients will require vision rehabilitation techniques to help them make
      sense of their potentially fragmented percepts. This research offers an evaluation of
      relative successes of the components of reading rehabilitation and will lead to the design of
      an efficient and effective composite training strategy.
    
  