
    
      This is a prospective cohort, time series analysis of the routine procedures associated with
      the catheterization and the electrophysiology lab through ten years post intervention. The
      goal is to demonstrate clinical effectiveness with cardiac service line with low-volume
      operators. A connection between NCDR with applied clinical research that directs continuous
      quality improvement goals and objectives is the ideal setting for value-based, quality care.
      The system of diagnosing, treating and tracking individuals with cardiovascular and pacing
      disease has many facets which could benefit from continuous quality improvement and outcomes
      analysis. The proposed Valley View NEXUS outcomes registry will bridge national data to local
      clinical data. Clinical registries are a methodically sound instrument for measuring and
      improving performance. Registries are efficacious for surveillance, measuring effectiveness
      of quality improvement initiatives, identifying determinates of quality of life and function
      while synergistically increasing the value of health care expenditures with respect to heart
      disease, stroke, and arrhythmias.

      The ADVARRA formerly Schulman Institutional Review Board (IRB) reviewed our protocol, and
      authorized the study. Once informed consent was obtained, eligible adults scheduled for
      diagnostic angiography with possible PCI completed a baseline patient reported outcome
      assessment and again at designated follow-up intervals (six months and annually thereafter
      for up to ten years). Due to the urgent nature of STEMI- PCI procedures, it was determined
      that informed consent prior to PCI was prohibitive; however after consideration, the protocol
      was amended to capture baseline assessments immediately following PCI while the patient 's
      status was in hospital with use of the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) and the Veterans
      Rand 12-Item Health Survey (VR-12). The SAQ is recognized as a disease specific questionnaire
      for coronary artery disease. The SAQ is a six item questionnaire that assesses patient's
      function, symptoms, and satisfaction. A higher score translates to better outcomes. The VR-12
      is a twelve item questionnaire used to assess quality of life. A lower score translates to a
      higher quality of life in relation to a person's health and wellness. Combining data from a
      disease specific questionnaire, quality of life assessment, and the NCDR's CathPCI® Registry
      serves as a nexus between big data and the individual patient experience. From January 2015
      through December 2017, twenty- two patients have been enrolled. Based on the data from the
      first six patients to provide scores both at baseline and month six and with a study design
      to have 90% power to detect a change in the overall SAQ score of 10 points at six months, it
      was determined 49 patients will need to be enrolled.

      The aforementioned methodology will be applied for surgical and endocardial ablations for
      patients' with Afib. Presently, enrollment is open for Afib patients and data being captured
      will be analyzed to determine sample size. Patients who receive intervention for management
      Afib will complete the Atrial Fibrillation Effect on Quality -of-life (AFEQT) Questionnaire
      and the VR-12. Again the VR-12 is a twelve item questionnaire used to assess quality of life.
      A lower score translates to a higher quality of life in relation to a person's health and
      wellness. The AFEQT is recognized as a disease specific questionnaire for Afib. A higher
      score translates to worse symptoms and limitations in daily function associated with Afib.
      Combining the outcomes metric with NCDR's Afib Ablation Registry ® allows our institution
      demonstrative effective outcomes for low-volume operators.

      The data validation process applies to both PCI and surgical and/or endocardial ablation and
      is as follows:

        1. Quality Assurance Plan Training for staff that populates both data registries is
           ongoing. Staff will participate in the NCDR® applicable training modules. Documentation
           of training will be maintained in the study coordinator's office. Agreeing to
           participate with the NCDR®, an institution also agrees to random site monitoring and/or
           audits.

        2. Data Checks All patients who agree to participate in NEXUS outcomes registry and
           subsequent statistical analysis will experience a complete date audit for both outcomes
           assessments and NCDR® data elements. NCDR® has algorithm limits for both CathPCI®
           Registry and Afib Ablation ® Registry. All registry elements require abstraction form
           Meditech source documents. Reports are titled Cardiology Procedure Note and
           Electrophysiology Procedure Note for PCI and Afib ablation, respectively.
           Quality/outcome metrics will be sampled in paper form -the sources documents.
           Information will then be populated into excel for scoring. All paper forms will be
           maintained for the life of the study.

        3. Data Dictionary Complete Data Dictionaries are provided by NCDR® with data element
           numbers and associated limits and acceptable values for both Cath PCI ® and Afib
           Ablation ® Registry.

        4. Standard Operating Procedures A complete NEXUS Registry Protocol will be on site held in
           the Cardiovascular Innovation & Research Institute at Valley View Hospital along with
           all regulatory information, lab certifications, training documents, IRB documents,
           license agreements, analytic agreements and process maps for informed consent for
           outcomes research. Note NCDR® registries obtained a waiver for informed consent.

        5. Sample Size Assessment The number of patients necessary to demonstrate an effect for
           outcomes after PCI with low-volume operators is 49.

           Presently, outcomes after surgical and/or endocardial ablation are being piloted to
           determine sample size for a study powered at 90%.

        6. Missing Data Every attempt will be made to reach patients to ensure they are not lost to
           follow-up. Statistical consult recommends last observation carried forward for missing
           data.

        7. Statistical Analysis Plan. For the primary analysis, the 6-month change in mean SAQ will
           be tested using a 1-sample upper 1-sided t-test. With 49 completers the t-test will have
           90.4% power to detect an improvement in mean SAQ score of 10 points. A linear regression
           model will be used for the secondary analysis to investigate factors which are
           associated with the 6-month change (month 6 - baseline) in mean SAQ score. Factors which
           will be investigated for inclusion in the model include sex, age, physician American
           Society Anesthesiologists (ASA) class, physician volume, access site, and Charlson
           comorbidity index. An all-possible regressions approach will be used during the model
           building process in which all possible regression models are fit. The models will then
           be evaluated using Mallows' Cp statistic where models with values of Cp less than p (the
           number of parameters) will be considered as strong candidates for the final model. The
           final model will be selected after considering both results from the model selection
           process and subject matter knowledge. The regression analysis will have greater power
           than the t-test used in the sample size justification due to the reduction in
           variability of the outcome measure by including additional factors in a regression
           model. Additional analyses include [need to add specifics here]. All analyses will be
           conducted using SAS 9.4M4 or greater software (SAS Institute, Inc., Cary, NC, USA).

      Morbidity / Complications will be reported included but not limited to bleeding at access
      site, hematoma, cardiac tamponade, vascular perforation, peripheral vascular injuries, post
      procedure hematoma, and mortality.

      Statistical Analysis Plan with Respect to Surgical and/ or Endocardial Ablation for Afib

      This outcomes registry is in its early pilot analysis for Afib and hypothesis generating. For
      the primary analysis, the six-month change in mean AFEQT scores will be analyzed.
    
  