
    
      The combination of lenalidomide and plerixafor will be evaluated in this single institution,
      open label clinical study of subjects with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The
      overall design of the phase 1 study includes up to three treatment "stages."

      Each subject will receive lenalidomide 5mg by mouth daily beginning on cycle 1 day 1. If
      tolerated, the dose will be increased by 2.5mg every 7 days to a maximum dose of 10mg by
      mouth daily (Stage 1). Once the subject is stably maintained on a daily dose of lenalidomide
      of 10mg daily and the white blood cell (WBC) count is <100.0 x 109 / L, and has been taking
      lenalidomide for at least 28 days, plerixafor will be added (Stage 2). In the dose escalation
      phase, 4 different doses of plerixafor in combination with lenalidomide will be studied in
      cohorts of 3 to 6 subjects each, following a standard "3 + 3" format:

        -  Cohort 1: plerixafor 0.24 mg/kg subcutaneous (SC) daily thrice weekly (Mon, Wed, Fri)

        -  Cohort 2: plerixafor 0.32 mg/kg SC daily thrice weekly (Mon, Wed, Fri)

        -  Cohort 3: plerixafor 0.42 mg/kg SC daily thrice weekly (Mon, Wed, Fri)

        -  Cohort 4: plerixafor 0.54 mg/kg SC daily thrice weekly (Mon, Wed, Fri) Plerixafor will
           be administered for 3 weeks of each cycle (days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, and 19)
           followed by a 1 week rest period. Lenalidomide dosing will be continuous.

      An interim assessment of response will be performed after 4 cycles of combination therapy:

        -  Subjects achieving a complete response (CR) by National Cancer Institute (NCI)-96
           criteria will continue lenalidomide monotherapy (plerixafor is discontinued) until
           disease progression.

        -  Subjects achieving a partial response (PR) will continue both lenalidomide and
           plerixafor. Additionally, rituximab 375mg/m2 will be added on day 1 of each subsequent
           cycle beginning with cycle 5, day 1 of combination therapy. (Stage 3). Treatment with
           the combination of lenalidomide and plerixafor will continue for a maximum of 12 cycles
           of combination therapy. Subjects may receive up to 8 doses of rituximab concurrent with
           lenalidomide and plerixafor on day 1 of each cycle. Subjects will then continue single
           agent lenalidomide until disease progression.

        -  Subjects with stable disease may continue lenalidomide and plerixafor at the discretion
           of the investigator and the subject. Rituximab 375 mg/m2 will be added on day 1 of each
           subsequent cycle. Treatment, dose, schedule, and duration are the same as for subjects
           achieving a PR.
    
  