
    
      The study is designed as a prospective, open label, randomized controlled trial involving
      patients aged 12 years or older of both genders with uni- or bilateral keratoconus planned
      for routine corneal crosslinking (CXL) at the Department of Clinical Sciences /
      Ophthalmology, Umeå University Hospital, Umeå, Sweden. The study involves 25+25 eyes with
      keratoconus, which are randomized to receive either conventional pulsed crosslinking with a
      uniform, universal 8 mm treatment pattern of 5.4 J/cm2 (pCXL; n=25), or a modified treatment
      - individualized topography-based corneal crosslinking (KXL2; n=25). In the latter treatment
      zone has an individualized arcuate shape and spares a 2 mm central optical zone. The size of
      the treatment zone is based on Pentacam HR® corneal tomography, and is determined by the
      transition zone where the corneal curvature drops off by ≥2D. The energy distribution is
      based on the maximum corneal steepness (Kmax) value retrieved from the Pentacam HR®
      tomography: ≤47.0D - 7.2 J/cm2; 47.1-52.0D - 10 J/cm2; ≥52.1D - 15 J/cm2. Thus, the thin
      protruding areas of the cornea are crosslinked, whereas the parts with a more normal shape
      are not. The aim is to potentially improve the optical outcome after the treatment.

      Patients are randomized to either of the two treatment arms utilizing a computer list of
      unique random numbers between 1 and 50; an even number will be treated with KXL2 and an
      uneven number with pCXL. Bilateral inclusion is allowed, and the second eye to be treated
      will be assigned to the other group, i.e. eye number two will not get the same treatment as
      eye number 1.

      All patients are informed about the procedures and provide oral and written consent before
      inclusion in the study.

      At baseline, before treatment, each eye is evaluated with autorefractometer measurement
      (Oculus Parc-1®), uncorrected and best spectacle-corrected LogMAR visual acuity, Oculus
      Pentacam HR® Scheimpflug photography, Oculus CorVis® high-speed Scheimpflug photography,
      corneal endothelial photography with a specular microscope camera, Goldmann applanation
      tonometry and biomicroscopy.

      For the Pentacam HR® rotating Scheimpflug camera, each eye is photographed using the "25
      pictures" program under standardized, mesopic light conditions. Multiple variables will be
      analyzed, and individual photographs also will be analyzed manually for light backscatter and
      for the occurrence of a demarcation line, by a masked observer. The corneal biomechanical
      characteristics are assessed with data from the Oculus CorVis®, and corneal endothelial
      morphometry, including endothelial cell density is assessed manually and automatically from
      specular microscopy photographs taken with the Topcon SP-2000 endothelial camera. All
      investigations are repeated at 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after the treatment.
    
  