
    
      Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection is a major public health problem around the world. More
      than 2 billion people have been infected with HBV. Although the World Health Organization (
      WHO ) has incorporated hepatitis B vaccination into routine immunization programs for infants
      and adolescents since 1986 to reduce the incidence of chronic liver diseases, liver cirrhosis
      and hepatocellular carcinoma associated with hepatitis B virus, there are still more than 400
      million chronic carriers. Although it is currently recognized that the most effective way to
      prevent HBV infection in susceptible population is to inject hepatitis B vaccine, the
      protective effect of the neonatally vaccinated children weakened as time goes on, which
      involves the question of the need of boosters. However, there are still some problems
      concerning hepatitis B vaccine boosters for healthy children. In China, there has not been a
      standardized directory to guide hepatitis B vaccine booster. Scholars have great controversy
      on the necessity, age, dosage and other aspects of hepatitis B vaccine booster. Researchers
      conducted an investigation on the Anti-HBs level of 93,326 Chinese children aged 1 - 16 who
      completed basic immunization. The results showed that the proportion of HBsAb positive in
      children aged 1 - 8 years old decreased dramatically, with 8 - year - old children having the
      lowest proportion of protective antibody. Therefore, this study is intended to explore the
      protective effect of hepatitis B vaccine on the body and the effect of multiple vaccines.This
      study will recruit some healthy children in Chongqing and conduct selective re-vaccination
      according to the results of the first detection of hepatitis B surface markers in healthy
      children. According to the changes of immune status after booster, the efficacy of hepatitis
      B vaccine boosters was comprehensively evaluated.
    
  