
    
      Iron deficiency is the most common cause of anemia in pregnancy worldwide, and, when severe,
      can have serious consequences for mothers and babies. In the U.S., anemia affects nearly 20%
      of pregnancies and the majority is iron-deficiency anemia. Therefore, treatment of
      iron-deficiency anemia with iron supplementation is recommended.1 However, there is
      controversy about the treatment strategies.

      The American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology recommends oral iron supplementation for
      iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy, with parental iron reserved only for the "rare patient
      who cannot tolerate or will not take oral iron" (1) Conversely, guidelines from the U.K. are
      more liberal on the use of parental iron for the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in
      pregnancy (2). Both treatment guidelines are based on limited data regarding the risks and
      benefits of parental iron for treatment of iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy. The majority
      of randomized trials were conducted in developing country settings. In fact, few high-quality
      studies have been conducted in developed countries, and none has been conducted in the U.S.
      Moreover, there is limited data from prior studies on the impact of parental iron treatment
      on perinatal outcomes. The most recent Cochrane review including mostly from trials conducted
      in low-income countries found that, although parenteral iron improved hemoglobin levels and
      iron stores than the oral route, no clinical outcomes were assessed and there were
      insufficient data on adverse effects (3). The authors concluded that "large, good quality
      trials, assessing clinical outcomes including adverse effects … are required" (3).

      This randomized controlled trial aims to assess the effectiveness and safety of treating
      pregnant women with iron-deficiency anemia with a protocol including parenteral iron compared
      with a protocol based on oral iron. We hypothesize that treating iron-deficiency anemia with
      parental iron is associated with improved maternal and neonatal outcomes compared with a
      protocol based on oral iron. To increase generalizability of the findings, we will use broad
      inclusion criteria and analyze data using the intention-to-treat principle.
    
  