
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the influence of pembrolizumab on the cell cycle-related genetic signature
      within the tumor microenvironment of progressive/recurrent glioblastoma.

      II. To evaluate the influence of adjuvant autologous tumor lysatepulsed dendritic cell
      (ATL-DC) vaccination on peripheral T cell responses.

      III. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab and ATL-DC vaccination in
      progressive/recurrent glioblastoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the 6 month progression-free survival (PFS6) based on Response Assessment in
      Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria in patients treated on both arms of the clinical trial.

      II. To calculate the overall survival of recurrent glioblastoma patients treated on both arms
      of the clinical trial.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the associations between exploratory biomarkers, clinical outcomes, and
      adverse events which include:

      Ia. Estimating the correlation of quantitative assessments of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte
      (TIL) density or the interferon (IFN) gamma-associated genetic signature with clinical
      responses to pembrolizumab and ATL-DC in recurrent glioblastoma patients.

      Ib. Estimating the efficacy of pembrolizumab and ATL-DC through PFS6, PFS and overall
      survival (OS) as defined by RANO.

      Ic. Estimating the efficacy of pembrolizumab and ATL-DC through PFS6, PFS, and OS as defined
      by immunotherapy RANO (iRANO).

      Id. Exploring whether oligoclonal T cell populations within tumor tissue are similarly
      expanded in peripheral blood after ATL-DC vaccination and/or pembrolizumab, and correlating
      with clinical responses.

      Ie. Exploring whether changes in specific magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters
      correlate with tumor and peripheral blood immune responses.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A: Beginning 14 days prior to scheduled surgery, patients receive pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes. After surgery, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Cycle repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ATL-DC intradermally (ID) with poly ICLC
      intramuscularly (IM) every 2 weeks for up to 3 doses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B: Beginning 14 days prior to scheduled surgery, patients receive placebo IV. After
      surgery, patients receive placebo IV on day 1. Cycle repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ATL-DC ID with poly ICLC
      IM every 2 weeks for up to 3 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  