
    
      All infants admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at Cardinal Glennon at
      gestational age <32 weeks and birthweight <1500g, and whose mothers intend to use breast milk
      (maternal or donor) will be approached for study participation. Infants can be enrolled at
      any point up until their feedings become fortified, typically around the 8th day of life.

      Eligible infants whose parents consent for participation will be randomized to one of the two
      study regimens. Sealed envelopes containing the subject treatment group will be prepared from
      randomization schedules that are computer-generated using a pseudorandom permuted blocks
      algorithm. Multiples will be randomized together to the same treatment group. The
      randomization will be block stratified by birth weight (500-1000g and 1001-1500g). Infants
      will have laboratory values to follow for signs of metabolic acidosis and nutritional status.
      These labs (BMP, Magnesium, Phosphorous, Alkaline Phosphatase, and prealbumin) will be drawn
      on study days 1, 15, and 30. Total blood volume for these labs is approximately 1.4 mL, and
      may be obtained by venipuncture or heel stick. These labs are monitored for nutritional
      sufficiency in very low birth weight infants already, the only change will be the timing that
      the labs are obtained.

      Infants will remain on their designated HMF until one of 3 different time points: 1) Infant
      does not tolerate HMF and must be taken off, 2) Infant is no longer receiving breastmilk and
      is transitioned to a premature formula, or 3) Infant is getting ready to go home and HMF is
      removed from the feedings.

      Hospitalization data will be collected on the infants until they are either discharged from
      the NICU or until they reach 36 weeks corrected gestational age, whichever occurs first. Data
      collected will include: birthweight, gestational age, gender, antenatal steroids, APGARs,
      days of parenteral nutrition, day enteral feedings were initiated, daily enteral volume
      intake, daily caloric and protein intake, day of HMF and/or liquid protein initiation. Lab
      data will be recorded as noted above. Growth data will be recorded by daily weights and
      weekly head circumferences and lengths. Intolerance will be assessed by incidence of feeding
      intolerance, nil per os (NPO) time, change in diet due to intolerance, incidence of metabolic
      acidosis, incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis, incidence of spontaneous intestinal
      perforation, cause of death, and length of hospital stay. Data on NICU complications,
      including late onset sepsis, retinopathy of prematurity, intraventricular hemorrhage,
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and use of postnatal steroids (which can affect growth) will also
      be recorded.

      Neurodevelopmental data will be collected on the infants from their first Bayley evaluation
      in the Nursery Follow-up clinic, usually performed at 15-18 months of age. We will record
      cognitive, language, and motor scores. We will also collect information on therapy services
      received, and incidence of blindness or deafness.
    
  