
    
      Study Procedures/Evaluations

        -  The trial will be conducted at the CHEO NICU. The non-invasive patient monitoring
           equipment that has no direct contact with infant's skin, includes a pressure sensitive
           mat (PSM) from the LX100 series (XSensor Technology Corp. Calgary, Canada, XSensor.com)
           and a video camera.

        -  The patient will be lying in an incubator, on an overhead warmer neonatal bed, or an
           open crib (whatever bed type they are currently being nursed in/on). The patient's nurse
           will place the PSM on the mattress and under the patient's bedsheet where it will have
           no contact whatsoever with the patient. The PSM placement under the infant will happen
           at a time when the infant would normally be handled/moved.

        -  Data from the following four sources will be recorded simultaneously in each session:

             1. Contact pressure data from PSM

             2. Physiologic monitor data including blood oxygen saturation (SpO2), heart rate (HR),
                pulse rate (PR), respiratory rate (RR), and the alarms associated with each of
                these physiologic data streams. This data is collected from monitors that the
                patient has attached as part of their usual care.

             3. Video of the patient

             4. Event annotations collected by a bedside research assistant on a PC, laptop or
                tablet.

        -  All data will be de-identified using unique study identifiers. The NICU research team
           will assign these study identifiers and keep this information on a Master Study List
           separate from all recorded data.

        -  The PSM connects to an X3 Pro Sensor Pack that feeds into an X3 Pro Electronic Platform
           that is connected via USB to a laptop running the X3 Pro software. The X3 Pro software
           is used to record PSM data and video simultaneously. The PSM is powered from an approved
           AC power supply and is connected to the data acquisition computer via USB. The XSensor
           PSM system is already being used with adult patients, however, the electrical safety of
           our final configuration will also be established through independent inspection (see
           below). The pressure mat will be covered by one or more bedsheets at all times. The baby
           will not be permitted to come in contact with the mat to reduce the risk of electrical
           shock and airway obstruction.

        -  Bench tests will be conducted by CHEO Clinical Engineering to confirm that leakage
           current measurements from the mat and the entire system will meet the limits published
           in Requirement EN60601. If any deficiencies are identified alternations to the system
           will then be completed prior to a special inspection by Canadian Standards Association
           (CSA). A special electro medical inspection will be arranged with CSA for the final
           configuration of PSM, laptop, and power supplies.

        -  The video camera will be mounted on a tripod to capture patient movements, routine care,
           and clinical interventions if any. We will capture the entire body, the head being very
           important as this is where most interventions occur such as nasal gavage feeding,
           ventilator support and airway suctioning. Video analysis has shown to be particularly
           useful for estimating RR in neonates [39].

        -  A bedside research assistant (RA) will manage all data recordings on a computer kept by
           the patient's bedside for up to 6 hours per recording session.

        -  Physiologic data including the patient's heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), oxygen
           saturation levels (SpO2) and pulse rate (PR) as well as corresponding alarms for each
           data stream shall be logged from the bedside Dräger patient monitor onto a computer.

        -  The RA will simultaneously annotate all patient events including movements, routine
           care, and clinical interventions on an electronic device such as a PC, laptop, or
           tablet.

        -  The RN who will respond to the alarms will be asked for their clinical opinion as to the
           veracity (artifact or clinically important) of the alarms and this opinion will be
           annotated by the RA.
    
  