
    
      Osteoporosis and obesity are highly prevalent and disabling chronic diseases. Osteoporosis is
      a disease of low bone mass, which predisposes people to bone fragility and increased risk of
      bone fractures. Obesity is a disease characterized by excess body fat levels, which
      predisposes people to diabetes, heart disease, stroke, hypertension, cancer, sleep apnea,
      osteoarthritis, and gallbladder disease.

      An essential component to research on the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and
      obesity is a valid method for monitoring body fat levels and bone mineral density. Dual
      energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is a method for analyzing bone mineral density and body
      composition, particularly bone mineral content, fat mass and lean mass in children and
      adults. DXA scanners use an X-ray tube to produce radiation, which is then filtered into low-
      and high-energy beams. These beams of radiation are emitted from beneath a table that the
      supine human body is lying on. The arm, which passes above the person, detects the
      attenuation of the radiation for each pixel the body occupies. Based on known attenuation
      levels of different human tissues, the imaging software provides information on the
      composition of each pixel of the body. These pixels are then summed to provide information
      on: total body bone mineral content, total bone mineral density, fat mass, and lean mass. The
      DXA can also assess regional body composition (e.g. trunk fat), which is of importance in
      evaluating health effects of body fatness patterns. Using standard protocols, bone mineral
      content and density can be assessed in areas of the body indicating high risk of fractures
      (e.g. hip and lumbar spine) or areas that are likely to be responsive to dietary or physical
      activity manipulations (e.g. lumbar spine and radius).

      Peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) is a 3-dimensional imaging technique that
      goes beyond the 2-dimensional imaging of DXA to assess both true volumetric bone density and
      bone geometry, the two key components of bone strength. Additionally, it can divide bone into
      its component parts, i.e. separately assessing bone density and bone geometry of cortical and
      trabecular bone. As such, the measurements obtained from pQCT provides a more complete
      picture of what may be occurring within bone tissue that contributes to either bone gain or
      bone loss, depending on the population and question of interest. pQCT assesses parameters of
      bone strength at the radius (forearm) and tibia (lower leg).

      A vital component of any clinical and research program is precision testing, which assesses
      the reproducibility of DXA and pQCT measurements within an individual technician and/or
      between multiple technicians. This study was designed to address our facility's needs and
      ethical requirement to complete precision testing. This precision testing is a necessary
      component of verifying the feasibility and validity of the method, as well as
      cross-calibrating DXA scanners in our multi-site studies. We are completing this testing with
      the two DXA scanners, the GE Lunar iDXA and the Hologic Horizon W DXA, as well as with the
      Stratec XCT 3000 pQCT.

      A vital component of any clinical and research program is precision testing, which assesses
      the reproducibility of DXA measurements within an individual technician and/or between
      multiple technicians. As alluded to above, the validity of bone and soft tissue measurements
      by DXA and pQCT is related to the skill of the technician in: 1) properly positioning the
      person before scanning and 2) properly analyzing the scan images afterward. Both of these
      components are subjective, requiring experience and feedback to improve technique.

      From an ethical standpoint, a level of technician competency is important in ensuring that
      both research volunteers and the technician are not exposed to radiation without the benefit
      of acceptable scan results. From a clinical and research standpoint, understanding the
      inherent variability in testing is an important component in planning and executing research
      studies having bone or body fat outcomes. As described the Conference of Radiation Control
      Program Directors, Inc. (CRCPD), and as established by the International Society of Bone
      Densitometry (ISCD), measurement of precision is a key component for assessing:

        1. The smallest change (least significant change, LSC) in bone density that is biologically
           significant

        2. The time interval between measurements necessary to detect changes.

      Precision testing requires that multiple scans be completed on individuals representative of
      the primary target population of interest, sometimes within a fairly short period of time.
      This exposure of additional radiation to a select group of individuals has created
      controversy about whether precision testing is necessary and ethical. The CRCPD and ISCD has
      fully supported precision testing, and recommended that it be a routine practice in all DXA
      sites. The CRCPD states that, "Some states without understanding the need for precision
      testing have prohibited the measurement despite low radiation doses and limited numbers of
      repeat densitometry determinations. Their major concern, of course, is the apparent
      unnecessary radiation to a few, select patients. To address the benefit versus risk issue,
      those exposed to the additional, small amount of radiation (equal to approximately an
      additional 6-12 hours of background radiation) are providing a benefit to themselves and all
      others by validating the results of bone mineral density (BMD) exams for that facility.
      Without precision testing, the BMD study is of no value resulting in thousands of patients
      being exposed to unnecessary radiation."
    
  