
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of arsenic trioxide and temozolomide when
           combined with radiotherapy in patients with resected supratentorial malignant glioma.
           (Phase I)

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. (Phase I)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the 6- and 12-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen once an MTD is reached. (Phase II)

        -  Determine the radiographic response for patients treated with the above regimen. (Phase
           II)

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of arsenic trioxide and temozolomide
      followed by a phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week and receive oral
           temozolomide once daily for approximately 6½ weeks. Patients also receive arsenic
           trioxide IV over 1-4 hours once daily, 5 days a week in week 1 and then twice a week in
           weeks 2-7. Beginning within 3-5 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive
           oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 28
           days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of arsenic trioxide and temozolomide until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 1 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo radiotherapy and receive arsenic trioxide and temozolomide as
           in phase I at the MTD. Patients then receive temozolomide as in phase I for up to 1 year
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-18 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this
      study. A total of 25 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of this study.
    
  