
    
      The pilot study is prospective, randomized, double-blinded, with intra-subject comparisons
      against a vehicle control. The primary objective of this pilot study is to investigate the
      safety and effectiveness of a new wound care product formulated to improve healing outcome,
      minimize complications of impaired healing and minimize the appearance of scars. Per
      protocol, study team members will investigate the efficacy of applying investigational
      product in combination with petrolatum on similar anatomically matched surgical excisions and
      bisected sutured wounds for a period of up to 180 days.

      Secondary to direct complications that arise from removal of a skin lesion is the aesthetic
      disfigurement of tissue repair that results in a scar. The severity of even the most morbid
      scars is unpredictable and largely dependent on several variables. It is for this reason that
      this pilot study seeks to evaluate the application of a wound care product on both sutured
      and un-sutured surgical wounds across all phases of wound healing.

      General and widely commercialized self-care (OTC) wound healing products include emollients,
      lotions, petrolatum creams, and topical antibiotics. With only a limited number of
      investigator-initiated studies, the advancement in this niche medical sector has been
      incremental across decades of research. This study is being undertaken to investigate the
      safety and effectiveness of a new cream product (FS2-cream) which was initially intended to
      manage hyperproliferative closed scars by maintaining an optimal skin environment. To obtain
      proof-of-concept results that enable the robust design of subsequent studies, we will obtain
      wound care metrics across all phases of healing and make intra-subject comparisons between
      the use of FS2-cream + petrolatum and vehicle-cream + petrolatum. We hypothesize that
      FS2-cream + petrolatum will show superior clinical outcomes compared to the vehicle control
      treatment.

      This pilot study is double-blinded, which means that neither the evaluating physician nor the
      subject will know which treatment is administered. A separate study team member will
      administer the treatment as well as answer questions and discuss any problems throughout the
      study.

      Subjects' with 2 comparable excision sites will be randomly assigned to use the FS2
      restorative wound care product on one excision site and a vehicle formulation of the product
      on the other. At the discretion of the Principal Investigator, a sutured wound may be
      bisected for intra-wound comparison of treatments. In all cases, after application of either
      vehicle or FS2, a layer of petrolatum will be applied to cover the wound site as a standard
      of care.
    
  