
    
      Rationale: Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis (SCFE) treated with one screw in situ fixation
      results in an altered gait. It is thought that the protraction of the pelvis at the affected
      side, seen in patients with unilateral stable SCFE, is a compensatory mechanism to reduce
      out-toeing and thereby improve foot positioning to restores the gait patterns towards a
      'normal gait pattern. The goal of this study is to investigate this hypothesis since only a
      few studies are conducted evaluating gait in treated SCFE. It is also thought that this
      pathology results in an impaired balance. Computer Assisted Rehabilitation Environment
      (CAREN) will be used.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to investigate whether protraction of the
      pelvis at the affected side is a compensatory mechanism to reduce out-toeing and thereby
      improve foot positioning and restores the gait pattern towards a 'normal' gait pattern in
      patients with unilateral stable SCFE, treated with single screw in situ fixation. Dynamic
      postural balance will be analysed as well since an altered, waddling gait, is observed in
      patients with treated SCFE. In addition, activity patterns of lower limb muscles will also be
      evaluated using surface electromyography. Kinematic and EMG data of patients will be compared
      with data of healthy controls with no gait pathology in order to investigate these
      objectives.

      Secondary objectives are the evaluation of clinical outcomes and spatiotemporal parameters in
      these patients compared to healthy controls.

      Study design: a comparative cross-sectional case-control study.

      Study population: Children and adolescents with stable SCFE managed with single screw in situ
      fixation and an age, gender and BMI matched healthy controls without gait pathology. Patients
      were excluded if major complications occurred due to in situ fixation, if they had revision
      surgery or had additional pathology leading to gait alterations. In addition, patients are
      required to walk without walking aid for at least 30 minutes.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Kinematic data will be studied at pelvis, hip, knee and
      ankle level. Margins of stability will be calculated to analyse dynamic postural balance. In
      addition, lower extremity muscle activation patterns of SCFE patients will be recorded to
      assess muscle activation pattern during gait. Correlations between the severity of initial
      slip and the clinical outcome after treatment will be evaluated.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The risk of CAREN based gait analysis is negligible. A safety harness provides
      protection against falling. It will avoid subject falling on or off the treadmill while
      performing training. The safety harness is secured with a life line to the ceiling. The
      burden of the children or adolescents is minimal. Participants will visit the MUMC+ once,
      where questionnaires (Hip Injury Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, SF-36 questionnaires, Borg
      CR10 Score and NRS score) physical examination and gait analysis will be performed. The whole
      session will take 2 hours. Due to the nature of the study, this study can only be done using
      this specific patient group.
    
  