
    
      Nocturnal BP was continuously monitored via measurement of pulse transmit time (PTT). The
      value of apnea-related systolic BP elevation (△BP) was used to reflect short-term BPV.
      Beat-to-beat RR interval data were incorporated in polysomnography for heart rate variability
      analysis. LF/HF band ratio was compared between two groups which used to reflect
      sympatho-vagal balance. The length of the desaturation event was measured to the nearest 0.5
      second (△t). The fall in SpO2 during apnea was calculated as the gap from start of the
      desaturation to the nadir of the desaturation. The rate of fall in SpO2 was counted as the
      change in the percentage of SpO2 per second (△SpO2 /△t) and expressed as oxygen desaturation
      rate (ODR), which reflected the speed and efficacy of oxygen desaturation during an apnea
      event. One hundred and two severe OSAS subjects were divided into two groups according to the
      their median ODR: faster ODR and slower ODR.

      In addtion,patient were categorized into three groups: Group l: systolic blood pressure index
      was less than 30% of AHI; Group 2: systolic blood pressure index was less than 60% but more
      than 30%; Group 3: systolic blood pressure index is more than 60% of AHI. The investigator
      would compare the effect of CPAP treatment on awake and sleep BP level at the first night and
      2 weeks therapy among three groups. Moreover, whether or not the sympathetic-parasympathetic
      nerve balance and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system are different in three groups
      would also be evaluated. The main purpose of study is to confirm the OSA with hypertension
      and OSA secondary hypertension are two different concepts. Basis for the clinical treatment,
      the former, CPAP might have no effect or only a minor decrease in arterial blood pressure,
      while the latter CPAP treatment might achieve significant antihypertensive effect.
    
  