
    
      18F-PEG6-IPQA is a solution that is designed to be attracted to tumor cells. The imaging
      solution has a small dose of radiation added to it, which may help doctors see the cancer
      cells better during imaging scans. This is the first study using 18F-PEG6-IPQA in humans.

      Study Imaging:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will visit the clinic on Day
      1 for the injection of the study solution and PET scans. This imaging study will be performed
      at FDA-cleared PET-CT scanners at MD Anderson sites, including at the Center for Advanced
      Biomedical Imaging (CABI).

      For up to 6 hours before the PET scans and computed tomography (CT) scans, you must not eat
      or drink anything except water. This is called fasting.

      A small tube will be placed in your arm and you will receive an injection of 18F-PEG6-IPQA.

      After the injection, scanning will begin immediately. You will have 3 PET scanning sessions
      with a PET/CT scanner. Before each PET scan, you will have a CT scan to make sure you are in
      the right position for the PET scans. Each PET scan may last up to 1 hour. Each positioning
      CT scan should take about 5 minutes. You will have a 10 minute "rest period" between each PET
      scan.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1:

        -  Before the imaging solution is injected, your vital signs and an ECG rhythm strip will
           be collected. The study staff will insert an intravenous (IV) needle and line into each
           of your arms.

        -  Right after the injection of the study drug, blood (about 2 tablespoons total) will be
           drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing from one of the existing IV lines. PK testing
           measures the amount of study solution in the body at different time points. Blood will
           be drawn at 1, 3, 8, 16, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 150 minutes after the injection of
           18F-PEG6-IPQA for a total of 9 draws.

        -  About 30 minutes after the injection, your vital signs will be measured and the
           injection site will be checked.

        -  Urine will be collected during the 10 minute rest periods in between scans or at the
           completion of the 3-hour scanning period.

        -  After the scans are completed (about 3 hours after the injection) your vital signs and
           injections site will be checked again, and you will have an ECG rhythm strip taken.
           Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will also be collected for routine tests.

      On Days 2 and 7:

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Your vital signs and the injection site will be checked

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having since the injection.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      The end-of-study visit will be about 14 days after the injection of 18F-PEG6-IPQA and imaging
      scans. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  The injection site will be checked.

        -  You will have an ECG.

      Length of Study:

      You will be in this study for about 14 days. You will be taken off study early if intolerable
      side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. 18F-PEG6-IPQA is not FDA-approved or commercially available
      for use in imaging scans. Its use in this study is investigational.

      The scans performed with 18F-PEG6-IPQA are also considered investigational and will not be
      used for planning any of your future cancer treatment.

      Up to 15 patients will take part in this study. All participants will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  