
    
      This protocol is designed as a phase I dose-escalation study. Three different TAA-T dose
      levels will be evaluated in each treatment group (A and B) (see below) with 2 to 4 patients
      enrolled at each dose level.

      Dose Level 1: 2 x 107 cells/m2 Dose Level 2: 4 x 107 cells/m2 Dose Level 3: 8 x 107 cells/m2

      Two patients will be initially enrolled to the lowest dose level cohort (separately on each
      arm) and followed for 42 days after initial TAA-T for DLT evaluations. The decision on
      whether it is safe to escalate to next dose level or not will be made after at least two
      patients in each dose level have finished their 42-days toxicity follow up after initial
      TAA-T. If the first two patients have not finished their 42 days follow-up, up to 2
      additional incoming patients can be enrolled at the current dose level.

      Ideally, patients should not receive other systemic antineoplastic agents for at least 42
      days after infusion of TAA-T (for purposes of evaluation), although such treatment may be
      added if deemed critical for patient care by the attending physician.

      Each patient will receive at least one TAA-T infusion and may receive a maximum of 8
      subsequent infusions. The first and second infusions will be administered at least 42 days
      apart then additional infusions will be spaced at least 28 days apart from each other. The
      expected volume of each infusion is 1 to 10 ml.

      If patients with disease have a response of stable disease or better by RANO criteria (see
      section 3.2.2.4) at the day 28 evaluation after the second infusion OR if they have clinical
      stability and a clinical assessment of possible pseudoprogression on MRI, they are eligible
      to receive up to 6 additional infusions of TAA-T at 28 day intervals if available. Each
      subsequent infusion will be the same as the enrollment dose level (i.e. no subsequent dose
      escalation). The first and second infusions will be administered at least 42 days apart then
      additional infusions will be spaced at least 28 days apart from each other. Following the
      first infusion, if a patient's TAA-T supply is insufficient for subsequent infusions at the
      enrollment dose level, further treatments may be administered at a lower dose level at the
      treating physician's discretion.

      If patients who are clinically stable are deemed to have likely pseudoprogression at the
      disease evaluation after the second infusion or on subsequent imaging, then these patients
      may still be eligible for infusion if serial imaging and clinical assessments demonstrate
      stability most consistent with pseudoprogression. In these patients, disease assessment after
      the imaging that first raises the concern for pseudoprogression (potential progressive
      disease versus pseudoprogression) must be at least stable when compared with the first scan
      demonstrating pseudoprogression.
    
  