
    
      The study is considered a low level intervention clinical trial to evaluate the use and
      safety of a sanitary product marketed and accredited for a different aim, but according to
      their rules of using.

      It is experimental, randomized and controlled study with the usual technique of inserting a
      venipuncture catheter until now. Incomplete clinical trial, blind to third parties, in
      healthy volunteers, which consists of three arms, in which they are intervened and the
      comparator is applied. The volunteers comes from a bioequivalence clinical trial for testing
      a new drug, and a venous catheter is required in two period between a wash-out period of one
      week, approximately.

      For each volunteer one of intervention is applied in one period, and in other period the
      comparator is applied. Thus, one intervention and the sequence of one intervention
      application and comparator is assigned by randomization using sealed envelopes. Randomization
      is only performed in first period, in second period one intervention or comparator assigned
      in applied. Thus, each one volunteer is her/his own comparator

      . Before assigned intervention or comparator is applied, a Venous International Assessment is
      carried out using Venous International Assessment (VIA) validated scale by nurse perception
      and palpation. After assigned intervention, another VIA is performed. Then, when peripheral
      venous catheterization is achieved, a blood sample is withdrawn in order to examine
      hemolysis. Afterwards, pain is registered by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) validated scale
      within no more than two hours from vein catheterization, and skin perception is evaluated by
      Fitzpatrick's scale (only in first period) in order to analyze a possible relationship with
      adverse events on skin. Subjects are followed-up for 72h in order to monitor adverse events
      if applicable.

      According to hemolysis, an ethylene diamine tetra acetate (EDTA) blood sample is processing
      at 3400 revolutions per minute at 4 Celsius grades for 10 minutes, and plasma samples are
      frosted for 24-48h. Afterwards, they are defrosted, and analyzed by absorbance using NANODROP
      SPECTROPHOTOMETER. The analysis by spectrophotometer is blinded of intervention or comparator
      used to withdrawn.
    
  