
    
      The nerves of the upper extremities derive from the brachial plexus, and likewise, the nerves
      of the lower extremities derive from the lumbo-sacral plexus (1). In clinical practice, nerve
      blocks are commonly performed to provide postoperative analgesia after orthopedic procedures
      involving the upper and lower extremities (2,3). They may also be used as a sole anesthetic
      technique during surgery.

      The two main concerns with upper and lower extremity blocks, as with other regional
      anesthetic techniques, are technical failure and block related complications. The most cited
      complications are bleeding from inadvertent arterial or venous puncture, intravascular
      injection of local anesthetic resulting in central nervous system or cardiac toxicity, and
      intraneural injection of local anesthetic resulting in peripheral neuropathy of varying
      degrees (4,5).

      Both technical failures and complications are related at least in part, to the fact that all
      the techniques used to date are blind. Anatomical landmarks (as described in the literature)
      and nerve stimulators are helpful ways to localize the nerves to be blocked.

      We believe that the best approach to improve success rate and minimize complications of
      peripheral nerve blocks is to use image-guided techniques. In the last few years, different
      imaging modalities have been used to evaluate the peripheral nerves of the upper and lower
      extremities. Studies currently underway at our institution seek to develop a comprehensive
      technique for upper and lower extremity nerve blocks. However, this involves anesthetizing
      from the top of the limb in order to numb the entire extremity. More research is needed to
      derive a comprehensive examination of the peripheral nerves found in the lower regions of the
      upper and lower extremities. While CT scanning and MRI are probably the techniques of choice
      when it comes to diagnosing nerve pathology, they would not be useful in the perioperative
      setting due to the lack of portability and the inability to perform real time imaging
      simultaneously with nerve block performance (6,7).

      Ultrasound has been used successfully in the last few years to image the peripheral nerves of
      the upper extremity (8,9). The development of higher frequency ultrasound probes, and higher
      imaging resolution has made it possible to localize and evaluate peripheral nerves with
      ultrasound, something that was not possible only 10-15 years ago. The anatomy of the brachial
      plexus has been described by a number of authors. There have been some preliminary studies
      looking into the possibility of developing a real-time ultrasound guided technique for upper
      extremity blocks (10, 11, 12, 13,). Studies performed at our institution involving refining a
      technique for upper extremity blocks show encouraging results.

      It is clear, that ultrasound can be used to a further degree of sophistication in order to
      image peripheral nerves in the lower parts of the upper and lower limbs. As expressed by many
      of the referenced authors, ultrasound use is likely to increase significantly in the coming
      years, both in the areas of diagnostic radiology and clinical regional anesthesia, to guide
      nerve blocks (17). As a result, it is evident that the development of an advanced technique
      for anesthetic blockade - which targets a precise location or nerve - can derive from this
      knowledge and recognition of peripheral nerves located in the lower parts of limbs. To this
      date, nonetheless, there is no systematic evaluation of the nerves located in the lower
      regions of the upper and lower limbs by ultrasound.
    
  