
    
      Background

      Glioblastoma is a malignant, locally invasive brain tumor whose prognosis remains grim
      despite various intense treatment modalities. In the past, radical surgery was met with
      skepticism due to the aggressive infiltrative character of the tumor. However, an increasing
      number of retrospective studies over the last decade suggest a survival benefit for surgery.
      A recent post-hoc analysis of a randomized controlled trial on the use of the surgical
      adjunct 5-ALA reported a prolonged overall survival from 11.9 to 16.7 months (evidence level
      2a) after more extensive resection. Thus, maximal safe resection has become a mainstay of
      treatment for newly diagnosed glioblastoma, followed by adjuvant radio-chemotherapy.

      Glioblastoma almost invariably recurs after a median of 6.9 months, leaving but few options
      for further treatment. Recurrence of glioblastoma after surgery and concomitant adjuvant
      therapy represents an additional therapeutic challenge and may be treated with second-line
      pharmacotherapy. In addition, a second surgery may also be considered in highly selected
      patients.

      The rationale for surgery - maximum safe resection - is to prolong survival through reduction
      of tumor load, and, maybe due to an increased efficacy of adjuvant treatment. However,
      surgery carries risks of complications, that may result in a decreased functional and
      survival outcome. The crucial question therefore is whether, to what extent, and at what
      costs in terms of neurological risks a second resection prolongs survival.

      Objective

      The primary objective of this randomized trial is to compare survival outcome after surgery
      followed by adjuvant second-line therapy to no surgery followed by second-line therapy in
      recurrent glioblastoma. An auxiliary objective to primary objective is to compare the
      survival outcomes of operated patients to control in the subgroups stratified by extent of
      resection: incomplete resection (non-CRET) vs complete resection (CRET).

      Secondary objectives are: assessment of recruitment for all screened patients, comparison of
      progression-free survival between treatment arms, evaluation of crossover and comparison of
      patient quality of life between treatment arms.

      Safety objectives are: to assess neurological deficits, local infections and morbidity
      associated to surgery and hospital stay after surgery and during follow-up.

      Methods

      All patients (≥18 years) with a radiological suspicion of first recurrence of glioblastoma
      are screened for this trial. Patients eligible for study participation are informed on the
      treatment options for recurrent glioblastoma (surgery followed by adjuvant second-line
      therapy, second-line therapy, or palliative therapy alone) by the center investigators.
      Patients randomized to the control group will receive second-line therapy according to local
      guidelines. Patients randomized to the interventional group will receive a craniotomy and
      resection of the tumor followed by adjuvant second-line therapy. Outcome will be measured at
      3 months intervals.

      Recruitment rate and reason for non-inclusion will be monitored.
    
  