
    
      Smoking is the leading preventable cause of death and disease in the U.S. Each year
      approximately 30% of smokers try to quit, with the vast majority of attempts (~90%) ending in
      relapse. This is complicated by treatment barriers related to cost and accessibility.
      Identifying cost effective ways to aide in cessation success, which can be widely
      disseminated, remains vitally important. According to the dual-process model of substance
      use, addiction develops via an imbalance between effortful control and automatic
      psychological processes. The affective processing model suggests that during withdrawal,
      automatic psychological processes increase implicit drug seeking motivation. Implicit
      motivation is hypothesized as the underlying mechanism through which automatic psychological
      processes exert control over behavior. Research suggests that behavioral impulse control may
      attenuate the association between implicit motivation and substance use. Response inhibition,
      one form of behavioral impulse control, is the ability to inhibit behavioral responses to
      salient approach cues. Smokers tend to have less behavioral impulse control. In addition,
      poor behavioral impulse control makes individuals more vulnerable to various risk factors
      associated with relapse (e.g., positive expectancies, higher craving during abstinence,
      etc.). Improving smoking relevant behavioral impulse control may affect multiple indices of
      relapse. Research in cognitive retraining has shown that response inhibition can be modified
      through training. Recently this has been extended to training using mobile devices. The
      development of mobile interventions which specifically target underlying mechanisms of
      addiction may provide a novel adjunct to current cessation programs. The current proposal
      builds on previous research by implementing a response inhibition training paradigm in the
      context of a cessation trial. It is hypothesized that this task will reduce the likelihood of
      relapse following a quit attempt. Furthermore, it is hypothesized that training effects will
      operate via decreases in implicit motivation and global craving. If successful, the current
      study will provide evidence for a relapse prevention tool that can (1) increase overall
      cessation success and (2) be widely and easily dispersed.
    
  