
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the tolerability of SAMITAL granules for suspension. II. To assess the efficacy
      of SAMITAL granules for suspension in reducing the incidence of severe mucositis (World
      Health Organization [WHO] mucositis scale score of 3 or 4) induced by concurrent
      chemoradiation for head and neck cancer (HNC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effect of SAMITAL granules for suspension on the severity and duration of
      mucositis (WHO mucositis scale and patient self-assessment with the Oral Mucositis Daily
      Questionnaire [OMDQ]).

      II. To assess the effect of SAMITAL granules for suspension on validated patient reported
      quality of life measures (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC]
      Quality of Life Questionnaire [QLQ]-C30 and EORTC QLQ Head and Neck Cancer Specific Module).

      III. To assess the rate of any grade 3 - grade 4 infections. IV. To assess the cumulative
      dose of opioids needed. V. To assess weight loss and need for tube feeding. VI. To assess
      treatment breaks and/or chemotherapy dose reduction.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Beginning as soon as symptoms arise during chemoradiotherapy, patients receive
      Vaccinium myrtillus extract/Macleaya cordata alkaloids/Echinacea angustifolia extract
      granules orally (PO) four times daily (QID). Patients may continue to receive Vaccinium
      myrtillus extract/Macleaya cordata alkaloids/Echinacea angustifolia extract granules for up
      to 4 weeks after completion of radiation therapy for a maximum of 11 weeks.

      ARM II: Beginning as soon as symptoms arise during chemoradiotherapy, patients receive
      placebo PO QID. Patients may continue to receive placebo for up to 4 weeks after completion
      of radiation therapy for a maximum of 11 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months.
    
  