
    
      Mosquito coils are extremely widely used by households across the world and reportedly make
      up the largest single family expenditure on any health-related items in many developing
      Countries. Despite their widespread use there has been no robust clinical evaluation to
      determine whether they can provide protection from malaria. This study is designed to
      determine if using coils (and / or LLIN) each evening can reduce malaria at the household
      level.

      The study will be a single-blind, randomised clinical evaluation clustered at the household
      level. There will be 4 treatment arms, Coils / Insecticide treated nets / Coils + ITN / No
      treatment. Each arm will include 400 households each with 5 people / household (total of 8000
      people). A maximum of 20% of houses in any village will be enrolled to reduce any effects of
      diversion of mosquitoes by any treatment. Epidemiological factors and baseline malaria
      prevalence will be recorded during a pre-intervention baseline month by questionnaire and
      rapid diagnostic test (RDT) using species-specific dip sticks for malaria. Post intervention
      will be 5 further monthly visits during the malaria season to detect new cases by RDT,
      reported fevers and operational data (compliance, adverse effects etc). Primary outcome
      clinical measures will be incidence of malaria (P. falciparum / P. vivax) comparing new cases
      in each of the 3 treatment & non-treatment groups. All cases will be treated promptly
      according to local policy. At the end of the study, all households which did not have a
      treated bed net will be provided with one.

      Secondary non-clinical outcome measures will include entomological data collected in houses
      using / non using coils in sentinel villages at baseline & during the study. CDC mosquito
      light traps will be used to record number / species / feeding status / parity (age) /
      sporozoite infection rates of mosquitoes in houses using / not-using coils following a
      randomised latin square design. Such entomological data can be used to determine reduction in
      vector species mosquitoes entering houses using coils and / or ITN.

      Ethical approval for the study has been granted by the LSHTM University of London Ethics
      Committee and the Yunnan Bureau of Health, P.R.China.
    
  