
    
      The LNG-IUS is a contraceptive method with high efficacy, long acting, reversible with
      contraceptive failure between 0.1 and 0.5/100 women/year. It released 20 mcg/day of LNG with
      a life span duration of 5 years. LNG is a synthetic progestin, 19-northestosterone, six times
      more potent than progesterone, with androgenic properties and with binding with sexual
      hormones, receptors of human steroids, including receptors of glucocorticoids and
      mineralocorticoids, with minimal capacity of binding with estrogen receptors. At endometrium
      level it induce antiproliferative effect and strong expression of local markers and
      endometrial decidualization, including the prolactin receptor and insulin-like growth factor.
      The mechanism of action includes effect upon cervical mucus which affects the sperm movements
      through the reproductive tract which affects fertilization. In some women could be ovulation
      inhibition. One of the main reason for discontinuation is breakdown bleeding, increase
      bleeding or abnormal bleeding including heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) and spotting which is
      common at the first six month of use. Despite the fact that it is the main cause of
      discontinuation, there is no effective treatment for these cases. An effective treatment
      could help in the reduction of reduce the rates of discontinuation, improved the
      cost-effectiveness and quality of life of users.

      A selective progesterone receptor modulator (SPRM) is Ulipristal Acetate (UPA) is approved in
      the European Union as Esmya® as a tretament to reduce the ueterine leiomyomas at te dose of 5
      mg/day and it under evaluation at the dose of 5-10 mg as oral contraceptive.

      This could be an option of treatment for HMB or abnormal bleeding induced by the LNG-IUS. UPA
      is agonist/antagonist and binding with progesterone to the receptor level. It has ovarian and
      endometrial activity, with dose-dependent effect in inhibition of ovulation and maturation of
      the endometrium. There are restricted evidences, that the administration of UPA induce a
      quick endometrial atrophy and stop the abnormal bleeding.
    
  