
    
      Rationale:

      Patients with cancer have an increased risk of adverse outcome of COVID-19, which is
      determined by their underlying disease and/or cancer treatment. Therefore, vaccination of
      cancer patients against COVID-19 needs to be prioritized. However, (ongoing) phase III
      studies, that will be the basis of vaccine registrations, will not provide robust information
      on efficacy and safety in this vulnerable population. In patients with cancer, the disease
      itself, but also immunotherapy and chemotherapy, may have a significant impact on the ability
      to develop an effective immune response to COVID-19 vaccination, and could even increase the
      risk of adverse events.

      Objective:

      To assess immune response and adverse events after administration of one approved vaccine
      against COVID-19 in patients with cancer treated with immunotherapy and/or chemotherapy.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective multicenter, multicohort study.

      Study population:

      Four cohorts will receive vaccination against COVID-19:

      A. Individuals without cancer (N=246, i.e., partners of patients in cohort B, C, and D) B.
      Patients with cancer treated with immunotherapy (N=135) C. Patients with cancer treated with
      chemotherapy (N=246) D. Patients with cancer treated with chemo-immunotherapy (N=246)

      Intervention:

      Blood will be drawn at 4 different time points by venipuncture and at 1 time point by a
      finger prick. Participants will be vaccinated against COVID-19 according to standard of care.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is the antibody based immune response on day 28 after the second
      vaccination. Participants will be classified as responders or non-responders. The definition
      of response will be based on a serological correlate of protection for COVID-19 based on
      SARS-CoV-2 spike (S)- protein specific serum IgG antibody levels (in IU/mL) if established,
      and if not established we will use seroconversion (a ≥ 4-fold increase of the geometric mean
      concentration (GMC) of anti-S protein IgG antibodies over baseline). We will inform the METC
      about this definition before data analysis and add this information to ClinicalTrials.gov.
      The percentage of responders of each patient cohort will be compared with the percentage
      responders in the control group. Safety is a secondary endpoint which will be reported in
      terms of percentage of solicited local and systemic adverse events (AEs) graded according to
      severity. Other secondary endpoints include longevity at 6 months and levels of severe acute
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) specific T cell responses.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Participants will have to visit the hospital at 4 time points. The vaccine will be
      administered two times with an interval specified by the manufacturer. Blood will be drawn
      (~230 ml in total) prior to both vaccinations and at day 28 and 6 months after the second
      vaccination. Twelve months after vaccination participants will receive a finger prick set
      with instructions for self-collection of a blood sample. Blood sampling will give minor
      discomfort. Vaccination can cause AEs including fatigue, chills, headache, myalgia, and pain
      at the injection site. For seven days after each vaccination, participants will be asked to
      record local and systemic reactions using a questionnaire. At baseline and at 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months after vaccination, patients will be asked to complete questionnaires about potential
      subsequent testing for SARS-CoV-2, diagnosis of COVID-19, and severity of COVID-19.
    
  