
    
      Study Facility:

      Pre-study Screening: Patients come to Ear, Nose, and Throat (ENT)/Oral and
      Maxillofacial/Plastic and Reconstructive surgery outpatient facilities. Typically, an ENT
      specialist handles early cases (biopsy proven malignancies), while ENT and plastic surgeons
      jointly deal with advanced cases. Patients screening will take place in outpatient
      departments. The investigator/s will interview each subject to develop a brief, relevant
      medical history and determine that all selection criteria are met. The subject will receive
      an explanation of the study objectives, possible risks and benefits of the study. After
      history evaluation of the patients, Blood work will be done to check liver functions Test.
      After the blood report and inclusion and exclusion criteria, the consultant will discuss and
      educate the patients about photosensitization and Photodynamic Therapy (PDT). If patients are
      willing to take part in the study, co-investigator will obtain a signed consent form. After
      obtaining a signed consent form, the consultant will schedule an appointment for PDT therapy.

      Procedure after enrollment: Investigators plan to enroll 30 patients with oral cancer in this
      study. The study will take place at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh. This
      timeline of procedures considers that many patients may need to travel from remote rural
      areas with poor access to transportation, so it cannot be assumed that patients have
      convenient access to return to the clinic for multiple repeated biopsies.

      Aminolevulinic Acid (ALA) preparation and administration: The FDA-approved Aminolevulinic
      Acid (ALA) from Dusa Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Wilmington, Massachusetts (MA) will be used in
      powder form. Patients will initially receive a baseline ultrasound of the oral cavity prior
      to ALA administration. In the case of potentially childbearing women, a serum pregnancy test
      will be performed before ALA administration by SD (Standard Diagnostic Inc, India) Bioline
      kit. One hour prior to ALA administration, analgesic (Aceclofenac 200mg, Intas
      Pharmaceuticals, India), anti-inflammatory drug (HifenacSR 200mg; Intas Pharmaceuticals,
      India) and antiemetic (Domperidone, Domperon, 10mg; Cadila Pharmaceuticals, Inc., India) will
      be given to patients orally to avoid nausea and pain. ALA, totaling 60 mg/kg, will be
      administered orally via three repeated doses of 20 mg/kg of ALA dissolved in either orange
      juice or a soft drink, which lowers the potential of hydrogen (pH) of the solution, at 0, 1
      and 2 hours.

      Day One: Baseline imaging; Fluorescence measurement: PpIX (Protoporphyrin IX) fluorescence
      will be recorded using 405nm excitation light delivered from an Light-Emitting Diode (LED)
      source powered by a smartphone. This is a non-invasive system. The PpIX fluorescence will be
      photographed using the camera embedded in the smartphone. The advantage of this step is that
      in the long term it will obviate the need for biopsies to establish PpIX concentrations and
      could allow for online dosimetry customized to individual patients. Three photographs will be
      taken in each subject: first photograph will be taken prior to given ALA to the patients,
      second photograph after 2-3 hours of ALA incubation, and third photograph will be taken
      immediately after PDT treatment.

      Imaging Procedure before treatment: After allowing 2-3 hours for PpIX conversion and
      accumulation in the malignant tissue, a baseline image of the tumor will be obtained using
      the smartphone PpIX imaging approach. In this clinical validation study, these PpIX
      fluorescence images will be used to make treatment decisions beyond visual guidance for
      applicator placement on the lesion.

      PDT Procedure: Immediately after the brief imaging session (approximately 5 minutes), the PDT
      treatment will proceed. Depending on the exact fractionation schedule determined, a total
      fluence of 100Joule/cm2 at the lesion surface will be delivered with an area of applicators
      or compressed applicator in for approximately 30-45 minutes. Placement will be such that the
      full extent of the lesion falls within a 1mm margin of the applicator area. Every 10 minutes,
      a 2-3 minute break is provided to the patient and the study personal will check for the
      correct placement of the probe. The clinician will conduct applicator placement with the
      assistance of a nurse as needed so that it fits tightly in contact with the active surface
      facing the lesion. Care will be required when pressing an applicator tipped light delivery
      system hard against tissue. If one press too hard and the tissue is rendered temporarily
      hypoxic, there will be no PDT effect. During therapy patients will leave their mouth closed
      around the optical fiber. Depending on the exact orientation of the lesion within the oral
      cavity a mouth guard may be used to aid applicator positioning, or if this improves patient
      comfort. Also, to aid in the stabilization of the fiber and improve patient comfort, an
      ergonomic external positioning mount may be employed to help maintain the optical fiber in
      position. Provided that care is taken that no incidental body movements during irradiation
      lead to significant shifting of movement of the applicator, patients will be able to read a
      magazine, watch television (TV) if available or other similar activities from a seated
      position. Small lesions may receive a complete treatment in this time interval, while (as
      noted above), larger lesions may require one or more additional applications. Patients will
      receive analgesic Aceclofenac, HifinacSR (200 mg); Intas Pharmaceuticals, India to avoid
      pain. Appropriate Laser safety glasses will also be provided to the patients during
      irradiation.

      Post-treatment imaging: At the conclusion of the PDT treatment, the light delivery fiber will
      be removed and a follow-up smartphone fluorescence image will be obtained for later analysis
      of PpIX photobleaching. Patients will receive guidance on the resumption of normal
      activities. After the procedure, patient will be advised to avoid foods that are spicy, hot
      or oily for at least 6 hours and advised to take analgesic as needed Aceclofenac, HifinacSR
      (200 mg); Intas Pharmaceuticals, India. to avoid pain. Patients will also be advised to stop
      smoking and chewing tobacco products.

      Day Two to Three: Routine complete blood investigations including a liver function test (LFT)
      will be performed at 1 to 2 days following ingestion of ALA. If abnormalities are noted,
      follow-up blood work will be conducted that includes a renal function test (blood urea, serum
      creatinine, uric acid) and blood electrolytes measurement.

      Day Seven to Ten: At a follow-up examination, 7 days after treatment, an ultrasound of the
      oral cavity will be conducted to assess treatment response by lesion area (cm2) and depth
      (mm). As part of this study, ALA will also be re-administered (unless a particular patient
      had an adverse reaction to ALA in the initial treatment) so that follow-up fluorescence
      imaging can also be conducted. Again, at this stage, fluorescence imaging is included for
      validation of the procedure itself, not to decide the next steps in treatment for this
      patient cohort. However, the follow-up ultrasound will be a decision point to determine
      whether a given patient needs to undergo surgical excision of residual tumor (possibly with
      additional radio- and/or chemotherapy as determined by the clinician team), or if no residual
      disease is present, a biopsy will be conducted at the original disease site for histological
      confirmation of treatment response, and/or disease progression (development of invasive
      disease). If the radiologist reports residual tumor after the ultrasound procedure, an ENT
      surgeon will perform a biopsy and the tissue will be preserved in formalin and sent for
      histopathology assessment. The depth of necrosis evaluated from the histopathology will serve
      as endpoint for evaluating the technology. This histopathology data will also be used for
      validation of imaging to establish fluorescence contrast agreement with histologically
      confirmed malignant tissue.

      Follow-up Model: Patients who have a good response to PDT will not need to undergo surgery,
      which would compromise the excellent healing of the mucosa that has been reported with this
      modality. At the same time, patients whose disease has partial or no response to PDT will
      still receive the same standard of care (surgical excision, chemo/radiation) they would have
      if they had not enrolled in the study. It is also possible that the PDT treatment, even if
      the response was not complete, could reduce the scope of excision required in these subjects.
      Therefore at the end of the study, we will have established the utility of this technology
      without interrupting the flow of treatment/management of the patients whose disease has
      partial or no response to PDT. Regardless of the flow of this study, additional follow-up on
      all patients will be carried out at 1 month,3 months, 6 months, 9 months,12 months, and 2
      years after treatment. All patient data obtained will be appropriately de-identified as per
      local institutional guidelines before off-site analysis, which will continue throughout the
      study.

      The clinical validation study will also serve as an opportunity to gather patient data that
      will be invaluable in two capacities 1) to obtain important information immediately relevant
      to individual patient care and 2) with a mind toward sustainability, investigators will seek
      to understand cultural barriers to acceptance or compliance with the proposed PDT treatment
      that will be accounted for in outreach and training plans. The present validation study is
      not powered to make a comparison between different interventions, but rather to provide a
      validation that the safety and efficacy of the low-cost approach is equivalent to previous
      reports of PDT treatment for oral cancer in traditional medical settings at JNMC.
    
  