
    
      The strategy of volume supplementation by sodium bicarbonate plus N-acetylcysteine (NAC)
      seems to be the optimal pharmacological approach in preventing contrast induced acute kidney
      injury (CI-AKI) in patients at medium-to-high risk. Whether this prophylactic strategy is
      effective in high and very-high risk patients is unknown. In this subset of patients the
      potential protective effects and therapeutic advantage of a local delivery of protective
      compounds should be investigated. The RenalGuard™ System (PLC Medical Systes, Inc.) is a
      real-time measurement and real time matched fluid replacement device designed to accommodate
      the RenalGuard Therapy. The RenalGuard Therapy is based on the theory that creating and
      maintaining a high urine output is beneficial to patients undergoing imaging procedures where
      contrast agents are used. This should allow the body to rapidly eliminate contrast, reducing
      its toxic effects. The RenalGuard System seems to be ideal for the prevention of CI-AKI, by
      allowing an optimal urine flow rate >150 ml/h (ideally >300 ml/h). Preliminary data suggests
      that the RenalGuard System, by increasing the urine flow rate ≥ 300 ml/h, allows a quick
      renal first-pass elimination and therefore reduces the risk for contrast nephropathy. The
      potential benefits of RenalGuard Therapy are intended to reduce the incidence of CI-AKI via a
      combination of known physiological effects of high urine output including: a) lower
      concentration of contrast in the kidneys, b) more rapid transit of contrast through the
      kidneys, c) less overall exposure to toxic contrast, d) potential reduction of oxygen
      consumption in the medulla of the kidneys. No randomized study has been performed to assess
      the role of the RenalGuard System as compared to the optimal strategy (sodium bicarbonate
      infusion plus NAC) in high and very-high risk patients to prevent CI-AKI.
    
  