
    
      Patients are divided into two groups depending on the dental implant system used in the
      therapy. Ankylos dental implants (Dentsplay Sirona, Charlotte, USA) are used in the first
      group of patients and Dentium SuperLine (Dentium Co., Seoul, Korea) in the second group.

      The implants are placed in accordance with each implant system manufacturer's instructions
      and the treatment were performed according to the patient's standards and indications.
      Surgical procedures on all patients are performed by the same operator with the same surgical
      approach, protocol and instrumentation.

      The surgeries are performed under local anesthesia and systemic antibiotics were given
      according to standard procedure. To ensure post-surgical oral hygiene, patients are advised
      to rinse the oral cavity with chlorhexidine until the day of sutures' removal. The sutures
      are removed10 day after implantation. The implants are healing by being submerged for 12
      weeks based on the surgeon's clinical judgment, indications given and the need and preference
      of the patients. After healing, gingiva formers are placed.

      Sample collection and a micronucleus assay in gingival epithelial cells To reduce individual
      variations, patients are observed longitudinally and each subject is served as their own
      control. Samples of gingival epithelial cells are collected from each participant's
      implementation site using the swab technique at three different time points: a control swab
      is taken just before the placement of the dental implant (T0); the second swab is taken 90
      days after implantation meaning immediately before placement of the gingiva former (T1); and
      the third swab is taken 21 days after placement of the gingiva former (T2).

      One hour before the sampling, the participants abstain from consuming any food and drinks.
      After rinsing of the oral cavity 3 times with tepid water to remove exfoliated cells, a T0
      swab is taken by gently brushing the gingiva around place indicated for implant placement and
      later T1 and T2 around implant with a cytobrush (Cytobrush Plus; GmbH. Dietramszell-Linden,
      Germany). The samples are subsequently applied to coded laboratory glass slides.

      The cells applied to microscopic slides are allowed to air-dry and fixed in methanol (80%
      v/v) at 4°C for 20 minutes. Staining is conducted with 5% Giemsa solution for 10 minutes.
      Afterward, the slides are rinsed with aqua distillate and air dry. The slides are examined
      under Olympus CX40 light microscope (Olympus. Tokyo. Japan) with 400× magnification, and each
      micronucleus and other nuclear anomalies are additionally verified under 1000× magnification.
      Two replicate slides are prepared for each subject and 1000 epithelium cells per preparation
      were analyzed for each sampling time.

      Nuclear anomalies, such as micronucleus, karyorrhexis (nuclear disintegration indicating
      apoptosis), karyolysis (dissolution of the nucleus mostly indicating necrosis and apoptosis),
      pyknosis (nuclear shrinkage due to apoptosis), condensed chromatin (DNA complexed with
      proteins and apoptosis), nuclear buds (precursors of micronuclei, or high density of DNA
      repair complexes) and broken eggs (nuclei that appear cinched, binucleated cells (indicating
      impaired velocity of cell proliferation)) are estimated and qualified.
    
  