
    
      The gingival phenotype - (GP) is defined as three-dimensional volume of the gingiva, and is
      defined by 2 clinical parameters - gingival thickness (GT measured in mm ) and width of
      keratinized tissue (WKT0measured in mm ). Assessment of the gingival phenotype was performed
      with the use of visual methods, using the method of gingival transparency while probing the
      gingival grooves with a periodontal probe, on the basis of transparency of the free gingiva
      of the upper incisors, the shape of the crowns, the height of gingival papillae, and the
      width of the gingiva and, recently, using the Colorvue Periodontal Probes. The gingival
      phenotype may be determined more precisely by using biometry of width of keratinized tissue
      and gingival thickness. During surgical procedures in which it is planned to form a full
      thickness flap, GT can be measured in a direct way, for example using an orthodontic caliper
      or a gauge for thickness of prosthetic crowns measurement. Most often, however, it is
      advisable to determine the gingival or the periodontal phenotype before initiating dental
      treatment, at its planning stage.

      GT assessment can be performed with the use of invasive methods: with a needle, an endodontic
      tool or a periodontal probe, with the use of radiological methods - parallel profile
      radiographs and CBCT, and non-invasive methods - using an ultrasonic device and the optical
      coherence tomography. Measurements of keratinized tissue width are most often carried out
      using a periodontal probe calibrated every 1mm.

      Assessment of the phenotype is very important not only while planning dental treatment, but
      also in prediction of its results. A patient with healthy periodontium, but thin phenotype
      found in a single or in multiple dental units can be protected from the occurrence of
      complications of orthodontic, prosthetic or implant-prosthetic treatment . Radiological
      images, obtained by CT scans, are increasingly often assessed while planning such treatment .
      Scientists have begun to use the possibilities of 3D visualization for the assessment of the
      periodontal phenotype using the CBCT method.

      Assessment of the periodontal and the gingival phenotype in a patient, using the method based
      on CW/CL, is unreliable. The phenotype should be assessed for each dento-gingival unit.

      The presence of positive correlation between WKT, FGT and AC-GM confirms the validity of
      determining these parameters in the assessment of the gingival phenotype and, additionally,
      TLPAC2, in determining the periodontal phenotype.

      Using the CBCT CAD + PDIP technology allows for determination of the gingival and the
      periodontal phenotype, and can be useful while planning implantological and orthodontic
      treatment, in which conducting radiological diagnostics is required. In each case of gingival
      and periodontal phenotype assessment clinical examination of a patient along with
      determination of PD, CAL and WKT in the conditions of healthy periodontium should be carried
      out.
    
  