
    
      Sympathetic blockade of the stellate ganglion is used for upper limb, temporomandibular
      joint, and facial pain, and may be placed pre-operatively to decrease post-operative pain in
      upper limb orthopedic surgery. Use of this block for head and neck cancer pain has been
      studied with mixed results in a case series in the distant past prior to the advent of image
      guidance or newer long-lasting anesthetic drugs. One recent case report for intractable head
      and neck cancer pain demonstrated encouraging results with relief provided after diagnostic
      stellate ganglion blockade followed by chemical neurolysis.

      Patients who choose to participate in the study will be randomly assigned to receive either
      stellate ganglion block placement in the pre-operative holding area on the day of surgery or
      no pre-operative intervention. Participating patients will be asked to fill out separate
      questionnaires to evaluate pain and quality of life preoperatively and post-operatively.

      Upon enrollment in the study, patients will be assigned an identification number and will
      undergo simple randomization to either the control or treatment group using a randomly
      computer-generated sequence. If patients have not had an evaluation of vocal cord mobility on
      prior workup, this will be assessed by flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy prior to proceeding
      with block placement.

      Patients assigned to receive a block will have it placed on the respective surgical side in
      the pre-operative holding area on the day of surgery. A trained anesthesiologist will perform
      the placement using an injection of 0.25% bupivacaine under ultrasound guidance. While in the
      hospital after surgery, patients will be given a regimen of scheduled acetaminophen 650
      milligrams every 6 hours. Planned treatment of pain will include the option of requesting
      oxycodone on an as-needed basis every four hours and IV morphine for breakthrough pain.
      Surveys will be administered and collected on a daily basis while patients are in the
      hospital. If patients are already utilizing other non-opioid pain medications like muscle
      relaxers (Flexeril, baclofen, etc.), or neuropathic pain medications (Neurontin), they will
      be allowed to continue these medications while inpatient provided there are no changes in
      dosing. Home non-steroidal anti-inflammatory analgesic medications will be withheld while
      patients are in the hospital due to the potential risk of post-operative bleeding and kidney
      injury related to use of these medications in the perioperative setting. These medications
      may be resumed once you are discharged from the hospital.

      Patients will be discharged home on a seven-day course of acetaminophen with as-needed
      oxycodone. Outcomes surveys will then be collected at each subsequent post-operative follow
      up. Follow up visits will occur one week after discharge, four weeks after discharge, and
      then every three months until completion of the two year study period.
    
  