
    
      BACKGROUND

      Pediatric burn care procedures, in hydrotherapy, have been known to generate severe pain
      intensity as well as moderate to high levels of anxiety. In the acute phase, burn patients
      undergo several painful procedures such as wound debridement, passive range-of-motion (ROM)
      exercises and dressing changes treatments. These procedures are important for proper
      rehabilitation as they prevent contractures, muscle spasms and limited joint mobility, which
      are mainly related to scarring and loss of skin elasticity as secondary complications
      resulting with normal healing process following a burn injury.

      Hydrotherapy treatments for burn care are done with the use of opioids and benzodiazepines
      for their pain and anxiety, strong medications alone are often inadequate to control their
      pain and anxiety. Since those treatments cause a great deal of pain, high dosage is needed in
      order to reach an acceptable relief with the medication. The delicate balance between pain
      relief and the dosage used is often at the limit of respiratory depression. Unfortunately,
      non-pharmacological methods are rarely combined with the pharmacological treatments used to
      relieve pain during those procedures even if they could decrease the necessary dose of
      analgesics.

      Virtual Reality (VR) is a distraction method that allows the user to interact with an
      immersive environment generated by a computer stimulating different senses. The use of VR is
      promising for pain reduction in varying settings. Other positive effects including reduction
      of anxiety and general distress during different painful medical procedures (such as
      venipuncture, wound care, chemotherapy and dental procedures) have been reported by children
      and adults. Further, recent randomized-controlled trials, comparing VR and standard
      distraction in children undergoing blood drawn procedures, demonstrated a significant
      positive effect of VR on reduction of pain and anxiety and enhanced patients', caregivers'
      and phlebotomist's satisfaction. Also, Gold and Maher concluded that VR was more effective
      for children with higher anxiety sensitivity, adding another gain for the adoption of this
      new technology in children's health care.

      Only a few authors have studied the effect of Virtual Reality (VR) on procedural pain and
      anxiety management in burn children older than 6 years. Indeed, a review of the literature
      has yielded only three studies who used VR with burn children. Schmitt et al., compared the
      efficacy of VR with standard pharmacological care in an RCT on 54 children (6 to 19 years)
      suffering from burn-related injuries with TBSA (Total Body Surface Area) varying from 1 to
      50. Results showed better pain control and maximum ROM in children in the VR group. Another
      study combined participants from three studies (to increase power) to compare the use of VR
      with standard pharmacological care with children undergoing physical therapy following a
      major burn. Results on 110 children also showed that VR significantly decreased pain and
      unpleasantness related to pain in children with burns.

      Furthermore, Virtual Reality has shown positive effects with burn children who underwent
      hydrotherapy sessions and dressing changes. Although, very few studies have looked at the
      effect of VR on the management of pain, anxiety and memory of both in children undergoing
      painful burn wound care. Distractions are an interesting non-pharmacological method that can
      be used. We believe that Virtual Reality (VR) as an adjunct to current burn care (standard
      pharmacological treatment), could be easily adopted by hydrotherapy staff as part of their
      care as it is an easy to use and low-cost intervention. Also, we believe that it could help
      make the overall recovery process less painful and less distressful for burn children.

      Also, there is evidence to suggest that reducing procedural pain and distress in the
      short-term, will have long lasting effects on children's pain and health trajectories in the
      long-term. The effect of pain on a developing child does not end after painful procedures
      end; how children remember these experiences can have long lasting effects. Children who
      recall pain in negatively-biased ways (i.e., they recall more pain than an earlier pain
      report) experience more pain and distress at future pain experiences and are at risk for
      developing persistent pain problems and fears and avoidance of medical care . Importantly,
      children (and parents) who are more anxious and distressed prior to painful medical
      procedures, and who experience higher pain during medical procedures, are the very children
      who develop these negatively biased recalls. Additionally, one study of youth undergoing
      vaccine injections showed that interventions to reduce pain and distress (distraction,
      topical anesthetic) buffered against the development of negatively biased recalls. Therefore,
      we will also examine the effect of VR distraction, a more immersive intervention, on
      children's later recall of pain. This is innovative as we did not find any other studies
      using VR and collecting data on pain and anxiety recalls in children following painful
      medical procedures. Further, we will compare salivary Alpha-Amylase levels between groups,
      which is a reliable and valid surrogate marker of stress that increases in response to
      physical and psychological stressful conditions such as experience of medical procedures. It
      is also more sensitive and rises more quickly after a painful procedure (10 min) than
      cortisol (35-40 min).

      Finally, considering the lack of optimal pain and anxiety management during burn wound care
      and the positive effect of an immersive distraction method such as VR for painful procedures,
      using VR for burn wound care procedures may show promising results. To our knowledge, no
      other studies have tested the effect of an immersive distraction such as VR for procedural
      pain management in children undergoing these painful orthopedic procedures.

      AIM

      The aim of this within-subject randomized clinical trial is to examine the efficacy of an
      immersive distraction (virtual reality) compared to the standard treatment for pain and
      anxiety management in children requiring burn wound car in hydrotherapy sessions.

      HYPOTHESIS

      The use of Virtual Reality (VR) as an adjunct intervention to current burn care (standard
      pharmacological treatment) will provide better pain and anxiety management than standard
      pharmacological treatment alone.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To determine if VR distraction combined with analgesics is more effective than standard
           treatment (analgesics alone) to manage procedural pain of children with burn injuries
           during hydrotherapy sessions.

        2. To compare if VR distraction combined with analgesics is more effective than standard
           pharmacological treatment to manage procedural anxiety of children with burn injuries
           during hydrotherapy sessions.

        3. To compare if, in children with burn injuries, VR distraction combined with the standard
           pharmacological treatment sequence generate less distressing recall of procedural pain
           and anxiety than standard pharmacological treatment alone sequence.

        4. To compare the occurrence of side effects between VR distraction combined with the
           standard pharmacological treatment sequence and standard pharmacological treatment alone
           sequence.

        5. To compare healthcare professionals' satisfaction levels between VR distraction combined
           with pharmacological treatment sequence and standard pharmacological treatment alone
           sequence.

        6. To compare children's satisfaction levels between VR distraction combined with standard
           pharmacological treatment sequence and standard pharmacological treatment alone sequence
           alone.

      METHODS

      Design: A within-subject randomized clinical trial design with randomized sequences. Given
      the difficulty of ensuring any blinding conditions with the nature of the experimentation,
      and in order to limit the interpersonal variability between participants, each child will
      serve as their own control, hence receiving both standard (control) and experimental
      treatments (VR) during the same treatment session through a randomized order.

      Sample and Settings: Recruitment will be done through convenience sampling upon admission to
      the surgical-trauma burn unit at CHU Ste-Justine, Montreal (Qc), Canada. Originally, this
      study also included a followup with those same patients at the rehabilitation clinic for
      physiotherapy. Unfortunately, due to the COVID sanitary crisis, recruiting personnel
      availability and the difficulty of movement between units and to clinics, recruiting will be
      limited to the burn unit. Using a within-subject design allows the possibility of recruiting
      a minimum of 20 participants in order to have effectively 40 patients since they will act as
      their own control.

      Measures and outcomes: Timepoints. Data will be collected by research assistants/nurses at
      the following study times: before the procedure to establish baseline (T0), immediately after
      the first sequence (T1), immediately after the second sequence (T2) and one week after the
      procedure (T3).

      Sample Size: Since this is a pilot study there is usually no specific requirements regarding
      the sample size. However, it is recommended by some authors to use about a total of 20
      patients (overall, 40 patients since all patients will serve as their own control) to be able
      to proceed to statistical analyses required for this study.

      Data analysis plan: Comparisons will be conducted within and between subjects for the
      dependent variables for repeated measures. The mean difference in pain scores of patients at
      each time-period will be compared using a paired t-test or Wilcoxon sign-rank test. Since the
      use of rescue medication is a potential indication of a treatment failure, the primary
      analysis will be supplemented by an analysis comparing the proportion of patients receiving
      rescue medication anytime during the procedure. Interpretation of the primary analyses will
      be made with reference to the data regarding rescue medication use. Data collected on
      dichotomous variables will be analyzed using a chi-square test and post-hoc analyses if the
      results are statistically significant.
    
  