
    
      Acute rhinosinusitis is one of the most common reasons for consultations and antibiotic
      prescriptions in primary care although the condition is primarily of viral origin. The main
      reason for antibiotic overuse in acute rhinosinusitis is the lack of diagnostic tests of
      sufficient accuracy to confirm or rule out the diagnosis of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis
      (ABRS).

      The gold standard for the diagnosis of ABRS is a bacterial culture from sinus maxillary
      puncture. This procedure is painful, prone to complications and only done in selected
      patients by oto-rhino-laryngology (ORL) specialists or for research purposes. Therefore,
      endoscopy of the middle meatus and collection of diagnostic material from the ostium draining
      the sinus is the diagnostic method of choice for ABRS and routinely used by ORL specialists
      in house and elsewhere. In patients with clinical symptoms of sufficient severity and
      duration (typically 5-10 days) for ABRS, endoscopy has a sensitivity of 85.7% (95% confidence
      interval, 56.2-97.5), specificity of 90.6% (73.8-97.5), positive predictive value of 80%
      (51.4-94.7), negative predictive value of 93.5% (77.2-98.9) for culture proven ABRS when
      compared with cultures gained from sinus puncture. Because of high upfront costs and
      logistical reason (disinfection) endoscopy is not used in general practice or internal
      medicine.

      Dr. Jens G. Hansen has developed the disposable JGG endoscope® (JGG stands for the surnames
      of the inventor and his wife) which can be attached to the new generation of Heine® otoscopes
      with a LED light source that allows the inspection of the ostium in the middle meatus and
      collection of material for bacterial culture for the diagnosis of ABRS in primary care. After
      local anaesthesiology of the cavum nasi a sample material for cultures can be gained
      (earliest 10 min after local anaesthesia). The diagnostic procedure poses patients at minimal
      risk for complications and is of very little and short-termed discomfort.

      In a pilot study the investigators would like to test the JGG endoscope® in 60 patients with
      suspected acute bacterial rhinosinusitis in the ORL unit of the University Hospital Basel and
      selected general practices that collaborate with the Centre for Primary Health Care of the
      University of Basel.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess the feasibility of visualization and sample collection from the middle meatus
           with the JGG endoscope® in patients with clinically diagnosed acute bacterial
           rhinosinusitis in Swiss primary care setting

        2. to investigate whether the JGG endoscope® supports the decision of antibiotic
           prescribing

        3. to assess patients' and physicians' acceptability of the examination with the JGG
           endoscope®

        4. to investigate the prevalence of culture proven acute bacterial rhinosinusitis from
           samples of the middle meatus by the JGG endoscope® in patients with clinically diagnosed
           acute rhinosinusitis

        5. to investigate the number of patients with acute rhinosinusitis diagnosed by the JGG
           endoscope® with any and/or deferred antibiotic prescriptions

        6. to investigate the days with restrictions and symptoms in patients with acute
           rhinosinusitis with positive and negative bacterial cultures diagnosed by the JGG
           endoscope®

        7. to investigate any serious adverse event related to the JGG endoscope®.

      Design Prospective observational cohort study (single arm study)
    
  