
    
      60 treatment-naïve subjects with chronic hepatitis C genotype 1b infection associated with
      metabolic syndrome (MS), with or without severe fibrosis/compensated cirrhosis will be
      enrolled, males and females of 18-70 years of age.

      Subjects will fulfill the following study visits: Day 1 (screening), Day 7, Week 2, Week 4,
      Week 8, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36.

      Eligibility criteria re-checked, informed consent signed and medical history will be gathered
      on Day 1.

      Treatment allocation and review study medication diary will be made on Day 7. Physical
      Examinations will be fulfilled on Day 1, Day 7, Week 4 and Week 12. Subject Confirmation of
      Birth Control and Review (Serious) Adverse Events will be made on every visit of subject.

      Laboratory evaluations will include common blood analysis, urinalysis, biochemical blood
      analysis, Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and Т4 free, antigen testings (aHBs, HBsAg,
      HbeAg, aHDV, aHAV, aHEV, ANA, AMA, aHIV), HCV RNA (quantitative), HCV genotyping, Urine
      Pregnancy Test (females of child bearing potential only), Transient elastography, Calculation
      of APRI, Ultrasonography (of liver, gall bladder, spleen, pancreas), Upper GI Endoscopy.

      Patients will be stratified by fibrosis stage and presence of metabolic syndrome components.
      Interim Analysis will be performed in order to estimate viral kinetics, applicability of SVR4
      and durability of SVR12 by evaluation of virologic response at week 4 and 8 of treatment and
      follow-up at week 4 (SVR 4) and 24 will be performed - this will be a descriptive summary
      only without hypothesis testing.

      Primary objectives:

      • To demonstrate efficacy of 12 weeks therapy with MK-5172 (grazoprevir) in combination with
      MK-8742 (elbasvir) in treatment naïve patients with chronic hepatitis C (genotype 1b) with
      metabolic syndrome compared to patients without metabolic syndrome, as assessed by the
      proportion of subjects achieving SVR12, defined as HCV RNA < LLOQ (either TD[u] or TND) 12
      weeks after the end of all study therapy.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate efficacy of 12 weeks therapy with MK-5172 in combination with MK-8742 in
           treatment naïve patients with chronic hepatitis C (genotype 1b) with metabolic syndrome
           compared to patients without metabolic syndrome, dependent on fibrosis stage, as
           assessed by the proportion of subjects achieving SVR12, defined as HCV RNA < LLOQ
           (either TD[u] or TND) 12 weeks after the end of all study therapy.

        -  To evaluate efficacy of MK-5172 in combination with MK-8742 in treatment naïve patients
           with chronic hepatitis C (genotype 1) combined with metabolic syndrome dependent on
           presence of the separate components of metabolic syndrome, as assessed by the proportion
           of subjects achieving SVR24, defined as HCV RNA < LLOQ (either TD[u] or TND) 12 weeks
           after the end of all study therapy.

        -  To evaluate efficacy of 12 weeks therapy with MK-5172 in combination with MK-8742 in
           treatment naïve patients with chronic hepatitis C (genotype 1b) with metabolic syndrome
           compared to patients without metabolic syndrome, as assessed by the proportion of TN
           subjects achieving undetectable (TND) HCV RNA and HCV RNA < LLOQ at Week 2, 4, 8 and
           Follow-Up Week 4 (SVR 4).

        -  To evaluate efficacy of 12 weeks therapy with MK-5172 in combination with MK-8742 in
           treatment naïve patients with chronic hepatitis C (genotype 1b) with metabolic syndrome
           compared to patients without metabolic syndrome, as assessed by the proportion of
           subjects achieving SVR24, defined as HCV RNA < LLOQ (either TD[u] or TND) 24 weeks after
           the end of all study therapy.

        -  To evaluate safety profile / adverse events of 12 weeks therapy with MK-5172 in
           combination with MK-8742 in treatment naïve patients with chronic hepatitis C (genotype
           1b) with metabolic syndrome
    
  