
    
      Background: Due to the ongoing conflict in Syria, Syrian people have faced with various
      atrocities. Many of them were displaced from their home, causing them to experience
      difficulties during and after the immigration. Being exposed to such stressors makes refugees
      susceptible to psychological distress and put them at risk to develop psychological disorders
      such as post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety disorders, depression and so on (Alpak et
      al., 2015).

      Culturally Adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CA-CBT) is an evidence-based psychological
      intervention manual developed by Devon Hinton, MD from Harvard University and Baland Jalal
      from University of Cambridge. It is a group therapy protocol that consists of 7 sessions.
      CA-CBT is a brief intervention that adopts a transdiagnostical approach and can be delivered
      by trained facilitators to people who are psychologically distressed. Several RCTs has been
      conducted to evaluate effectiveness of CA-CBT and demonstrated positive results. (Hinton et
      al., 2012).

      Objectives: This study has two aims. First aim of the study is to assess severity of trauma,
      depression and anxiety symptoms and types of exposed trauma of Syrian refugee women who
      reside in Istanbul. Second aim of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the
      Culturally Adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy in Syrian refugee women with psychological
      distress resettled in Turkey, as compared with treatment as usual (TAU). The primary outcome
      is the decrease in psychological distress symptoms. Secondary outcomes are depression,
      anxiety and psychological trauma symptoms along with post-migration living difficulties and
      related distress symptoms.

      Design: This is a parallel-group randomized controlled trial, therefore participants will
      have an equal probability (1:1) of being randomly allocated to the CA-CBT intervention or the
      TAU.

      Methodology: Screening will be conducted before randomization. Syrian refugee women who score
      1.75 or above (≥ 1.75) at the Hopkins Symptom Checklist - 25 (HSCL-25) will enter the study.
      After randomization they will receive the 7- session CA-CBT or the TAU. The CA-CBT
      intervention phase will last 7 weeks (1 session per week). After intervention,
      post-assessments will be performed.

      Expected outcomes: The expected outcome is decrease in the depression, anxiety and
      psychological trauma symptoms and general improvement in distress symptoms caused by
      post-migration living difficulties, in refugees in the CA-CBT intervention arm, as compared
      to TAU.
    
  