
    
      Background: Inability to walk outdoors restricts full participation in physical activity and
      community living for older adults that can reduce health-related quality of life (HRQL).
      Older adults report limited outdoor walking with only 8% achieving the Canadian
      recommendation for older adults of 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous (MV) intensity
      physical activity per week. Known barriers to walking outside include fear, physical
      disability due to chronic disease, the appropriateness of footwear and walking aids, the
      physical environment, weather and temperature. Group practice walking outdoors in locations
      with variable environmental challenges has the potential to improve physical ability,
      confidence, outdoor and overall physical activity and social participation. The extent to
      which it is safe and feasible to implement this intervention in people with varying degrees
      of physical ability, preferences for where to walk, neighbourhood walkability, and to measure
      outdoor walking activity, is unclear.

      Objectives: The study purpose is to evaluate the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) protocol designed to evaluate the effectiveness of an education and skills workshop
      plus a 3-month outdoor walking group (GO-OUT program) compared to the workshop alone in
      improving outdoor walking activity. Specific objectives are to characterize participants;
      determine the feasibility of recruitment; estimate withdrawal rates and the safety and
      feasibility of the study protocol; obtain preliminary effect sizes; identify the optimal
      measure of outdoor walking activity based on validity, reliability, effect size and data
      completeness; and identify participants' and intervention facilitators' perceptions of the
      challenges and benefits of the intervention and evaluation tools.

      Methods: Design and Participants-A feasibility RCT with an embedded qualitative component is
      proposed with 18 participants. Ambulatory older adults living in the community who report
      walking outdoors ≤20 minutes/week will be stratified by level of walking impairment (gait
      speed<0.8 m/s vs ≥0.8 m/s) and randomly assigned to receive the GO-OUT program or the
      workshop alone. Group allocation will be concealed. A blinded evaluator will evaluate
      participants at baseline, 3 and 6 months. At 6 months, focus groups of participants from the
      GO-OUT and workshop groups and intervention facilitators, will participate in a
      semi-structured interview to explore perceived benefits and challenges of adherence,
      intervention strategy and outcome measures. Interventions-The workshop will include activity
      stations at which people will learn about appropriate footwear, walking aids and equipment
      (pedometers, Nordic poles), goal setting, physical activity recommendations/benefits and
      practice walking-related tasks. The GO-OUT program will include the workshop plus the outdoor
      walking group. The walking group will be supervised and consist of 9 participants; they will
      meet twice a week for 1 hour to walk in increasingly challenging environments to achieve
      individualized goals. Outcome Measures-Outdoor walking (primary outcome) will be measured by
      2 methods: outdoor walking items of the Community Health Activities Model Program for Seniors
      (CHAMPS) (self-report) and accelerometer/Global Positioning System (GPS). Overall physical
      activity (secondary outcome) will be measured with the CHAMPS (self-report) as well as
      accelerometry. Measures of aerobic capacity, walking competency, mood, participation, and
      HRQL will also be administered. Neighbourhood walkability will be assessed with the
      Neighbourhood Environment Walkability Scale (self-report). Analysis-This is a feasibility
      study; therefore, no hypotheses will be tested. The analysis will include describing
      participant characteristics, estimating recruitment, withdrawal and adverse event rates,
      estimating preliminary effect sizes for outcome measures, estimating test-retest reliability
      of outdoor walk time derived from the CHAMPS and construct validity and data completeness of
      outdoor walk time derived from the CHAMPS and accelerometry/GPS. A qualitative descriptive
      approach will be used to analyse the interview data. Conclusion-Increasing outdoor walking is
      expected to help people improve physical activity, the ability to live independently in the
      community, and health and well-being. This study will evaluate the feasibility of a trial
      protocol aimed at improving outdoor walking. Findings will be used to justify and inform
      planning of a future definitive multi-site trial.
    
  