
    
      Polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythemia (ET) are classical Philadelphia-negative
      myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) that are characterized by an excess of cells in the
      peripheral blood, clonal bone marrow hyperplasia, and extramedullary hematopoiesis. The
      symptoms of these patients may range from asymptomatic disease to symptomatic disease that
      may significantly affect their activities of daily living, such as severe generalized
      pruritus, night sweats and fevers, erythromelalgia, bone and muscle pain, weight loss, and
      fatigue. Moreover, the patients may develop thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications,
      transition to myelofibrosis (MF), and transformation to acute leukemia. In principle, the
      only potentially curative therapy for MPNs is allogenic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT).
      However, due to significant transplant-associated morbidity and mortality, this therapeutic
      option is only applied in exceptional cases of ET or PV. The majority of patients do not
      qualify for allo-SCT since the risks of this treatment clearly outweigh the potential
      benefits. Moreover, even with a non-transplantation approach, patients with ET and PV have a
      life expectancy comparable to or close to healthy age-matched control persons. For patients
      with standard risk PV, phlebotomy and acetylsalicylic acid are standard of care (target
      hematocrit below 45 %), while patients with standard risk ET should receive either no
      specific treatment or acetylsalicylic acid (provided that no microvascular symptoms or
      secondary acquired von Willebrand syndrome are present).

      However, in patients who are at high risk to develop thromboembolic or hemorrhagic
      complications (high-risk patients), cytoreductive treatment is generally indicated to prevent
      these potentially life-threatening complications. In PV and ET, high risk patients are
      characterized by advanced age (> 60 years) and / or a history of thromboembolic or
      hemorrhagic events {1,2,3}. In ET, a platelet count > 1500 x 109/l is associated with an
      increased risk of bleeding, and thus should result in a platelet lowering treatment {2}. In
      PV, in addition to the risk-score based therapy, cytoreduction is also required in patients
      with progressive or marked myeloproliferation (leukocytosis, thrombocytosis, symptomatic
      splenomegaly, increase of frequency of phlebotomy requirement), or devastating constitutional
      symptoms {1,2,4}. In Germany, best available therapy (BAT) includes approved drugs such as
      hydroxyurea (HU; approved for both PV and ET) and anagrelide (approved for second-line
      treatment of ET) and non-approved options such as alpha-interferon, pipobroman, busulfan (in
      elderly patients), and radioactive phosphorus (32P). In rare cases, patients may also benefit
      from splenic irradiation or splenectomy.

      Ruxolitinib is a JAK1/2-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) which has been approved for
      the treatment of symptomatic myelofibrosis. The compound was shown to be superior to
      hydroxyurea in reducing splenomegaly and constitutional symptoms. Ruxolitinib is currently
      studied in phase 2 and phase 3 clinical trials for HU-resistant or HU-intolerant PV and ET.
      The aim of the present study is to assess the feasibility, efficacy, and safety of
      ruxolitinib treatment vs. BAT in patients with high-risk PV or -ET.
    
  