
    
      In advanced breast cancer, it is often difficult to predict which patients will respond
      favorably to systemic therapy to decide on treatment duration or options while minimizing
      exposure to toxic effects. Our goal is to examine using locally advanced and metastatic
      breast cancer tumor tissue and plasma, the methylation profile patterns pre- and post
      chemotherapy of a panel of biomarkers most commonly expressed in breast cancer and correlate
      them with tumor response and patient outcome.

      Our hypothesis is that DNA methylation pattern changes at baseline and early into a course of
      systemic therapy can predict disease response or progression as well as survival. In the long
      term, this could prove clinically useful in limiting exposure to ineffective regimens and
      allowing earlier identification of more effective systemic therapy.

      Core biopsies of breast tumor tissue are taken at baseline and after cycle 1 of
      docetaxel/ketoconazole. Plasma samples are drawn at baseline, 24 hours after cycle 1
      chemotherapy and 24 hours before cycle 2. Thirty patients' specimens (60 core biopsies and 90
      plasma samples) will be utilized. Quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR will be
      used for analyses of several tumor suppressor genes including APC1, Cyclin D2, RARB, RASSF1A,
      Twist, Hin1 and GSTP1. From this data, we will identify a preliminary gene panel associated
      with breast cancer which undergoes the most changes in methylation following systemic
      therapy. Thirty paraffin-embedded healthy tissue samples from mastectomy specimens and blood
      samples from unaffected individuals will serve as normal controls.

      This preliminary study can be used to determine the clinical utility of DNA methylation in
      breast tumor tissue and plasma as a predictive marker for response to chemotherapy and a
      prognostic marker for patient outcome. If a relationship is found, we can then further study
      if the change in methylation pattern has clinical utility in influencing therapeutic
      decision-making which may be further expanded to the adjuvant setting..
    
  