
    
      The study will enroll 2,250 total patients with sepsis or severe sepsis patients up to 2
      years of study. 750 patients will be enrolled in each of Thailand, Vietnam, and Indonesia.
      There will be 3 sites in each country and some sites will function as cluster/unit sites
      linking up to 3 hospitals as one 'site' to enable adequate enrollment of both adult and
      pediatric cases.

      Primary objective of the study is to determine the causes of community-acquired sepsis and
      severe sepsis in adult and pediatric subjects across Southeast Asia.

      The secondary objectives are as follow:

        -  To define the current acute management (within the first 48 hours after admission) of
           subjects presenting with community-acquired sepsis and severe sepsis and gaps of current
           practice as defined by the surviving sepsis campaign 2012. This will provide the basis
           for designing practical interventions to reduce the mortality of subjects with sepsis
           and severe sepsis in the future.

        -  To define the clinical outcomes of community-acquired sepsis and severe sepsis in
           Southeast Asia.

        -  To identify risk factors associated with sepsis or severe sepsis.

        -  To determine the extent of antimicrobial resistance in organisms that cause
           community-acquired sepsis and severe sepsis in Southeast Asia and to determine the
           association between antimicrobial resistance and mortality.

        -  To evaluate the accuracy of selected rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) in determining the
           causes of community-acquired sepsis and severe sepsis compared to well-defined gold
           standard tests.

      As this is an observational study and not a clinical trial, researchers will not be involved
      in the management, care and treatment of study subjects. This will remain the responsibility
      of the attending medical staff according to standard of care (SOC) in the participating
      hospitals. Therefore the research study will not influence patient management. SOC for sepsis
      and severe sepsis in each subject will be recorded, and will be reported as summary
      statistics at the end of the study. This will not be used to influence the management and
      care of sepsis and severe sepsis cases at the participating hospitals during the study
      period, but will be used to guide the improvement of the SOC after the study is complete.

      NOTE: EACH INSTITUTION IN THIS STUDY IS ITS OWN SPONSOR AS LISTED BELOW:

        1. Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.

        2. Queen Sirikit National Institute of Child Health, Bangkok, Thailand.

        3. Children's Hospital 1 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.

        4. Children's Hospital 2 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.

        5. Hospital for Tropical Diseases Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.

        6. National Hospital for Pediatrics Hanoi, Vietnam.

        7. National Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Hanoi, Vietnam.

        8. Hue Central Hospital, Hue City, Vietnam.

        9. Dr. Wahidin Soedirohusodo Hospital Makassar, Indonesia.

       10. Dr. Sardjito Hospital Yogyakarta, Indonesia.

       11. Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia

       12. Sappasithiprasong Hospital Ubonratchathani, Thailand

       13. Chiangrai Prachanukroh Hospital, Chiangrai Thailand

       14. University of Oxford, United Kingdom
    
  