
    
      -  The treatment period will last 8 weeks and after the treatment period, patients will be
           followed-up for another 2 weeks. Thus the overall trial period is the 10-week study
           period and end of 10th week is the end of the trial.

        -  Planned visits to gastroenterologists are at the screening period (-1 week),
           randomization period (0 weeks), and at the end of the treatment period (8th week).

        -  Patients will be instructed that unplanned visits to gastroenterologist are allowed only
           in case of a need or an urgency [e.g., adverse reactions, clinical deterioration and/or
           need for additional irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) management]. Unplanned visits will be
           recorded and does not exclude patients from the trial.

        -  For assessing other needed parameters (e.g., adequate relief, adverse reactions,
           irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) management) patients will be assessed by a physician,
           using an interactive voice response by telephone.

        -  Laboratory tests will be performed by certified clinical laboratories. Blood samples
           will be obtained by experienced trial nurses at the time of randomization (0 weeks).

        -  Anthropometric measurements will be assessed at the baseline and at the end of the
           treatment period (8th week).

        -  Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) management (non-medication and medication therapy) will
           be assessed at the baseline, during the trial at the planned and unplanned visits to
           gastroenterologists, and at the end of the trial (by a physician using an interactive
           voice response by telephone). In a case of clinical deterioration IBS management is
           allowed during the trial and each will be recorded by gastroenterologists.

        -  Participants will receive 112 powder portion bags at the beginning of the trial and will
           be instructed to return the container after the 8-week treatment period. Leftover powder
           portion bags will be counted at the end of the treatment period (8th week) to estimate
           compliance. Compliant is considered a participant where no leftover powder portion bags
           will be recorded. Otherwise, the participant is considered non-compliant.

        -  Safety will be ensured by following adverse reactions during the trial. Scheduled
           assessment of adverse reactions is at the time of randomization, after 4 weeks, 8 weeks,
           and at the end of the trial. Responses will be recorded by a physician, at the planned
           visit of gastroenterologists and/or using an interactive voice response by telephone.
           Unscheduled recording of adverse reactions is during the entire trial by patients which
           will be instructed at the randomization period to report any adverse reactions to
           gastroenterologists using an interactive voice response by telephone. In a case of
           severe adverse reactions patients will be withdrawn from the trial and if needed. In
           case of a need or urgency (e.g., adverse reactions, clinical deterioration) clinical
           management will be provided in line with the best medical practice, by
           gastroenterologists and/or medical specialists depending on a medical condition.

        -  Patients can withdrawal from the trial any time. During the trial period withdrawal and
           its reason will be assessed by gastroenterologists at the visits or using an interactive
           voice response by telephone. Patients will be instructed in a case of a withdrawal to
           inform gastroenterologists and report the reason. In a lack of response the reason will
           be considered as other.
    
  