
    
      Objective: Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is a chronic, inflammatory rheumatic disease that
      effects primarily axial-spine. With progression of disease, flexibility of thorax and spine
      will be get lost. It is reported that mobility, function, respiratory muscle strength and
      endurance get worse in AS patients. Reduction of flexibility and mobility is important
      factors that can cause muscle weakness, impairment quality of life, reduction of exercise
      tolerance and pulmonary capacity with the progression of AS. To writer's knowledge, there has
      been no study examining the effects of pilates exercises on mobility, function and
      respiratory muscle strength in AS patients. The purpose of this study is to investigate the
      effects of pilates exercises on mobility, function and respiratory muscle strength in
      patients with AS.

      Methods: Forty patients were included who are aged between 18-65 years and got diagnosed
      according to Modified New York criterias. Patients who have incooperation, malignancy and
      pregnancy will be excluded from the study. Patients will be divided into two groups randomly.
      Pilates training will be performed to the treatment group and conventional exercises will be
      performed to the control group during 8 weeks Respiratory muscle strength will be assessed by
      maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures. Thorax expansion will be measured from regions
      of axillar, subcostal and epigastric by tape measure. To evaluate disease activity and spinal
      mobility, we will use Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) and Bath
      Ankylosing Spondylitis Metrology Index (BASMI), respectively. Quality of life will be
      evaluated with Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life Questionnaire (ASQoL). Exercise
      capacity will be assessed by 6 minutes walk test. Pilates exercises will be performed 3 days
      in a week for 8 weeks. Conventional exercise programme will be taugt to the control group and
      requested to perform them at home. The assessments will be repeated in before and after
      treatment.
    
  