
    
      Emerging adults with sickle cell disease (SCD) experience a seven-fold increase in mortality
      rates during the transition period (16-25 years of age). This staggering increase in
      mortality and acute care utilization during this vulnerable period is partly due to
      difficulty coordinating care during the transition to adult care. Critical psychosocial
      issues further compound the vulnerability of emerging adults with SCD during the transition
      from pediatric to adult care9. Unfortunately, none of these transition intervention studies
      included adolescents or young adults with SCD. Patients, parents, and providers of those with
      SCD agree that the ability to independently perform chronic disease self-management is
      critical to staying healthy during this turbulent transition period.

      Self-management support is a key component of the Chronic Care Model. Community health worker
      (CHW) programs are increasingly popular and have efficacy on chronic disease self-management
      and system navigation. Mobile health platforms are equally popular, and have efficacy on
      self-management and adherence. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of mHealth and tailored
      texting among emerging adults with SCD is still unknown. Furthermore, also unknown is the
      comparative effectiveness of CHW programs and mHealth.

      The purpose of the study is to determine the comparative effectiveness of CHW programs and
      mHealth among emerging adults with SCD during transition versus enhanced usual care to
      improve health-related quality of life and acute care use for transitioning youth with SCD.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of two self-management
      support interventions (community health workers and mobile health) versus enhanced usual care
      to improve health-related quality of life and acute care use for transitioning youth with
      SCD. The secondary objectives are to:

        -  Identify and quantify whether patient activation, self-management behaviors, biologic
           markers, and transfer to adult care are mediators of intervention treatment effects.

        -  Identify individual and family factors that moderate intervention treatment effects

      The exploratory aim is to:

      •Explore the association of enhancements to usual care on pediatric and adult acute
      utilization

      The study population will consist of all patients with SCD who are 17 or older and are
      appropriate for transfer to an adult hematologist within 12 months. Excluded are individuals
      with an intellectual disability that is severe enough that the individual would not have the
      capacity to interact with a mobile or web-based program even with assistance or have a
      conversation with a community health worker (i.e. non-verbal).
    
  