
    
      Ventilator-associated pneumonia has a considerable impact on morbidity and mortality in
      intensive-care patients. Chest radiography, which is the most frequently used imagery test
      for bedside lung evaluation in mechanically ventilated patients, is recognized to be poorly
      sensitive and non-specific for the diagnosis of ventilator-associated pneumonia.
      Bronchoalveolar lavage using a bronchoscope remains the most reliable tool for the diagnosis
      of this nosocomial infection. However, a bronchoscopy may not be feasible in all patients and
      waiting time before final results become available may cause a delay in the initiation of the
      treatment, thus increasing the risk of mortality. Lung ultrasound is a promising
      non-invasive, non-radiant, portable and easy to use tool especially in critically-ill
      patients.

      Dependent atelectasis is a frequent phenomenon in mechanically ventilated patients. The
      presence of clinical infection signs raises the question of the nature of the infiltrate. A
      consolidation of infectious nature differs from atelectasis by its local hypoxic pulmonary
      vasoconstriction inhibition. In patients breathing spontaneously, it is possible to detect
      this difference using the RAcT, measured by pulsed-wave Doppler in an arterial blood vessel
      located in a pulmonary consolidation visible by ultrasound examination. The use of
      pulsed-wave Doppler to measure the RAcT in a consolidation added to the value of general lung
      ultrasound could help determine the infectious or atelectatic nature of a consolidation in
      mechanically ventilated patients. However, the RAcT has never been studied in patients under
      positive pressure ventilation. In this observational study, the investigators will explore
      the role of measuring the RAcT and of general lung ultrasound as a diagnostic tool to detect
      pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients.
    
  