
    
      The study goal is to conduct a large-scale randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the "Change
      the Cycle" (CTC) intervention. CTC is an hour long, single-session, one-on-one intervention
      that aims to reduce injection initiation by encouraging active PWID to not promote drug
      injection, model injection behavior, describe how to inject, or assist in injection
      initiations of non-injectors. CTC uses the Information-Motivation-Behavioral skills (IMB)
      model to achieve changes among active PWID through seven short modules. Information and
      motivational domains are addressed in guided conversations about (1) their own first
      injection episode and consequences, (2) past experiences initiating injection-naive people
      and consequences, (3) health, legal, and social risks related to injection drugs, (4) health,
      legal, social risks of initiating people, and (5) identifying their own behaviors that might
      promote injection among others. The behavioral skills are addressed through (6)
      skill-building discussions and consideration of common initiation scenarios, and (7) safer
      injection education.

      Aim 1: To test the efficacy of CTC on reducing the number of non-injectors initiated into
      injection (counts) by PWID. Hypothesis 1: PWID who receive CTC will report initiating fewer
      non-injectors into drug injection at 6 and 12 months as compared with PWID in the control
      condition.

      Aim 2: To test the efficacy of CTC on reducing the number of times PWID are asked to initiate
      (counts) someone into injection. Hypothesis 2: PWID who receive CTC will report having been
      asked fewer times to initiate someone into drug injection at 6 and 12 months as compared with
      PWID in the control condition.

      Aim 3: To test whether injection initiation social learning risks (injecting in front of,
      describing injection to, and speaking positively about injection to non-injectors) act as
      mediational mechanisms for the efficacy of the CTC intervention on initiation and
      request-to-initiate outcomes. Hypothesis 3: Social learning variables will significantly
      mediate the association between the CTC intervention and episodes of initiating and being
      requested to initiate someone into drug injection at 6 and 12 months.

      To achieve these aims, active PWID (N=1,076) will be randomly assigned to receive CTC or an
      equal attention control condition in Los Angeles (LA) and San Francisco (SF), CA. Injection
      initiation and injection initiation social learning variables will be collected at baseline,
      6 months, and 12 months using computer-assisted personal-interviewing (CAPI). The equal
      attention control condition will focus on improving nutrition, specifically increasing fresh
      water intake and protein consumption, and will replicate CTC in length, theoretical
      foundation (IMB), and modality (1 on 1 personal session).
    
  