
    
      MR examinations will be performed on a 3.0 Tesla GE whole-body scanner using an elliptically
      driven body coil for transmit and a multi-channel bilateral breast coil for receive. The
      multi-channel coil will consist of 8, 16 or 31 channels. DCE-MRI: DCE-MRI will be carried out
      using a three-dimensional (3D) turbo fast lowangle gradient echo sequence (TFE) combined with
      parallel acquisition Sensitivity Encoding (SENSE) technique. The imaging plane will be set in
      axial plane so that both breasts are included in the images. One image will be acquired
      before and four images will be acquired after intravenous administration of a standard dose
      of 0.1 mmol per kg of body weight of Gadavist (Schering AG, Germany) at a rate of 3ml/sec.
      with subjects in the prone position, breathing normally during the scan. The total scan time
      for the DCEMRI will be about 8 minutes.

      Pharmacokinetic parameters, including the volume transfer constant Ktrans, the fractional
      volume of extravascular extracellular space of the target tissue ve, and the rate constant
      kep, will be estimated by fitting a pharmacokinetic model to the time-intensity curves
      obtained from the DCE-MRI. In this study, the concentration of tracer Ct(t) after bolus
      injection is assumed to obey the model proposed by Tofts and Kermode (20). DWI-MRI
      examinations: The DWI acquisition will occur before and/or after contrast enhancement used in
      DCE imaging. Immediately after the completion of imaging with the 16 (or 31) channel breast
      coil, the patient will be repositioned replacing the breast coil with an 8 channel breast
      coil and additional DWI acquisitions will be made. Data for apparent diffusion coefficient
      assessment on diffusion-weighted imaging will be acquired using a single-shot Echo Planar
      Imaging sequence in the transverse plane. The DWI protocol will acquire images with up to 16
      different b values. Slice dependent shimming will be performed to provide the maximum B0
      homogeneity for each slice. The total scan time for the DWI-MRI will be about 5 minutes.

      All of the DWI image data from the MRI examinations will be stored on a dedicated HIPPA
      compliant computer workstation (located in room NE6.114) for analysis. The relevant
      parameters will be mean ADC and the histogram of ADC in the lesions.

      Conductivity imaging: A B1 map and a spin echo image will be acquired for measuring tissue
      conductivity (21).

      The images used for conductivity measurement will be anonymized and sent to the manufacturer
      for further development of post-processing techniques.
    
  