
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify immunotherapy-based treatments where salvage radiation produces systemic
      disease control after initial progressive disease.

      II. To identify immunotherapy-based treatments where salvage radiation produces a high rate
      of treatment-related toxicities.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency of systemic disease control (objective response or stable
      disease) after salvage radiation following progression on immunotherapy among all patients
      and within each treatment group.

      II. Determine the frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) with salvage radiation after
      progression on treatment with an immunotherapy agent among all patients and within each
      treatment group.

      III. To determine the rate of systemic objective response among all patients and within each
      treatment group among all patients and within each treatment group.

      IV. To determine the duration of response in patients who achieve disease control among all
      patients and within each treatment group.

      V. To determine the overall survival after salvage radiation among all patients and within
      each treatment group.

      VI. To determine the systemic progression free survival after salvage radiation among all
      patients and within each treatment group.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo either 4 fractions of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) or 5-15
      fractions of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to any site of metastatic disease daily
      for any time between 4 days and 3 weeks as determined by the treating radiation oncologist.
      Patients with at least stable disease (SD) after the second imaging evaluation may undergo
      additional SBRT in 4 fractions or EBRT in 3 fractions.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 12 weeks
      for up to 1 year.
    
  