
    
      Previously, a human subject clinical trial (NCT01292876, PRO10010500) to evaluate a
      regenerative medicine approach using ECM for VML treatment was conducted. ECM scaffolds were
      implanted and combined with aggressive and early physical therapy in 13 subjects, then
      followed for 24-28 weeks after implantation. Histomorphological assessments collected from
      core needle biopsies identified formation of new, vascularized, innervated islands of
      skeletal muscle within the implantation site. Subjects demonstrated increased force
      production in physical therapy evaluations and improved functional task performance when
      compared with pre-operative performance. By 6 months after ECM implantation, subjects had a
      37.3% improvement in strength and 27.1% improvement in range-of-motion tasks. Additionally,
      changes in nerve conduction study (NCS) and electromyography (EMG) before and after ECM
      implantation were measured. 63% of study participants experienced improvements in NCS or EMG
      within the scaffold remodeling site, indicating clinical improvement in muscle strength. The
      promising functional and regenerative results from this early study encourages evidence of
      ECM bioscaffolding as a viable treatment to VML.

      This study proposes to use XenMatrix™ AB Surgical Graft which has 510(k) approval [#K162193]
      intended for implantation to reinforce soft tissue where weakness exists and for surgical
      repair of damaged or ruptured soft tissue, including abdominal plastic and reconstructive
      surgery; muscle flap reinforcement; hernia repair including abdominal, inguinal, femoral,
      diaphragmatic, scrotal, umbilical, and incisional hernias. The graft has an antibiotic
      coating, specifically, Rifampin and Minocycline. This coating has been shown in preclinical
      in vitro and in vivo testing to reduce or inhibit microbial colonization on the device. The
      claim of reduction of bacterial colonization of the device has not yet been established with
      human clinical data, nor has a clinical impact associated with this claim been demonstrated
      and will need further investigation. This trial proposes to test the applicability and
      utility of XenMatrix™ AB Surgical Graft in the restoration of function in the setting of
      volumetric muscle loss after trauma. 10 subjects will be enrolled for participation in the
      study. Prior to Graft implantation, subjects will receive a pre-operative course of physical
      therapy for a maximum time period of 16 weeks. A physical therapist will confirm that
      functional plateau is reached prior to implantation of the Graft. Following Graft
      implantation, radiographic, functional, and electrophysotherapy outcomes will be measured at
      various time points up to 24-28 weeks post-operatively. A CT scan or MRI will be collected at
      screening and pre-operative visits to evaluate tissue volume, then again at post-operative
      Visit 1 and Visit 6. Physical therapy training will be performed as a research procedure
      following Graft implantation for a maximum of 30 weeks. Additionally, Physical Therapy
      evaluations will be conducted at screening, pre-op visit 1, post-op, and at post-op Visits 3,
      and 4. A small core needle biopsy 1-5 grams will be collected at three time points to conduct
      histomorphological assessment of the tissue prior to Graft implantation (Operative visit,
      Visit 2 and at Visit 4).
    
  