
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide accounting for nearly
      one third of the total deaths. The majority (90%) of the CVD cases are caused by modifiable
      risk factors. These factors include tobacco smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes,
      physical inactivity, high fat diet and obesity.

      In Canada CVD rates have decreased drastically over the last few decades, yet it is still one
      of the leading causes of death. It also carries a financial burden on the Canadian economy
      with a cost close to $ 21 billion every year divided between loss of productivity and
      healthcare costs.

      Despite the risks associated with the major CVD risk factors and the treatment advancement,
      their prevalence is still substantial in North America. Treatment gaps were also reported
      amongst such factors. Al Hamarneh and colleagues (2012) reported that almost 50% of the
      community dwelling patients with type 2 diabetes were not at their HbA1c target. Leiter and
      colleagues (2013) reported that almost half of the patients with type 2 diabetes did not
      achieve their HbA1c or cholesterol target, slightly more than one third achieved their blood
      pressure targets and only 13% achieved the composite triple target.

      The guidelines recommend using cardiovascular risk assessment equations to guide CVD
      prevention and management. Despite being recommended by the guidelines, it has not been
      integrated in the clinicians' daily routine; in fact the majority of the patients attending
      physicians' clinics reported that they have never had a cardiovascular risk assessment. This
      indicates the need for new avenues for the patients to get their cardiovascular risk
      assessed.

      Community pharmacists are front-line primary healthcare professionals who see patients with
      chronic diseases more frequently than family physicians; as such, they are well positioned to
      identify patients at high risk for CVD, determine their CVD risk and assist in their disease
      management. The efficacy of pharmacists' intervention in chronic disease has been well
      demonstrated in the literature. Two of the largest randomized controlled trials in community
      pharmacy setting were conducted by our group. Both studies reported positive impact of the
      pharmacist intervention on the patients' lipid panel and blood pressure.

      Objectives

      Primary objective

      To evaluate the effect of a community pharmacy-based case finding and intervention program in
      patients at high risk for cardiovascular events on reduction in estimated risk for major
      cardiovascular events.

      Secondary objectives

      Clinical:

        -  Improvements in individual risk factors: LDL-cholesterol, blood pressure, HbA1c (among
           patients with diabetes), and smoking cessation

        -  Achievement of recommended cholesterol, blood pressure and glycemic control targets

        -  Increase in proportion of patients receiving appropriate BP, cholesterol and diabetes
           medication

      Process:

        -  Increase in number of high risk patients screened for cardiovascular risk

        -  Assess the efficacy of various case-finding mechanisms and vulnerable patient population
           reach

        -  Assure sustainability by exploring enabling and barrier forces.

      Methods

      Design: Randomized controlled trial with patients as the unit of randomization

      Setting: Community pharmacists in Alberta for recruitment and follow up, engaging both
      patients and family physicians

      Patients/Population:

      Inclusion criteria:

      Adults (≥18 years of age) at high risk for cardiovascular events, including:

        -  Patients with diabetes

        -  Patients with chronic kidney disease [eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73m2 and/or (ACR >= 30 mg/mmol
           or two consecutive ACR tests which are >= 3 mg/mmol)]

        -  Patients with established atherosclerotic vascular disease including cerebrovascular
           disease (prior stroke or transient ischemic attack), cardiovascular disease (myocardial
           infarction, acute coronary syndrome, stable angina, or revascularization), or peripheral
           arterial disease (symptomatic and/or ankle brachial index <0.9).

        -  Primary prevention patients with multiple risk factors and Framingham risk score >20%

        -  In order to qualify for inclusion, all patients must have at least one uncontrolled risk
           factor (i.e., blood pressure, LDL-cholesterol, HbA1c, or current smokers.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Unwilling to participate/sign consent form

        -  Unwilling or unable to participate in regular follow-up visits

        -  Pregnancy

      Recruitment:

      Pharmacists and pharmacy staff are going to use the following methods to recruit patients in
      the study:

      · Proactive recruitment by case-finding facilitators (trained pharmacy technicians,
      assistants or pharmacy/medical/nursing students who focus on target prescriptions for oral
      hypoglycemic, anti-hypertensive and lipid lowering medications). Pharmacists will check the
      most recent lab results for those patients in the course of routine care. If the patient has
      not had an eGFR or proteinuria test done over the last 12 months he/she will be given a
      request to do those tests with a copy sent to his/her family physician.

      If the Patient meets the inclusion criteria for the study the patient will be asked if he/she
      wants to participate in the study. If the patient agrees on participating he/she will be
      asked to sign a written informed consent form. After signing the consent form the patient
      will be enrolled in the study.

      The patient's family physician is going to receive a letter from the pharmacist to inform
      him/her that his/her patient agreed to participate in this study.

      Randomization:

      Once informed written consent is obtained, the patients will be randomized (via a centralized
      secure website to ensure allocation concealment) in a 1:1 ratio to either advanced care or
      usual care groups

      Intervention:

      For all the patients randomized to the advanced care group the pharmacist will complete a
      Comprehensive Annual Care Plan (CACP) or Standard Medication Management Assessment (SMMA),
      which will include:

        -  Patient assessment (blood pressure measurement according to CHEP guidelines, waist
           circumference, weight and height measurements)

        -  Laboratory assessment of HbA1c and lipids (if not done within 3 months)

        -  Individual assessment of CVD risk and education about this risk

             -  Calculation of cardiovascular risk will be facilitated by an online tool in which
                the pharmacist enters patient demographics such as age, gender, cholesterol, blood
                pressure, smoking status, diabetes, etc and the system will use the appropriate
                risk engine based on the patient's medical history. UKPDS, International model to
                predict recurrent cardiovascular disease and Framingham will be used for patients
                with diabetes, previous vascular disease, CKD or high Framingham risk (>20%)
                respectively (see appendix for risk engines score sheets). In the case where a
                patient has more than one co-morbidity the risk engine estimating the highest risk
                will be used

             -  Discussion of CVD risk with the patient using the interactive online tool which
                explains his/her individual cardiovascular risk and targets for intervention

             -  Proving the patient with education on cardiovascular risk factors and healthy
                lifestyle options

        -  Providing treatment recommendations (C-CHANGE and up to date Canadian clinical practice
           guidelines)

        -  Prescription adaptation(s), and/or prescribe where necessary to meet lipid, blood
           pressure and glycemic control targets and smoking cessation.

        -  Regular communication with the patient's family physician after each contact with the
           patient using the physician contact form which will be developed by the research team

        -  Regular follow-up with all patients a minimum of every 3-4 weeks for 3 months (Interim
           telephone follow-up may be performed at the discretion of the pharmacist; however
           telephone follow-up cannot be used for 2 consecutive visits or for the final visit (3
           months).

      Usual care:

      Patients randomized to the usual care group will receive:

        -  Usual pharmacy care with no specific interventions for 3 months

        -  At the end of the 3 months of the usual care period, all patients will cross over to
           receive the advanced care outlined above for 3 months

      The analysis of the results from patients who cross over from the usual care group into the
      advanced care group will be conducted separately on before and after design basis.
    
  