
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, researchers will first do a test to learn what the
      CO level of your blood is. To do this test, you will be asked to blow into a cardboard tube.
      If the test finds that you are ineligible, you will not be able to continue on this study.

      If you are found to be eligible, you will be enrolled in this study and asked to complete an
      interview that should last about 1 hour. During this interview, you will be asked basic
      questions, such as your age, education level, and smoking history. You will also be asked
      questions about your mood, quality of life, and stress. You will then be asked to complete a
      short test that involves completing some basic tasks, such as remembering several words and
      drawing a simple shape. This test, which will take about 2-5 minutes to complete, is used to
      measure attention and concentration.

      You will then be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups.
      There is an equal chance of being assigned to either group.

      If you are assigned to Group 1, you will receive advice from your physician/provider to stop
      smoking and written materials designed to help you quit smoking.

      If you are assigned to Group 2, you will receive the advice from your physician/provider to
      quit smoking and the written materials, but you also be given a cell phone and be called 11
      times over the course of an 12 to 13 week period. During these calls, which will last about
      10 minutes, you will be asked to talk about smoking and quitting smoking. Access to a hotline
      number that you can call to speak with a counselor about quitting smoking will also be given
      to you if you are assigned to group 2. Participants in Group 1 will not get the number to the
      hotline. There is a limited number of prepaid minutes on the phone, so participants who
      receive a cell phone should make an effort to save enough minutes to complete this study.

      You will be asked to complete three more interviews about 3-, 6-, and 12-months after the
      first interview. During these interviews, you will again be asked questions about your
      smoking behavior, mood, quality of life, and stress. All three of these interviews will take
      about one hour to complete. Your participation in this study will be complete after the
      12-month interview.

      Lost, stolen, or broken cell phones will not be replaced, but participants will remain on
      study.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 705 participants will take part in this research
      study. All participants will be enrolled at Thomas Street Clinic.
    
  