
    
      The purpose of this correlational descriptive study is to compare measured bladder volumes
      with a bladder scanner (Verathon Prime), 3D ultrasound (Sono-Site II) and straight
      catheterization in ICU patients with low urine output receiving dialysis and in ICU patients
      unable to void.

      Upon consent of patient or LAR, patient's age, gender and BMI with the assigned study code
      number will be recorded on enrollment log. Study code number, patient initials and unit will
      be written on bedside data collection sheet.

      Sequence of 4 non-invasive (1-4) measurement will vary from day to day (see below)

        1. MD performs bladder ultrasound and records volume on data collection sheet and places in
           envelope

        2. APRN performs bladder scanner and records volume on data collection sheet and places in
           envelope.

        3. APRN performs bladder ultrasound and records volume on data collection sheet and places
           in envelope

        4. Bedside RN performs bladder scanner and records volume on data collection sheet and
           places in envelope

        5. The study team will record the data from the straight catheterization that is performed
           as part of clinical care.

        6. APRN or research nurse will retrieve catheterization urine volume measurement from RN or
           from chart and record on data collection sheet

      Each enrolled patient will have these 4 measurements performed only on one day. Each
      clinician research team member will record their result on a data collection form with the
      study number, patient initials, day of week, clinician initials, observation of abdominal
      fluid, and comment section for any other observations. The clinician research team member
      will place the completed form for their measurement in an envelope with the study number on
      the outside while the next clinician is in the room obtaining the next measure.

      Data collection is complete after catheter volume is recorded.
    
  