
    
      The recruited subjects (n = 300) receive routine medical care on the day of randomization in
      our outpatient clinic. Furthermore, an additional blood sample is taken (further blood
      samples are taken on month 6 and month 12), which contain 9 ml EDTA (for DNA analysis, e.g.
      whole genome sequencing), 5 ml of PaxGene (for RNA analysis), 7.5 ml of plasma (for example
      for metabolite and RNA analysis) and 7.5 ml of serum (for example for metabolite and RNA
      analysis). A detailed medical history is taken during the basic examination. This is followed
      by detailed physical examination and diagnostics. A routine blood sample is taken to
      determine the values of electrolytes, NT-ProBNP, hsTnT, creatinine, urea and the blood count.
      Finally, the patients answer a questionnaire on Quality of Life (MHLFQ: The Minnesota Living
      with Heart Failure Questionnaire) and Depression (PHQ9).

      Two thirds of the patients (n = 200; intervention groups) will regularly participate in an
      individually designed sports program for a period of 12 months. One third of the participants
      (n = 100; control group) will not participate in a sports program. As a SmartWatch is
      required for the study. SmartWatches will be made available to all subjects on the day of
      recruitment. These are Apple Watches (Series 4), which are provided by Apple Inc. On the
      Apple Watch, participants have access to an app, that was especially developed by us for the
      study. This app collects important information about the physical activity and symptoms of
      the patient (including pulse rate, duration of training, the number of floors, number of
      steps and ECGs). The Apple Watch is also used to send participants of the intervention group
      regular notifications about their training status and to remind them of their training.

      The participants present themselves 4-6 weeks after recruitment in the department of sports
      medicine to perform a spiroergometry and a sports medical evaluation. A personalized sports
      program (depending on the severity of the disease) is created for the subjects of the
      intervention groups, which consists of strength and endurance training. The sports program
      will be carried out over a period of 12 months.

      All subjects in the intervention groups receive follow-up visits on month 3, month 6, month 9
      and month 12. The sports program can be adapted on these dates. The subjects who did not
      receive a personalized training program presente themselves for the follow-up examination on
      month 6 and month 12. Unwanted events during the training (including syncope, ICD therapy,
      injuries) are documented during the follow-up visits.
    
  