
    
      Total anatomic shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) is an effective treatment of severe glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis, with significant improvement in shoulder pain and function. Concerns about
      glenoid loosening, associated with difficult revision procedures and disappointing outcomes,
      have however been raised.

      Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) was designed with a medialized center of rotation
      to treat cuff tear arthropathy. Favorable early reports led to the expansion of primary
      indications of RTSA to proximal humeral fractures as well as osteoarthritis with poor glenoid
      bone stock. Recent reports revealed excellent clinical results of RTSA for primary
      glenohumeral arthropathy with intact rotator cuff and a low rate of complications.

      Retrospective studies comparing functional results - of anatomic TSA for treating
      glenohumeral osteoarthritis with RTSA for rotator cuff arthropathy - found equivalent or
      greater improvements in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score (ASES) at >2-year
      follow-up. In a study comparing anatomic TSA to RTSA for the treatment of glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis with intact rotator cuffs, Steen et al. reported equivalent functional results
      at >2-year follow-up. The retrospective matched cohort study could, however, not eliminate
      biases, such that RTSA patients had higher preoperative glenoid retroversion than anatomic
      TSA patients. The authors therefore hypothesize that, in patients treated for glenohumeral
      osteoarthritis without excessive glenoid retroversion, RTSA will render better functional
      outcomes than anatomic TSA, at 2 postoperative years. Many other studies confirmed in 2019
      Steen's hypothesis. Moreover, several studies revealed good long-term survivorship after
      RTSA.

      There are no published prospective studies that compared 2-year functional outcomes of RTSA
      and anatomic TSA for the treatment of primary glenohumeral osteoarthritis with intact rotator
      cuffs and no excessive glenoid retroversion. The primary goal of our prospective randomized
      study is to determine whether RTSA have at least as good results as anatomic TSA
      (non-inferiority), in patients with glenohumeral osteoarthritis, without rotator cuff tears
      nor significant glenoid retroversion.The secondary goals are 1) to evaluate whether RTSA
      eventually grants superior postoperative clinical and radiographic outcomes than anatomic TSA
      (superiority), 2) to determine whether RTSA is associated with fewer postoperative
      complications than anatomic TSA.
    
  