
    
      The sample size calculation was based on a study with similar design. It was estimated that
      312 patients would be sufficient to demonstrate a 15% difference between groups in a sample
      with 80% power and a significance level of 95 %. Considering a 20% margin of loss throughout
      the study we came to the final sample of 374 patients.

      Preoperative evaluation: Genital prolapse will be staged according to the system of
      quantification of pelvic organ prolapse (ICS Pelvic Organ Quantification Prolapse - POP - Q
      ). All patients will be initially analyzed for quantitative urinalysis and urine culture
      prior to testing to IUO. In case of urinary infection, the patient will be subjected to
      antibiotics and reassessed after a negative urine culture. To perform the effort test, during
      the physical examination, the patient's bladder will be emptied with a urinary catheter and
      soon after instilled with 300ml of saline solution. By this time the stress test (Valsalva
      maneuver and cough) will be held before and after prolapse reduction. The test will be
      performed with the patient in supine and prone positions. The prolapse reduction will be
      performed using gauzes on a DeLee forceps. The urodynamics consists of three stages: initial
      uroflowmetry, cystometry and voiding study. The stress test will be performed during
      cystometry in the cystometric capacity of 300ml, with and without prolapse reduction. The
      reduction will be carried out on the same fashion as stress test. Schafer nomogram will be
      used for the diagnosis of detrusor hypocontractility and the Blaivas - Groutz nomogram for
      the diagnosis of obstruction. The presence of urinary incontinence after prolapse reduction
      in the clinical stress test or urodynamics configure the diagnosis of occult stress urinary
      incontinence.

      The patients will be submitted for assessment of quality of life through the following
      questionnaires : Quality of Life Questionnaire Prolapse and Incontinence Quality of Life
      Questionnaire ( I-QOL ).

      The surgical repair will be conducted on this way: Surgical correction of genital prolapse
      will be taken vaginally. The prolapse of the anterior vaginal wall will be treated with
      site-specific correction of pubocervical fascia . The correction of apical prolapse will be
      performed with the use of High McCall culdoplasty technique. In uterine prolapse, associated
      vaginal hysterectomy will be performed.

      The posterior vaginal wall prolapse will be treated with site-specific correction of
      rectovaginal fascia.If present, the perineal tear will be corrected.

      Patients randomized to anti-incontinence surgery will undergo TVT as standard technique.
      Patients randomized to pelvic organ prolapse surgery alone will undergo two small incisions
      of 0.5 cm in the suprapubic region in a similar way to that used for the insertion of the
      sling (sham incisions). These incisions intended to keep the raters blind to the achievement
      or otherwise of the sling during the postoperative evaluation.

      Randomization will be held by a computer-generated random numbers software. The result of
      randomization will be revealed in the operating room after the patient is anesthetized, ie,
      the patient will be blinded for carrying or not a sling. The surgeon will be blinded to the
      results of preoperative IUO evaluation and results of quality of life questionnaires.
      Patients and researchers who will carry out the postoperative evaluations will be blinded to
      treatment.

      Statistical Evaluation Continuous variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation
      and compared using the two-tailed Student t test for two samples. Categorical variables will
      be presented as frequencies and percentages and compared between groups by the Fisher exact
      test, p < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. These evaluations will be
      performed using a SPSS software.
    
  