
    
      Urinary fistulas in the pediatric and adult populations present significant surgical and
      economical challenges. These include urethrocutaneous and vesicocutaneous fistulas, which are
      unfortunately common in the investigators' patients with hypospadias and bladder exstrophy,
      respectively. Urethrocutaneous fistula is the most common complication following surgical
      repair of hypospadias with an incidence of 4-25%. This high complication rate is especially
      problematic as these fistulas once formed often recur requiring multiple surgical repairs
      resulting in potentially harmful physical and psychologic consequences on young patients.
      Vesicocutaneous fistulas develop in bladder exstrophy patients at a estimated rate of 20%
      following surgery aimed at making these patients continent by transecting the bladder neck
      and creating a catheterizable channel. Small, simple fistulas can be repaired primarily,
      however larger, multiple or recurrent fistulas must be closed in layers. Layered closures
      have been found to have higher success rates have been demonstrated with using additional
      tissue layers refistulization rate including local and distant tissue grafts, which add time
      and morbidity to surgical repairs.

      Amniotic membranes have been shown to increase healing in chronic wounds such as a chronic
      venous stasis and diabetic ulcers and have been used in fistula repairs. Grafix and Stravix
      are frozen preserved placental membranes and Wharton's Jelly, respectively, that have high
      quantities of viable mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), which add in tissue healing. The
      investigators believe these membranes can be used as a structural layer in fistula repairs,
      hypospadias repairs, and bladder neck closures to treat existing fistulas and prevent fistula
      formation in the primary repair setting.

        1. This is a prospective study examining patients with hypospadias will be considered for
           repair with the use of amniotic membranes. The repair of fistula with graft tissue is
           standard of care.

        2. Eligible patients will be identified in a clinic visit with one of the co-investigators.

           a. The patient will be consented and undergo a repair using amniotic membranes within
           the fistula site or primary repair at the discretion of the operating surgeon. Using
           different repair techniques is standard of care, however, the use of frozen preserved
           placental membranes is the study material. The size of the product will be determined by
           the surgical need at the time of repair.

        3. The patient will be discharged be provided with routine postoperative care and seen in
           approximately 2 weeks per standard of are.

        4. If the participant fails repair of participant's fistula, participant will not be
           offered a repeat repair with the amniotic membranes. Other forms of surgery may be
           offered, however.
    
  