
    
      AT is an α2-globulin that is produced primarily in the liver. It binds thrombin, as well as
      other serine proteases, factors IX, X, XI, and XII, kallikrein, and plasmin irreversibly,
      which neutralizes their activity. However, only inhibition of thrombin and factor Xa by AT
      has physiologic and clinical significance.1 AT deficiency may occur as a congenital or
      acquired deficiency. Acquired deficiencies are secondary to increased AT consumption, loss of
      AT from the intravascular compartment (renal failure, nephrotic syndrome) or liver disease
      (cirrhosis). A normal AT level is 80% to 120% with activity below 50% considered clinically
      important based on the risk of venous thrombosis in patients with congenital deficiency of
      AT.2 However, the risk of thrombosis is higher in congenital forms than acquired forms of AT
      deficiency.3, 4 Unfortunately, the only abnormal coagulation test associated with this
      condition is the assay for AT activity, which is diagnostic but not readily available.

      Acquired deficiencies of AT are commonly encountered in cardiac surgical patients.
      Anticoagulation with heparin for CPB depends on AT to inhibit clotting as heparin alone has
      no effect on coagulation. Heparin catalyzes AT inhibition of thrombin over a 1000 fold by
      binding to a lysine residue on AT and altering its conformation. Thrombin actually attacks
      AT, disabling it, but in the process attaches AT to thrombin, forming a complex that can be
      detected and used to assess thrombin formation but has no activity. Thirty percent of AT is
      consumed during this process so AT levels are reduced temporarily. If AT levels are not
      restored, then a condition may arise called heparin resistance. There are other less frequent
      causes of heparin resistance besides AT deficiency such as platelets, fibrin, vascular
      surfaces and plasma proteins.5 There is no universally accepted definition of heparin
      resistance. It is broadly defined as the failure of a specific heparin dose (300 - 400 u/kg)
      to prolong an ACT beyond 400 - 480 seconds in preparation for initiation of CPB. Because the
      definition of heparin resistance may differ according to both heparin dose and target ACT,
      the incidence of heparin resistance in the literature is very variable. A recent randomized
      prospective study analyzing 2270 cardiac cases, identified 3.7% of the patients to be heparin
      resistant but the incidence has been reported as high as 18% - 30% The incidence of heparin
      resistance is likely to further increase as the use of heparin infusions prior to cardiac
      surgery becomes more prevalent.
    
  