
    
      Specific Aim 1: To test on two study days, one neutral affect and one negative affect day
      (affect induction) whether negative affect alters brain reinforcement learning in a dopamine
      system anchored taste reward learning paradigm (a task for prediction error and reward value
      computation) during functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (fMRI). Hypothesis 1: In
      response to negative and compared to neutral affect induction, binge eating disorder (BED)
      and bulimia nervosa (BN) will show increased positive prediction error and taste valuation
      regression with striatum and insula activation compared to obese (OB) and healthy control
      (HC) groups. This will be an indication that negative affect excessively activates dopamine
      related reward circuit response in BED and BN. Specific Aim 2: To study during a food choice
      paradigm the effects of negative affect on brain circuitry for cognitive control and food
      valuation. Specific Aim 2a: To study brain circuitry for food valuation in response to
      neutral or negative affect. Hypothesis 2a: In response to negative and compared to neutral
      affect induction, BED and BN groups will show greater striatal activation when rating food
      for taste, compared to OB and HC. This will indicate that BED and BN are associated with
      increased affect-regulated motivation to approach high calorie foods after negative affect
      induction and compared to OB and HC. Specific Aim 2b: To study brain control circuitry during
      food choice in response to neutral or negative affect. Hypothesis 2b: In response to negative
      and compared to neutral affect induction, BED and BN groups will show increased insula and
      striatal, but lower dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) activation compared to OB and HC
      groups. This will indicate that negative affect activates automatic food reward circuit
      response, but reduces cognitive control circuitry during food choice in BED and BN. Specific
      Aim 3: To test whether brain activation predicts food intake or negative affect. Specific Aim
      3a: To test whether brain activation can predict food intake during a post-fMRI scan test
      meal. Hypothesis 3a: On negative- versus neutral-affect days, BN and BED will select more
      food in a post-fMRI scan test meal; lower DLPFC and higher striatal activation during food
      choice, and higher (prediction error) taste reward activation in insula and ventral striatum
      will predict greater food intake. Specific Aim 3b: To test whether brain activation during
      reward learning or food choice predicts negative affect measured by EMA on the study day, as
      well as measured between study days in the individual's naturalistic environment. Hypothesis
      3b: Insula, ventral striatum and DLPFC activation (taste prediction error task, food choice
      task) during the negative affect condition will predict the intensity of negative affect
      immediately after fMRI, as well as intensity of negative affect episodes during the days
      between brain scans in the individual's naturalistic environment, suggesting a
      neurobiological affective vulnerability.
    
  