
    
      Effective follow-up and management of elderly post-CABG patients is important in the overall
      recovery process. Specifically, this study will attempt to bridge the gap in current
      literature related to the impact of follow-up interventions to enhance recovery outcomes in
      the CABG population. The major purpose of this experimental study is to test the effects of
      the symptom management home care nursing intervention (SMHCNI) on recovery outcomes of
      elderly CABG patients using a randomized, two group (N=284) repeated measures design with
      measurements at discharge, at 3 and 6 weeks, and 3 and 6 months post- operatively. One group
      will receive the intervention and routine care (RC) and the other group will receive only RC.
      The major aim will be to determine if the intervention group will demonstrate: better
      physiological functioning (decreased symptom interference on physical functioning (decreased
      symptom interference on physical functioning; better scores on the SF 36 subscales: physical,
      role-physical and vitality, and increased activity and exercise energy expenditure); better
      physiological conditioning (decreased symptom interference on physical functioning; better
      scores on the SF 36 subscales; role-emotional, social, mental, and vitality); and fewer
      post-operative problems (e.g., infections, fluid in lungs, heart rate rhythm problems).
      Additional outcomes for secondary aims are: lower levels of health care utilization [HCU]
      (i.e., fewer number of visits to health care providers, fewer number of emergency department
      visits, fewer number of home health visits, fewer rehospitalizations); and higher patient
      satisfaction (with level of functioning and care received). In addition this study will
      examine the potential effects of mediating (evaluation of level of functioning and care
      received)> In addition this study will examine the potential effects of mediating (evaluation
      of level of functioning and care received). In addition this study will examine the potential
      effects of mediating (evaluation of symptoms, and perceived self-efficacy, and moderating
      variables (participation in cardiac rehabilitation) with the intervention on outcomes
      identified above. The intervention will be delivered using a device called the Health Buddy
      that is attached to the patient's telephone line, able to download to a free secure Internet
      site daily, and cannot be used by health care providers for post-hospital follow up care. The
      6- week SMHCNI was designed using Bandura's (1986) definition of self- efficacy which is to
      enhance the beliefs in ones capabilities to organize and execute the sources and actions
      required to manage prospective situations. Preliminary data have shown that these patients
      are going home with symptom management problems, but that complications arising from these
      problems might be prevented with early detection and management. Using a follow-up
      intervention such as the SMHCNI is expected to result in better functioning, management of
      symptoms and fewer post-operative problems. Also, a better understanding of HCU, patient
      satisfaction, and self-efficacy as variables will be described.
    
  