
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent disease around the world
      particularly in developed countries. COPD often has frequent admissions for acute
      exacerbation which increase the risks of mortality. Muscular dysfunction is one of
      extra-pulmonary morbidity of COPD.

      Reduced muscle strength is associated with increased mortality in moderate to severe COPD.
      However, at least 70% of 1-repetition maximum (1-RM) of weight is needed to achieve muscle
      growth in resistance training. This might not be feasible particularly to the patients
      admitted for COPD acute exacerbation (COPDAE).

      Blood flow restriction resistance training (BFR-RE), Kaatsu training, was developed by Dr.
      Yoshiaki Sato more than 40 years ago. The basic physiological mechanism of BFR-RE to increase
      muscle mass and strength is by metabolite accumulation, e.g. lactate. The metabolites lead to
      increase of serum growth hormone (GH) which promotes the collagen synthesis for tissue repair
      and recovery. The surge of GH leads to release of insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) which is
      a protein related to muscle growth. IGF-1 contributes the muscle gain, which is a muscular
      anabolic process, by enhancing satellite cell proliferation.

      Concerning growth of muscle mass, BFR-RE leads to a comparable increase when compared to high
      load resistance exercise (HL-RE). However, concerning increase of muscle strength, BFR-RE is
      less effective in gain than that in HL- RE but more effective than that in low load
      resistance exercise (LL-RE) alone. Therefore, BFR-RE can be considered when HL- RE is not
      advisable. (e.g. frail elderly, post-operative rehabilitation, etc.) BFR-RE is well studied
      among healthy adult, elderly and musculoskeletal rehabilitation patients, but not in COPDAE
      patients.

      Standardized isotonic knee extension resistance training on alternate day with a load of
      15-30% of 1-Repetition Maximum (1-RM) with "BFR-device" will be compared with the control arm
      having same set of exercise training without the device in COPDAE patient during 2-week of
      inpatient stay. Referred to previous study with 30% drop out rate estimation, 24 patients for
      each arm will be needed. Study period will be set to be 9 months or until expected
      recruitment achieved.

      Though there no adverse risk responses were reported in published randomized controlled
      trials in clinical populations in the literature, there are some expected transient
      perceptual type responses, e.g. dizziness, limb numbness, perceived exertion, delayed onset
      muscle soreness. There are no significant risks of complications if BFR-RE is prescribed by
      certified trainers who have knowledge of appropriate protocols and contraindications to the
      use of occlusive stimuli.

      The effect on muscle strength in COPDAE inpatient, which is not well studied in the
      literatures, will be the primary outcome of this study. The effect on mobility functions,
      systemic muscle strength, health related quality of life, unplanned readmission rate within 1
      month of discharge for COPDAE, acceptability and feasibility of the BFR-RE will be evaluated
      as secondary outcomes.
    
  