
    
      Methods

        -  Patients and settings: Prospective controlled randomized open interventional study of
           antibiotic therapy in adult with severe sepsis or septic shock, admitted to the
           intensive care unit.

      The study will be conducted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the University Hospital
      Risoleta Tolentino Neves of the Federal University of Minas Gerais, Brazil. This is a 30-bed
      ICU with medical and surgical patients. All patients with suspected severe sepsis or septic
      shock admitted to the ICU will be assessed for eligibility. Patients developing severe sepsis
      or septic shock during their ICU stay will be also considered for enrollment.

      Cultures of urine, blood, bronchoalveolar lavage ﬂuid, and tracheal aspirates will be
      performed on admission and during ICU stay as clinically indicated. Blood gases and imaging
      exams will also be performed as clinically indicated, similarly in both groups.

        -  Interventions:

      All adult (> 17 years old) patients with diagnosis of severe sepsis or septic shock will
      receive initial antibiotic therapy based on local guidelines and susceptibility patterns,
      according to the decision of the treating physician. They will have circulating PCT and CRP
      levels measured at baseline and daily until day 4 in both groups.

      Eligible patients will be reassessed on day 4 and randomized at 1:1 basis to one of the two
      groups since any exclusion criteria (see below) is present at that time:

      Group 1 - CRP group: the duration of antibiotic therapy will be based on circulating CRP
      levels.

      Group 2 - PCT group: the duration of antibiotic therapy will be based on circulating PCT
      levels.

      Patients enrolled in the study will undergo daily measurements of plasma CRP (Dry Chemistry -
      Johnsons & Johnsons) and PCT (BRAHMS PCT VIDAS) levels up to stopping antibiotic therapy,
      every 48hr for two measurements in patients remaining in the ICU, and then, every 5
      days.Patients will be followed up 28 days, or until death or hospital transference, which
      comes first. PCT and CRP results will be released in sealed envelopes. During the study
      period, only the results corresponding to the patient randomization group will be open; i.e.,
      CRP for CRP group patients and PCT for PCT group patients.

      - Criteria for antibiotic interruption:

      The investigators will propose the interruption of antibiotics if:

        1. The patients is clinically stable, without signs of active infection

        2. CRP group: a relative reduction of 50% in baseline CRP levels, or a value lower than
           25mg/dl is reached.

        3. PCT group: a relative reduction of 90% in baseline PCT levels, or if a absolute value
           lower than 0.1 ng/ml is reached.

      The final decision regarding antibiotic therapy will be always let to the discretion of the
      treating physician.
    
  