
    
      We hypothesize that left ventricular pacing via a coronary sinus approach can reduce the
      incidence of significant tricuspid regurgitation after pacemaker implantation in patients
      with normal left ventricular function.

      The aim of this study is to compare the degree of tricuspid regurgitation caused by pacemaker
      implantation between the conventional techniques of implanting a ventricular lead implanted
      in the right ventricular apex versus implanting a ventricular lead in a left ventricular
      epicardial vein via a coronary sinus approach.

      The secondary objective of our study is to evaluate whether left ventricular pacing is also
      less likely to cause ventricular dyssynchrony and dysfunction than right ventricular apical
      pacing.

      This study is a single centre randomised clinical pilot study comparing 2 different lead
      implantation techniques to be assessed using both imaging techniques and follow up for
      clinical outcomes.

      (i) Proposed study interventions The procedures in both arms of the study will be identical
      except for where the ventricular lead is placed. All parts of these procedures, including all
      the implanting equipment and pacing leads are standard routine clinical practice. The left
      ventricular leads used in this study are routinely used for pacing the left ventricle in
      patients receiving biventricular pacemakers or defibrillators for heart failure.

      The implant site will be the left or right prepectoral region and venous access will be via
      either an axillary or subclavian vein approach. These choices will be left to the implanting
      physician's discretion. Once venous access has been established successfully the patient will
      then be randomly allocated to either of the study arms.

      Patients randomized to have an LV lead will have a long coronary sinus sheath inserted which
      will be used to perform an occlusive venogram of the coronary sinus to determine if there are
      veins suitable for left ventricular lead placement. Those in the left ventricular pacing arm
      will instead have a left ventricular epicardial pacing lead placed as apically as possible in
      a large calibre left ventricular branch of the coronary sinus.

      Patients in the right ventricular apical pacing arm will have an endocardial active fixation
      pacing leads placed in the right ventricular apex in the conventional manner.

      Patients in both arms will then go on to have a right atrial active fixation lead placed in
      the right atrial appendage.

      (ii) Methods for protecting against other sources of bias All patients referred to our
      Arrhythmia Service will be assessed for suitability to take part in this study. Once
      recruited, study subjects will be block randomised in a 1:1 fashion to either conventional
      right ventricular lead implantation or left ventricular coronary sinus lead implantation.
      They will be blinded to their allocation during the course of this study to remove any bias.

      Assessment of the echocardiograms will be performed by 2 investigators who are not blinded to
      the patient's treatment allocation. This is because the pacemaker lead is nearly always well
      visualised during echocardiographic studies making blinding impossible. However, the main
      outcomes of this study will be quantitative measures of TR and biventricular function derived
      from 3D echocardiography rather than qualitative measures used in previous studies and this
      will protect against bias that may be caused by the echocardiogram assessors knowing the
      allocation of the patients. The studies will also be assessed for interobserver and
      intraobserver variability to look for the likelihood of bias.

      (iii) Duration of follow up period Patients will be seen post discharge at 1 week for wound
      care and at 1 months, 6 months and 12 months for pacemaker checks in the pacemaker clinic.

      (iv) Frequency and duration of follow-up The scheduled follow up is as follows. Note that all
      transthoracic echocardiography studies will include both 2D and 3D echocardiography

        1. Pre implant: transthoracic echocardiography

        2. Pacemaker implantation: randomisation when venous access is achieved. Blood samples
           taken for biomarker assays.

        3. Post implant day 1: Pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography

        4. Post implant week 1: Wound check, pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography

        5. Post implant month 1: Wound check, pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography

        6. Post implant month 6: Pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography, blood samples
           taken for biomarker assays.

        7. Post implant month 12: Pacemaker check, transthoracic echocardiography
    
  