
    
      Thalidomide has been clinically reported, and combined with antiviral drugs and other
      conventional treatments have achieved good results in the treatment of severe H1N1,
      especially after the death of a young severe patient. After the addition of thalidomide, the
      reported 35 patients did not Deaths. Subsequent basic research at Fudan University confirmed
      that thalidomide can treat H1N1 lung injury. And think that the combination with antiviral
      drugs may be a better alternative strategy for H1N1 before the vaccine is successfully
      developed.

      In view of the fact that there is currently no effective antiviral therapy, the prevention or
      treatment of lung injury caused by COVID-19 can be an alternative target for current
      treatment. Patients with severe COVID-19 have rapid disease progression and high mortality.
      There is currently no effective treatment method, which may be related to the excessive
      immune response caused by cytokine storm.It has been reported that the combined use of
      thalidomide and dexamethasone can effectively inhibit NK / T-cell lymphoma combined with
      ECSIT V140A mutation of hematophilic syndrome. The AIDS immune reconstitution syndrome (IRIS)
      is also an abnormal inflammatory response in nature. It has been reported that thalidomide as
      an immunomodulatory agent for the treatment of IRIS is effective. This study will evaluate
      thalidomide combined with low-dose hormone adjuvant therapy for severe COVID-19 Patient
      effectiveness and safety.

      Although the death rate of COVID-19 infected persons is not high, their rapid infectiousness
      and the lack of effective antiviral treatment currently have become the focus of the national
      and international epidemic. Thalidomide has been available for more than sixty years, and has
      been widely used in clinical applications. It has been proved to be safe and effective in
      IPF, severe H1N1 influenza lung injury and paraquat poisoning lung injury, and the mechanism
      of anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrosis is relatively clear. As the current research on
      COVID-19 at home and abroad mainly focuses on the exploration of antiviral efficacy, this
      study intends to find another way to start with host treatment in the case that antiviral is
      difficult to overcome in the short term, in order to control or relieve lung inflammation
      caused by the virus To improve lung function.
    
  