
    
      The aim of present study is to test the effects of 12-week moderate aerobic exercise on the
      proteome and function alteration of HDL sub-fractions in male youth with abdominal obesity.

      Study participants: youth males with abdominal obesity between the ages of 18 and 30 years
      were eligible for participation. Exclusion criteria were cardiovascular disease, diabetes or
      other chronic diseases, treatment with any medications, and had surgical procedures within
      the last 6 months. This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee at the Sun Yat-sen
      Memorial Hospital, complies with the Declaration of Helsinki principles and written informed
      consent would be obtained from all participants.

      Data collection: anthropometric measurements, physical examination and blood samples were
      collected at 0 and 12 weeks. Cardiorespiratory measurements of each participant was measured
      using a bicycle-based graded exercise test at baseline.

      Intervention: the exercise intervention consisted of 12 weeks of aerobic exercise training of
      moderate intensity (about 75 percentage of peak heart rate) of 40-60 min per time, 3-5 times
      per week, at least 150 min per week. All participants were instructed to maintain their usual
      dietary intakes. Completing a minimum of 80 percentage training sessions was satisfactory.

      HDL isolation: HDL particles were fractionated into small, medium and large (S/M/L)-HDL
      subfractions by an ÄKTA fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC) system.

      Proteomics Experiments: equal volumes of L/M/S-HDL subclass were applied to the CSH resin,
      trypsinized, and then recognized via LC-MS. HDL proteins in HDL subclass were detected by
      MS-based label-free quantitation

      HDL functions: cholesterol efflux capacity, anti-inflammation and anti-oxidative capacity,
      endothelial protective function

      Analysis: data are expressed as mean and SD for continuous variables, or percentage for
      category variables. Difference of variables between baseline and after exercise were compared
      using analysis of Paired t-test or Mann Whitney U test. P<0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  