
    
      Diuretics play a central role in HF treatment, particularly during episodes of acute
      decompensation. Furosemide is the prototype of loop diuretics, acting through the inhibition
      of the Na+K+2Cl- pump at the thick ascending limb of the Henle loop. According to
      international registries, almost all patients receive a loop diuretic during a hospital stay
      for acute decompensated HF and the majority are discharged taking a "maintenance dose".
      Despite the undeniable beneficial hemodynamic effects of improvement of peripheral and
      central congestion, the net clinical effect of the chronic use of diuretics on HF prognosis
      is controversial.

      Observational studies suggest that use of high doses of diuretics might be related to
      unfavorable clinical consequences. Undesirable side effects of loop diuretics are not trivial
      and involve activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, elevation of
      norepinephrine levels, increases in heart rate, detrimental effects on renal function and
      several electrolyte disturbances.

      Few prospective clinical studies, however, directly evaluated the clinical risks and benefits
      of diuretics. Most of these studies were under-powered, performed more than 2 decades ago,
      before modern HF therapy with current drugs and devices was completely implemented.

      Current clinical guidelines are unanimous to recommend use of diuretics in HF patients with
      clinical signs and symptoms of congestion, but reinforce the lack of solid clinical
      scientific evidence for its use, and the potential risks that might be involved. The European
      Society of Cardiology proposes the administration of the lowest dose necessary to achieve
      euvolemia, avoiding the unnecessary delay in the use of drugs that modify the natural history
      of the disease.

      Based on these uncertainties about diuretic use in HF, the ReBIC-1 trial was designed to
      evaluate the potential clinical risks and benefits of withdrawing furosemide use in stable,
      apparently euvolemic, chronic HF outpatients in a multicentric double-blinded randomized
      clinical trial.

      ReBIC is a Brazilian research network created to develop clinical studies in heart failure
      and composed predominantly by university tertiary care hospitals. ReBIC and the ReBIC-1 trial
      were sponsored by the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development
      (CNPq, Brazil), a public governmental institution. Data collection, management, and analysis
      were performed at the network's data coordinating center at Hospital de Clínicas de Porto
      Alegre. All the authors reviewed and approved the manuscript and assume full responsibility
      for the accuracy and completeness of the data and for the fidelity of this report of the
      study protocol.

      ReBIC-1 is a randomized, double-blind, parallel group, placebo-controlled, two-arm trial
      comparing the short-term efficacy and safety of discontinuation of furosemide in apparently
      euvolemic outpatients with chronic stable HF and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction
      (HF-REF).
    
  