
    
      The Study Drugs:

      TAS-106 and carboplatin are designed to interfere with the growth of cancer cells by stopping
      cell division, which may cause the cells to die.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of the study drug combination that is based on when you joined this study. Up to 6 dose
      levels of the study drug combination will be tested. Three (3) participants will be enrolled
      at each dose level. If no intolerable side effects occur in the first group of 3 people, the
      next 3 people enrolled in the study will receive the same dose of carboplatin and a higher
      dose of TAS-106. If this second group has no intolerable side effects, the next 3 people will
      receive a higher dose of carboplatin while receiving the same dose of TAS-106 as the second
      group. This will continue until the highest safe dose combination is found.

      Study Drug Administration:

      A "cycle" in this study is 3 weeks long. On Day 1 of each cycle, you will receive carboplatin
      by vein over 60 minutes, followed by TAS-106 by vein over 24 hours.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle (+/- 1 day), you will come to the clinic to have the following
      procedures performed:

        -  You will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you have taken recently and any side effects you may
           have experienced. The study doctor may give you drugs to lessen any possible side
           effects.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Weeks 2 and 3 of each cycle (+/- 3 days), blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn
      for routine tests. If your blood cell counts (white blood cells, red blood cells, and/or
      platelets) drop to a low level, you may need to have these routine tests repeated more often
      than once a week.

      At the end of every 2 cycles (+/- 1 week), you will have CT scans, MRI scans, and/or x-rays
      to check the status of the disease.

      You must stay in the Houston area during Cycle 1. During that time, all blood tests and other
      study tests and procedures must be done at MD Anderson. Starting in Cycle 2, if you prefer,
      you may have the blood tests at Weeks 2 and 3 of each cycle performed at a medical laboratory
      that is close to your home. If you need to have the additional blood cell count testing
      performed as well, those blood tests can also be done close to home. All other study tests
      and procedures must be done at M. D. Anderson.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may continue to stay on the study drugs for as long as you are benefiting. If the cancer
      gets worse or you experience intolerable side effects, you will be taken off study. If you
      experience side effects that are severe but not intolerable, however, your doctor may decide
      that it is necessary to delay your next dose of the study drug combination and/or lower the
      dose.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      When you go off study for any reason, you will have an end-of-study visit with all of the
      same tests performed as at your other study visits. You will also have an ECG.

      This is an investigational study. Carboplatin is FDA approved and commercially available for
      other uses. TAS-106 is not FDA approved or commercially available. The combination of
      carboplatin and TAS-106 is not FDA approved or commercially available. At this time, the
      combination is being used in research only.

      Up to 55 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  