
    
      Study sites and enrollment:

      Patients self-presenting to (1) health centres or(2) malaria posts or (3) district hospitals
      in Buntharik District and Nachalui District, Ubon Ratchathani Province, Thailand and
      requiring a diagnostic test for malaria as determined by the treating clinician will be
      recruited. Those who are malaria positive will be candidate cases and those who are malaria
      negative will be candidate controls.

      One-to-one matching of cases and controls will be done at each study site. One control will
      be matched to each case. The matching criteria will be the next malaria negative patient to
      attend the study site of the same gender and age+/-5 years as an enrolled malaria positive
      case.

      Study procedure:

      CASE (Malaria patient defined by positive RDT or blood smear)

      Upon enrollment, the below study procedures will be followed;

        1. Blood samples consisting of:

             -  Three dried blood spots

             -  A microscopy slide

             -  In the district hospitals only, 10 ml of venous blood will be taken from the
                positive for malaria patient.

        2. A survey include patient demographics, information on malaria treatment, bed net use and
           possible risk factors for acquiring malaria, as well as questions about their travel and
           usage of mobile phone will be administered to each patient.

      CONTROL (Non-malaria patient defined by negative RDT or blood smear)

      Upon enrollment, for those negative for malaria, the below study procedures will be follows;

        1. Blood samples consisting of:

             -  Blood smear

             -  In the district hospitals only, 0.5 ml of venous blood will also be collected.

        2. A survey include patient demographics, information on malaria treatment, bed net use and
           possible risk factors for acquiring malaria, as well as questions about their travel and
           usage of mobile phone swill be administered to each patient.

      CASE: Follow-up

        -  If patients develop a fever after the end of antimalarial treatment and within 42 days
           after enrollment, they will be asked to return for follow-up as soon as possible on one
           occasion and then again at 42 (+/-3) days.

        -  If they do not develop fever within 42 days after enrollment, they will be asked to
           return for follow up at 42 (+/-3) days.

      At the follow-up visit, blood will be taken to test for malaria by microscopy, three dried
      blood spots will be taken and a short survey administered including questions on symptoms,
      travel and possible risk behaviors since enrollment.

      *In the district hospitals only, 1.5ml of venous blood will be taken

      CONTROL: No follow up
    
  