
    
      Objective: Clinical as well as preclinical studies indicate that the process of developing
      alcohol dependence recruits a progressively aggravated hyperglutamatergic state, which in
      turn is a key signal for emotional dysregulations leading to craving and relapse, as well as
      neurotoxicity leading to cognitive impairment and loss of grey matter in alcoholic patients.
      Acamprosate has recently been approved for relapse prevention in sober alcoholics, an effect
      mediated through largely unknown mechanisms. Preclinical data indicate, however, that it
      might primarily be useful for targeting the hyperglutamatergic state that develops during
      recurring withdrawal episodes, halting the process described above. If so, acamprosate might
      be of value as a withdrawal treatment to prevent the progression of alcohol dependence. The
      aim of the present protocol is to evaluate, in a randomized controlled trial, the effects of
      acamprosate during withdrawal and the early post-withdrawal phase. The primary outcome
      variable will be central glutamate/glutamine concentration as determined by MR spectroscopy.
      A number of exploratory biological and clinical measures will in addition be obtained and
      used for secondary analyses as specified below.

      Study Population: We will study patients age 21 - 65, without gross impairment of judgment or
      complicated psychiatric or other morbidity, going into withdrawal or with a high probability
      of doing so, will be admitted as inpatients to the NIAAA CC-unit. A group of healthy
      volunteers who do not receive study medication will be examined separately in order to
      confirm that a hyperglutamatergic state is present in the patients during withdrawal.

      Design: All patients will receive standard care for alcohol detoxification. In addition, half
      of them will be randomized in a blinded fashion to oral acamprosate, two 333 mg tablets taken
      3 times daily or corresponding placebo. Validated rating scales (CIWA-Ar, CPRS-SA) will be
      used to assess intensity of withdrawal and psychopathology. If severity of withdrawal exceeds
      a predefined criterion, standard diazepam treatment will be added to study medication. The
      accrual target is based on a primary analysis sample of patients who will not require
      diazepam medication, which is a potential confound. A secondary analysis will be carried out
      on the complete sample, analyzing the requirement for/amount of diazepam supplement as a
      secondary outcome variable.

      Outcome Measures: A battery of tests will be obtained during the 1st and 3rd week of
      inpatient treatment. These will include NMR-spectroscopy to quantify central levels of
      excitatory and inhibitory amino acids (primary outcome variable: GluX concentration); lumbar
      puncture to obtain CSF for analysis of neurotransmitter/neurohormone metabolites and synaptic
      proteins. Repeated 4 x daily blood collection for analysis of serum cortisol and ACTH will be
      obtained to assess spontaneous activity and circadian variation of the HPA-axis, and the
      combined dexamethasone - CRH test will be carried out to dynamically probe this system, and
      gauge its sensitivity for feedback inhibition.
    
  