
    
      People dealing with chronic health conditions are susceptible to mental health issues such as
      depression and anxiety. Providing conventional mental health services to all of these
      individuals is not practical given the limited resources of the healthcare system. Artificial
      intelligence (A.I.) mental health chatbots may be an accessible and cost-effective means by
      which people can receive some degree of mental health support while they cope with their
      conditions. These automated programs act as a source of virtual support, talking with
      individuals and providing them with therapeutic exercises to improve their mental wellbeing.
      Several chatbots have been designed to deliver interventions based on popular psychological
      therapies (e.g., Wysa, Woebot, and Tess). Research has shown that these programs can reduce
      symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress in nonclinical populations. However, the
      effectiveness of these programs has not been tested in chronic disease populations.

      The purpose of the current research is to gain a better understanding of the usefulness of
      mental health chatbots for chronic disease populations. This research will be guided by two
      fundamental objectives: (1) to determine whether a mental health chatbot can reduce or
      prevent negative mental health symptoms in individuals who are dealing with a chronic health
      condition, and (2) to learn more about how individuals with a chronic health condition view
      these programs, particularly in terms of their potential benefits or drawbacks when used in
      healthcare settings. This research will focus on two specific chronic disease populations
      that are prone to elevated levels of mental health symptoms: people with arthritis and
      diabetes.

      Participants will be recruited through social media channels (including online groups),
      newspaper advertisements, and emails and newsletters from relevant organizations (e.g., the
      Arthritis Society, Diabetes Canada). After volunteering to participate, participants will set
      up a phone or video conferencing call with the primary investigator to orient them into the
      study. Participants will be randomly assigned to either a treatment group or control group.
      Those assigned to the treatment group will download the mental health chatbot Wysa (Touchkin
      eServices, Bangalore) on their smartphones. They will interact with the chatbot a minimum of
      two times per week over a period of four weeks, with each interaction lasting a minimum of
      five minutes. Participants assigned to the control group will receive no chatbot (i.e., they
      will be in a no-treatment control group).

      Regardless of their group assignment, participants will complete online materials via
      Qualtrics at the outset of the study, two weeks into the study, and four weeks into the study
      (i.e., the final assessment point). At the outset of the study, participants will fill out an
      informed consent form, a demographic questionnaire, and four psychological assessments tools:
      measures of depression, anxiety, stress, and life satisfaction. Two weeks into the study,
      participants will complete the four psychological assessment tools a second time. Four weeks
      into the study, participants will complete the four assessment tools a final time, and those
      in the treatment group will be presented with a post-study questionnaire that contains
      qualitative questions regarding their experiences with the chatbot. Participants in both
      groups will be presented with a debriefing form providing more information about the study.
      Those in the control group will be given the opportunity to download and use the chatbot at
      this point.

      After the data from the four-week study are analyzed, a subset of participants from the
      treatment group may be asked to complete optional phone or video interviews to gain more
      insight into their experiences with and opinions on the chatbot program. Approximately 15 to
      20 participants will be sought for the interviews. The questions for these interviews will be
      developed based on the collective results from the quantitative and qualitative analysis
      described above.
    
  