
    
      Aim: to analyze the effectiveness of a multicomponent online program on primary and secondary
      caregivers of a person with dementia.

      Methods and analyses: The trial design is a two group randomized controlled trial to
      establish the effectiveness of an online support program. The experimental group will
      complete the program for 9 months and the control group will continue with their usual
      lifestyle. The objective is to examine the effect of this online support program on burden as
      primary outcome. Secondary outcomes of the study are social support, perceived health,
      anxiety, depression, satisfaction with caregiving, stress derived from the memory and
      behaviour problems of the person with dementia and satisfaction with treatment. The
      intervention will last for 9 months in total and includes two measurements, pre and post
      measure (9 months after) for the experimental and control group. The trial is set in Spain,
      concretely in The Basque Country.

      OK en casa - Zaindoo: online support program for caregivers of persons with dementia. The
      multicomponent online programme is composed of the following components:

      Assessment: In this section are placed the assessment tools that the caregiver must complet
      online before and after the intervention. The questionnaires collect information regarding
      the care context, health (perceived health, depression and anxiety), burden, satisfaction
      with care, family support and formal support (instrument created ad hoc).

      My status: It offers information and feedback on the context of care, health and the
      socio-emotional status of the caregiver. It is composed of six blocks (context of care,
      health, burden, satisfaction with care, family support and formal support). The information
      offered to the caregiver is based on a system of colours that oscillates between green
      (optimal situation) and red (critical situation). Thus, and for each of the blocks indicated
      above, if the caregiver is in an optimal state or have few difficulties the green colour is
      shown. If has mild symptoms or difficulties in the care context the yellow colour is shown,
      the orange would represent moderate symptoms and difficulties and finally, the red colour is
      indicative of a critical socio-emotional situation or serious difficulties in the context of
      care. Likewise, a single colour is shown as a summary that reflects the general situation of
      the caregiver, respecting the order of the colours that have been explained above. The colour
      corresponding to each of the blocks and the one regarding the general situation is
      accompanied by a text that summarizes caregivers situation using a positive language.

      PSYCHOSOCIAL INTERVENTION: Psychoeducational programme: In this section, the caregiver is
      recommended a personal plan of structured psychoeducational activities. These activities had
      been organized from lesser to greater difficulty and in their design and development the care
      phase in which the caregiver is has been taken into account (acquisition, consolidation or
      resolution). The activities are different depending on the type of caregiver: primary or
      secondary. The aim is to train the caregivers in psychological strategies and skills to face
      the care in the most optimal way possible (self-instructions, relaxation techniques, training
      in communication skills, problem behaviour management, emotion regulation). The activities
      are also aimed at focusing on the positive aspects related to care.

      Online-training: In addition to the psychoeducational activities and based on an e-learning
      format, the caregiver is offered the possibility to make a personalized online training based
      on the evaluation made previously. These are videos with content created ad hoc for the study
      and dealing with various aspects related to the care of the person with dementia and the
      caregivers self-care.

      Psychosocial support: It includes online psychosocial support with specialized psychologists.
      A total of 8 online support sessions are arranged, 6 of the appointments are set in advance
      and the caregiver is given the option of contacting another 2 times according to their own
      needs.

      Social networking: each caregiver can interact with other caregivers through a chat. In
      addition, they can include reading material related to the care that can be discussed in the
      forum.

      WALL: It is a space in which various messages are published daily, in some cases
      inspirational (i. e. motivating messages), in other cases reminder messages are sent to the
      caregiver (i. e. reminder of an appointment with the psychologist) and also auto -promotional
      (i. e. move the caregiver to do things for their own benefit). Messages of support sent by
      famous people or recognized by the community are also published, testimonies of other
      caregivers, and divulgation articles also appear. The main objective is to offer motivating
      social support and emotional support to the caregiver.

      CARE TEAM AND CHAT: This is the place where the profile of each of the members of the care
      team is created, that is the primary and secondary caregivers of the person with dementia. In
      addition, a chat is included to exchange information about the cared person, for example,
      appointments with health personnel, social workers, incidents in care, medication
      modifications, patient's condition, etc.

      ORGANIZATION: This element is set up to facilitate the care of the person with dementia. An
      appointment calendar is shown on the screen (doctors, nurse, social worker, lawyer, etc.).
      There is a repository where documents can be attached with the aim of facilitating
      communication between all the members of the care team. This is an organization system shared
      by the care team, so that both the primary caregiver and the secondary caregivers have access
      to the organization system.

      POINTS PROGRAM: The caregiver receives a series of points for performing various actions,
      such as, for example, online training, etc. These points can be exchanged for various
      services related to health and self-care (for example, massages, tickets for a
      thalassotherapy center, discounts, etc.).

      ACHIEVEMENT MARKER (1-15): Based on an intermittent reinforcement the caregiver reaches some
      achievements, but he does not always know what he has done to get it.

      LEVEL MARKER: Indicates the level of the caregiver according to the progress he or she is
      making. It ranges between 1 (lower level) and 5 (higher level). In addition, informs about
      how much is missing to pass the level.

      Randomization The random assignment of the participants was carried out according to the
      following criteria: 1) Prepare an unpredictable sequence of random numbers; and, 2) Keep this
      sequence hidden until the assignment was carried out. To hide the sequence, the person in
      charge of the random assignment was maintained out of the recruitment and pre-treatment
      evaluation.

      The assignment was carried out controlling the following variables: sex, age (over or under
      60 years), burden (score ≥ 17 in the Reduced Zarit caregiver burden interview), attendance or
      not to the SENDIAN program (psychological support users) and or support groups or non-users)
      of the primary caregiver and the level of dependence of the elderly person with dementia
      (mild- moderate or severe). Therefore, a stratified randomization was carried out, which is
      more appropriate than simple randomization when the sample size is not very large. The
      randomization unit were the families.

      The precise randomization procedure consisted of ordering the participants according to the
      controlled variables and, by means of a sequence of random numbers, the participants were
      assigned to the treatment group or to the control group on the waiting list. Due to random it
      is possible that the size of the groups will be not exactly the same.

      Procedure Sample recruitment Family caregivers of people with dementia were recruited via
      information letters and flyers through relevant institutions (San Sebastian City Council,
      basic social services, BetiOn (tele-assistance service of the Basque Government), social
      services of the Provincial Council of Gipuzkoa, health centers, pharmacies of Donostia, and
      the Association of Relatives and Friends of Persons with Alzheimer and other dementias of
      Guipuzcoa (AFAGI). Both the letters and the flyers provided a contact telephone associated
      with a call center in which calls were received from families interested in participating.
      The person in the call center answered the family's call, the possible questions they had,
      and if were interested to participate, the person in the call center collected the necessary
      data to check if they met with the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Afterwards the project
      team analyzed each case, and if complying with inclusion criteria the family was finally
      included in the study (primary caregiver and secondary caregivers).

      Pre-Measurement It was performed online at the home of the caregivers with the support of
      students of the Social Work degree specifically trained to collect data. During this visit,
      informed consent was first collected and the pre-treatment evaluation was subsequently
      carried out using the evaluation protocol established. The students helped the caregivers to
      complete the evaluation protocol online (Tablet or Smartphone). It is hoped that they will
      learn to perform the evaluation without help on the next occasion.
    
  