
    
      Many public health initiatives in the United States, including Healthy People 2020, have
      goals that include reducing obesity (OB), metabolic dysfunction, and risk of cardiovascular
      disease (CVD). Studies such as the Bogalusa project have now demonstrated that overweightness
      (OW), beginning as early as age five, is predictive of adult CVD. In fact, the onset of OW/OB
      and CVD may begin in the intrauterine period, and infant birth weight and weight gain are
      strongly related to OB in childhood and beyond. OW/OB mothers and their offspring exhibit
      increased morbidity and mortality; the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
      (ACOG) has developed guidelines geared toward reducing maternal OW/OB through exercise.
      However, few studies have focused on how such exercise interventions during pregnancy impact
      short and long-term child health outcomes. Furthermore, little is known regarding the
      influence of different modes of antenatal exercise upon maternal and offspring health
      outcomes.

      The long-term goal of this study is to attenuate child- and adulthood OB and CVD risk by
      identifying the most effective and easily implemented maternal exercise interventions. The
      investigators have shown that maternal aerobic exercise (AE) in women of all BMIs favorably
      impacts maternal cholesterol and LDL levels, which are predictive of infant weight.
      Furthermore, maternal AE is associated with decreased fetal abdominal circumference (AC),
      lower body fat percentage at one month, and improved infant neuromotor skills. Our
      preliminary data for pregnant women of all BMIs suggests that resistance exercise (RE)
      confers similar benefits to infants at one month as compared to AE, plus improvements such as
      decreased BMI z-scores, increased metabolomic signatures for glucose use, and decreased
      metabolites of inflammatory pathways. The most striking finding from this preliminary work is
      that adding RE to AE improved outcomes for both mothers and infants. Thus, the COMBINATION of
      aerobic and resistance exercise (AERE) not only had better maternal and one month infant
      outcomes (versus AE alone), but AERE groups had the best compliance. The positive changes
      were most pronounced in the infants of OW/OB women. A more comprehensive, longitudinal study
      geared toward OW/OB mothers is needed to confirm our preliminary work and to assess the
      persistence of exercise impacts through the infants' first year of life.

      The overall objective of this proposal is to conduct a longitudinal prospective study of
      OW/OB pregnant women and their offspring to determine which antenatal maternal exercise
      mode(s) will have the greatest impact on maternal and infant cardiometabolic health. This
      information may lead to modified clinical practice recommendations that improve health in
      childhood and possibly beyond. This randomized controlled trial will recruit 268 OW/OB
      pregnant women randomized to an exercise intervention (AE, RE, AERE) or to no exercise (usual
      care); their infants will be measured at 1, 6, and 12 months of age. This rigorous design
      will test our central hypothesis that AERE and RE exercise training during pregnancy will, in
      OW/OB women, improve maternal and offspring cardiometabolic outcomes to a greater extent than
      AE alone. The investigators will test this hypothesis with two specific aims:

      Aim 1. Determine the influence of different exercise modes during OW/OB pregnancy on infant
      cardiometabolic health and growth trajectories. Hypothesis: AE, RE, and AERE by OW/OB
      pregnant women will improve offspring neuromotor and cardiometabolic measures at 1, 6, and 12
      months postpartum (e.g. decreased BMI z-score, body fat %, non-HDL, heart rate, and
      C-Reactive Protein (CRP); increased insulin sensitivity) compared to infants of OW/OB
      pregnant women that do not exercise; AERE and RE will have the greatest impact on improving
      infant measures.

      Aim 2. Determine the most effective exercise mode in OW/OB pregnancy on improving maternal
      cardiometabolic health outcomes. Hypothesis: AE, RE, and AERE by OW/OB pregnant women will
      improve both maternal cardiometabolic health measures (e.g. decreased BMI z-score, body fat
      %, HR, non-HDL, weight gain) across pregnancy (~13 to ~40 weeks gestation) and overall
      pregnancy outcomes (e.g. lower incidence of gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, hypertension
      during gestation) compared to OW/OB pregnant women that do not exercise; AERE and RE will
      have the greatest impact on improving maternal health measures, with the AERE group having
      the highest compliance with improved health outcomes.

      The proposed innovative study will be the first to provide a critical understanding of the
      influence of antenatal exercise modes upon the cardiometabolic health and growth trajectories
      of offspring who are at increased risk due to maternal OW/OB. This work will have a
      significant impact on reducing the cycle of OB and CVD, potentially providing the earliest
      and most efficacious intervention to attenuate or prevent OB and CVD in the next generation.
    
  