
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of motexafin gadolinium (MGd) combined with high-dose
           methotrexate-based chemotherapy and radiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed
           primary CNS lymphoma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of MGd and rituximab combined with high-dose methotrexate,
           procarbazine hydrochloride, and vincristine (MPV) in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity of MGd in combination with whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the tumor-selective uptake of MGd.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall response rate (complete remission [CR] and partial remission [PR])
           in patients treated with pre-radiotherapy and chemo-immunotherapy (R-MPV with MGd).

        -  Determine the complete response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the overall response rate (CR and PR) in patients who complete all MGd
           combined with high-dose methotrexate-based chemotherapy and WBRT.

        -  Determine the event-free and overall survival at 1 year of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival at 1 year of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Evaluate the neurotoxicity of R-MVP with MGd based on pre- and post-treatment
           neuropsychologic testing.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Tumor-selective imaging: Patients receive motexafin gadolinium (MGd) IV on days 1-2
           beginning 1-2 weeks prior to induction therapy. They then undergo an MRI of the brain.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive methotrexate IV over 2-3 hours and vincristine IV on
           day 1 and rituximab IV over 5 hours and MGd IV over 30-60 minutes on day 8. Patients
           also receive oral procarbazine hydrochloride on days 1-7 of courses 1, 3, and 5.
           Treatment repeats every 14 days for 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Patients with partial response receive an additional 2 courses of
           induction therapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 4 weeks after completion of induction therapy, patients
           undergo reduced-dose whole-brain radiotherapy for 6 weeks. Patients also receive MGd IV
           over 30-60 minutes, beginning 2-5 hours prior to radiotherapy, for 10 days and then
           every other day during radiotherapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: After completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive
           cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 30 days for 2 courses.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for the first year,
      every 3-4 months for the second year, every 4-6 months until the fifth year, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  