
    
      Black African/Caribbean Communities in South London are disproportionally affected by
      long-term conditions (LTC), with a higher prevalence and an earlier onset (by about 13 years)
      (1). This population experiences high rates of hypertension, obesity, diabetes mellitus (DM),
      chronic kidney disease (CKD), cardiovascular disease (CVD) including stroke, social
      deprivation, poor housing, and mental health conditions such as anxiety and depression (1).
      HIV infection is also considerably more common in Black African/Caribbean Communities in
      South London than in the general UK population (2,3) and gives rise to stigma and
      discrimination, low self-esteem, dysfunctional relationships and loneliness (4).

      The relationship between hypertension, obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes mellitus and CKD
      is well recognised. In this population, 'hypertensive nephropathy' is about 10-fold more
      common than in Caucasians, with earlier onset of end stage kidney disease (ESKD) (5).
      Although hypertensive nephropathy in people of African ancestry was previously attributed to
      resistant hypertension, exacerbated by poor engagement with health care services and
      suboptimal adherence to antihypertensive therapy, there is emerging evidence of strong
      genetic susceptibility to CKD as a result of prevalent mutations in the apolipoprotein L1
      (APOL1), glutathione-S-transferase-μ1 (GSTM1) genes or sickle cell trait (SCT) (6-12).
      However, despite their strong associations with CKD, many individuals with these genetic
      variants do not develop kidney disease, suggesting that additional (i) biologic (e.g.
      coinfections, inflammation), (ii) environmental factors (e.g. obesity, diabetes), and (iii)
      socio-economic aspects, (e.g. inadequate health care access, stigma) may contribute to the
      development or progression of CKD although this has not been well studied.

      There is growing recognition of the important role of social determinants of health (SDH) and
      its impact across a wide range of health indicators, settings, and populations (13,14). The
      World Health Organization (WHO) refers to SDH as conditions to which people are born, grow,
      work, live and age, linked to personal circumstances and systems (e.g. social, economic and
      political policies/heath care systems) that influences their daily lives (15-16). The new
      conceptual framework of syndemics provide an opportunity to study diseases and health
      conditions in populations that are deepened by the social, economic, environmental and
      political environment of a given population (17). The definition of a syndemic is 'the
      presence of two or more disease states (anchored around a core disease, in our case HIV) that
      adversely interact with each other, negatively affecting the mutual course of each disease
      trajectory, enhance vulnerability, and which are more harmful by experienced inequities'
      (18). This approach of a so-called 'syndemic lens' may be helpful in our study to identify
      the associations between genetic, biologic and social factors that contribute to the
      development of CKD and DM in people with hypertension, obesity, sub-clinical CKD and/or
      metabolic syndrome. This systemic approach can offer a new understanding of diseases that can
      improve public health and treat individual patients at the same time (19).

      South London has a large (>200,000) population of African and Caribbean ancestry who are
      disproportionally affected by HIV and experience a higher burden of CKD, DM and other LTC,
      often with earlier onset compared to white populations. The investigators aim to study the
      demographic, clinical, social and genetic factors that associate with CKD, DM and multiple
      LTC in people with HIV. CKD and DM are key LTC that associate with hypertension, obesity and
      cardiovascular disease, resulting in or contribute to functional impairment, polypharmacy and
      impaired bio-psycho-social health outcomes.

      The HIV clinics in South London provide a unique opportunity to access a diverse African and
      Caribbean population of working age in whom LTC can be studied. People with HIV from black
      African/Caribbean communities experience a high degree of social and economic deprivation,
      stigma, anxiety and depression which are considered important syndemic factors in the
      development of LTC. CKD and DM are common LTC, highly relevant to the black population, and
      relatively early events in the development of multiple and disabling LTC, thus identifying a
      population for targeted interventions that may reduce the rate of progression from a single
      to multiple LTC.

      HIV infection, itself a LTC, can be effectively controlled with antiretroviral therapy,
      affording normal life expectancy and interrupting onward transmission. Routine care includes
      6-12 monthly assessments for other LTCs, providing opportunities for recruitment of well
      characterised populations unselected for specific co-morbid conditions.

      No studies to date in the UK have examined the contribution of biologic, clinical, social and
      genetic factors to the development of LTC in African/Caribbean populations with HIV to date.
      The team will generate detailed information on factors that associate with CKD, DM, CVD and
      multiple LTC as well as hypertension, sub-clinical CKD, obesity and insulin resistance, which
      often precede the development of CKD, DM and other LTC in this population. This study is
      likely to identify novel associations which can be confirmed and further explored in
      subsequent studies of HIV positive and general African/Caribbean populations. Stored
      biological samples will allow us to explore pathogenetic mechanisms in subsequent studies.

      Key barriers to uptake of existing and novel interventions include low literacy levels, low
      perception of quality of life, lack of knowledge of LTCs, etc. The investigators will explore
      how best to overcome these barriers in focus groups and develop a culturally sensitive
      educational programme, aiming to reach individuals in communities that tend to poorly engage
      with health care and preventive programmes.
    
  