
    
      This study will be conducted in 2 parts: Part 1 will include a young healthy adult population
      aged ≥ 18 - ≤ 55 years and Part 2 will include an older healthy adult population aged 56
      years and over.

      The study will consist of 6 cohorts: 2 cohorts of a lower dose (Treatment A), 2 cohorts of an
      intermediate dose (Treatment B) and 1 cohort of a higher dose (Treatment C) (Part 2 only),
      and 1 cohort of a higher dose examining both a two dose regimen (Treatment C) and a single
      dose vaccination regimen (Treatment D) (Part 1 only).

      Cohorts 1,2 and 3 will include subjects aged ≥ 18 - ≤ 55 years of age and cohorts 4, 5 and 6
      will include subjects aged 56 years and older. Cohorts 4, 5 and 6 will include an
      approximately equal number of subjects aged ≥ 56 - ≤ 65 years of age, and ≥ 66 years and
      over.

      Part 1: Cohort 1 will include 32 subjects; of these 8 will receive placebo, and 24 subjects
      will receive Treatment A. Cohort 2 will include 32 subjects; of these 8 will receive placebo,
      and 24 subjects will receive Treatment B. Cohort 3 will include 56 subjects; of these 8 will
      receive placebo, 24 subjects will receive Treatment C, and 24 subjects will receive Treatment
      D.

      Part 2: Cohort 4 will include 32 subjects; of these 8 will receive placebo, and 24 subjects
      will receive Treatment A. Cohort 5 will include 32 subjects; of these 8 will receive placebo,
      and 24 subjects will receive Treatment B. Cohort 6 will include 32 subjects; of these 8 will
      receive placebo, and 24 subjects will receive Treatment C.

      Sentinels will be used for each cohort in Part 1 such that the first two subjects will
      receive either the first dose of SARS-CoV-2 Sclamp vaccine or placebo. After at least 24
      hours from the time of administration of the first doses a review of the immediate
      post-vaccination safety data will be conducted by the Safety Review Committee (SRC) in
      accordance with the study protocol. Should there be no safety concerns, the remaining
      participants in each cohort will be dosed. The step-wise dose escalation study design is an
      additional precautionary measure, where the lower dose cohort will complete their first
      vaccination, and the cumulative safety data from the first 7 days will be evaluated by the
      SRC prior to initiating vaccination with the next higher dose of vaccine.

      Cohorts will be dosed sequentially, and escalation from Cohort 1 to Cohort 3 will be
      authorised by the SRC if no safety events of concern are observed in subjects up to Day 8
      following review of the cumulative safety data of each Cohort.

      After the first vaccination dose has been administered to Cohorts 1, 2 and 3 and the
      aggregated safety data reviewed by the SRC, vaccination will be initiated for Cohorts 4, 5
      and 6. These Cohorts will not include sentinels, however, the SRC will review the
      aggregated/cumulative safety and tolerability data up to at least Day 8 post vaccination for
      all subjects in each of Cohorts 4, 5 and 6 by cohort before proceeding to the second
      vaccination dose.

      Subjects will receive two single intramuscular (IM) doses of the following study treatments
      at 28 days apart as follows:

      IM administration (to the deltoid region of the subjects non dominant arm, administered by a
      registered nurse [RN]) of SARS-CoV-2 Sclamp adjuvanted vaccine, administered on Days 1 and
      29, of one of the following treatments:

      Treatment A (Cohorts 1 & 4): SARS-CoV-2 Sclamp vaccine 1 x 5 mcg in 0.5 mL suspension,
      administered as two separate doses at least 28 days apart Treatment B (Cohorts 2 & 5):
      SARS-CoV-2 Sclamp vaccine 1 x 15 mcg in 0.5 mL suspension, administered as two separate doses
      , at least 28 days apart Treatment C (Cohorts 3 & 6): SARS-CoV-2 Sclamp vaccine 1 x 45 mcg in
      0.5 mL suspension, administered as two separate doses at least 28 days apart Treatment D
      (Cohort 3 only): SARS-CoV-2 Sclamp vaccine 1 x 45 mcg in 0.5 mL suspension, followed by
      placebo administered as the second dose at least 28 days apart.

      The proposed escalation scheme for the study consists of two three-fold dose increments. The
      planned dose range of 5 mcg to 15 mcg to 45 mcg administered 28 days apart was selected to
      minimize the risk to the subjects while ensuring the evaluation of an exposure range that
      encompasses and exceeds the expected level to achieve an immunological response.

      The SRC will be responsible for the assessment of available safety and tolerability data for
      each cohort and to make decisions with regards to study progression.
    
  