
    
      It is currently suspected that the fibrosis in IPF is based upon an abnormal reparative
      process in the lung. Normally, an insult to the endothelium or epithelium of the lung would
      trigger an inflammatory process to help repair the site of injury; epithelial and endothelial
      cells then replicate and repair the tissue damage. In pulmonary fibrosis, alterations in this
      cascade change the balance of the inflammatory products and reduce the regulatory response
      which can produce continued inflammation. Fibrosis results from continued deposition of
      collagen by proliferating fibroblasts and lack of collagen breakdown.

      In addition to fibrosis and microvascular destruction, pulmonary hypertension in IPF patients
      is a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality. The prevalence ranges from 32-85%,
      suggesting that pulmonary vascular disease is one of several processes that contribute to
      severity of disease.

      We propose use of two therapeutic agents that affect the balance of vasoconstriction and
      vasodilation to improve basal tone of the vasculature. First, we propose the use of a
      phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Sildenafil (Viagra, Revatio) is an orally administered
      vasodilator that prolongs the effect of nitric oxide by inhibiting phosphodiesterase type 5
      (PDE-5) which is responsible for degradation of cGMP. Increased cGMP concentration results in
      pulmonary vasculature relaxation and consequent vasodilation. Second, the use of an
      angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) acts to diminish the direct vasoconstrictor effect of
      angiotensin and endothelin-1 in the vessels. In treatment of systemic hypertension, ARBs have
      been shown to be associated with a decrease in the amount of circulating endothelin-1 and
      increase in basal nitric oxide release. They have also been shown to rapidly inhibit the
      generation of reactive oxygen species by inflammatory cells. We test these interventions in a
      randomized cross-over trial in IPF patients.
    
  