
    
      The total time that for each participant involved in this study is 4 visits, as outlined
      below:

      Visit 1: Questionnaires, Screening, and Orientation: During this visit the potential
      participant will learn about the study procedures, sign the informed consent documents, and
      fill out a packet of forms that ask about his or her race and ethnic background, use of drugs
      and alcohol and physical and mental health.

      Visit 2: Behavioral Tests: During this visit the participant will complete several computer
      tasks, and the study staff will be measuring reaction time and psychophysiological
      measures.The tasks that the participant will perform will show three different images and an
      aversive stimulus (e.g. loud burst of noise or mild wrist shock) may follow one image most of
      the time, while the other images may never be followed by a noise or mild wrist shock. The
      participant will need to try to predict whether the aversive cue will occur or not based on
      which image is shown and will be asked to repeatedly rate on a scale how likely it is that he
      or she thinks a noise/shock will occur after each image. Lastly, during the session the
      participant will also be asked to report his or her level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to
      100.

      Visit 3: Behavioral Tests with Drug or Placebo and MRI scan: For safety reasons participant
      will not be allowed to take any drugs for at least 24 hours before this visit, and should not
      use marijuana for at least 2 weeks before. Participants will be required to pass a urine drug
      test (and pregnancy test for women) and breathalyzer test before being allowed to continue
      with this visit. The participant will also not be allowed to drive himself or herself home
      from this visit, so he or she should arrange a friend or family member to pick him or her up
      or a taxi can be called by our research staff.

      The participant will view the same images he or she did on the previous day (Visit 2), and
      may experience the same aversive stimulus as during Visit 2. The participant will again be
      asked to rate how much he or she expects to experience the aversive stimulus after each image
      and he or she will also be asked to report his or her level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to
      100. However, about 2 hours before the task begins, the participant will be asked to swallow
      a capsule containing either a marijuana-like drug (Dronabinol) or a placebo (sugar pill).
      Dronabinol is a Food & Drug Administration (FDA) approved drug and the dose (7.5mg; one time)
      is unlikely to have any effects that last beyond the duration of the study visit. About every
      30 minutes after taking the pill, the participant will fill out some questionnaires about
      mood and how he or she is feeling at the moment.

      There will be three additional tasks that the participant will perform during this visit as
      well. The first task will involve looking at some unpleasant images and scenes and either
      maintaining his or her emotional response to the image, or using some techniques the study
      staff will practice with the participant to reinterpret the content of the image in a less
      unpleasant way. The second task will involve viewing a series of black and white line drawing
      of single objects and deciding whether or not each would fit into a shoe box. The third task
      will involve viewing a white fixation cross on a black background while the participant
      relaxes.

      Visit 4: Behavioral Tests and MRI scan: This visit will be very similar to Visit 2.
      Participants will participate in the same type of task inside the MRI scanner, while the
      study staff measures reaction time and psychophysiological responding and brain activation.
      Participants will view the same images he or she did previously, and may experience the same
      aversive stimulus as during Visit 2. Participants will again be asked to rate how much they
      expect to experience the aversive stimulus after each image and will also be asked to report
      their level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to 100. Lastly participants will also complete
      another decision making task involving single objects similar to that during the previous day
      (Visit 3).
    
  