
    
      Background:

      In addition to medical treatment for heart failure (HF), a variety of non-pharmacological
      interventions have been demonstrated to benefit these patients. Some of these include systems
      for weight monitoring and medication reminders, exercise programs, and individually tailored
      evaluation and treatment plans with dietitians, social workers, psychologists, and nurse case
      managers. While many of these approaches have been shown to increase adherence to medication
      guidelines and result in decreased health care utilization, most rely heavily on a large team
      of specialized health care providers. It remains unknown whether or not an intervention with
      a lower intensity of specialized care using sophisticated automated computer tracking and
      Interactive Voice Response (IVR) techniques can impact the care of HF patients.

      Objectives:

      The primary hypothesis of this study is that Heart Failure Telephone Intervention (HearT-I)
      will decrease hospitalizations and clinic visits in the veteran population with heart
      failure.

      Methods:

      The HearT-I intervention consists of three components: 1) computer-initiated medication
      refill and clinic appointment reminders; 2) IVR access to educational modules; and 3) weekly
      computer-initiated phone calls with a series of questions regarding weight and symptoms. Four
      hundred eighty-eight HF patients (NYHA class II-IV) will be randomized to HearT-I
      intervention vs. usual care. Upon enrollment, all patients will complete questionnaires
      assessing HF knowledge, behavior, self-efficacy, and perceptions of HF health care, and HF
      related Quality of Life (Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire, KCCQ). Both groups also
      will receive a digital scale, educational materials, view an educational video about HF and
      perform a six-minute walk test. We will test the hypothesis that the HearT-I intervention
      will decrease health care utilization as measured by hospitalizations and unscheduled
      outpatient visits for HF over one year. Secondary endpoints include KCCQ score, patient
      satisfaction, adherence to medications, and general knowledge of heart failure and its
      management.

      Status:

      Preliminary data analyisis has begun.
    
  