
    
      Today, primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is considered to be a safe and successful
      therapy for end-stage osteoarthritis of the knee. In the past decades, different total knee
      prostheses have been released on the market showing minor or more important differences in
      design features. As such, knee prostheses can differ in the level of constraint they provide.
      More specifically, for a few decades, two main designs were available for clinical use.
      First, designs that only sacrifice the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), but retain the
      patient's own posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), the so-called cruciate retaining (CR)
      design, and secondly, designs that sacrifice the patient's ACL and PCL, the so-called
      posterior sacrificing (PS) design. The CR design has been considered historically as the
      least constrained design. The containment can be adjusted by equalizing the cavity and
      geometry of tibial end femoral surfaces. The PS knee design, known by the cam-post mechanism,
      offers more constrain, but sacrifices both cruciate ligaments. In terms of complications and
      outcome no difference can be found between PS and CR knee designs. However, the last decade,
      prosthetic research focused more and more on the preservation of both PCL and ACL, in an
      attempt to mimic better natural kinematic behaviour of the knee and to keep the
      proprioceptive function of the ACL and PCL vessels.

      Smith and Nephew® (Memphis, Tennessee, USA) introduced a new PS design in 2005, which was
      called Journey BCS®, a bicruciate stabilizing design throughout knee flexion. This second
      generation guided motion total knee system prevents not only tibial posterior translation,
      but also limits tibial anterior translations by articulation between post and femoral box.
      The main purpose of this type of TKA was to achieve a more normal and natural kinematic
      behavior with more lateral posterior roll back, while keeping the medial side stable and
      preserving the normal natural joint line inclination. In particular, the medial femoral
      condyle is more distal than lateral condyle. There is a 3° varus joint line and the convex
      lateral tibial surface in sagittal plane creates a slight posterior slope. More anterior
      translation of the femur is seen with CR design during flexion allowing possibly little more
      flexion in BCS design. However, although the specific design properties of this prosthesis
      tended to mimic the stabilizing function of the natural cruciate ligaments much better, the
      patient's ACL is still sacrificed and at least its proprioceptive function is still
      completely lost. Mid-term results of Journey II BCS® are similar compared to other knee
      designs. However, the younger population group seems to end up with better scores when
      looking at postoperative clinical and functional results. As a consequence of the good
      results in the older population group, an increasing amount of younger and more active
      patients receiving TKA can be observed. Unfortunately, a significant part of these young
      patients keeps complaining of residual symptoms and pain in the knee after TKA. In general,
      this age group scores remarkable lower in satisfaction. A possible explanation is the absence
      of ACL in these designs, which still causes abnormal kinematics. Furthermore, the loss of its
      proprioceptive function might be a factor in the mentioned feeling of imperfection.
      Therefore, in a further step, the research has been focusing on preserving both cruciate
      ligaments within the same basic design as Journey BCS®, keeping the curvature and contour of
      the femoral and tibial component, as well as the joint line principles. Consequently, a
      bi-cruciate retaining (BCR) design was developed, preserving both the ACL and PCL vessels.
      Patients retain better knee kinematics, stability, proprioception and consequently better
      functionality and satisfaction by retaining ACL in TKA. Although the design is available on
      the American market for about five years, and since 2 years also on the European market, it
      is still not widely used, even not by surgeons who are familiar with the other designs of the
      same prosthetic line. One of the reasons therefore might be the published higher rates of
      early revisions or poly exchange of another recent design in which both cruciate ligaments
      are preserved, released on the market by another prosthetic company a few years earlier.

      BCR TKA of Smith & Nephew, called Journey XR®, is designed to retain both cruciate ligaments.
      Journey XR® design has a clear potential to result in a better functional outcome while
      avoiding the limitations and complications of previous other designs so that previously
      disappointing results of the pasts are not confirmed. As a result, patients are expected to
      be more capable to return to an active lifestyle with normal kinematics and proprioception of
      the knee. Journey XR® preserves specific features of Journey BCS®, such as asymmetric femoral
      condyles, 3° varus joint line and low constraint concave medial and convex lateral articular
      surface. In order to preserve both cruciate ligaments Journey XR® design has some
      adjustments, which are mentioned here. Tibial base plate design with continuous keel and
      anterior bridge, consists of high-quality forged Ti-6Al-4V which is less stiff. These tibial
      component updates were implemented to reduce the risk of bone resorption from stress
      shielding and to double fatigue strength compared to BCR design of another company. Fixation
      of tibial Journey XR® baseplate, which is provided with an asymmetrical notch to accept ACL
      footprint, is based on four-corner peg fixation with maximal bone coverage and good results
      compared to known knee designs with stem fixation. Furthermore, tibial insert lock is
      optimized. Previous total knee designs of Smith and Nephew® already proved very limited poly
      wear when using highly cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) in combination with OXINIUM,
      according to VERILAST® technology. Approximately 4000 Journey XR® procedures have been done
      globally in the last 3 years in 10 countries, among which US, Japan, South Africa and some
      countries in Western EU like Belgium. Currently 21% of these cases is placed using NAVIO®
      robot technology but this proportion is growing. Present literature is clear that retention
      of ACL and PCL has significant higher satisfaction compared to TKA patients, as with partial
      knee arthroplasty. Moreover, last update of journey XR® design of 2017 had interesting
      solutions for the limitations of the mentioned previous design. Problems like tibia poly
      wear, tibia insert lock and implant strength were common. New insights in biomechanics,
      kinetics and proprioception in native knee and TKA make higher interest in BCR TKA
      inevitable. Yet, there is no prospective clinical trial available that compares Journey BCS®
      with Journey XR® from Smith & Nephew in regard to PROMS, functional performance including
      gait analysis, survival and revision rates.
    
  