
    
      Low platelet counts can occur as a result of blood diseases like bone marrow failure, or from
      undergoing procedures such as chemotherapy treatment or stem cell transplantation. A major
      complication of low platelet counts in reproductive aged women is uterine bleeding, which can
      be life threatening. Sometimes this bleeding begins with a normal menstrual cycle but may
      start unexpectedly. In either instance, stopping uterine bleeding not only requires blood
      products including platelets but also hormonal treatments.

      The hormones estrogen or progesterone can aid in this setting presumably by promoting
      endometrial angiogenesis. Continuous oral contraceptive pills (OCP) have been shown to be
      very effective in the management of heavy menstrual bleeding in healthy women, but few
      studies have been carried out in women with low platelet counts. Moreover, they have few
      side-effects and are contraceptive. High-dose intravenous Premarin is also useful but only
      for a couple of days after which heavy bleeding will ensue. Progestin hormones are similarly
      effective and are also contraceptive.

      Oral contraceptive pills are routinely used to control uterine bleeding in thrombocytopenia
      secondary to bone marrow failure, chemotherapy and/or stem cell transplantation, during
      episodes of severe thrombocytopenia. There are no current data supporting whether the use of
      hormonal management is necessary in addition to platelet transfusion. We expect to show that
      using continuous OCP in addition to having platelet transfusions will result in a better and
      more rapid control of uterine bleeding than having platelet transfusions only.

      Eligible subjects will be hemodynamically stable, menstruating women aged 12-55, who have
      bone marrow failure, or are undergoing chemotherapy and/or stem cell transplantation for
      other diseases with platelet levels less than 50,000/ microliter and present with heavy
      menstrual bleeding which is expected to last at least 2 weeks. Subjects will be randomized to
      either continuous OCP (Lo-ovral) 1 tablet twice daily or placebo twice daily for one week.
      All subjects will receive platelet transfusions to keep platelet levels above 20,000 per
      microliter throughout the study. After one week, all subjects who continue to bleed will
      receive continuous OCP 1 tablet twice daily. Those who have stopped bleeding will receive
      continuous OCP 1 tablet daily. Treatments will be compared for the proportion who stop
      vaginal bleeding 7 and 14 days after starting treatment.
    
  