
    
      A large retrospective observational study, including 4-years of elective procedures with
      intravascular iodinated contrast administration in eGFR<30mL/min/1.73m2 patients at
      Maastricht UMC+, found that prophylactic intravenous hydration might confer some benefit for
      renal function. For patients who had received prophylactic hydration, adjusted odds ratios
      for risk of post-contrast acute kidney injury, and 1-month eGFR decline and dialysis were all
      lower than 1. These results were not significant, but suggest that hydration may be
      protective. On the other hand, adjusted odds ratios for all-cause mortality within 1-month
      post-contrast were higher than 1, with point estimates indicating a trend toward higher risk
      of short-term mortality after prophylaxis as compared to no prophylaxis. Confounding by
      indication may be responsible for the observed increased risk of short-term mortality, but
      complications of the prophylaxis did contribute towards the risk. Amongst the 281
      eGFR<30mL/min/1.73m2 prophylaxis patients studied, 18 (6.4%) serious complications occurred:
      3 arrhythmias, and 15 heart failures including 5 deaths. Of all 21 deaths recorded for the
      prophylaxis patients, 24% (5/21) were considered to be related to intravenous fluids. An
      exploration of differences in baseline characteristics between patients with and without
      serious complications suggested that these can be avoided if cardiac function parameters are
      given extra and individual attention before deciding whether to administer prophylaxis to
      high-risk patients with eGFR<30mL/min/1.73m2. At Maastricht UMC+ a specialised unit (called
      the CVP) was established where a dual screening process including both renal and cardiac
      parameters is used to minimize the risk of contrast-induced acute kidney injury as well as
      the risk of prophylactic hydration in eGFR<30mL/min/1.73m2 patients. In order to enable real
      function follow-up, the CVP also registers data on patients who did not receive the dual
      screening process prior to prophylactic intravenous hydration. The current study aims to
      describe post-contrast outcomes of patients to whom the CVP screening method has been
      applied, and if feasible, to compare them to outcomes of patients to whom the screening was
      not applied.
    
  