
    
      Single-blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess and compare the effects of early
      pelvic floor muscle training and present standard care/advice on pelvic floor muscle (PFM)
      strength, symptoms from the pelvic floor and bothersome symptoms (QoL) after obstetric
      perineal repair.

      Procedure/Study design: Single-blind randomized controlled trial.

      Details of test administration and data collection methods:

      PFM strength will be measured with Myomed 932® (Enraf-Nonius, Delft, Netherlands) for squeeze
      pressure, vaginally and rectally.

      Pelvic floor symptoms, (bladder/bowel function, prolapse symptoms, sexual function) and
      bothersomeness will be measured with the validated Icelandic version of the Australian Female
      Pelvic Floor Questionnaire.

      Assessment and treatment will begin from 6th week postpartum. After initial assessment,
      instruction on pelvic floor function the pelvic floor questionnaire administration,
      participants will be randomized to intervention and control groups by a person not involved
      in measurements or treatment. The intervention group will receive individual treatment by a
      physiotherapist not involved in the initial assesment. This will be in the form of intensive
      PFMT with vaginal/rectal pressure feedback once a week for 12 weeks and be encouraged to do
      daily exercises. Repeated assessment of pelvic floor function and questionnaire
      administration will be after 12 weeks for both groups and repeated 12 months after birth.

      Assessment of pelvic floor function includes rectal/vaginal resting pressure, PFM strength
      (maximal voluntary contraction, strongest of three measured as a vaginal and anal squeeze
      pressure), and endurance for 10 sec (area under the curve both rectal and vaginal).

      Preliminary assumption of power (beta) of 80% and a level of significance (alfa) of 5% and
      estimating 1 against 3 women with symptoms of urinary incontinence in treatment vs. control
      groups, respectively after intervention, ca. 40 women will be needed per group.
    
  