
    
      On average, 3-8% of the German population suffers from neuropathic pain, which can occur
      after damage of somatosensory nerves in the peripheral or central nervous system. In terms of
      a "personalized" medicine, only a strict separation of neuropathic and chronic pain allows an
      individualized therapy to reduce pain severity and to enhance patients' quality of life.

      Currently, the diagnosis of neuropathic pain is based on the medical history, the subjective
      description of somatosensory symptoms and the application of (non-genetic) diagnostic tests.
      To improve diagnosis and therapy of complex disorders for individual patients, novel methods
      are introduced based on flow cytometric (FACS) analysis of human immune cells or analysis of
      the human genome (genomics). Those techniques can support the identification of
      characteristic features indicating ongoing individual pathophysiologic processes in the body
      (biomarkers).

      Often diseases are based on a complex relationship between genetics, environmental factors
      and the manifestation of the disease. To capture this complexity via genomics, phenotypical
      and genotypical data of high quality and detailed information about the study population are
      required.

      This observational study includes patients suffering from painful and non-painful
      neuropathies associated with HIV-infection, diabetes mellitus and breast cancer. With the
      targeted application of validated questionnaires (such as the Brief Pain Inventory, Pain
      Catastrophizing Scale, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Ten-Item Personality Inventory,
      36-Item Short Form Health Survey, and the Insomnia Severity Index) and parallel usage of
      genomics or FACS analysis of selected biomarkers in the blood, this study will provide
      information about the manifestation of certain genes or immune markers which are directly
      correlated to the symptoms of the disease. Additional performance of
      neuropsychological/cognitive tests and quantitative sensory testing (QST) will enhance the
      phenotypic profile. Identification of potential indicators could be utilized prospectively to
      precisely diagnose and effectively treat neuropathic pain.
    
  