
    
      Biosynthesis of proteins is essential for growth and continued maintenance of the entire
      neuron including axons, dendrites, and synaptic terminals, and it is clearly one of the
      important biochemical processes underlying adaptive changes in the nervous system. Studies in
      experimental animals with the quantitative autoradiographic L-[1-(14)C]leucine method have
      demonstrated a number of the physiological and pathological conditions in which changes in
      regional rates of cerebral protein synthesis (rCPS) occur.

      We have recently developed the first fully quantitative method for determining rCPS with
      positron emission tomography (PET). The PET method was adapted from the autoradiographic
      L-[1-(14)C]leucine method; it uses L-[1-(11)C]leucine as the PET tracer, dynamic scanning,
      and a kinetic modeling approach for quantification. This method was validated in nonhuman
      primates by comparison of PET measurements with those based on established biochemical and
      autoradiographic techniques.

      The objective of the present study is to examine the degree to which changes in rCPS in human
      subjects can be quantified with the L-[1-(11)C]leucine PET method. Three studies will be
      carried out sequentially. In Part I we have established the L-[1-11C]leucine PET method in
      human subjects. Three studies to be carried out sequentially. In Part I we will establish the
      L-[1-(11)C]leucine PET method in human subjects. In Part II we measured rCPS in normal
      control subjects in two states: awake and under deep sedation/general anesthesia. A
      difference in rCPS between these two states may indicate that we can detect
      activity-dependent protein synthesis with the PET method. In Part III we will study subjects
      with fragile X syndrome. This patient group was chosen since the affected gene in fragile X
      syndrome codes for a protein that is thought to be a negative regulator of message
      translation. Thus an effect on protein synthesis may be very close to the underlying genetic
      abnormality in fragile X syndrome. Regionally selective increases in rCPS have been found in
      studies in a mouse model of this disease.

      The present study establishes the sensitivity of the L-[1-(11)C]leucine PET method to detect
      changes in rCPS in human subjects. A quantitative and sensitive method to measure rCPS with
      PET will augment the tools available for investigating the brain and its regional adaptive
      responses. Ultimately the method may have widespread applications, not only for the study of
      normal development and plasticity but also in clinical medicine, e.g., in the investigation
      of disorders of brain development, recovery from brain injury, and neurodegenerative
      diseases.
    
  