
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although there has been evidence for a relationship between sickle cell disease and pathology
      of the central nervous system since 1923, there has been a tendency in the psychosocial
      literature to attribute any decreased cognitive performance in children with sickle cell
      disease to illness-related or demographic factors (e.g., school absenteeism, socioeconomic
      status) rather than to the disease process of SCD (e.g., chronic microvascular insults to the
      central nervous system). Cerebral infarction is the most common neurological complication
      that occurs in children with SCD, but clinically it presents itself in only five to ten
      percent of children with this chronic illness. The majority of children with SCD are also at
      high risk of demonstrating learning deficits and poor school performance. Studies suggest
      that a significant number of children with SCD who do not display any overt symptomatology of
      neurologic disease often exhibit decreased academic performance in comparison to healthy
      matched peers. Given the pathophysiology of SCD, it is reasonable to hypothesize that the
      insidious onset of impaired cognitive functioning is the result of multiple microinfarcts,
      small hemorrhages, and progressive vascular disease. Therefore, the disease process of SCD
      could be a primary contributing factor to long-term decreased cognitive performance often
      demonstrated by the adult SCD population. It is thus critical to examine young children with
      SCD who do not exhibit gross manifestations of neurological insult in order to determine the
      cause of these cognitive deficits.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 60 infants and toddlers with SCD and 60 matched normally-developing peers between
      the ages of birth and three years served as subjects in a five-year longitudinal design in
      order to permit between-group comparisons. Subjects were assessed at regularly scheduled
      intervals with a variety of developmental (e.g., Bayley), cognitive (e.g., Stanford-Binet),
      neuropsychological (e.g., Purdue Pegboard), family functioning, and physiological indices in
      order to delineate those factors in the SCD group that were associated with decreased
      cognitive and academic performance. A unique and important feature of this research was the
      inclusion of magnetic resonance imaging technology. These techniques made it possible to
      study in a comprehensive and componential manner the neuroanatomical effects of SCD instead
      of relying on any single instrument or assessment to document this phenomenon. Goals of this
      study included the identification of: (a) specific areas of learning deficiencies in children
      with SCD; (b) the period in which these deficiencies began to occur; and (c) the relationship
      between types of learning deficits and various outcome measures. In sum, this study helped to
      determine how these factors interacted and changed over time as the child with SCD matured,
      the disease fluctuated, and the family and/or the environmental context changed in relation
      to cognitive development.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  