
    
      Participants will be recruited from multiple locations, including NorthShore University
      Health System's Kellogg Cancer Center (KCC) and local community organizations (e.g., UsToo
      meetings, Cancer Wellness Center). Participating physician researchers will identify their
      eligible patients from the electronic medical record and will mail them a letter of
      invitation to learn more about the study and consider enrolling. Each participant will be
      e-mailed a link to the baseline questionnaire. After baseline completion, participants will
      be randomized, using an online random number generator, to the online course or face-to-face
      course. Course orientation for both groups will be held on the same night, but at different
      times. The separate orientations will be scheduled with a thirty minute break in between, in
      order to prevent intermixing of the groups and potential dissatisfaction among participants
      about their assigned group. In the orientation for the online class, participants will become
      familiar with the online video conferencing program Zoom, be introduced to other group
      participants, and receive a clear overview of what to expect for the 4-week mindfulness
      course. In the orientation for the face-to-face class, participants will be introduced to
      other group participants and receive a clear overview of what to expect for the 4-week
      mindfulness course. Participants will meet for approximately 2.5 hours each week for 4 weeks
      online or face-to-face. In addition, a face to face half day retreat will occur after the
      third class, in which participants from both face to face and online courses may attend. In
      the event that a participant unexpectedly misses a class, the instructor will follow-up with
      them and review the material covered in class. The class instructor may contact participants
      up to 3 times to review class expectations and teachings prior to or during the 4-week
      program. Participants will once again be asked to complete the online assessment.
    
  