
    
      Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection affects more than 200 million individuals worldwide. Only a
      fraction of infected individuals clear the virus, whereas the majority (70%) develops chronic
      infection. The current standard of care, pegylated interferon/ ribavirin (pegIFN/rib) is
      effective in only 50% of patients. Patients who fail anti-viral therapy gradually progress to
      end-stage liver disease and hepatocellular cancer; which can only be cured by a liver
      transplant. The reasons for treatment failure are unclear but involve both viral and host
      factors. One significant factor may be impaired T cell function. Chronic HCV infection is
      associated with functionally impaired or exhausted cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), with
      decreased anti-viral cytokine production, cytotoxicity and proliferative capacity. The
      investigators recently showed that many patients who fail treatment have elevated frequencies
      of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+regulatory T cells (Tregs) producing the novel fibrinogen-like-protein 2
      (FGL2/fibroleukin) which appears to impair HCV specific immune responses. Binding of FGL2 to
      the FcγRIIB receptor leads to inhibition of dendritic cell (DC) maturation, B cell apoptosis
      and inhibition of development of effective CD4+and CD8+T and B cell anti-viral responses. In
      HCV, increased levels of secreted FGL2 may suppress anti-viral immune responses and promote
      disease progression.

      Hypothesis: HCV suppresses innate and adaptive anti-viral immune responses through the
      FGL2-FcγRIIB inhibitory pathway. Inhibition of this pathway will restore effective
      virus-specific immunity and lead to successful viral eradication.

      Significance: These studies will establish the importance of FGL2-FcγRIIB inhibitory pathway
      in the pathogenesis of HCV chronic infection and provide a novel therapeutic approach to
      improve virus eradication and long term patient outcomes.
    
  