
    
      About 30% of patients survive a cardiac arrest, and the majority of these receive an
      implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for prevention of sudden cardiac death (SCD).
      While ICD therapy offers survival benefit over drug therapy, there remain significant quality
      of life (QL) issues. About 50% of patients experience chronic anxiety about receiving an ICD
      shock. Anxiety and depression in turn appear to predispose to more arrhythmias necessitating
      ICD therapy. The aims of the current study are:

        1. to evaluate a 8-session psychosocial intervention to help patients cope effectively with
           receiving an ICD for secondary prevention of SCD,

        2. to determine if baseline measures of depression and anxiety predict ICD therapies (i.e.,
           anti-tachycardia pace terminations and shocks); and

        3. to explore if the psychosocial intervention results in less need for appropriate ICD
           therapies.

      This study will randomize 218 ICD patients to receive either usual cardiac care (n=109) OR
      usual cardiac care plus CBT (n=109). Participants are recruited from two hospitals in Toronto
      that perform ICD implants (St. Michael's Hospital and the Toronto General Hospital).
      Counselling follows a CBT manual and involves both face-to-face sessions and telephone
      sessions. The telephone is employed as a means to deliver therapy as at least half of our ICD
      subjects reside outside of Toronto and all patients are prohibited from driving an automobile
      for the first six months following ICD implant. Outcome is assessed 6 and 12-months following
      the date of randomization and include measures of psychological function and quality of life.
      Secondary outcome is frequency of ICD therapies over follow-up (i.e., anti-tachycardia pacing
      terminations and DC shocks).

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients from either Toronto General hospital or St. Michael's Hospital who have
           coronary heart disease,

        -  Receiving their first ICD implant for secondary prevention of SCD or primary prevention
           of SCD if their underlying heart disease was hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Not able to read or understand English;

        -  Evidence of psychosis, dementia or cognitive impairment as documented in the patients'
           hospital records;

        -  Receiving an ICD for primary prevention of ICD.
    
  