
    
      Tendons are collagenous tissues that link muscle to bone, and in best case, a painless
      transmission of force allows voluntary movement over a life time. Although tendons show long
      time underestimated repair and remodelling capacities, some of them (e.g. the human patellar
      or Achilles tendon) remain quite prone to injury. To make things worse, tendinous tissue
      reveals incomplete healing capacities and treatments seem to be ineffective to avoid the high
      injury recurrence rate and/or the occurrence of chronic tendon pain. Thus, both elite and
      recreational athletes, as well as the non-sporting population or workplace employees often
      suffer from symptoms like tendon swelling, localized tenderness, activity related pain and
      impaired performance, also known as tendinopathy. Such pain-induced restriction of mobility
      frequently means the end of a sporting carrier, deteriorates the quality of life and patients
      have to live with all harmful consequences of physical inactivity. One tendon most commonly
      afflicted by this debilitating musculoskeletal injury is the Achilles tendon. Although it is
      the strongest tendon in our body, the prevalence for tendinopathy can be as high as 56% among
      certain athletes.

      The repetitive peripheral magnetic stimulation (rPMS) works through a deep operating, focused
      and painless stimulation mechanism generated by pulsed magnetic fields. This intervention is
      already successfully in use to accelerate the healing of bone fractures and to enhance the
      healing of operated rotator cuff tears. Additionally, data on in vitro tendon cells indicate
      the positive effect of rPMS on tendon tissue by stimulating cell proliferation, up-regulating
      tendon-specific gene expression and releasing anti-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors.
      More interestingly, intervention studies on the healing of rotator cuff tendon-to-bone
      injuries in rat models show increases in tendon stiffness and modulus and enhanced collagen
      organization, and type I collagen expression after prolonged rPMS without showing adverse
      effects in any mechanical or histological property. These results strongly support the
      hypothesis that rPMS might be effective in treating Achilles tendinopathy in humans. This
      intervention might reduce pain and functional limitations, reverse tendon degenerative
      changes and increase the impaired tendon mechanical and material properties.
    
  