
    
      SARS-CoV-2 pandemic presents a serious global public health threat urgently requiring both
      prophylactic and therapeutic interventions. The entry of SARS-CoV-2 into human cells involves
      a binding between its spike protein's receptor-binding domain (RBD) and
      angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor on human cells. Convalescent sera of Covid-19
      patients have been shown to contain SARS-CoV-2-neutralizing antibodies. Accordingly,
      recovered patients are presumed to be immune to re-infection. Use of convalescent plasma as
      treatment warrants research, which is supported by the European Commission. Convalescent
      plasma (CP) therapy is a classical adaptive immunotherapy. It has been applied to prevention
      and treatment of various infectious diseases: evidence of success has been accumulated e.g.
      on treatment of SARS, MERS, and 2009 H1N1, for which satisfactory efficacy and safety have
      been shown.

      The investigators will select as donors for CP therapy patients recovered from Covid-19 with
      a high neutralizing antibody titre who meet normal blood donor eligibility criteria. The
      donors will be recruited among participants of ongoing Covid-19 immunity studies (Clin-Covid,
      Commun-Covid) and/or from Finnish Red Cross Blood Service (FRCBS) blood donors.

      CP will be prepared from the blood of eligible donors at the FRCBS according to previous
      protocols and the European guidelines for fresh frozen plasma. After the screening test
      results required for product release (HCV, HBV, HIV, ABO, Syphilis) are available, the units
      will be released. All donors will be screened for type-I-Interferon antibodies and women will
      be screened for HLA-antibodies. The units will be labelled with convalescence plasma labels
      including ICCBBA/ISBT compliant product codes. The plasma units will be frozen to -25°C
      within 6 hours from collection. Prior to freezing 3 ml of CP will be separated and divided in
      3 aliquots to be stored, for possible later analysis.

      Patients admitted to ward at HUH will be randomized 1:1:1 into three groups which will be
      given 1) high-titre convalescent plasma (HCP), 2) low-titre convalescent plasma (LCP) or 3)
      placebo. The plasma preparations and placebo will be given as one 200 mL infusion. ABORh
      blood group will be determined from patients prior to transfusion according to normal
      transfusion protocols of the hospital. The study will be double-blinded with saline as
      placebo given to groups three. The primary outcomes of the study will cover safety and
      intubation/initiation of systemic corticosteroids. AEs will be reviewed, recorded and
      reported up to 6 hours after administration of CP or placebo. Thromboembolic and
      cardiovascular events will be recorded as AEs or SAEs up to 7 days after administration of CP
      / placebo. SAEs will be reviewed, recorded and reported up to 7 days after administration of
      CP / placebo. In case of respiratory failures classified as SAEs, the reporting period is
      only up to 12 hours after administration of CP / placebo.
    
  