
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take lenalidomide by
      mouth on Monday, Wednesday and Friday for 3 months.

      In order to participate in this study you must register into and follow the requirements of
      the Revlimid REMS™ program of Celgene Corporation. This program provides education and
      counseling on the risks of fetal exposure, blood clots and reduced blood counts. You will be
      required to receive counseling every 28 days during treatment with lenalidomide, follow the
      pregnancy testing and birth control requirements of the program that are appropriate for you
      and take telephone surveys regarding your compliance with the program.

      Depending on how you respond to the drug, after 3 months, you will either:

      °Take lenalidomide every Monday, Wednesday and Friday on a 3 months on/3 months off schedule.
      You will then repeat this process for up to 2 years.

      or

      °Take lenalidomide every day for an extra 3 months. If you respond well, you will take
      lenalidomide every day for 3 months, then for the next 3 months stop the drug. You will then
      repeat this process for up to 2 years.

      You should swallow the lenalidomide capsules whole with water. Do not open, crush, or break
      the lenalidomide capsules. If you touch a broken lenalidomide capsule, wash the area of your
      body with soap and water.

      If you miss a dose of lenalidomide, and it has been less than 12 hours since your regular
      dose time, take it as soon as you remember. If it has been more than 12 hours, just skip your
      missed dose. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. If you take too much lenalidomide or
      overdose, call your healthcare provider right away. If you vomit after any dose, do not take
      another dose.

      You will also receive a vaccine for the flu (Trivalent or Fluzone) 1 time a year. If you have
      not received one in the last 5 years, you will receive a vaccine for pneumonia (Pneumovax)
      between months 6 and 21. You will receive these vaccines as an injection under the skin.

      Study Visits:

      Before the first dose of study drug:

      °Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to test cytokines (proteins that may affect the
      immune system) and to test your immune system.

      If you are able to become pregnant, 1 time a week for the first 4 weeks and then every 28
      days while on treatment, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy test.

      While you are taking lenalidomide, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests
      every 2-4 weeks.

      At 3 months (+/- 3 weeks):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Before the flu vaccine, blood (about 1 teaspoons) will be drawn for antibody testing.
      Antibodies are created by the immune system and may attack foreign cells or substances, such
      as the study drug.

      At 4 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) and 3 months (+/- 3 weeks) after the vaccine, blood (about 2
      teaspoons) will be drawn for antibody testing, cytokine testing, and to test your immune
      system.

      Length of Study:

      You will take the study drug for up to 2 years. You will no longer be able to take the study
      drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End of Study:

      °Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for antibody testing and cytokine testing.

      This is an investigational study. Lenalidomide is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndrome and mantle cell lymphoma. The use
      of this to help prevent infections by improving immunoglobulin levels and its use in
      combination with the flu and pneumonia vaccine is investigational.

      Up to 35 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  