
    
      Design: This will be a single centre randomized, double blind, parallel-group, intention to
      treat, controlled trial. Patients are randomly assigned to pre-operative oral dexamethasone
      or placebo

      Group 1: Pre-operative oral dexamethasone (10mg-2 hours pre-induction) Group 2: Placebo
      Sample Size: 80 patients (80% power to detect a difference of 10 points in our primary
      endpoint)

      Study duration: 8 months

      Primary endpoint: Quality of recovery at 24 hours post operation, as measured on the QoR-40
      Secondary endpoints: Clinically significant nausea and vomiting on discharge from
      Post-Anesthesia Recovery Room (PARR) and at 24 hours.

      Study hypotheses:Pre-operative oral dexamethasone will improve patient quality of recovery
      compared to placebo.

      Secondary hypothesis: Pre-operative dexamethasone will decrease clinically significant post
      operative nausea and vomiting in the post anesthesia recovery room and this benefit will
      endure at 24 hours.

      Importance: Small studies in other adult populations suggest that IV dexamethasone may
      improve quality of recovery. IV dexamethasone is widely used off label for postoperative
      nausea and vomiting (PONV) prophylaxis, oral dexamethasone has not been studied for this
      indication but based on the pharmacodynamics of dexamethasone, and that modulation of
      nucleolar transcription is likely important in dexamethasone's clinical effect; an earlier
      administration time is likely of benefit, this could be facilitated by an oral (vs IV) route
      of administration. This study will provide the preliminary support (or absence of support)
      for a routine, inexpensive intervention to optimize patient outcome.

      Background: Single, low dose perioperative dexamethasone is safe and beneficial but common
      timing of administration does not maximize effectiveness. IV dexamethasone improves quality
      of recovery in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy and provides a potential 1.5
      mm improvement in VAS pain scores in the first 6 hours post mastectomy, which is of
      questionable clinical significance. A study to determine if dexamethasone improves the
      quality of recovery in patients undergoing breast surgery is needed in order to provide
      evidence for change of practices and pre-operative oral dexamethasone offers the potential
      for routine, low cost administration without uncomfortable side effects.

      Methods: Patients will be recruited pre-operatively and contacted by telephone for
      preliminary consent. They will receive consent documents on the morning of surgery and be
      randomized at that time, they will complete a pre-operative QOR-40 and receive oral
      dexamethasone or placebo. During their general anaesthesia (GA) they will all receive IV
      Ondansetron and have their blood glucose measured 2 hours after skin incision. On discharge
      from PARR they will have a clinically significant nausea and vomiting scale score recorded,
      repeated at 24 hours post op. They will also complete the QOR-40 at 24 hours post op.

      Analysis: Data will be analyzed using analysis of variance, mixed models and t-tests.

      Potential Pitfalls: As the QOR-40 instrument is a survey, it is prone to inter and intra
      patient variability. The investigators are controlling for inter-patient variability by
      having patients complete the instrument before surgery to collect an individual baseline. The
      investigators are relying on a 25% recruitment rate of eligible patients in order to complete
      the study in the stated timeframe. The study has an important but narrow focus, it is not
      feasible to perform subgroup analysis on the small study size.
    
  