
    
      Increased gastrointestinal (GI) permeability is associated to several GI conditions that
      affect millions of people worldwide. Healthy intestinal walls limit only specific molecules
      to cross into the body. "Leaky gut" is a condition of unregulated and increased gut
      permeability that allows unwanted antigens, pathogens and microbial toxins into the
      bloodstream(1). This in turn leads to a subsequent immune response that includes the
      production of inflammatory mediators. Leaky gut is a key feature in celiac disease, Crohn's
      disease, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and environmental enteropathy and have been
      associated with systemic diseases including type 1 diabetes, autoimmune hepatitis, and
      systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

      The current gold standard for measuring intestinal permeability is the sugar ratio test.
      Non-metabolized sugars of different molecular sizes are orally administered and the amount of
      sugar molecules absorbable across the gut lining is then quantified by measuring their
      relative concentrations in urine. In healthy subjects, low to none of the large-molecule
      disaccharides can be taken into the circulatory system, while the small-molecule
      monosaccharides can readily diffuse into the bloodstream. This results in low
      disaccharide/monosaccharide (DM) ratios for healthy subjects. Subjects with the leaky gut
      conditions exhibit high DM ratios in their urine. However, the sugar ratio test has low
      specificity, does not provide specific information on etiology, is challenging to implement
      when pristine urine samples cannot be collected (e.g. infants), and does not account for
      spatially heterogeneous disease.

      An alternative approach for measuring mucosal permeability is through measuring the voltage
      across the intestinal wall (Intestinal potential difference; IPD) that changes with
      intestinal permeability. The Tearney lab has developed an IPD measuring device (IPD probe)
      that can be deployed trans-nasally and can measure the intestinal potential difference in
      real time at selected locations of the gut. The probe contains a central channel that allows
      us to infuse specific ionic solutions into the gut. The IPD probe also has an optical fiber
      inside the channel that enables the acquisition of M-mode OCT images. The M-mode OCT images
      make it possible to determine when the IPD probe is in contact with the tissue.
    
  