
    
      From April 1st 2017 to June 1st 2019, participants who met the following criteria were
      included: 1) histologically confirmed high-grade soft tissue sarcoma(rhabdomyosarcoma and
      liposarcoma excluded); 2) initial treated in the orthopedic oncology departments of three
      affiliated hospitals of Peking University,including Peking University People's Hospital,
      Peking University Shougang Hospital and Peking University International Hospital; 3) not
      amenable to curative treatment; 4) multiple metastatic lesions which could not be cured by
      local therapy or unresectable local advanced lesions; 5) having measurable lesions according
      to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors 1.1(RECIST 1.1); 6) expected to live longer
      than 3 months with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1 and
      acceptable hematologic, hepatic, and renal function; 7) needed to be verified refractory to
      doxorubicin and ifosfamide.

      All those participants need to sign informed consent forms for data collection and use for
      research purpose before inclusion, of which children patients' informed forms should be
      signed by their legal parents. Once the patient registered, he/she will be evaluated by
      his/her doctors of these departments at the clinic, and his/her follow-up should be done
      every eight weeks with at least chest CT as well as imaging of tumor lesions at other sites.
      A follow-up file should be sent every eight weeks to the coordination desk of these
      departments. This study was approved by the institutional review board, Peking University
      People's Hospital, Peking University Shougang Hospital and Peking University International
      Hospital Ethics Committee for Clinical Investigation, and conducted in accordance with the
      Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice.

      The investigators demand patients to use at least doxorubicin and ifosfamide. In a phase I
      trial, apatinib (Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine, Lianyungang, China) showed good oral
      bioavailability at a dose of 850 mg a day, the maximum-tolerated dose. Considering this, the
      participants are designed to receive 750 mg daily once oral administration of apatinib for
      body surface area (BSA) > 1.5 and 500mg daily for BSA <1.5. If the investigators meet with
      treatment interruptions because of grade 3 hematologic or grade 2 non-hematologic toxicities,
      dose reductions to 750 mg or 500 mg of apatinib per day, and supportive care should be
      allowed for the management of adverse events (AEs).

      The primary objective is to describe the efficacy of apatinib in sarcoma patients. Endpoints
      is objective response rate (CR+PR) and Progression-Free-Survival (PFS) for each protocol as
      described containing apatinib according to RECIST 1.1. The secondary objective is overall
      survival (OS), duration of response (DR) and the characterization of toxicities. PFS is
      defined as the time from the start of using apatinib until disease progression or death,
      whichever occurs first. OS is defined as the time from the start of using apatinib until
      death. The period from appearance of response or stable disease to progression or death is
      thus considered the duration of response (DR).

      Safety evaluation will be based on the frequency and severity of toxicities graded according
      to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events.
    
  