
    
      Introduction: Coronary heart disease (CHD) remains the major cause of disease burden
      globally, and the rising prevalence of obesity and adult onset diabetes is predicted to
      potentiate the CHD epidemic in developing countries, and in high risk populations, including
      people who originate from the Indian subcontinent (South Asians). More than 1.2 million
      people of South Asian origin live in Canada and they are the fastest growing group of
      non-white Canadians. Our previous work among South Asians has shown that, compared to white
      Caucasians in Canada, they suffer from a 2.5 times excess prevalence of elevated glucose
      (dysglycemia), and CHD. They also develop abnormal glucose, lipids (elevated apolipoprotein B
      & reduced apolipoprotein Al) and blood pressure at significantly lower body mass index values
      compared to white Caucasians (21 vs. 30). Successful interventions which prevent or improve
      myocardial infarction (MI) risk factors among South Asians are urgently needed.

      Objectives: Among South Asian men and women ≥ 30 years who live in Canada we propose:

        1. To test the effectiveness of a culturally-tailored multimedia intervention designed to
           improve health behaviours including dietary habits, sedentary behaviours, physical
           activity, and tobacco use, in order to improve their MI risk factor profile.

        2. To test if knowledge of genetic risk for MI as determined by the 9p21 variant genotype
           influences behaviour change and MI risk factor profile.

        3. To determine the change in the MI risk score and clinical events including MI, death,
           development of new diabetes, and development of new hypertension over the 6 months
           follow-up.

      Design & Methods: People of South Asian ancestry defined as people whose ancestors originate
      from the Indian subcontinent (India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka) ≥ 30 years age will
      be eligible for SAHARA. Subjects with no access to e-mail, text messaging or smart phones and
      who have suffered previous coronary heart disease will be excluded. 330 subjects will undergo
      a brief cardiac risk factor assessment including collection of data on questionnaire,
      physical measurement (i.e. weight, height, waist and hip circumference, and blood pressure),
      and a blood sample will be collected to measure apolipoproteins and glucose. All eligible and
      consenting subjects will be randomized 1:1 to intervention versus control. The intervention
      group will include goal setting, self monitoring and participants will receive regular health
      messaging using electronic media regarding smoking, dietary habits & physical activity. The
      control group will receive usual advice and no regular health messaging. The intervention
      will last for 12 months after randomization and the effectiveness of this intervention will
      be evaluated using the change in the cardiac risk score after 12 months.

      Summary: South Asians are the fastest growing group of Canadians. They suffer an excess
      prevalence of cardiac risk factors and MI at a younger age compared to people of European
      origin. The SAHARA project will enable us to use simple but validated tools to assess the MI
      risk profile among South Asian men and women from Ontario and British Columbia, and we will
      test a culturally-tailored multimedia intervention to determine if improvement in the MI risk
      factor profile can be achieved and sustained. If this intervention is successful it will be
      easily scalable, and has the potential to be delivered to a large proportion of the South
      Asian community in Canada.
    
  