
    
      Fibromyalgia is a common rheumatic disease characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain,
      tenderness, fatigue, sleep disorders, cognitive and somatic complaints. Patients often suffer
      many somatic and psychological symptoms which contributes negative effect on the health-
      related quality of life, physical performance and physical activity. Recently, the European
      League Against Rheumatism presented evidence based recommendations for the management of the
      fibromyalgia. Accordingly, prompt diagnosis and patient education is required for optimal
      management. A graduated approach with the aim of improving health-related quality of life
      should be followed. Pharmacotherapy is only recommended for severe pain and sleep
      disturbances. It should focus ﬁrst on non-pharmacological modalities and the only "strong
      for" evidence-based recommendation was the use of aerobic and strengthening exercise. Aerobic
      exercise with moderate intensity (60 to 70% of age-adjusted predicted maximum heart rate
      (maxHR)) with a frequency of two or three times per week for at least 4 to 6 weeks for a
      reduction of symptoms is recommended in the management of fibromyalgia. Low-intensity aerobic
      exercise (<50 % maxHR) is founded ineffective. In recent years, high intensity interval
      training (HIIT) is used as popular instead of moderate intensity continuous exercise training
      (MICT) in cardiac rehabilitation units. It is found superior to moderate intensity exercise
      in improving cardiovascular fitness as increases maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max). While
      the moderate intensity continuous aerobic exercise program lasts 30 to 60 minutes, HIIT
      contains 4-6 cycles of 1-4 minutes with a maximum effort and lasts approximately 20 minutes
      in total. Therefore, another advantage of HIIT is the need for a shorter time to achieve
      similar or greater effects compared to MICT. The investigatorshypothesis is that 6 weeks of
      five weekly sessions of HIIT will show superior effect reducing the impact of fibromyalgia
      and improving pain degree, functional capacity and health-related quality of life in women
      with fibromyalgia compared to MICT. Therefore, the aim of this study is to assess the effects
      of HIIT versus MICT on pain, functional capacity and quality of life in women with
      fibromyalgia.
    
  