
    
      - Basal cell carcinoma throughout the world

      Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer, with basal cell carcinoma (BCC) being the most
      common form of all skin cancers, and the incidence is still rising.1,2 Of all types of BCC,
      superficial basal cell carcinoma (sBCC), is the histopathologic subtype with the fastest
      growing incidence, especially on the trunk in younger patients.3-5 It is a common health
      problem and although there is no chance of metastasis it can lead to more aggressive forms of
      BCC with the ability to cause serious local destruction.

      - Treatment options

      The DBC (diagnose behandel combinatie) cost price, the amount received for diagnostic and
      treatment of one BCC, for surgical excision is partly free negotiable between each hospital
      and health insurances. Only the DBC cost price of patients whose health insurance has no
      contract with the hospital is public for everyone. This leads to around 18 million euro
      (based on a cost price of 400.00 euro for 44,000 new BCCs per year) that is yearly spent on
      the surgical treatment of BCC in the Netherlands and cost will only increase in future with
      the growing incidence.6 For most BCC subtypes the only effective treatment is surgery but for
      sBCC other non-invasive treatments like photodynamic therapy (PDT) are suitable. It is well
      accepted in today's dermatologic practice that surgical excision can be considered as
      over-treatment for sBCC.7-9 PDT is superior to surgical excision in primary sBCC of any size
      in low-risk sites.9 As a consequence unnecessary anaesthesia and incisions are avoided
      thereby preventing side-effects, such as scars, haematomas or functional disruption, and
      healthy tissue is preserved. MAL is a worldwide registered agent for the use of topical PDT
      in sBCC while 5-ALA is not registered in the European Union. In the Netherlands both
      fractionated 5-ALA 20% and MAL PDT in 2 sessions are used as treatment for sBCC. Although
      there are studies showing the effectiveness of both treatment regimens, the effectiveness,
      costs and patient preferences have never been studied in a prospective randomised trial.

      - Developments in treatment: photodynamic therapy

      PDT has become increasingly implemented in standard care for sBCC in the last years.8-10
      Nowadays, in the Maastricht University Medical Centre, about 60% of patients are treated with
      PDT. Similar situations are found in the Erasmus MC Rotterdam and the VieCuri Medical Centre
      Venlo/Venray. On national level, around two thirds of patients are treated with MAL PDT in 2
      sessions and one third with fractionated 5-ALA 20% PDT. This distribution is historically
      determined and not based on evidence based research.

      - 5-ALA 20% PDT versus MAL PDT

      There are only a few randomised controlled studies on treatment of the most common skin
      cancer.11 Choice of PDT treatment with fractionated 5-ALA 20% or MAL in 2 sessions often
      depends on the experience and choice of the physician or the availability of the precursor in
      a hospital. World-wide, most studies are performed with MAL and it has been accepted as the
      standard of care in PDT.12 However, according to the literature, the effectiveness in terms
      of clearance rates is in different studies lower for MAL in two sessions compared to
      fractionated 5-ALA 20% PDT: 79% versus 97% intention to treat (ITT) after one year in
      sBCC.13,14 Contra dictionary, MAL has the theoretical benefit of being more and faster
      absorbed in the cell than 5-ALA 20% and, thereby, should generate a higher production of
      protoporphyrin IX. In addition MAL has higher selectivity for tumour cells, inducing fewer
      side-effects in normal tissue. 15,16 This discrepancy between theoretical working mechanism
      and clearance rates needs further clinical research of the effectiveness of both treatments.

      PDT is a hospital administered treatment modality during which patients have to come to the
      hospital one day (fractionated 5-ALA 20%) or two days one week apart (MAL in 2 sessions).
      Patient compliance could be higher with fractionated 5-ALA 20% than with MAL in 2 sessions
      because patients have to visit the hospital a second time. At some parts of the body patients
      experience a variable burning pain sensation during PDT which might influence completing the
      treatment. Kuijpers et al. found no significant differences in pain scores between ALA-PDT in
      2 sessions and MAL PDT in 2 sessions.17 We expect 5-ALA 20% PDT to have more side-effects in
      our study as patients are treated twice on the same day.

      Furthermore it is important to take into consideration the differences in patient
      acceptability costs (see 'economic evaluation').18 A well-designed study comparing the two
      topical PDT treatment modalities: fractionated 5-ALA 20% and MAL in 2 sessions will provide
      the answers needed to establish the position of the two modalities in the treatment of
      patients with sBCC. The conclusions from the proposed study can serve as a basis for updating
      guidelines for the treatment of sBCC to catch up with recent developments in clinical
      practice.
    
  