
    
      Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) is an alteration of the spinal cord that modifies not only muscular
      strength and sensitivity, but that also generates a change in all of the systems of the
      organism. At the worldwide level, an incidence is calculated of between 13.1 and 52.2 per one
      million inhabitants.

      Damage to the ascending and descending tracts of the spinal cord consequently gives rise to
      an alteration in the postural control system. It is known that effective postural control is
      of utmost importance forstanding and walking, as well as for providing support for voluntary
      movements. Alterations in posture depend on the grade and level of the injury; thus, persons
      with complete, thoracic, or cervical lesions have poor trunk control. Due to the latter, they
      are limited in many of the movements necessary for carrying out daily life activities (DALYS)
      Therefore, part of the objectives of rehabilitation in individuals with an SCI comprises
      improvement in trunk control.

      On the other hand, patients with SCI tend to engage in a sedentary lifestyle that, added to
      the alterations in the autonomic nervous system proper to the lesion, exposes individuals
      with a SCI to a greater risk of developing chronic-degenerative conditions, such as metabolic
      syndrome and cardiovascular diseases, which are, at present, the main cause of death in these
      persons.

      Thus, after the immediate rehabilitation, it is necessary to maintain and improve the
      functional capacity obtained during this process. Therefore, it is important to find training
      activities to challenge stabilization of the upper part of the body and sitting equilibrium
      without giving rise to symptoms caused by overuse.

      Kayak training appears to comply with these criteria, in that it implicates the greater part
      of the upper musculature, presents high metabolic demands, and imposes strict requirements
      for the balance control system, due to continuous compensation of the disturbances of the
      upper part of the body caused by movement on the apparatus. It was previously demonstrated
      that open-sea training in kayaks could be implemented in a group of individuals in paraplegic
      condition and that this is accompanied by improvements in strength and equilibrium in
      sedestatIon.

      Due to the difficulty in controlling and adjusting the time and challenge level of the
      equilibrium experienced by participants at sub-acute stages, it is necessary to utilize a
      kayak ergometer, in such a way that the demand for equilibrium can be adjusted individually
      and for this to increase progressively as the treatment advances. In this respect, Bjerkefors
      and Thorstensson demonstrated that kayak ergometer training in a group of persons with SCI is
      accompanied by improvement in shoulder muscular strength and in various functional wheelchair
      tests that demand trunk stabilization and balance control.

      These studies achieved demonstrating the positive effect of kayak training in patients with
      SCI; however, in these studies, small populations were included (10 and 12 individuals), with
      chronic-stage lesions, and the effects on trunk control were not evaluated by means of a
      validated scale in this population, nor were the training's effects on cardiovascular
      function and functional independence.

      To date, the effect of kayak ergometer training has not, to our knowledge, been studied in
      individuals with SCI in terms of trunk control with tools validated for persons with SCI,
      regarding the cardiovascular condition, functional independence, and quality of life, thus
      engendering the need to conduct this present study.

      HYPOTHESIS

      Kayak ergometer training will improve functional independence, trunk control, and
      cardiovascular condition in individuals with SCI.

      The effect of training with the kayak ergometer on functional independence, trunk control,
      and the cardiovascular condition in individuals with SCI will be greater than that of
      conventional trunk-control training.

      GENERAL OBJECTIVE

      To determine the effect of kayak ergometer training in patients with SCI in functionality,
      trunk control, cardiovascular condition, and quality of life.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        -  Establish the validity, reliability, error, and sensitivity of the measurement
           instrumented of trunk control in subjects with SCI.

        -  Evaluate the existence of floor/ceiling effects in the instrumented assessment of trunk
           control.

        -  Develop computerized tools for evaluation of trunk control that are easily applicable in
           daily clinical practice, with low-cost, practical, and simple technology for improving
           the exactness and reliability of the observational analysis, for rehabilitation centers
           that are not equipped with a movement-analysis laboratory, with sufficient information
           for evaluating the trunk control of the individual with SCI.

        -  Proposal of a pilot program of trunk control rehabilitation in persons with SCI.

        -  Broadcast preliminary results at a national scientific meeting.

        -  Form human resources with knowledge of neurological rehabilitation, movement analysis,
           and biomedical engineering.

        -  Foster multidisciplinary cooperation.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Study type. Randomized controlled clinical trial blinded to the evaluator and to the person
      performing the data analysis.

      Description of the work universe. Patients of out-patient consultations and hospitalization
      of the SCI Service of the National Institute of Rehabilitation), with a diagnosis of SCI of
      any etiology, with a neurological level of under C8, with a SCI of 3 months of evolution.

      Definition of the control group Group A. Control group, management with conventional therapy
      for improvement of trunk control (proprioceptive neurofacilitation exercises focused on trunk
      control21) of 20 minutes five times weekly during 6 weeks.

      Sample size We utilized the Epidat ver. 4 statistical software program to calculate sample
      size. For 80% study power and an alpha error probability of less than 0.05, and considering
      the work of Grigorenko and collaborators18 we found a frontal displacement speed difference
      of the Center of Pressure (CoP) of 0.1m/s with a Standard Deviation (SD) of 0.05 m/s between
      the experimental and the control group. Therefore, seven patients per group were required.
      Considering a possible loss of 20%, we will recruit nine patients per group.

      Description of the study variables, units of measure, and measuring scales

      Clinical and demographic variables

        -  SCI severity: According to American Spinal Injury Association, with International
           standards for neurological classification of spinal cord injury modifications: complete,
           B: incomplete, preservation of only the sensitive function, C: incomplete, voluntary
           anal contraction or more than half of key muscles in <3, D: incomplete, more than half
           of the key muscles in >3, E: total recuperation A, B, C, D, E

        -  Neurological level: More caudal segment of the SC with normal function

        -  Time of evolution of the SCI:Time in days elapsed from when the SCI was produced until
           time of application of the questionnaire

        -  Age:Years elapsed from date of birth to time of questionnaire application

      Proposed statistical analysis

      The investigators will utilize the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences ver. 17
      statistical software program. The investigators will perform descriptive statistics with
      central-tendency measurements for quantitative variables and with proportions for qualitative
      variables. To determine differences between groups, analysis of covariance will be carried
      out. Results that are statistically significant with a p of <0.05 will be considered.
    
  