
    
      Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is an autosomal recessive multiple congenital
      anomaly/mental retardation syndrome. Typical clinical features include a distinctive facial
      appearance, mental retardation, autistic behavior, hypotonia, failure to feed, poor growth,
      decreased life span, and variable structural anomalies of the heart, lungs, brain,
      gastrointestinal tract, limbs, genitalia and kidneys. The SLOS phenotypic spectrum is broad
      and variable. At the severe end of the spectrum SLOS is a lethal disorder with multiple major
      congenital anomalies; whereas, mild cases of SLOS present with a combination of minor
      physical stigmata, behavioral problems, and learning disabilities. SLOS is due to an inborn
      error of cholesterol biosynthesis. Biochemically, SLOS patients have a deficiency of
      3beta-hydroxysterol delta(7)-reductase activity. 3beta-hydroxysterol delta(7)-reductase is an
      NADPH dependent microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of the C7(8) double bond of
      7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) to yield cholesterol in the last step of cholesterol
      biosynthesis via the Kandutsch-Russel pathway. This inborn error of cholesterol biosynthesis
      results in elevated tissue and serum 7-DHC levels and typically decreased serum and tissue
      cholesterol levels. In 1998 we established that the deficiency in 3beta-hydroxysterol
      delta(7)-reductase activity is due to mutation of the 3beta-hydroxysterol delta(7)-reductase
      gene (DHCR7). Once the biochemical defect in SLOS was identified, dietary cholesterol
      supplementation was proposed and employed as a therapeutic approach. Although developmental
      malformations remain fixed, dietary cholesterol supplementation appears to improve the
      overall health of these patients, and initial results have shown that dietary cholesterol
      supplementation has had a positive impact on some of the behavioral manifestations of this
      disorder. Although our understanding of this disorder has advanced over the last few years,
      many questions remain concerning the effectiveness of cholesterol replacement therapy, the
      long term prognosis for individuals on dietary cholesterol supplementation, and the need for
      adjunctive measures in the clinical management of SLOS patients. We propose to answer some of
      these questions by continuing our longitudinal natural history/prognosis study on patients
      with SLOS. We also plan on studying very closely related disorders such as lathosterolosis
      under this protocol. Lathosterolosis is caused by a deficiency in the enzyme sterol
      3-beta-hydroxysteroid-delta-5-desaturase which is necessary for the conversion of lathosterol
      into 7-DHC. The clinical picture is very similar to SLOS with prominent features including
      microcephaly, ptosis bilateral 2,3 toe syndactyly. Lathosterolosis is also inherited in an
      autosomal recessive manner. Lethosterolosis is extremely rare with only 4 cases described in
      the literature so far and an estimated incidence of less than 1 in a million. The below
      objectives, protocol evaluations, risks, benefits and other pertinent issues apply to SLOS
      and lathosterolosis even if lathosterolosis is not explicitly named.
    
  