
    
      Due to an alarming rise in opioid use among the general population that is mirrored in
      pregnant women, Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) rates have increased in the US from 2004
      to 2014. Most newborns experiencing NAS require non-pharmacologic care, which entails, most
      importantly, maternal involvement with her newborn. Facilitating postpartum maternal-newborn
      involvement is critical in preventing further adverse maternal-newborn outcomes. To achieve
      positive maternal-newborn involvement, mothers need to learn effective caregiving NAS
      strategies while they are pregnant. Surprisingly, current obstetrical practice standards for
      high risk pregnant women do not address this pressing need, in part because no interventions
      exist to prepare future mothers for the challenges of caring for their newborns at risk for
      NAS. To address this critical gap, the investigators propose to adapt an existing mobile NAS
      tool for clinician training and decision support, for high-risk pregnant women and assess its
      usability, acceptability, and feasibility in a small randomized controlled analog trial.
      First, the investigators will conduct semi-structured interviews with a panel of neonatology
      experts, NAS care providers, and mothers with NAS-affected babies to gather their
      recommendations on management of NAS and explore their perspectives on the care of these
      newborns. Findings will guide the adaptation of the existing mobile NAS tool for high-risk
      pregnant women. The investigators will then test the usability, acceptability, and
      feasibility of the adapted mobile tool via surveys with 10 pregnant women receiving opioid
      agonist therapy (OAT) at Spokane Regional Health District's Opioid Treatment Program and
      Evergreen Recovery Center. Finally, the investigators will randomize 30 high-risk pregnant
      women seen at these facilities to either receive the adapted mobile NAS caregiving tool or
      usual care. The investigators will compare these mothers on maternal drug relapse and OAT
      continuation, maternal-newborn bonding, length of newborn hospital stays, readmission rates,
      breastfeeding initiation and duration, and postpartum depression and anxiety at 4, 8, and 12
      weeks postpartum. Findings will serve as pilot data for a subsequent large R01 randomized
      controlled analog trial testing the efficacy of the adapted NAS caregiving tool in reducing
      poor outcomes for NAS-affected newborns and their mothers.
    
  