
    
      Study Design

      The study will be designed to meet CONSORT guidelines. A randomized placebo controlled trial
      will be carried out at the Physiotherapy Department of Connolly Hospital, Blanchardstown,
      Dublin 15. The study will be conducted on patients who present to the department with a
      diagnosis of Achilles tendinopathy. The diagnosis will be confirmed based on a history of an
      insidious onset of Achilles tendon pain, a tender nodule/thickening of the tendon to the
      region 2 to 6cm from the calcaneal insertion, and an ultrasound examination that excludes a
      frank tear.

      Participants will be randomly allocated to one of 2 groups. Group 1 will receive GTN for 24
      weeks in combination with a supervised eccentric exercise programme delivered over 12 weeks.
      Group 2 will receive placebo GTN in addition to the same exercise programme.

      Ethical Considerations Ethics approval will be sought from Connolly Hospital Research and
      Ethics Committee. All participants will give written informed consent.

      At the patient's initial assessment, the following will be completed

        -  Outcome measure questionnaires - Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-Achilles
           (VISA-A), Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), Numeric Rating Scale for pain (NRS)

        -  Assessment of Achilles tendon tenderness using pressure algometry

        -  Ultra-sound assessment of the Achilles tendon - tendon thickness measurements

        -  Proprioception testing (modified Star Excursion Balance Test)

        -  Simple strength tests of the Achilles, Hopping and heel raises

      It is anticipated that the baseline assessment will take 60-75 minutes to complete. The
      follow-up assessment should take no more than 45 minutes to complete.

      Outcome Measures All outcomes will be administered at baseline, and at week 6, 12 and 24 by
      the principal investigator. Data on adverse effects, compliance with the ointment application
      and the exercise program will be recorded at these scheduled visits.

      Upon completion of the initial assessment by the principal investigator, participants will be
      scheduled to have their first exercise intervention session with one of the physiotherapists
      in Connolly Hospital. The treating physiotherapists will be trained in the exercise protocol
      and will be blinded to the type of GTN provided to the patient. This appointment will be
      scheduled within one week of the lead investigator's assessment. This tendon rehabilitation
      program is designed to encompass current methods of non-operative treatment of Achilles
      tendinopathy (Paoloni et al, 2004) and will involve the following:

        -  Instruction in performance of the Alfredson heavy load eccentric exercise program.

        -  Patients will be advised to avoid weight bearing sporting activities for the first 4 to
           6 weeks, after which time gradual return to sports will be encouraged. Participation in
           sports will be continued so long as the pain does not increase above NRS>3 and no
           increase in Achilles morning stiffness is experienced.

        -  Instruction in the performance of daily static stretches of the gastrocnemius and soleus
           muscle groups

        -  Patients will be advised to avoid the use of co-interventions or complimentary
           treatments for the duration of the study.

      Exercise interventions:

      Participants will be instructed on how to perform the Alfredson heavy load eccentric exercise
      protocol (Alfredson, 1998) by the physiotherapists in Connolly Hospital. This will be
      performed during their first treatment session, which will take place approximately one week
      after the initial assessment. The participants will be given practical instructions and a
      written manual on the exercise program, which will include advice on progression of the
      exercise regimen.

      Topical nitroglycerin ointment (GTN)

      The topical GTN to be used for the purpose of this trial is Percutol. This will deliver the
      GTN in ointment form. Participants will be instructed in how to measure 0.5cm of Percutol
      ointment by applying 0.5cm of Percutol to a paper applicator/strip, which has the amount
      required indicated in a circular outline, measuring approximately the same size as a pea.
      This paper applicator/strip will be placed on a flat surface and the participant will squeeze
      the ointment onto the paper, carefully measuring the amount specified on the paper
      applicator. Participants will then place the paper on to the painful area of the Achilles
      with the ointment contacting the skin, and use the paper to lightly spread the ointment to
      cover the painful area of the Achilles tendon. The ointment should not be rubbed into the
      skin. The paper applicator will then be covered with surgical tape to hold the applicator in
      place. The participants will then replace the cap on the ointment and screw it on tightly and
      store it as per the instructions (at room temperature and out of reach and sight of
      children). Participants will be instructed to wash their hands before and after this process.
      The paper applicator with the Percutol ointment will be placed on the affected area of the
      Achilles tendon in the morning and left in situ for the daytime, and removed by the
      participant before sleeping at night. It will be emphasized that the ointment must be on
      while the participants perform the home exercise program (HEP).

      0.5cm of Percutol has been chosen for the purpose of this trial. Aspire Pharma United Kingdom
      (UK) manufacture Percutol and have informed the PI that 1 inch of Percutol weighs 0.83g
      approximately and corresponds to 16.64mg of GTN.

      The PI has conducted measures of Percutol, 0.5cm of Percutol weighs approximately 0.14 to
      0.17g and this corresponds to 2.8 to 3.4mg of GTN.

      The placebo to be used for the purpose of this trial will be aqueous cream and therefore will
      contain no GTN or active ingredient, which would assist in tendon healing. Participants will
      be instructed to apply the same amount of this placebo ointment in the exact same method as
      outlined for the GTN group using the same paper/applicator method.

      Participants will be instructed in the use of the ointment during their initial visit with
      the lead investigator. They will be informed that the dosing regimen calls for the ointment
      to be applied to the painful area of the Achilles tendon and left in situ for 12 to 14 hours
      and removed at night prior to sleeping. This will then be discarded and replaced with a new
      measure of the ointment the next day. Participants will be advised to apply the ointment to
      the site of maximal tenderness within a region of 1-2 cm around this point. The participants
      will be advised to rotate the paper applicator about the site of maximal tenderness on a
      regular basis for the six-month duration of the study in an effort to minimize irritation of
      the skin.
    
  