
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called dexlansoprazole. Dexlansoprazole is being
      tested to find a safe and well-tolerated dose and to assess how dexlansoprazole is processed
      by the body in infants aged 1 to 11 months. This study will look at side effects and lab
      results in infants who take dexlansoprazole.

      The study will enroll approximately 24 participants. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to 1 of the 4 treatment groups based on body weight and age:

        -  Dexlansoprazole 10 mg

        -  Dexlansoprazole 15 mg

        -  Dexlansoprazole 20 mg

        -  Dexlansoprazole 30 mg

      Participants who weigh <3.4 kg will not be enrolled. Participants ≤ 10 weeks of age with a
      body weight of ≥ 3.4 kg will initially receive Regimen A (dexlansoprazole delayed-release 10
      mg capsules). Randomization for participants > 10 weeks of age will be stratified by weight
      group. Participants whose baseline weight is ≥ 3.4 kg but < 4.1 kg will be assigned to
      receive Regimen A or Regimen B (dexlansoprazole delayed-release 10 or 15 mg capsules as an
      initial dose) in a ratio of 1:1. Participants whose weight is ≥ 4.1 kg but < 6.2 kg will be
      assigned to receive Regimens B or C (dexlansoprazole delayed-release 15 or 20 mg capsules as
      an initial dose) in a ratio of 1:1. Participants whose weight is ≥ 6.2 kg will be assigned to
      receive Regimen B, C, or D (dexlansoprazole delayed-release 15, 20, or 30 mg capsules as an
      initial dose) in a ratio of 1:1:2.

      All participants will be administered 1 capsule of dexlansoprazole in the morning at the same
      time each day throughout the study. The study medication may be administered to the
      participants by opening a capsule and sprinkling the granules on 1 tablespoon of applesauce
      or pureed apples, or mixing the capsule granules with about 20 mL of water. The food-granule
      mixture should be administered immediately. The water mixed with the granules will be
      administered via an oral syringe into the mouth immediately. The granules should not be
      chewed in mouth. The food or liquid used for administering the study medication should be
      recorded for Days 1 through Confinement Day 1. The parents of all participants will be asked
      to record dosing information, the food or liquid used for administering the study medication
      (Day 1 through Confinement Day 1), food intake, and episodes of vomiting in a diary from Day
      2 until the day before Confinement Day 1 (Day 5 to 9).

      This multicenter trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this
      study is up to 114 days. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic, including two
      2-day visits that may require confinement to the clinic, and will be contacted by telephone
      30 days after last dose of study drug for a follow-up assessment.
    
  