
    
      Introduction of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has transformed HIV-infection from a fatal to
      manageable disease but adherence to ART remains critical to optimize outcomes. Existing
      measures of ART adherence such as self-report, pill counts, electronic pill-bottle caps, and
      prescription refills, provide only inferred measures of actual drug intake and most offer no
      real-time notification capability. Directly observed therapy measures actual drug intake but
      is not practical. These limitations constrain research into medication adherence and more
      importantly, limit our ability to develop real-time interventions based on feasible, in vivo
      monitoring of adherence among HIV-infected people to facilitate medication-taking. The
      Proteus digital health feedback (PDHF) system, a pill ingestible sensor based adherence
      measuring and monitoring system developed by Proteus Digital Health, addresses these
      limitations. It involves use of an ingestible sensor, a tiny edible material that is
      over-encapsulated along with prescribed medication. The sensor is activated by ingestion and
      is sensed by a patch worn by the patient with an embedded monitor and sensor. The monitor
      sends a Bluetooth signal to a mobile device, which in turn sends an encrypted message to a
      central server, thus effecting real-time monitoring that a dose has been taken. The
      investigators propose to develop a data receiving hub and add to these components an
      automated text message that is sent to the patient when a dose is missed. The ingestible
      sensor and patch monitor system is already FDA-approved as safe, but has yet to be tested in
      HIV-infected patients in clinical setting. The first goals of this study are to confirm the
      bioavailability of over-encapsulated antiretrovirals (ARVs) and to pilot-test the use of the
      PDHF system in 15 participants prescribed ARVs to test and identify approaches that optimize
      the use of this measuring and monitoring system. The next goals are to determine the system's
      feasibility, acceptability, sustainability, accuracy and efficacy in fostering ART adherence.
      Feasibility, acceptability and sustainability will be assessed by patients' rating of the
      system and the rate of dropping off from using the system. Accuracy will be evaluated by the
      associations between adherence to ART measured by the PDHF system and other adherence
      measures such as plasma drug level concentrations of ARVs and self-report. Efficacy will be
      assessed by comparing adherence of participants assigned to the PDHF system and participants
      assigned to usual care (UC) over time, with exploratory outcomes of viral load and CD4. The
      investigators will recruit 120 of HIV-infected patients 18 years or older with sub-optimal
      adherence. Participants will be randomized to receive the PDHF system or UC for 16 weeks with
      monthly assessments. The durability of effects of the PDHF system after stopping the use of
      the system will be determined during a 12-week follow-up stage. In summary, The investigators
      will evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and sustainability of using the PDHF system;
      assess the accuracy of the PDHF system in measuring adherence to ART; and evaluate the
      efficacy of the PDHF system for monitoring and leveraging adherence to ART.
    
  