
    
      Patients with histological confirmed colon adenocarcinoma compatible with clinical stage II
      or III are eligible for study screening. Receipt of a signed informed consent and study
      inclusion should be done within 15 days after histological diagnosis. A usual workup for
      preoperative staging of colon cancer must be done not more than 1 month before study
      inclusion and include CEA assessment, positive histological sample for colon adenocarcinoma
      and chest and abdominal CT scan. After receipt of the written consent, the patient undergoes
      baseline PET/CT scan and donates blood samples for CTC and SNP analyses. Delay between
      baseline examinations and histological diagnosis must not exceed 21 days. The baseline
      examinations should be done within 1 week before beginning of the first course of FOLFOX
      chemotherapy. Thirteen to 15 days after chemotherapy, the PET/CT and blood sampling for CTC
      analysis are repeated. Standard surgery follows after 15 days but no more than 30 days from
      Day 1 of preoperative chemotherapy. Two frozen tissue cores are obtained during surgery and
      sent immediately in dry ice shipping to the central Tumour Bank (Jules Bordet Institute) or
      stored locally at -80°C to be sent in batches to the central tumour bank. Thereafter, the
      patient receives standard care, according to tumour pathological stage. In fully eligible
      patients, FOLFOX chemotherapy should be started not more than 45 days after surgery. In stage
      III patients otherwise ineligible, recommendation is to start FOLFOX chemotherapy within 45
      days after surgery although such patients will not be included in the primary analysis.
      Treatment in case of stage II or stage IV colon cancer is left at investigator's discretion.
      Eleven courses of adjuvant FOLFOX are foreseen, in order to match the usual recommendation
      coming from the Mosaic Trial.

      Follow-up procedures after completion of adjuvant treatment will follow standard European
      clinical recommendations for stage II and III patients. Clinical follow-up data will be
      obtained for all patients, including those with stage II disease, with a minimum follow-up
      time of three years.
    
  