
    
      Study Groups and Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. You will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 1, you will take pazopanib by mouth 1 time every day at
           about the same time each day on an empty stomach (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours
           after a meal).

        -  If you are assigned to Group 2, you will receive temsirolimus by vein 1 time every week
           over 30-60 minutes. About 30 minutes before you receive each dose of temsirolimus, you
           will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by vein over 1-2 minutes to help lower the risk
           of side effects.

      If you are assigned to Group 1, do not crush tablets and do not repeat missed doses if it is
      less than 12 hours until your next scheduled dose. You will be given a pill diary to record
      when you take each dose. You will return the diary to the study doctor at each study visit.

      If you have any side effects, you should tell the study doctor right away. If the study
      doctor thinks it is in your best interest, your dose may be lowered.

      If the disease gets worse while you are on study, you will have the option to change to the
      study group you were not originally assigned to and take the other study drug. The study drug
      dosing and study visit schedule will be the same, and the study doctor will discuss any
      important details with you at the time you change study groups.

      Study Visits:

      Every 4 weeks on this study is called a study cycle.

      Every week during Cycle 1 (Group 1 only), your blood pressure will be checked (either at
      home, at the clinic, or by your local doctor). If you are checking your own blood pressure at
      home, you will need to write down your blood pressure in a blood pressure diary each time you
      check it and bring the diary with you to each clinic visit.

      Every 2 weeks for the first 2 cycles (Group 1 only) , blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be
      drawn for routine tests.

      Every week (Group 2 only), blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every cycle (Group 2 only) OR Every other cycle (Group 1 only):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2, Day 1 of Cycle 4, and every 4 cycles after that (Group 1 only), you will
      have an ECG to check your heart function.

      If you are in Group 2 only, on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, and every other cycle after that (Cycles
      5, 7, 9, and so on), blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will be
      asked to fast (eat nothing and drink only water) for at least 8 hours before those blood
      draws.

      Every 2 cycles:

        -  You will have the same imaging scans that you had at screening. After 1 year on
           treatment, these imaging scans may only be done every 3 cycles (Cycles 5, 8, 11, and so
           on).

        -  You will fill out the quality-of-life questionnaires.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to check your thyroid function (Group
           1 only).

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      Every 4 cycles, you will have an ECG (Group 2 only).

      Every 6 cycles, you will have an ECHO or MUGA scan to check your heart function.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take a study drug if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      End-of-Treatment Follow- up:

      About 30 days after you stop treatment, during a clinic visit or by phone, you will be asked
      about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving and any side effects you may have had.

      Long-Term Follow-up:

      After you stop taking the study drug, the study staff will check up on you to ask how you are
      doing about every 3 months from then on. The study staff will collect the information they
      need either from your medical records or by calling you. If you are contacted by phone, the
      call should only last about 5 minutes.
    
  