
    
      1. Research objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of Mudan granule combined with
           methylcobalamin in the treatment of type 2 diabetic peripheral neuropathy, providing the
           highest level of evidence of Mudan granule.

        2. Experimental Measures and contrast: A randomized, double-blind,
           placebo-controlled,parallel- arm,and multi-centric clinical trial design was used on the
           basis of a co-regimen of methylcobalamin.The patients in the study group were treated
           with Mudan granule (7g 3 times/day for 24 weeks)and patients were treated with placebo
           (7g 3 times/day for 24 weeks) in the control group.The sample size was determined to 402
           cases through statistics calculation.

           Sample size calculation basis: According to the previous study of Mudan granule combined
           with methylcobalamin in the treatment of DPN with 12 weeks intervention, the results of
           the MDNS indicated that the study group (Mudan granule + methylcobalamin) scale score
           was 5.48±1.19, and the control group (placebo + methylcobalamin) scale score was 8.21
           ±1.24, and the mean difference between the two groups was 2.73;Assuming that Mudan
           granule combined with methylcobalamin in the treatment of DPN can reduce the MDNS by
           0.58 after 12 weeks of intervention, it is considered better than the control
           group.Taking α=0.05, β=0.10, the study group and the control group with 24 weeks
           intervention were allocated at a ratio of 1:1. The sample size calculated by the Power
           Analysis and Sample Size (PASS) 11 software was not less than 167 cases in each group.
           Considering no more than 20% withdrawal rate, the total number of cases is 402, 201cases
           in each group.

        3. Research design 3.1 This trial was designed as a randomized, double-blind,
           placebo-controlled,parallel-arm, and multi-centric clinical trial. Subjects who met the
           inclusion criteria were randomly divided into two groups. The patients in the study
           group were treated with Mudan granule combined with methylcobalamin , and the patients
           in the control group were treated with placebo combined with methylcobalamin. The sample
           size was 402 cases.

      3.2 The total intervention period is 24 weeks. 3.3 Curative effect evaluation criteria 3.3.1
      Major evaluation indicators Changes in total score on the Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Score
      (MDNS) of Scale,MDNS was recorded on the Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Score of Scale. The
      changes of MDNS were compared between the two groups before and after medication, adopting
      the evaluation method of difference values. The total score was 46, ranging from 0 (least
      severe) to 46 (most severe).

      3.3.2 Secondary Evaluation Indicators

        1. Changes in nerve conduction velocity,the changes in nerve conduction velocity of each
           nerve were compared between the two groups before and after taking medicine,adopting the
           evaluation method of difference values.

        2. Changes in corneal nerve fiber density of each mm2,the changes in corneal nerve fiber
           density of each mm2 were compared between the two groups before and after taking
           medicine, adopting the evaluation method of difference values.

        3. Changes in corneal nerve branch density of each mm2,the changes in corneal nerve branch
           density of each mm2 were compared between the two groups before and after taking
           medicine, adopting the evaluation method of difference values.

        4. Changes in corneal nerve fiber length of each mm2,the changes in corneal nerve fiber
           length of each mm2 were compared between the two groups before and after taking
           medicine, adopting the evaluation method of difference values.

        5. Changes in total score on the Toronto Clinical Scoring System (TCSS) of Scale,toronto
           clinical score was recorded on the Toronto Clinical Scoring System(TCSS) of Scale. The
           changes of toronto clinical score were compared between the two groups before and after
           taking medicine, adopting the evaluation method of difference values. The total score
           was 19, ranging from 0 (least severe) to 19 (most severe).

        6. Evaluation criteria of Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM) syndromes efficacy score

           ①Clinical cure:TCM syndrome efficacy score reduced ≥90%.②Markedly effective: 90%>TCM
           syndrome efficacy score ≥70%.③Valid: 30% ≤ TCM syndrome efficacy score < 70%.④Invalid:
           TCM syndrome efficacy score reduced <30%.

        7. Evaluation criteria of clinical symptoms score ①Disappearance: the symptoms
           disappeared,and the score was 0.②Improvement: the symptoms were relieved,and the score
           was reduced but not 0.③No improvement: the symptoms remained unchanged, and the score
           did not change.④Exacerbation: the symptoms exacerbated and the score increased.

      3.4 Observation indicators

        1. Demographic and clinical data:gender, age, disease course, family history,past medical
           history and so on (0 week).

        2. Curative effect indicators：Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Score (MDNS)
           (0,12,24weeks),nerve conduction velocity (0 weeks, 24 weeks),corneal nerve fiber
           parameters (0,24 weeks),Toronto Clinical Scoring System (TCSS) (0,12,24 weeks),TCM
           syndromes efficacy (0,4,8,12,16,20,24 weeks).

        3. Monitoring indicators

             -  Fasting blood glucose, blood pressure (0,4,8,12,16,20,24 weeks).

                  -  Glycated hemoglobin, blood lipid (0, 12, 24 weeks).

        4. Safety indicators

           ①Adverse events (recorded in detail at any time).

           ②General vital signs:body temperature, heart rate, respiration and so on(0, 4, 8, 12,
           16, 20, 24 weeks).

           ③Blood routine, urine routine, urine pregnancy test, stool routine, 12-lead
           Electrocardiography, liver and kidney function test (0, 12, 24 weeks).

           3.5 Basic treatment

             -  Diabetes education.

                  -  Diabetic diet. ③Rational control of blood glucose: using oral hypoglycemic
                     agents or insulin injections to keep all patients' blood glucose stable in the
                     study. In principle, the type and dose of hypoglycemic agents should maintain
                     unchanged. If fasting blood glucose fluctuates more than 20%,diabetes experts
                     need to find and eliminate the predisposing factors as soon as possible,
                     adjust the dose and monitor the blood glucose changes, so as to keep the blood
                     glucose stable within 4 weeks.Adjusted dose of the drug needs to be detailed
                     recorded in the combined medication table.

                       -  Taking methylcobalamin tablets (0.5mg,3 times/d). (Eisai (China)
                          Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.).

           3.6 Provisions for combined treatment

           ①All Chinese herbal medicines with the same efficacy as the study drug (including
           Chinese herbal medicines with similar therapeutic indications and Chinese herbal
           medicines with similar efficacy) were banned during the study period.

           ②Besides methylcobalamin, drugs such as alpha lipoic acid, epalrestat, and VitB12 for
           the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy are prohibited.

           ③All combination therapy and treatment (treatment measure or treatment medicine of other
           diseases) should be documented in the combined medication table.
    
  