
    
      Conventional coronary artery bypass grafting (CCABG) using cardiopulmonary bypass has for
      decades been applied to obtain myocardial re-vascularisation and, hence, improved quality of
      life and survival. It does, however, bear a risk of death, stroke, myocardial infarction and
      other serious complications.

      During recent years, an equivalent operation performed on the beating heart without
      cardiopulmonary bypass (off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting, OPCAB) has gained
      popularity helped by the advent of mechanical stabilization devices and improved surgical
      techniques. Observational studies suggest that this technique is associated with a lower
      incidence of stroke, per operative arrhythmias and even mortality than conventional CCABG.
      This is especially the case in elderly patients and patients with significant co-morbidity.

      Only few randomised, controlled trials have been conducted and most of these included mainly
      or only low-risk, relatively young patients. These studies have documented the safety and
      efficacy of OPCAB compared with CCABG, but none of the trials has had the statistical
      strength to determine whether the rate of serious complications is lower after OPCAB
      operations. One recent study found graft patency to be significantly lower after OPCAB than
      after CCABG operations.

      The investigators find that there is a need of a larger scale randomised trial to compare the
      results of CCABG and OPCAB operations, especially in elderly patients. This patient group is
      poorly represented in earlier randomised trials, whereas observational studies and
      theoretical considerations imply that they may benefit the most from avoiding cardiopulmonary
      bypass.

      Aims: Primarily, to compare the incidence of death, stroke and myocardial infarction after
      CCABG and OPCAB procedures in a population of elderly patients. Furthermore, to compare
      quality of life and graft patency, and cost- effectiveness after CCABG and OPCAB.
    
  