
    
      Acute basilar artery occlusion (ABAO) is a rare and devastating type of stroke. Endovascular
      treatment (EVT) is routinely performed in real-world practice, encouraged by guidelines from
      learned societies, and the recent result of the basilar artery international cooperation
      study (BASICS), a randomized controlled study.

      ABAO may result in infarcts in the brainstem, cerebellar lobes, thalamus and subthalamic
      area, or occipitotemporal lobes. Previously, studies using the DWI Posterior-circulation
      Alberta Stroke Program Early CT (Pc-ASPECT) Score or brainstem score, for predicting outcome
      in patients with ABAO showed conflicting results. The rational for the brainstem scoring
      system was based on the anatomic architecture and the regional eloquence of brainstem, which
      may negatively influence functional outcome.

      Nevertheless, one of the most significant and immediate dreaded complication, in patients
      with ABAO and cerebellar infarcts, is the development of a space-occupying edema. Due to the
      small volume of posterior fossa, cerebellar infarct with mass effect (CIMASS) contribute to a
      risk of catastrophic herniation with direct brainstem compression, hydrocephalus due to
      blockage of the fourth ventricle, or both. Up to 25% of patients with CIMASS deteriorate
      clinically resulting in morbidity and in mortality in 85% of patients without intervention.
      This potential risk of CIMASS, lead clinicians to strengthen clinical and radiological
      monitoring and modify therapeutic management with the recourse of live-saving suboccipital
      decompressive craniectomy (SDC), as recommended by learned societies.

      Until now, little is known about predicting factors of outcomes in patients with ABAO treated
      by EVT and associated cerebellar infarct. In fact, there are no focusing research to assess
      if baseline cerebellar infarct volume (CIV) may correlate with 90-day clinical outcome and
      mortality, nor if such lesions would affect a reperfusion decision.

      Using data of our prospective registry, the investigators analyzed consecutive MRI selected,
      endovascularly treated ABAO patients within the first 24h after symptom-onset. Using the
      initial Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), baseline CIV was calculated in mL, on an apparent
      diffusion-coefficient map reconstruction (Olea sphere software).

      CIV was analyzed in univariate and multivariable models as a predictor of 90-day functional
      independence (modified Rankin Scale [mRS] 0-2) and mortality. According to received operating
      characteristic (ROC) analysis, the optimal cut-off was determined by maximizing the youden
      index, to evaluate the prognostic value of CIV.

      Our aim was to evaluate the frequency, the clinical, and radiological characteristics of
      cerebellar infarct, in a large cohort of ABAO selected by MRI prior to EVT, and to
      investigate the baseline CIV as a predictor of 90-day functional outcome and mortality.
    
  