
    
      The purpose of this trial is to see if ticagrelor is a better antiplatelet treatment option
      than clopidogrel for dual antiplatelet therapy (with aspirin) in chronic kidney disease (CKD)
      patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). This study will be a comparative
      effectiveness trial of the two guideline-based treatments for patients with ACS with CKD, who
      are at a significantly higher risk of mortality and morbidity and often receive sub-optimal
      treatment. Ticagrelor and clopidogrel are the only two drugs in ACS that are approved for
      upstream (on admission) use both in CKD and non-CKD patients who are managed both medically
      (conservatively) or with coronary revascularization (with PCI-percutaneous coronary
      revascularization or CABG-coronary artery bypass graft surgery). Both of these drugs are not
      cleared renally and do not require dose adjustments in any stage of CKD.

      Moreover, as a significant majority of CKD patients presenting with ACS are initially cared
      for by internists, hospitalists, and nephrologists, execution of this study at VA hospitals
      will strengthen collaboration between these specialties with cardiology and help adopt best
      practice pathways across multiple services participating in the care of this high-risk
      patient population. Finally, the study and its findings will for the first time provide
      randomized clinical trial evidence to guide the care of CKD patients with ACS who are at a
      high risk for both recurrent ischemia and bleeding complications.

      Hypothesis to be tested: The Investigators hypothesize that use of guideline-indicated dual
      antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with ticagrelor compared to clopidogrel in CKD patients
      presenting with ACS will reduce ischemic cardiovascular events at 1 year, additionally
      without a significant increase in severe bleeding (Bleeding Associated Research Consortium or
      BARC >3 category) over the same period. This hypothesis is based on prior subgroup analysis
      of published studies.

      Randomized patients will be followed for 1 year from date of admission and events recorded
      through chart review. For patients who are event free, a phone follow-up will be done at the
      end of 1 year to note events, which will be recorded on the medical chart as well.
    
  