
    
      In a double-blind placebo design, this study investigates the effects of a 12 weeks treatment
      of risperidone (vs placebo) for participants with 22q11DS without psychotic symptoms.

      The research hypothesis of this study is that a short-term (12 weeks) risperidone
      (Risperdal®) treatment during a critical phase of development (adolescence) will result in
      improved cognitive performance and brain changes observable using brain imaging techniques
      (Magnetic resonance Imaging, MRI and Electroencephalography, EEG). In addition, the
      beneficial effects will be observable in a follow-up evaluation, 6 months after the of
      treatment.

      Risperdal® is a marketed product and is listed in the Swiss Compendium (2015). However, it is
      not used according to its indication for the treatment of psychotic disorders. The treatment
      will be administered orally in the form of capsules containing the ground tablet in order to
      preserve the double-blind procedure (meaning that neither the examiner nor the patient knows
      whether the capsule contains the active ingredient risperidone or a placebo). The dose will
      be individually adjusted according to the weight of each participant. The lowest dose
      recommended in the Swiss Compendium is 0.25 mg/day for children. Therefore this dos will be
      prescribe at the beginning of the treatment and then gradually increased to 0.25 mg gradually
      over 7 days. For individuals weighing less than 50 kg, the recommended dose is 0.5 mg/day,
      this dose will not be exceeded for these individuals. For individuals over 50 kg, the
      recommended dose is 1 mg/day. this dose will not exceeded for individuals over 50 kg.
      However, in order to adapt as closely as possible to the different weight categories, a dose
      of 0.75 mg will be given to the 51 to 70 kg weight category, and a maximum dose of 1 mg to
      individuals over 70 kg. Treatment will also be discontinued in progressive stages over a
      period of two weeks.

      Each participant will complete a series of evaluations including cognitive tests and brain
      imaging (MRI and EEG) on 3 occasions: the 1st before the treatment period (baseline), the 2nd
      at the end of the treatment period (short-term effect) and the 3rd 6 months after the end of
      treatment (long-term effect).
    
  