
    
      Mortality in severe malaria remains ~15% despite the best available parasiticidal
      antimalarial therapy, intravenous artesunate. Adjunctive therapies in combination with
      anti-parasitic drugs have the potential to improve outcomes. However, currently there are no
      proven adjunctive therapies for the treatment of severe malaria, which can improve
      case-fatality when used in combination with anti-parasitic drugs. This research proposal
      focuses on exploring if paracetamol prevents renal dysfunction caused by free haemoglobin
      induced oxidative damage in severe malaria.

      Blackwater fever epidemiology As early as the 1800s, blackwater fever complicating severe
      malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum was recognized as an important cause of morbidity and
      mortality, with a 25-30% mean mortality rate. The etiology and pathogenesis is poorly
      understood but it is characterized by massive intravascular haemolysis and passage of black
      or red urine, which can lead to renal impairment and death. This manifestation was linked to
      quinine therapy as its occurrence nearly disappeared during the chloroquine era from 1950 to
      1980. Since 1990, the resurgence in the number of cases noted in both malaria-free and
      malarious areas in non-immune and immune individuals has generated renewed interest into this
      manifestation of severe malaria. The largest malaria clinical trials report blackwater fever
      incidences of 7% and 4% in Asian adult patients with severe malaria treated with artesunate
      and quinine, respectively and 4% in African children treated with either drug. The prevalence
      of blackwater fever in Chittagong, Bangladesh was recently determined in a pilot study to be
      15% with associated renal failure and mortality rates of 42.9% and 14.2% respectively.

      Blackwater fever pathogenesis Although the exact mechanism linking falciparum malaria and
      blackwater fever is uncertain, numerous explanations have been suggested. It has been
      proposed to occur in 4 specific circumstances: (1) in case patients with G6PD deficiency with
      or without malaria who take oxidant drugs (primaquine) (2) in case patients with G6PD
      deficiency and malaria untreated and treated with quinine (3) when patients (normal G6PD)
      with severe malaria are treated with quinine (4) when people exposed to malaria self-medicate
      with quinine or related amino-alcohol drugs. However, new circumstances of blackwater fever
      have emerged, occurring in patients with normal G6PD levels with severe malaria who have
      received artesunate rather than quinine.

      Role of oxidative stress and free haem The fundamental characteristic of blackwater fever is
      the presence of massive haemolysis of both infected and uninfected erythrocytes and release
      of free haemoglobin. The free haem is highly cytotoxic, and an important scavenger of nitric
      oxide, promoting endothelial damage and is proposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of
      renal injury and cerebral malaria. When the degree of intravascular haemolysis exceeds the
      capacity of plasma haptoglobin to bind the haemoglobin released from red blood cells, free
      haemoglobin is then filtered by the glomeruli and enters the renal tubules. In a series of
      renal biopsies, fine and coarse haemoglobin granules are present in the proximal tubules,
      while haemoglobin casts and granular casts predominate in the distal and collecting tubules
      in patients with blackwater fever and intravascular haemolysis. This classic theory of renal
      damage by tubular precipitation is challenged by recent findings of reversing oxidative
      properties of free haem can prevent renal damage. The free haemoglobin present is pathogenic
      as the ferrous haem can be oxidized to the ferric state (FeIII) subsequently conferring
      peroxidase activity to the haemoglobin. Consequently, the haemoglobin can reduce
      hydroperoxides, such as hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and lipid hydroperoxides, which generate the
      ferryl state (FeIV=O) of haemoglobin and a globin protein radical.

      Haem Fe(III) protein + H2O2 --> haem [Fe(IV)=O] protein• + H+ + H2O The ferryl haem and
      protein radical can then generate lipid radicals by oxidation of free and
      phospholipid-esterified unsaturated fatty acids. The arachidonic side chains of membrane
      phospholipids are particularly vulnerable to this free radical-mediated damage in the complex
      cascade of lipid oxidation leading to the generation of F2-isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs) and
      isofurans (IsoFs). Evidence suggests that F2-isoPs generated by the haemoprotein-catalyzed
      oxidation of lipids are responsible for the oxidative damage and vasoconstriction associated
      with renal injury in the setting of hemolytic disorders and rhabdomyolysis.

      Paracetamol and oxidative stress A novel mechanism of paracetamol was recently demonstrated,
      showing that paracetamol acts as a potent inhibitor of haemoprotein-catalyzed lipid
      peroxidation by reducing ferryl haem to its less toxic ferric state and quenching globin
      radicals. This effect is enhanced 14-fold in an acidic milieu. In a recent proof of concept
      trial, paracetamol at therapeutic levels was shown to significantly decrease oxidant injury
      in the kidney, improve renal function and reduce renal damage by inhibiting the
      haemoprotein-catalyzed lipid peroxidation, mediated by redox cycling of the haem moiety of
      myoglobin, in a rat model of rhabdomyolysis-induced renal injury.

      Rationale Since adults with severe malaria and blackwater fever associated with haemolysis
      demonstrate increased concentrations of cell-free haemoglobin, severe acidosis and urinary
      F2-IsoPs, the investigators hypothesize that this novel inhibitory mechanism of paracetamol
      may provide renal protection in this population by reducing the haemoprotein-induced lipid
      peroxidation. As there is currently no consensus that exists concerning adequate medical
      treatment for blackwater fever, the potential application of this safe and extensively used
      drug would be of great benefit.

      Proposed activities The main activity proposed is a randomised open label controlled study of
      paracetamol in patients with severe falciparum malaria to assess its modulating effect on
      renal function and oxidative stress.
    
  