
    
      Emergency Department (ED) wait times and overcrowding is a national problem of considerable
      magnitude with few favorable solutions. Canadian EDs are failing to meet national targets and
      have some of the longest wait times compared to peer industrialized countries. For patients,
      long wait times mean pain or discomfort for hours before being seen. To address these
      challenges, the investigators propose "SurgeCon", a quality improvement platform to reduce ED
      wait times and improve patient satisfaction. This study will investigate the effects of
      SurgeCon on health system key performance outcomes and patient-reported experience and
      satisfaction. The study uses a comparative effectiveness-implementation hybrid design. This
      type of hybrid design has been recommended to help achieve rapid translational gains that can
      hasten the movement of interventions from research to practice to public health impact. In
      our hybrid design, the investigators will use a pragmatic stepped wedge cluster randomized
      trial (SW-CRT) design that enrols four 24/7 on-site ED physician support (category A)
      hospitals into a 31-month trial. At the beginning of the trial, participating sites will
      operate under a 'usual care' model as a control condition. Each site will transition from
      providing 'usual care' to the new 'care model' at predetermined periods during the study. At
      the end of the trial, each of the sites will have eventually transitioned to the SurgeCon
      enabled care model. Each cluster in this trial will be randomly assigned to an arm of the
      trial as is the case with most stepped wedge trials.

      The platform includes an eHealth component, a training program for ED staff, and a series of
      quality improvement initiatives. SurgeCon optimizes patient flow and creates a more
      patient-centric environment; it monitors ED capacity in real-time and helps address
      overcrowding by prescribing a series of actions customized to maximize patient flow in
      response to the level of demand in the ED. SurgeCon was recently piloted in a rural hospital
      and was associated with dramatic improvements in ED efficiency. Our time series analysis
      showed a significant decrease in the number of patients who left the ED without being seen by
      a physician (LWBS) (12.1% to 4.6%, p<0.004), time to physician initial assessment (PIA)
      (104.3 minutes to 42.2 minutes, p<0.001), and length of stay in the ED (LOS) (199.4 minutes
      to 134.4 minutes p<0.002).

      The investigators plan to implement and evaluate SurgeCon in other hospitals in Newfoundland
      and Labrador (NL) to determine whether these results can be reproduced in urban and other
      rural EDs. SurgeCon will be considered a completely successful intervention if it requires
      minimal resources from the ED/health system for its continued operation, improves patient
      satisfaction and outcomes, and creates better value ED services by reducing the cost of
      providing the services. The payer organization that will be a rewarding success is the
      Eastern Health regional health authority (EH) in NL. As the largest health authority in NL,
      EH is a key organization for the delivery of care and setting provincial standards. It is
      responsible for managing both rural and urban hospitals and reflects the diversity of
      institutions across the rest of Canada.

      SurgeCon's evaluation and implementation strategy will include a four-stage iterative
      process: 1. Exploration (month 1-10); 2. Adoption (months 11-12, 17-18, 23-24 and 29-30); 3.
      Active Implementation (months 13-36); 4. Sustainment (months 19-48). To measure success, the
      investigators will use an innovative comparative effectiveness implementation hybrid design.
      The investigators will test the effects of SurgeCon on ED key performance indicators (LOS,
      PIA, and LWBS) and patient-reported experiences (PREMs), while also capturing data related to
      its implementation across participating EDs. Our innovative clinical trial (iCT) design will
      test the effectiveness of SurgeCon using a pragmatic stepped wedge cluster randomized
      controlled trial accompanied by a cost-effectiveness analysis. Our stepped-wedge iCT design
      will assign each hospital to a step through a random ordering process. In addition to ED key
      performance indicators (KPI) and PREMs, the investigators will also measure implementation
      outcomes related to SurgeCon's scalability, adaptability, sustainability and overall costs.
      Implementation outcomes will be evaluated by patients, providers/staff and health system
      managers using a mixed methods process. The hybrid evaluation/implementation design
      represents an integrated knowledge translation approach that will ensure research findings
      are eventually integrated into policy and practice. Moreover, a multidisciplinary research
      team including patient partners, decision-makers, frontline clinicians, and researchers will
      lead this research.
    
  