
    
      A randomized double blind control trial will be done. Total 188 Covid-19 patients will be
      enrolled in this trial who are RT-PCR confirmed case of mild cases. Before enrollment, base
      line investigations will be done and as per eligibility criteria 188 (one hundred eighty
      eight) patients of mild symptoms will be selected by random sampling. Ninety four diagnosed
      patients (Group-A) of Covid-19 will be in the experimental group and 94 Covid-19 diagnosed
      patients (Group-B) will be in the control group.

      Group -A will be given combination treatment of Tab Ivermectin and Cap Doxycycline along with
      standard therapy and Group -B will be treated by standard therapy with placebo.

      Follow up will be done every day in both group with all the parameters as stated above and
      will be documented.

      On 5th day of treatment, if fever subsides final outcome will be measured by result of RT-PCR
      test preferably from one designated lab with sample of nasal swab for all. Subject to RT-PCR
      test negative result again on 6th day another RT-PCR test will be done at 24 hours apart. But
      if RT-PCR test result remain positive on 5th day, again on 10th day same test is to be done
      and also on 11th day subject to test result as negative on 10th day.

      Death of the patients will be documented as well. Regarding safety issues of the drugs we
      shall monitor for any SAE and would report to the DSMB for proper management guideline

      After six weeks of recovery one of our research staff will contact the patient over phone to
      know about his/her recent health condition.

      Randomization will be done by online software "Sealed Envelope" by using computer. Necessary
      inputs will be given to the software regarding sample size, number of sets and number of
      blocks required and the software automatically generate two distinct sets of random number.

      "Sealed Envelope" will generate patient numbers into block of four and divide them into
      groups. While procreating random numbers and thus equally distribute the patients into two
      comparable groups. The randomization and sequence generation process will be conducted by a
      competent third person who has no relationship with this study.

      Data analysis will be done by using SPSS software. After collection of data from the
      patients, all data will be checked and entered carefully. Data will be interpreted by
      descriptive frequency of the relevant variables The primary analysis will be a stratified
      log-rank test of the time to recovery with Ivermectin and Doxycycline as compared with
      standard protocol, with stratification by disease severity.

      Descriptive frequency of baseline investigation, follow up table on 2nd, 3rd and 4th day,
      Final outcome table on 5th day and 10thday will also be presented.
    
  