
    
      The Stony Brook University (SBU) clinical psychology doctoral program is currently ranked 4th
      among the top clinical psychology doctoral programs in the country (2016, U.S. News and World
      Report, Best Graduate Schools) and is accredited by both the APA Committee on Accreditation
      (APA CoA) and the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS). The Krasner
      Psychological Center (KPC) is a psychology training clinic housed in the Department of
      Psychology and associated with the doctoral program in clinical psychology at SBU. The
      mission of the KPC is twofold, namely, (a) to provide high quality experiential training in
      the delivery of psychological services to trainees in the associated 3 doctoral program, as
      well as to externs, doctoral interns, and post-doctoral residents; and (b) to provide
      evidence-based mental health services to the nearby communities. All supervisors at the KPC
      are doctoral-level psychologists. Psychotherapy services at the KPC are based on
      Cognitive-Behavior Therapy models and include weekly, outpatient psychotherapy for a wide
      range of problems in children and adults; therapy is designed to be short-term, personalized,
      and effective in empowering clients to manage their symptoms and distress.

      Similarly, the Mind Body Clinical Research Center (MBCRC) bases their interventions on
      evidence-based practices that address multiple factors associated with health impairments.
      Additionally, they focus on providing comprehensive psychiatric evaluations and assessments
      to aid in the creation of adequate treatment plans. The MBCRC specifically focuses on using
      mind-body to help identify risk and resiliency factors associated with mental health outcomes
      in their clients. This technique works in support of the scientific link that has been shown
      to exist between our mental/physical health with overall wellness and quality of life. Using
      this technique, the MBCRC is able to help individuals make changes early on that can help to
      prevent worsening symptomology of mental illness, preserve physical health, and make
      improvements in overall wellness.

      The single-session consultation, a one-time service provided to adolescents and adults on the
      clinics' waitlist (which may extend from 2 to 6 months), includes components of
      Solution-Focused Brief Therapy (SFBT). SFBT lends itself naturally to the single-session
      format in that it focuses on the present and future, targeting the desired outcome of
      therapy, a future in which the primary problem is absent or less influential. Importantly,
      SFBT providers focus on the factors that maintain/underlie solutions rather than the factors
      than maintain/underlie problems.

      GENERAL SCREENING PROCEDURES

      When individuals seeking services at the KPC and MBCRC express interest in scheduling an
      appointment with a clinician, they are first instructed (by phone) about the clinical and
      research aims by the clinic's clinical research coordinator. The clinical research
      coordinator is a trained, independent staff member and is not involved in the provision of
      psychotherapy or single-session consultation services. The clinical research coordinator
      conducts a standardized, structured phone screen with the individual to identify primary
      reasons for seeking mental health services and to assess the appropriateness of presenting
      concerns for treatment at the KPC or MBCRC. If the individual is eligible to receive services
      at one of our clinics (i.e., if their concerns fall within the scope of clinical problems
      treated; if the individual/family is English-speaking; and if problems are not so acute as to
      require immediate hospitalization, in which case they are referred to the nearest emergency
      room), the client is placed on the waitlist for psychotherapy services.

      During the same phone call, if the identified patient is 13 years or older, the clinical
      research coordinator then introduces the opportunity to participate in the Single Session
      Consultation (SSC) service at the KPC or MBCRC.

      The clinical research coordinator indicates that as part of SSC service participation the
      client will be asked to complete questionnaires in order to provide their clinician with
      information about their current mental health, and for the purposes of planning and assessing
      the usefulness of services. The clinical research coordinator will also indicate that the
      individual may opt to allow or not allow us to use this data for research purposes. They will
      be informed that if they do choose to allow their data to be used for research, it will be
      de-identified and combined with other patient data for the purposes of understanding how well
      our treatment programs work for different types of individuals. The coordinator will
      emphasize that their choice to participate, or not participate in research will NOT impact
      their eligibility for the SSC service or longer-term psychotherapy in any way.

      The clinical research coordinator will again review the purpose of the research study and
      obtain fully informed consent at the beginning of the patient's in-person intake visit. A
      private clinic room will be available for this purpose. Adult patients (or adolescent patient
      and her/his parent) can either agree or disagree to allow the research team to use their
      clinical data for research by checking the appropriate check-box on the paper consent form.
      Patients will also be able to elect to participate in the specific study described in the
      consent form and/or to have their de-identified data added to a registry for future
      unspecified research projects. Obtaining consent verbally by phone and in person at the
      initial intake visit will allow patients to ask questions and minimize the risk of coercion.

      DATA COLLECTION PROCEDURES SPECIFIC TO THE SINGLE-SESSION CONSULTATION SERVICE

      The following measures will be administered to clients immediately prior to participation in
      the SSC:

        -  Brief Personal Data Questionnaire (Adult or Adolescent version)

        -  State Hope Scale (assessing 'agency')

        -  Brief Hopelessness Scale (assessing 'hope/hopelessness')

        -  Brief Symptom Inventory - 18

      Then, immediately following the one-hour SSC session, participants will be asked to complete
      immediate post-SSC questionnaires:

        -  State Hope Scale (assessing 'agency')

        -  Brief Hopelessness Scale (assessing 'hope/hopelessness')

        -  Consultation Feedback Form

      Finally, two weeks after completing the SSC, the clinical research coordinator will contact
      the client via phone to administer the Brief Symptom Inventory a second time. At the end of
      this phone call, the clinical research coordinator will then give the client the option to
      remain on the waitlist for long-term psychotherapy or remove themselves from the waitlist for
      psychotherapy, depending on whether they feel their clinical needs have been successfully
      addressed.

      For therapists, "Therapist beliefs about SSC" measure will be administered before SSC
      training, immediately after SSC training, and two months after the SSC training date.

      NOTE 1: A client may reschedule an SSC session if they are unable to attend it. The KPC and
      MBCRC will not limit the number of times a client is permitted to reschedule an SSC session,
      should they remain interested in receiving one. Additionally, if clients endorse significant
      clinical risk (to themselves or others) while participating in the study, study procedures
      may be interrupted (e.g., an SSC session may be terminated in order to address urgent
      clinical needs). If a client's initial SSC session is interrupted or terminated due to a need
      to address urgent clinical risk, the client will be permitted to reschedule their SSC session
      for a later date.

      NOTE 2: If a participant does not respond to the clinic's requests for a 2-week follow-up
      phone call within two weeks of being contacted, per KPC and MBCRC policy, it will be assumed
      that the client is no longer interested in services and will be removed from the waiting
      list. Pre-to-post SSC data for these clients will still be used for analyses unless they
      request that their data not be used in the study.

      NOTE 3: The lead investigator (Jessica Schleider) will train all SSC clinicians prior to
      their delivering SSC sessions with clients. This training will be approximately 2 hours in
      length and will review the principles and key elements of the SSC protocol, in addition to
      challenges that might emerge while delivering the SSC. The written SSC protocol used by
      clinicians in the study will be made publicly available by the Principal Investigator upon
      project completion.
    
  