
    
      Background: Dental caries is still a public health problem among Brazilian children and
      doubts still exist regarding the most effective restorative technique. The aim of this
      pragmatic randomized clinical trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of single and
      multiple-surfaces restorations performed following the Atraumatic Restorative Treatment (ART)
      premises compared with Conventional Treatment (CT) in primary and permanent teeth.

      Methods: A total of 1,214 5-to-13 years-old children with at least one single or
      multiple-surface dentin caries lesion in primary or permanent molars will be selected in the
      public schools of Barueri-SP. The participants will be randomly divided into 2 groups: CT
      (Filtek Bulk Fill - 3M) and ART (Ketac Molar Easy Mix - 3M) and treated by ten untrained
      dentists in a dental office inside the schools. The restorations will be evaluated after 6,
      12 and 24 months by an independent trained and calibrated examiner. The restoration and tooth
      survival, the cost-effectiveness analysis between the two groups and the operator preference
      of the treatment regarding the techniques will be also evaluated. Kaplan-Meier survival
      analysis and log-rank test will be applied to the survival of restorations. All the average
      event rates in the two groups will be modelled and compared with a Cox proportional hazard
      shared frailty model since there is an operator cluster-effect. The significance level for
      all analyses will be 5%.

      Discussion: Our hypothesis is that despite similar expected effectiveness between ART using
      high viscosity GIC and conventional treatment using composite resin when treating single or
      multiple-surface in posterior primary and permanent teeth, ART presents superior
      cost-effectiveness. The results of this trial will support decision-making by clinicians and
      policy makers

      Keywords: atraumatic restorative treatment, composite resin, glass ionomer cement, randomized
      clinical trial, cost effectiveness analysis
    
  