
    
      Patients presenting to the Emergency Room (ER) or out-patient department with a diagnosis of
      moderately severe bronchiolitis (as defined by inclusion/exclusion criteria below) will be
      approached for entry into the study. After the initial routine assessment by the ER medical
      and nursing staff, informed consent will be obtained and the infant will be randomized to
      receive treatment in a double-blinded fashion with 4 ml of nebulized study solution
      containing 1 mg salbutamol (bronchodilator) plus either 3% hypertonic saline (HS, study
      group) or 0.9% saline (NS, control group) every 20 minutes for a total of 3 doses. After an
      observation period of 1 hour following the last dose, the infant will be reassessed by the
      attending physician in the ER for disposition (admit, discharge home, remain in ER for
      further treatment) at which point the infant's active involvement in the study will end. All
      subsequent therapy, if needed, will be at the sole discretion of the attending physician. The
      family of each recruited subject will be contacted by phone 7 days later to assess resolution
      of symptoms or the presence of any unexpected adverse effects.

      Clinical response to the above treatment will also be determined independently by the study
      physician or designate utilizing a standardized respiratory scoring system, the Respiratory
      Distress Assessment Instrument (RDAI), at study entry and after the post-treatment
      observation period. The primary outcome measure is to compare the rate of admission to
      hospital between the study and control groups. A secondary outcome measure will involve the
      assessment of change in the RDAI between study entry and post-treatment.

      The infant will remain in the ER throughout the study period and receive standard ongoing
      monitoring by the nursing staff. In the unlikely event of significant clinical worsening
      during this period, the ER physician on duty will be notified to assess and intervene as
      he/she feels appropriate. The site study investigator will be immediately notified of all
      such occurrences by the research assistant involved.

      The study will be conducted over a single bronchiolitis season from November 1, 2008 to April
      1, 2009. There will be 2 study sites as listed below with the name of the study site
      director.

        -  Royal Victoria Hospital of Barrie (Emergency Department), Barrie ON (B.A. Kuzik, MD,
           FRCP (lead investigator))

        -  Kingston General Hospital (Emergency Department) and Hotel Dieu Hospital (Emergency
           Department, Children's Outpatient Centre), Kingston ON (M. P. Flavin, MB, MRCP, FRCP)
    
  