
    
      Determination of H. pylori status Prior to enrollment, the status of H. pylori infection will
      be determined by (1) rapid urease test (CLO test, Kimberly-Clark, USA) from antrum biopsy,
      (2) histological examination (Giemsa stain) of antral and body samples (two from the antral
      mucosa and two from the corpus mucosa), and (3) culture. Positive in any two of the three
      tests will be defined as positive for H. pylori infection. After-treatment H. pylori status
      will be determined by 13C-Urea Breath Test (13C-UBT) at 6 weeks after the completion of
      treatment. Successful eradication of H. pylori is defined as a negative 13C-UBT result.

      Eradication Therapy Using a computer-generated number sequence, patients who meet the
      inclusion criteria and do not have any one of the exclusion criteria will be randomized to
      receive one of the following regimens: (1) CALa regimen: clarithromycin 500mg twice daily,
      amoxicillin 1000mg twice daily, and lansoprazole 30mg twice daily for 7 days, or (2) LALa
      regimen: levofloxacin 750mg (levofloxacin500 1.5 tablets) once daily, amoxicillin 1000mg
      twice daily, lansoprazole 30mg twice daily for 7 days (Figure 1). Adverse events will be
      recorded throughout the trial and during the follow-up period. Patients who do not return for
      13C-UBT at 6 weeks after completion of treatment will be considered lost-to-follow-up and
      will be excluded from the per protocol (PP) analysis.

      Rescue regimen for treatment failure after first-line regimen Patients who remained positive
      for H. pylori after the initial treatment as determined by the 13C-UBT will be followed by
      endoscopy. Biopsy will be done for H. pylori culture and antibiotic susceptibility test. All
      of them will then be treated with rescue regimen. The rescue regimens will be given in a
      cross-over manner (Figure 1). Patients who are treated with CALa regimen for 7 days as
      initial treatment will be treated with LALa regimen for 10 days as rescue treatment. Patients
      who are treated with LALa regimen for 7 days as initial treatment will be treated with CALa
      regimen for 10 days as rescue treatment.

      Compliance and Adverse Effect Patients' compliance will be assessed by standardized interview
      at the end of treatment as well as by pill count in the medication boxes returned at the
      interview. Compliance is considered low when more than 20% of pills is found in the box. At
      enrollment, the patients will be informed of the common side effects from the studied
      antibiotics, including diarrhea, taste disturbance, nausea, bloating, loss of appetite,
      vomiting, abdominal pain, constipation, headache, and skin rash.
    
  