
    
      Pancreatic cysts were rarely reported previously, however, the increased use of advanced
      imaging techniques (mainly computerized topography and magnetic resonance imaging), for
      evaluating suspected pancreatic pathology or for other medical reasons has increased the
      detection of pancreatic cysts. Prevalence can range from 2.5-38% (1,3). These rates vary by
      patient's age and modality of imaging used (i.e: CT vs MRI). The rate of a malignant
      transformation in pancreatic cysts is not well known, however, very low. A study using the
      SEER data reported this rate to be 10.8 for every 100,000 women, or 13.8 for every 100,000
      men with more than 85% of malignancies being detected in patient's age 40-84 years of age.
      (4) The most common histological type was adenocarcinoma, with mucinous producing tumors
      making about 4% of all adenocarcinomas detected. Pancreatic cysts are categorized under two
      major groups; serous and mucinous. Serous cystadenomas are thin walled cysts and are not
      associated with precancer. Mucinous cysts on the other hand have various diameters and
      contain viscous fluids which have the tendency to progress to pancreatic cancer.
      Radiofrequency ablation was recently proposed as an alternative for patients who could not or
      would not undergo surgical resection. In a recent study under the title "Endoscopic
      ultrasound guided radiofrequency ablation, for pancreatic cystic neoplasms and neuroendocrine
      tumors", eight patients with pancreatic cystic lesions were recruited for the study. Six
      patients had pancreatic cystic neoplasm. Post procedure imaging in 3-6 months showed complete
      resolutions of the cysts in 2 cases after using EUS RFA. No major complications were observed
      within 48 hours after the procedure, and two patients had mild abdominal pain which was
      resolved within 3 days after the surgery. (1) Management of pancreatic cysts includes
      surgical or non-surgical, or can be observational with repeat imaging. Management type
      depends on factors including pathologic features of the cyst on imaging (cyst size, enhancing
      cyst walls, duct size…etc), and the patient's ability to undergo surgery. Older patients with
      preexisting morbidities may not be eligible for a surgical resection, thus the use of
      endoscopic ultrasound interventions maybe appropriate. Endoscopic ultrasound guided radio
      frequency ablation has been used in treating certain pancreatic lesions, with a favorable
      pancreatic outcome (5)
    
  