
    
      Diabetes mellitus is an important risk factor for the development of contrast induced
      nephropathy (CIN), acting as a 'risk multiplier', amplifying the risk of acute kidney injury
      in these patients. There are important prognostic implications following the development of
      CIN and it is associated with a significantly increased mortality at 1 year. Diabetes is a
      major risk factor for coronary disease and these patients often have significant
      co-morbidities.

      Currently creatinine is used to assess risk but this often lags behind clinical status. There
      is a pressing need for the development of novel, specific biomarkers to improve the detection
      and treatment of CIN and improve patient outcome in this high risk population.

      This is a single centre,study in diabetic patients already undergoing a planned procedure,
      that is, a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). They are patients who are deemed to have
      an enhanced risk of contrast induced nephropathy by virtue of their diabetic and renal
      status, the latter being defined by a reduced eGFR which is a marker of renal disease and is
      based on the creatinine and characteristics of the patient. No additional interventions that
      are not part of their routine clinical care will be undertaken in these patients. We will be
      identifying natural biomarkers by obtaining serum and urine samples from these patients.

      From a retrospective audit of the cardiac catheter lab database and a review of the
      literature we have estimated that a sample size of approximately 250 patients with DM and CKD
      (eGFR < 60 ml/ml) will be needed. We envisage that that we will encounter at least 50 cases
      of CIN from this cohort. (based on an expected incidence of CIN between 15-30% in this
      group). Looking for a study rate difference of at least 25%, for power of 95% and confidence
      intervals of 95% (with Fleiss correction) we will need at least 204 evaluable patients (to
      avoid Type 2 error). In view of potential drop-out of 10-15% we therefore intend to recruit
      250 patients By using C statistics (Receiver operator curve analysis) we will be able to
      confirm or otherwise that either a particular biomarker or a combination of several
      biomarkers within 18 hours of procedure will increase the predictive power of CIN developing
      72 hours later.

      As part of their normal care patients will arrive in hospital on the morning of their planned
      PCI. They will at some point during the day undergo their PCI. Blood and urine will be taken
      just prior to the procedure and then at 2 hours, 4 hours, 8 to 12 hours, pre discharge and 3
      days after the PCI.

      We will then analyse the samples using ELISA techniques and correlate the biomarkers with
      creatinine to explore which biomarkers or panel of biomarkers may be able to diagnose
      contrast induced nephropathy earlier than creatinine can currently.
    
  