
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the rate of clinical benefit (objective response plus stable disease) for
      patients treated with cycles consisting of 2 weeks of vorinostat followed by 6 weeks of AI
      therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of vorinostat in patients with metastatic breast
      cancer.

      II. Assess the change in estrogen receptor (ER) expression, measured as the change in
      fluoroestradiol standard uptake value (FES SUV) using fluoroestradiol-positron emission
      tomography (FES-PET) completed per protocol 7184 after two weeks of vorinostat therapy and
      after 8 weeks of therapy.

      III. Assess tumor metabolic response, measured as the change in fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) SUV
      using FDG PET completed per protocol 7184 after two weeks of vorinostat therapy and after 8
      weeks of therapy.

      IV. Assess the change in hormone levels (estradiol, estrone, follicle-stimulating hormone
      [FSH], sex binding globulin, testosterone, and free testosterone) after 8 weeks of therapy.

      V. Assess the change in ER, progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 (HER2), androgen receptor (AR), epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR), vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) tumor expression after two weeks of vorinostat therapy in
      patients that consent to optional tissue biopsy procedure.

      VI. Assess the time to progression and the overall survival of patients treated with cycles
      of 2 weeks of vorinostat followed by 6 weeks of AI.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 2 weeks followed by AI therapy
      comprising anastrozole PO QD, letrozole PO QD, OR exemestane PO QD for 6 weeks. Courses
      repeat every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months until disease progression, and then annually thereafter.
    
  