
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of image-guided intensity-modulated photon
      (IMRT) and proton therapy (IMPT) both with simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) dose
      escalation to the SIBVi (internal SIB volume; defined as the gross tumor volume with
      consideration of respiratory motion plus setup uncertainty margin) for patients with stage
      II/IIIB non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) receiving concurrent standard chemotherapy and
      proton irradiation. (Phase I) II. Assess and compare survival free of grade III treatment
      related toxicity and local progression-free survival from day 1 of concurrent chemoradiation
      for stage II-IIIB NSCLC patients treated with image-guided robustly-optimized IMPT versus
      (vs.) IMRT, both delivered with simultaneous integrated boost (SIB). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine treatment-related acute and late toxicity. II. Correlate changes in standardized
      uptake values (SUV) on positron emission tomography (PET) and study endpoints (toxicity,
      tumor response, local control).

      III. Correlate changes in peripheral blood biomarkers (genes, micro-ribonucleic acid [RNA],
      proteins) and the study endpoints.

      IV. Estimate progression-free and overall survival. V. Document and compare symptom burden
      before starting chemoradiation, weekly during treatment, bi-weekly from end of treatment
      until first follow up, and at each follow-up visit thereafter by using the MD Anderson
      Symptom Inventory - Plus (MDASI-Plus) and European Quality of Life Instrument-5 dimensions
      (EQ-5D).

      VI. Perform cost effectiveness between IMPT and IMRT both with SIB treatment. VII. Correlate
      imaged response, clinical response, blood biomarkers and symptom burdens to dose distribution
      patterns.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a randomized phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients undergo image-guided IMRT with SIB or IMPT with SIB once daily (QD) 5 days
      a week for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo image-guided IMRT SIB QD 5 days a week for up to 6 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo image-guided IMPT SIB QD 5 days a week for up to 6 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-8 weeks, every 3-4 months
      for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  