
    
      PURPOSE

        1. To investigate if patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) who also report bloating
           are more likely to report clinically important gastrointestinal symptoms following
           ingestion of fructose or fructans compared to glucose.

        2. To investigate the mechanisms by which those symptoms might be caused.

      There will be a parallel pilot study of age and gender frequency matched healthy volunteers
      (HV).

      HYPOTHESES

        1. Patients with IBS will report more symptoms after ingestion of either fructose or
           fructans compared to an equal mass of glucose.

        2. Fructans and fructose will each cause greater H2 excretion and greater volume of gas in
           the colon (CGV) than glucose.

        3. Fructose will cause greater increase in small bowel fluid volume/ water content (SBWC)
           than glucose or fructans.

        4. Greater CGV will provoke more and/or more intense symptoms

        5. Greater SBWC will provoke more and/or more intense symptoms.

      Hypotheses arising from pilot data on healthy volunteers

        1. Fructans and fructose will cause greater H2 excretion and volume of gas in the colon in
           IBS patients than in HV.

        2. Fructose will cause greater increase in SBWC in IBS patients than in HV.

        3. IBS patients will report more symptoms after ingestion of fructose or fructans than will
           HV.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

        -  To compare the proportion of patients reporting clinically important symptoms after
           fructose and fructans with the proportion after glucose.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        -  Investigate the differences in effect of fructose, fructans and glucose on breath H2
           excretion, SBWC, and CGV.

        -  Investigate the relationships between symptoms H2 excretion, symptoms and SBWC, and
           symptoms and CGV.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE

        -  Compare the differences between HV and IBS patients in their reactions to glucose,
           fructose and fructans.

      TRIAL / STUDY CONFIGURATION

      This is a 3-period, 3-treatment, placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over trial of IBS
      patients taking 40gm of glucose, fructose or fructans. There is a parallel study of age and
      gender frequency matched healthy volunteers for pilot comparison data.

      This study consists of 4 visits to the hospital or the 1.5T MRI site, Sir Peter Mansfield
      Magnetic Resonance Centre, University of Nottingham. The first visit will be a screening
      visit where potential participants will be assessed for eligibility and consent for the
      study. At this visit they will be given the long form of the Information Sheet which will be
      discussed to ensure understanding. The visit will last 1-2 hours and will include completion
      of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Questionnaire, Personal Health Questionnaire (PHQ-15)
      and Rome III criteria questionnaire, as well as brief medical history and drug history. If
      they are eligible and consent to be in the study, participants will also be given 7-day stool
      diaries, to be filled in during the week preceding each subsequent study day, and a stool
      collection kit in order to bring a sample to visit 2.

      The remaining 3 visits will be test visits, called study days. They will last around 6 hours.
      They will be at least one week apart. Participants will need to attend the 1.5T scanner at
      the Sir Peter Mansfield Magnetic Resonance Centre, University of Nottingham. On each test
      visit participants will receive (according to the randomisation of sequences) one of the 3
      test products.

      Each participant will need to fast from 8pm on the day before study days (visits 2, 3&4)
      until arrival at the study site. They will attend the 1.5T MRI scanner between 08:00 and
      08:30, give a saliva sample by spitting down a straw into a laboratory container and have a
      baseline MRI scan. After rinsing his/her mouth with a mouth wash (Corsodyl Daily Defence
      Alcohol Free Mouthwash, available in supermarkets and pharmacies), they will give a breath
      sample, complete a symptom questionnaire, complete an anxiety questionnaire - the State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory and give a second sample of saliva. They will then be given the test
      product and have another MRI, breath test and symptom questionnaire. Thereafter they will be
      imaged with a range of MRI sequences at approximately hourly intervals for 5 hours. They will
      fill in the symptom questionnaire and give a breath sample every 30 minutes for the first 2
      hours, then at hourly intervals. After the last scan, breath test and symptom report,
      participants will be offered lunch and are free to leave with a questionnaire to complete on
      the following day.

      SAMPLE SIZE AND JUSTIFICATION

      Sample size was estimated to show the difference in reporting the symptoms (yes/no) between
      glucose and fructose, and between glucose and fructans exposures in IBS patients.

      Based on the previous work by Nelis et al.(1990) we suggest that 10% of the patients will
      experience clinically important symptoms after glucose ingestion, 40 % after fructose or
      fructans exposures. We set the power to 80% and significance level to 5%. No previous
      information is available on within person correlation. If we consider the within-person
      correlation to be 0.1 then we need 35 IBS patients, if the within-person correlation is 0.2
      then we need 31 patients, and if 0.4 then 23 patients. We plan to gather complete datasets
      from 30 IBS patients.

      Pilot study on HV: for exploratory purposes we aim to collect data on 30 HV.
    
  