
    
      It has already been shown that increased certain markers of stress, such as prolonged
      elevation of CRP in the absence of bacterial infection, increased free cortisol and serum
      copeptin, are associated with an excess of mortality in cirrhosis.

      MPs are membrane vesicles of variable size between 0.1 and 1 .mu.m, released into the
      extracellular space following activation or cellular apoptosis. MPs are also found in the
      circulating blood of healthy volunteers and their plasma levels rise in certain diseases to
      increased thrombotic risk, such as in cancer. Their membrane is composed of antigens whose
      organization is characteristic of the parent cell and negatively charged phospholipids,
      phosphatidylserines, conferring pro-coagulant properties to these MPs.

      Currently, work on the MPs are increasing following the discovery of their involvement in
      physiological processes such as proliferation, differentiation, cell activation and immune
      response but it is certainly their pro-thrombogenic power that was the most studied.

      Recent studies have also implicated MPs in the pathophysiology of chronic liver disease.
      Cirrhotic patients have elevated concentrations of MPs from leukocytes, endothelial cells and
      hepatocytes compared to control subjects, and concentrations of MPs increase with worsening
      liver function. Increasing MPs during the cirrhosis may be related on the one hand with a
      decreased clearance and secondly with an excess of proinflammatory cytokines by increasing
      the phenomenon of intestinal bacterial translocation. The assumption of the role of systemic
      inflammation in the training of MPs is reinforced by the existence of a significant
      correlation between the original MPs hepatocyte or buffy endothelial and CRP Thus, the
      increase in MPs observed with the increase of PH could increase the risk of thrombosis in
      intestinal microcirculation leading to enterocytic suffering from ischemic, reflected by an
      increase in serum concentrations of I-FABP ( intestinal fatty acid binding protein). This
      suffering enterocytes leads to increased intestinal bacterial translocation and ultimately to
      increased formation of MPs. These MPs could also worsen liver function by the same phenomenon
      of thrombosis in the hepatic microcirculation.
    
  