
    
      60 unpolished and 60 polished enamel samples were prepared from extracted human molars
      collected under ethical approval.

      30 healthy volunteers were recruited and lower dental impressions were recorded using
      standard stock trays. Custom made lower orthoodontic type appliances were made by the
      laboratory to accommodate a total of four enamel (2 left and right hand side) samples
      positioned buccally in the premolar/molar region.

      The volunteers were randomly allocated into one of 3 groups: 5 mins erosion repeated x3, 10
      mins erosion repeated x3 or 15 mins erosion repeated x3 and a coin was flipped to determine
      which side the samples were to be removed for ex vivo immersion with tails for left and heads
      for right. . At the beginning of the study visit the splints were inserted and worn for 30
      minutes. Following which the enamel samples (1 polished and 1 unpolished) were removed from
      one side to begin the erosion regime. For in vivo erosion each participant was asked to rinse
      with orange juice for their either time 5, 10 or 15 minutes. This was standardised by setting
      up cups with 10 mL of the orange juice and a timer set at 1 minute. The participant was asked
      to insert the liquid into their mouths start the time and when the alarm sounded expectorate
      and repeat until they completed his/her time allocation of either 5, 10 or 15 minutes.
      Simultaneously the ex vivo samples were immersed in 20 mL of orange juice and agitated at 62
      rpm for the allocated time using an orbital shaker (Stuart Scientific, Mini Orbital Shaker
      S05, Bibby). This completed one cycle after which the removed samples were reinserted into
      the splint which was worn for a further hour after which the rinsing/immersion regime was
      repeated. The process was repeated a further instance to complete 3 cycles of erosion. After
      the 3rd and final erosion cycle the participants were given a desensitising toothpaste
      Sensodyne Repair & Protect (GSK, Weybridge, UK).

      The unpolished enamel samples were analysed before and after the experiment to measure
      changes in surface texture. Whereas, the polished samples were analysed for surface texture,
      hardness change and tissue loss.
    
  