
    
      The increase of nontuberculous mycobacteria lung infection Nontuberculous mycobacteria lung
      infection (NTM-LD) becomes an important clinical concern [1] because the rate of NTM
      infection has increased over the past ten years [2-3]. According to a study in Taiwan, NTM-LD
      increased from 1.26 to 7.94 per 100,000 inpatients/year during 2000 to 2008 [2]. The reasons
      for this increase are not readily clear, but could be related to the growth in numbers of the
      acquired immunocompromised population and advances of technique for mycobacterial culture
      [4-7]. Among the NTM infection in Taiwan, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) and M. abscessus
      (MAB) were most frequently isolated [2].

      The difficulty in early diagnosing and confirming true NTM-LD However, NTM exists in the
      environment ubiquitously, so the relevance (true disease patient number over the number of
      patients with disease or just colonization) is far less than 100% and varied in different NTM
      species. For example, previous studies have shown that the presence of M. kansasii and MAC
      had a clinical relevance around 47~70% and 35~42%, respectively [8-9]. As for MAB which is
      emerging pathogen worldwide, has a relevance of 33% [9]. According to contemporary NTM
      guidelines established by American thoracic society, NTM pulmonary infection is diagnosed by
      multiple criteria including microbiology of respiratory specimen and clinical findings as
      well as radiographic findings [1]. In microbiology criteria, two or more sets of positive
      sputum mycobacterial culture for the same NTM species within one year is needed.

      Because NTM colonization is not uncommon in respiratory tract, diagnosis of true pulmonary
      NTM infection is a great challenge in clinical practice. Actually, microbiology tests for
      mycobacteria are neither timely nor efficient. Mycobacterial culture is time-consuming, which
      needed weeks to wait the results even though it's current gold standard for micro-organism
      identification [10]. The nucleic acid amplification method such as polymerase chain reaction
      could not discriminate true NTM infection and solely colonization because the micro-organism
      is present in both situations [11].

      To early diagnose and then start treatment of NTM infection is important because NTM
      pulmonary infection might be rapid lethal infection in intensive care unit or in patients who
      had not received early proper treatment [6]. In addition, MAC or MAB which are most common in
      Taiwan are resistant to most of anti-tuberculosis regimen. Hence, more rapid and accurate
      diagnostic test should be developed [1-2, 6] The help of innate immunity in diagnosing NTM-LD
      The body inflammatory marker, represent our immune response, would be an indicator for
      differentiating true mycobacterial pulmonary infection from colonization while the first set
      of mycobacterial culture grew NTM [12-15]. Both interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha play critical roles in protective immunity to mycobacterial infections [16-17].
      These responses are linked to engagement of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) that is critical for
      mycobacterial infection [18]. However, the TLR-2 expression has not been evaluated between
      patients with NTM infection and colonization. According to the success of application of
      interferon-gamma release assay for tuberculosis detection [19], we understand the specific
      immune response is helpful to diagnose mycobacterial infection. We therefore focus on the
      expression of TLR-2 and associated downstream cytokines in our patients with MAC or MAB lung
      disease, which accounts the most of NTM infection [2].

      The design in our study for diagnosis In order to investigate the help of host immune in
      diagnosing NTM pulmonary infection, we initially compare the baseline expression of TLR-2 and
      downstream cytokines in the MAC or MAB infected patients and colonized subjects. Then, we
      perform an in-vitro stimulation test using mycobacteria (MAC or MAB) for co-culturing with
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients. The TLR-2 expression and cytokines activation
      will be examined after the stimulation test. We then analyze the expression difference
      between NTM-LD and colonization.
    
  