
    
      The many negative outcomes associated with loneliness in older people have rendered
      loneliness itself a new public health target. Older adults who feel lonely carry increased
      risk for reduced quality of life, morbidity, and mortality. The risk of premature mortality
      related to loneliness is at least as large as the risks arising from such factors as obesity,
      physical inactivity, alcohol misuse, and smoking. Volunteering is a promising intervention
      for reducing loneliness in later life. The primary objective of this proposal is to test the
      hypothesis that a social volunteering program for lonely older adults will lead to reduced
      loneliness and improved quality of life. National infrastructure for volunteering (The Senior
      Corps) ensures that volunteering is a highly scalable intervention.

      The investigators propose to compare the effect of a Senior Corps volunteering intervention
      versus a self-guided life review active control condition on feelings of loneliness in older
      adults. The investigators' preliminary data, as well as published studies of volunteering in
      later life, strongly suggest that volunteering should reduce loneliness. Rigorous
      experimental study is needed, however, to examine volunteering in both men and women who are
      lonely, to determine conditions that maximize benefit, and to understand mechanisms. The
      investigators hypothesize, per tenets of Self-Determination Theory, that increased social
      engagement and feelings of both usefulness and social support function as psychological
      mechanisms whereby volunteering reduces loneliness. Understanding these mechanisms will
      promote effective implementation, allowing communities to adapt volunteering programs while
      retaining the active ingredients.

      The study involves randomly assigning older adults (150 women, 150 men) who report loneliness
      to 12 months of either: 1) a structured social volunteering program, or 2) an active control
      intervention with self-guided life review.

      Specific aims are as follows: 1) To examine the effect of volunteering on loneliness and
      quality of life; 2) To examine social engagement, perceived usefulness, and social support as
      mechanisms for reducing loneliness; 3) To examine conditions under which volunteering is most
      effective at reducing loneliness.

      The volunteering intervention is already implemented nation-wide, indicating high feasibility
      of going to scale (http://www.nationalservice.gov/programs/senior-corps). If effective,
      volunteering should be "prescribed" by physicians and promoted by policy. Dissemination and
      scaling up efforts will involve connecting primary care patients and aging services clients
      who are lonely with The Senior Corps, shown to be feasible in the investigators' companion
      study, The Senior Connection. Existing infrastructure will make it possible to reach a large
      proportion of lonely older adults. Reducing loneliness has the potential to improve
      well-being and save lives.
    
  