
    
      Induction of general anesthesia has a variety of effects on the cardiovascular system, all
      resulting in impaired hemodynamics. Besides reduced sympathetic tone (Sellgren et al.;Ebert,
      Kanitz, and Kampine) and direct negative inotropic effect of anesthetic agents(Gare et al.),
      reduction of cardiac preload (Dahlgren et al.;von Spiegel et al.) plays a major role.
      Therefore administration of large amounts of i.v. fluid is a common method to counter adverse
      hemodynamic effects. In addition, substitution for fluid loss during preoperative fasting has
      been recommended for decades. However, preoperative fasting may lead to less fluid loss than
      assumed so far(Jacob et al.), and there is increasing evidence that i.v. fluid has many
      adverse effects. Perioperative weight gain due to fluid overload is an independent predictor
      of mortality (Lowell et al.). Besides a detrimental effect on gastrointestinal (Nisanevich et
      al.;Gan et al.;Noblett et al.;Wakeling et al.;Lobo et al.), i.v. fluid may harm the
      endothelial barrier (Bruegger et al.), possibly leading to a vicious circle of impaired
      barrier function and increased demand for i.v. fluids (Chappell et al.).

      In order to restore cardiac preload, timing, volume, and composition of the fluid are
      important. Free water (e.g. glucose 5%) or "physiologic saline" have very high volumes of
      distribution, while colloid application is associated with various adverse effects (Schramko
      et al.;Dart et al.). This has led to increased interest in intraoperative volume restriction
      (de Aguilar-Nascimento et al.;McArdle et al.;Muller et al.;Walsh et al.). The ideal i.v.
      fluid remains to be found, yet it exists already if autotransfusion is considered as fluid
      therapy. The recruitable amount of blood that is contained in capacity vessels of the legs
      has not been precisely determined, but estimates range from 100 to 300 ml in each leg
      (citations). The easiest way to recover the blood that is sequestered from systemic
      circulation is passive leg raising or Trendelenburg positioning, two methods that have
      entered intensive care routine to assess volume responsiveness. However in many clinical
      situations passive leg raising or Trendelenburg position is not feasible, e.g. ear, nose, and
      throat (ENT) or neurosurgical procedures. Intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) is an
      established therapeutic intervention for several indications such as lymphedema, post
      thrombotic ulcers and arterial claudication (Wienert et al.)and has been recommended for
      intraoperative prevention of thrombembolism. (Geerts et al.). When used during laparoscopy it
      can effectively reduce hemodynamic adverse effects of pneumoperitoneum (Alishahi et
      al.;Bickel et al.;Bickel et al.;Bickel et al.;Kurukahvecioglu et al.). So far its use in a
      general surgical population to promote volume restriction has not been assessed. We compared
      fluid demand in patients undergoing minor ENT surgery with or without IPC under a
      standardized, goal-directed fluid management protocol.
    
  