
    
      The Oxitone® 1000 oximetry readings are accurate and measure with an acceptable relative
      absolute difference (RAD) when compared to accepted measurement systems (FDA recognized
      predicate) the "Reference".

      The objectives:

        1. To validate the Oxitone® 1000 performance in continuous or spot oximetry monitoring,
           relative to Reference readings.

        2. To aggregate longitudinal clinical data from COPD patients measuring SpO2, pulse rate
           and activity.

        3. To evaluate the main device parameters and characteristics such as sensor placement
           tolerance, device accuracy, precision, convenience and easy-to-use at stationary supine
           or seated tests and at mild motions as well.

        4. To determine whether the measured data provided from patients (SpO2, pulse rate and
           movement) is useful in adjusting their treatment protocol.

        5. To assess the safety and tolerability (compliance) of the Oxitone® 1000 in continuous
           oximetry monitoring in order to obtain sufficient clinical trial data in order to define
           performance criteria of the device system that are acceptable / useful in the medical
           context for patient populations and other healthy individuals, in which the device is
           likely to be used.

      Overview: The trial shall assess the accuracy of the Oxitone® 1000 in measuring oxygen
      saturation, by comparing its measurement to reference devices: non-invasive SpO2 and
      pulse-rate values determined by a pulse oximeter. A total of approximately 40 subjects (20
      healthy and 20 COPD patients) will be enrolled. These subjects will be enrolled at the
      medical center pulmonary department and will be recruited from the clinic patient base. The
      subjects will be represented by male and female adults who optimally cover a range of ethnic
      backgrounds (skin pigmentation). All testing will be performed in singleton and in a blinded
      fashion. This study will be conducted with the approval of the medical center ethics
      committee.This is a comparison open study with no subject follow-up.

      Procedure: All instruments will be checked for functionality and battery operational
      capacity, prior to subject attachment including the data collection system, i.e. the wireless
      (B.T.) connectivity to P.C. (synchronized bidirectional two channels).

      The "Reference" oximeter device shall be set for averaging mode of 12 seconds. Two sensors
      will be placed simultaneously on the subjects: A standard SpO2 (reference) will be placed on
      the subject's index finger and the tested Oxitone® 1000 will be placed on the subject's wrist
      of the same hand.

      Methods:: The investigators are to study approximately 40 subjects, both normal, i.e.
      comparison group and patients with a variety of pulmonary conditions that effect oxygen
      saturation. The investigators will compare the oxygen saturation of each subject as measured
      with Oxitone® 1000 device and with the oxygen saturation as measured with calibrated
      conventional FDA approved pulse oximeter (predicate). The "Reference". No treatment decision
      will be made utilizing the results of the tested device.

      Trial design:

      A. Healthy subjects: Spot-check measurements of 20 healthy volunteers simultaneously tested
      by using Oxitone oximeter and standard fingertip pulse oximeter at stationary state i.e. at
      sitting and standing positions up to 6 minutes each.

      1. A 6-minute.walk: oximetry tests of 20 healthy volunteers simultaneously tested using
      Oxitone oximeter and standard fingertip pulse oximeter in accordance with the industry
      (Medical) standards of 6-min walk protocol. Measurements are collected and recorded
      continuously prior to test, during the test and after 6 minutes the test. The distance of the
      6-min walk will be recorded (CRF).

      B. COPD (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) subjects

        1. Spot-check measurements up to 20 ambulatory COPD patients. Patients should be referred
           and admitted to the pulmonary lab for clinical treatment or should be under the
           rehabilitation procedures. Measurements will be made simultaneously using Oxitone®
           oximeter and while standard fingertip pulse oximeter stationary state at e.g. supine or
           dorsal elevated sitting, and while standing (upright) positions up to 6 min each.

        2. A 6-min walk oximetry tests of ambulatory COPD patients. Patients should be referred to
           the pulmonary lab for clinical purposes or should be under the rehabilitation
           procedures. The measurements are taken using Oxitone® oximeter and standard fingertip
           pulse oximeter in accordance with the standard protocol. Measurements are taken
           continuously prior to the test, during the test and 1 minute after the test, at rest.
           The distance of the 6-min walk will be recorded. Rehabilitation subjects procedures. The
           measurements are taken using Oxitone® Oximeter and standard fingertip pulse oximeter in
           accordance with the standard protocol. Measurements are taken continuously prior to the
           test. The distance of the 6-min walk will be recorded.
    
  