
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The increased risk of hypertension in United States Blacks remains a major unsolved public
      health problem. Comparisons between macro-population groups in the United States suffer from
      confounding by social factors and genetic admixture. The study's international comparative
      design provides a unique opportunity to ascertain the evolution of hypertension among
      populations with a common genetic background currently living in widely varied social
      conditions. A well-organized network of investigators currently exists in the societies of
      the Black diaspora and provides for the first time an opportunity to conduct cross-national
      research on this question.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      During the first phase of the project over 12,000 adults between the ages of 25 and 74 were
      sampled from seven communities: West Africa (Nigeria, urban & rural; Cameroon, urban &
      rural), the West Indies (St. Lucia, Barbados) and Maywood (lllinois). The screening
      examination provided information on blood pressure (BP), height, weight, waist/hip ratio,
      alcohol use, education/occupation, sodium/potassium excretion and social stress. These data
      provided estimates of hypertension prevalence in each geographic region and the contribution
      of the known risk factor to higher rates among United States Blacks. In the first phase
      considerable effort was directed toward establishing a strong research infrastructure in each
      of the sites and demonstrating the feasibility of cross-national blood pressure comparisons.

      In the second phase the research was continued and extended in three areas: 1) Population
      studies on risk factors. At the start of the study in 1991, it was not clear that adequate
      procedures were available to allow standardization of mean blood pressure across sites,
      especially since differences between some sites might be as little as 2 mmHg. Experience
      since that time suggested that it would be feasible to collect definitive data on this
      question. In-depth studies were carried out at one of the African sites to investigate the
      earliest stages of hypertension risk for a population. Investigators in Jamaica and the
      United Kingdom joined the collaborative group to examine the effect of migration from the
      Caribbean to the United Kingdom. 2) Prospective study of blood pressure and mortality. It was
      well known that hypertension accounted for much of the excess mortality among United States
      Blacks. It was less well recognized, however, that death rates among Blacks in the United
      States were higher than reported in the Caribbean or Africa. Hypertension was likely to
      account for that differential. A follow-up study in each region estimated the relative and
      attributable risk from hypertension. 3) Heredity/Genetics. The populations in this study
      shared a common ancestral origin in West Africa. Family studies were undertaken to determine
      the heritability of blood pressure/hypertension within and between sites. In addition, pilot
      studies on genetic distance and candidate genes for hypertension were conducted.

      The study was renewed in FY 1999 to examine in further detail the role of the two most potent
      hypertensive risk factors, namely dietary sodium and obesity. Randomized studies will be
      carried out in Nigeria, Jamaica, and Chicago to determine the relative sodium sensitivity of
      these populations and the factors which condition the blood pressure response. The
      renin-angiotensin system and renal sodium handling will be compared as causal mechanisms. In
      addition, body composition will be studied in a large sample of each of the three populations
      to determine the role of body fat versus lean body mass. Insulin and leptin will be examined
      and physical activity will be measured by stable isotopes to assess the role of a sedentary
      lifestyle as a contributor to the hypertension risk experienced by the obese. Existing
      cohorts will be followed to determine hypertension sequelae and to examine changes in blood
      pressure with age.
    
  