
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, deadly, neurodegenerative disease which
      affects the upper and lower motor neurons. This leads to profound muscular dystrophy,
      hyperreflexia, fasciculations and paresis of the bulbar as well as the skeletal musculature.
      ALS causes increasing physical fatigue and the patients soon become bedridden and respiratory
      insufficient.The diagnosis ALS is made according to the El Escorial revisited. Often clinical
      and neurophysiological tests must be repeated (1-4).

      In Denmark the incidence of ALS is 1-2/100.000 and the prevalence is 4-6/100.000. The average
      survival time from the time of the diagnosis is 3 years but with great variance. (5+6)

      Today the pathogenesis is still unknown and no treatment can stop the progression of ALS.
      Treatment with riluzole seems to prolong the median time of survival for 2 or 3 months (7).

      Most likely, a future medical treatment requires a better understanding of the pathogenesis
      as well as the pathophysiology of ALS. This present study aims to do so based on the
      hypothesis that ALS partially or fully is caused by complement activation.

      The complement system is a complex system consisting of proteins in plasma as well as
      membrane bound proteins which together complement the antibody-based immune system. The
      complement system is a self-perpetuating cascade system which is activated through different
      pathways. It works by opsonisation where complement proteins bind to microorganisms to
      activate and target granulocytes, monocytes and macrophages. The complement system also
      causes cytolysis of microorganisms via MAC (membrane attack complex) by activation of the
      mast cells. It also inactivates and eliminates burned out immune complexes as well as
      performing apoptotic renovation.

      A recent pilot study of Neuromyelitis Optica has shown how the complement system play a
      central part in the pathogenesis of a disease that previously was wrongfully perceived as an
      early stage of Disseminated Sclerosis. These findings resulted in medical treatment with
      anticomplement (equlizumab) with promising results (8). It is possible that similar
      pathogenetic mechanisms could be the molecular basis of ALS.

      Different research groups have tried to illuminate how the immune system is involved in the
      progression of ALS (9-35). Several studies support the hypothesis that the complement system
      is of crucial importance for the onset and progression of ALS. (9-28)

      In several clinical trials with ALS plasma it is concluded that ALS plasma is cytotoxic when
      incubated with healthy red blood cells or healthy nerve tissue. Some research indicates that
      the cytotoxicity is caused by the complement system. The results cannot, however, be
      reproduced consequently in all clinical trials. These trials were conducted decades ago where
      the methods of detecting complement activity were limited. (9-14)

      Several animal trials indicate that ALS starts in the neuromuscular junctions (NMJ) and
      therefore should be considered a distal axonopathy rather than a central neurological
      disease, which today is the general perception of ALS. (27-31)

      The purpose of the project The aim is to increase the knowledge of the pathophysiology of the
      disease ALS as this possibly may lead us closer to a targeted medical treatment.

      The project group wants to investigate if a previously found, unique cytotoxicity in the ALS
      plasma can be retrieved (9-14). If this is the case, then the modern methods of today make it
      possible to detect whether the immune system in general, and in particular the complement
      system, is causing this cytotoxicity.

      The establishment of a national research project about ALS and the complement system by
      making a research biobank with systematically collected blood and spinal liquid from ALS
      patients from all over the country will ensure the opportunity to find out if the complement
      system plays a role in the onset and progression of ALS.

      Furthermore a pilot study will be conducted with the purpose to investigate if there is
      complement activity in the NMJ in patients with ALS as it has been shown in a study of ALS
      mice. (28)

      The hypotheses

        1. ALS is characterized by an abnormal immune response with cytotoxicity and increased
           complement activity in plasma which is revealed by the following:

             1. Plasma from patients with ALS shows increased haemolytic activity when incubated
                with red blood cells from healthy subjects.

             2. The complement activity is increased in the plasma from ALS patients compared with
                plasma from neurologically healthy subjects and subjects with other neurological
                disease.

             3. The haemolytic activity in the plasma from ALS patients is correlated with the
                complement activity.

        2. Spinal liquid from ALS patients contains increased complement activity compared with
           spinal liquid from neurologically healthy subjects and from subjects with other
           neurological disease.

      Patients, materials and methods:

      Clinical trial 1(CT1): Haemolytic activity and the complement system in ALS plasma

      Number of subjects: 25 patients with ALS, 25 patients with other neurological disease, 25
      healthy volunteers

      The course of CT1: A blood sample is taken from each patient. The red blood cells and the
      liquid part of the blood, the plasma, are separated. The red blood cells from different
      subjects are incubated in an other subjects plasma.The same trial course is repeated after
      inactivation of the present complement system both by heat and by anti-complement.

      Clinical trial 2(CT2): Case-control study aiming to mapping the complement system

      Number of subjects:100 patients with ALS, 100 patients with other neurological disease and
      100 neurologically healthy patients

      The course of CT2:Blood samples and cerebrospinal fluid are prepared and then freezed in a
      research biobank. Then the samples from the 3 groups of subjects are analysed and compared
      focusing on the complement system: The complement activation potential is measured in the
      biological material. A cytokine profile is made as well as mapping the acute phase reactants
      by multiplex assays. Furthermore the RNA expression profile is made on a cell pellet
      stabilised with RNA later.

      Clinical trial 3(CT3): The complement system of ALS patients over time - a cohort study
      Number of subjects:20 patients with ALS (subset from CT2)

      The course of CT3: Every sixth month the course from the CT2 is repeated. The activity of the
      complement system in each patient with ALS is analyzed as the disease progresses.

      Clinical trial 4(CT4): Searching for complement activity in the NMJ of ALS patients

      Number of subjects:10 patients with ALS

      The course of CT4: The muscle biopsies are taken and immediately brought to the Dep. of
      Pathology at Rigshospitalet. Then thin layers of tissue are stained in order to analyze the
      muscle fibers and the NMJ as well as detecting presence of complement activity.

      Conducting the study The project consists of four clinical trials. Inclusion of the subjects
      is done together with staff in ALS outpatient clinics at hospitals all over the country and
      subjects for the control groups are included according to the list of inclusion sites below.

      Inclusion sites:

      ALS outpatient clinic, Neurological clinic, Rigshospitalet Glostrup (CT1+2+3+4) Contact:
      Chief physician Elisabeth Elmo Neurological Clinic, Rigshospitalet Glostrup (neurological
      control group, CT1+2) Contact: Professor, Chief physician, dr.med. Rigmor Højland Jensen
      Neurosurgical Clinic, Rigshospitalet (neurological control group, CT2) Contact: Professor,
      chief physician, dr.med. Marianne Juhler ALS outpatient clinic, Neurological Dep., Bispebjerg
      Hospital (CT2) Contact: Chief physician Merete Karlsborg ALS outpatient clinic, Neurological
      Dep., Roskilde Hospital (CT2 + 3) Contact: Chief physician Helle Thagesen ALS outpatient
      clinic, Neurological Dep., Odense University Hospital (CT2) Contact: Chief physician, dr.med.
      Matthias Bode ALS outpatient clinic, Neurological Dep., Aarhus Hospital, Nørrebrogade
      (Clinical Trial 2) Contact: Chief Physician, ph.d. Anette Torvin Gildhøj Private Hospital,
      Brøndby (Neurologically healthy control group, Clinical Trial 2) Contact: Anaesthesiologist
      Niels Anker Pedersen

      Power calculations CT1: Haemolytic activity and the complement system in ALS plasma The study
      Overgaard et al. (18) found a mean difference of about 0,20 (SE 0,052 in the ALS group, N=20,
      SD 0,22) in the absorbance (415 nm and 5 hours of incubation) between ALS patients and
      healthy bioanalysts. With α=0,05 og beta=0,20 corresponding to power 0,80 we need to include
      21 subjects. As possible drop outs and technically failed are considered tests the
      investigators choose to include 25 subjects in each group. (36)

      CT2: Case-control study mapping the complement system The number of subjects in each group is
      in this case-control study calculated with α=0,05 The investigators compare the complement
      activation potential of 3 groups with same amount of subjects in each. In healthy subjects
      the complement activation potential is 100 % with a normal area ranging from 50-150 % and
      where the prevalence of low complement activation potential (under 50 %) is under 10 %. With
      power =0,80 it is calculated to be necessary to include 100 subjects in each group. Hereby it
      is possible to find statistically significant differences between the groups corresponding to
      an odds ratio of 2,3, which would correspond to 20 % of ALS patients having a low complement
      activation potential caused by increased complement activity. (36)

      CT3: The complement system of ALS patients over time - a cohort study This is a hypothesis
      generating study. It is expected that the included 20 ALS patients in this cohort will be a
      subset from Clinical Trial 2. As a control group at baseline the neurologically healthy
      control group from Clinical Trial 2 will be used.

      CT4: Searching for complement activity in the NMJ of ALS patients There is no previous
      studies describing the complement activity in the NMJ in living humans. It is therefore not
      relevant to make a calculation of power.

      Data processing CT1: Haemolytic activity and the complement system in ALS plasma Comparing
      the degree of haemolysis between the ALS patients and the control groups t-test and one way
      ANOVA are used. For calculating the cut-off values the investigators use receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curves.

      CT2: Case-control study mapping the complement system Comparing the concentration of
      complement and the complement activation potential between ALS patients and the control
      groups t-test and one way ANOVA are used. In order to calculate the odds for low complement
      activation potential in the ALS group compared with the control groups the investigators use
      logistic regression. For calculating the cut-off values receiver operating characteristic
      (ROC) curves are used.

      CT3: The complement system of ALS patients over time - a cohort study As in Clinical Trial 2.
      Furthermore, regression analysis of the complement activity as a function of time since the
      onset of ALS, gender, age, subtype of illness and disease progression are conducted.

      CT4: Searching for complement activity in the NMJ of ALS patients As in CT2. The degree of
      complement deposition and muscle pathology is described qualitatively and a blinded scoring
      in "normal", "light degree" and "severe degree" of changes is conducted. This will be
      compared quantitatively with 2 x K tables and non-parametric statistics.

      Dissemination of results The results of the project will be published in international peer
      reviewed, journals. Both positive and negative findings will be published.

      Perspectivation With the establishment of a big national ALS research biobank it will be
      possible to conduct many future research projects. Continuous research in ALS is paramount
      for ALS patients nationally as well as internationally in order to maintain hope for an
      efficient medical treatment for this aggressive disease is found in the future.
    
  