
    
      The long-term goal of this line of research is to determine if in late-life depression (LLD),
      cerebrovascular dysregulation is predictive of antidepressant outcomes. The investigators
      hypothesize that vascular pathology resulting in reduced cerebrovascular reactivity
      contributes to frontocingulate hypoperfusion. Such pathology would impair neurovascular
      coupling and reduce the ability of the vasculature to improve frontocingulate perfusion
      during antidepressant treatment. Thus decreased cerebrovascular reactivity and perfusion may
      be a biomarker of antidepressant nonresponse. As an initial step in this research, the
      current study will utilize MRI arterial spin labeling (ASL) to examine if cerebrovascular
      reactivity deficits and resting cerebral blood flow (CBF) deficits predict antidepressant
      nonremission in LLD. The rationale for this proposal is that it will identify mechanisms by
      which vascular pathology may contribute to LLD. If the study hypotheses are correct, this
      crucial next step will support studies examining antidepressant properties of cardiovascular
      drugs that may reverse vascular pathology and improve perfusion.

      The investigators will pursue our initial goal by examining ASL predictors of nonremission to
      a 12-week trial of sertraline. Forty LLD subjects will complete MRI, cognitive testing, and
      hyperintensity assessment. ASL measured CBF will be obtained during a hypercapnia challenge
      and at rest with room air. This will help determine if deficits in cerebrovascular reactivity
      (CVR) and/or resting and on-demand CBF measures predict nonremission.

      AIM: To test for differences in CVR and CBF in dorsal frontal cognitive control regions
      between individuals who do and do not remit to a 12-week course of sertraline (defined as
      MADRS ≤ 7).

      Hypothesis 1: Compared with remitters, during a hypercapnia challenge nonremitters will
      exhibit less CVR in the dlPFC and dAC.

      Hypothesis 2: Compared with remitters, while breathing room air nonremitters will exhibit
      lower resting CBF in the dorsal anterior cingulate (dAC) and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (dlPFC).

      Exploratory Aim: To examine the relationship between ASL measures (CVR to hypercapnia and
      resting CBF during normoxia) and performance in cognitive domains implicated in LLD treatment
      outcomes. For this Aim, we will focus on functions involving the dlPFC and dAC, specifically
      executive function and processing speed.

      The study will enroll patients from clinical referrals and response to advertisements. In
      these cases, potential participants will call our study contact number. Study staff will
      describe the study to them, including a description of the study entry criteria. Those who
      continue to be interested will then be scheduled for an evaluation. After scheduling, a study
      physician will review their electronic medical record to assure that potential subjects meet
      entry criteria.

      Following policies of the Vanderbilt University Health System Institutional Review Board,
      written informed consent will be obtained and documented by the study's Research Coordinator
      before any study-related procedures are performed. The study coordinator will review study
      procedures and the consent form with each potential participant. Each individual may take as
      much time as they like to decide if they do or do not wish to participate. There is no
      randomization. All participants receive open-label sertraline.

      An initial evaluation will determine eligibility, depression severity, and evaluate medical
      and psychiatric history. Participants will also complete a detailed battery assessing
      cognitive function. During this time they will also complete the one-hour MRI session, which
      includes measurement of cerebral perfusion and vascular reactivity.

      They will then begin the 12-week trial of open-label sertraline, allowing titration up to the
      maximum dose of 200mg daily. At the end of the study participants will be referred for
      ongoing clinical treatment.
    
  