
    
      This is a single center, open label, Phase IIa, multiple-ascending dose study in which
      subjects with mild to moderate Cystic Fibrosis (n≤12) will be enrolled.

      The study will consist of a screening period, a run-in and two dosing and evaluation periods
      (with a minimum two-day break in between) and a follow-up period.

      The dosing and evaluation period of the study is divided into two consecutive components:

        1. Dose escalation study

           - This segment of the treatment period is designed to assess the safety and tolerability
           of escalating doses of S-1226 (4%, 8% and 12%) in those with mild-moderate CF

        2. Daily dosing study - This segment of the treatment period is designed to assess the
           short term (5 day) safety and tolerability of twice daily administration of a fixed dose
           of S-1226 in subjects with mild-moderate CF.

      The primary aim of this study of S-1226 is to capture information to inform follow-up S-1226
      clinical studies in CF. Important in this regard will be data on safety, tolerability, dosing
      and efficacy. Specifically, regarding efficacy, the investigators want to examine for optimal
      dose ranging and magnitude of the effect to determine the power calculations for any
      follow-up studies and to determine which outcome measures best reflect the effects of the
      drug. Because the study is investigational in nature, it will be un-blinded and information
      will be analyzed as it is collected.

      During the screening and the run-in period, the subjects will have safety assessments and all
      eligibility criteria confirmed. The run-in period involves meeting with the study subjects 1
      - 2 weeks prior to the start of the treatment for a physical exam, concomitant medication
      review, spirometry and information regarding the study. The consent process will also take
      place at this stage.

      The dose escalation period will include 3 days of twice daily treatment of the study drug
      with a washout period in between. The dose of CO2 in S-1226 will be sequentially escalated
      for the particular subject from the starting dose of 4% CO2. Planned subsequent dose levels
      are 8% and 12% CO2, although doses may be adjusted within this range based on safety and
      tolerability data from the completed dosing days. Subjects will not be dosed with a higher
      CO2 level until drug administration of the preceding dose level has been completed and safety
      data reviewed by the Safety Committee and a decision taken to proceed or not with the next
      sequential dose level.

      There will be a washout period between the dose escalation and the daily dosing study. The
      daily dosing study will include 5 days of twice daily treatment of the study drug at the dose
      outlined following the algorithm given in Figure 2 based on the results of the dose
      escalation study. Each treatment period consists of study drug administration (three doses in
      2-minute intervals) followed by airway clearance maneuver. Lung function tests will be
      performed before and after the treatment.

      The follow-up phase will occur 10-14 days after completion of the final dose. This will
      involve a clinical exam, spirometry and completion of CFQ-R.
    
  