
    
      The Research Program on Children and Adversity (RPCA) has successfully grown its
      evidence-based home-visiting program-Sugira Muryango-in Rwanda, as early childhood
      development (ECD) policies and programs have evolved. The combination of ECD commitment by
      the government and the proven Sugira Muryango intervention creates an ideal environment for
      further collaboration between RPCA and families at-risk of interpersonal violence,
      malnutrition, and other factors crucial to successful development of children. Sugira
      Muryango was designed as a complement to other center and community-based ECD interventions
      in Rwanda that may not adequately address issues such as limited stimulation in the home,
      hygiene, nutrition, father engagement, and violence in the home which is more prevalent among
      families living in extreme poverty.

      Sugira Muryango is a home-visiting model to support playful parenting, father engagement,
      improved nutrition, care seeking and family functioning-to promote ECD, positive parent-child
      relationships, and healthy child development. The intervention (a) builds playful parenting
      skills and improves knowledge of ECD to create a safe, stimulating and nourishing environment
      for the growth of young children with a focus on nutrition, health and hygiene promotion; (b)
      coaches parents of young children in "serve and return" interactions and playful parenting;
      (c) develops a "family narrative" to build hope and highlight sources of resilience for
      addressing challenges and reducing risk of violence; (d) strengthens problem-solving skills
      as well as the navigation of formal and informal community resources; and, (e) builds skills
      in parental emotion regulation and alternatives to harsh punishment. Sugira Muryango
      integrates these core components, informed by the WHO Care for Child Development package,
      into 12 modules and two booster/follow-up sessions. The 60-90 minute modules are delivered
      weekly over 3-4 months by well-trained lay interventionists embedded in the community
      referred to as IZUs.

      The Sugira Muryango intervention has been demonstrated as clinically effective due to its
      theory of change, its evidence-based curriculum, and its implementation science approach. To
      date, RPCA's implementation science strategies have focused on: 1) determining fidelity to
      curriculum content and delivery and developing strategies for quality improvement; 2)
      evaluating how features of program delivery moderate or mediate outcomes on children and
      families; and 3) identifying evidence-based practices pertaining to delivery, supervision and
      monitoring to support a systems level scaling-up of the program. Sustainment and scaling of
      Sugira Muryango requires strong local buy-in and government commitment. We plan to achieve
      this by evaluating a new implementation science strategy-a Collaborative Team Approach (CTA),
      drawn from evidence-based practices in implementation science described in this project as
      the "PLAY Collaborative". A key feature of the PLAY Collaborative to transition the
      evidence-based Sugira Muryango to ownership by local stakeholders is the development of a
      cross-site Seed Team that will assume a leadership role in ongoing training, supervision and
      fidelity across a regional set of IZU interventionists. As the in-country Sugira Muryango
      expert, with a strong presence in our target districts, François Xavier Bagnoud (FXB)-Rwanda
      (hereafter FXB) will staff and lead the development and activities of the Seed Team.
      FXB-Rwanda has been awarded a grant from Grand Challenges Canada to start the development of
      the Seed Team in Nyanza district, so it will be mature and well developed to expand to all
      three districts under the LEGO Foundation Hybrid Type II Implementation-Effectiveness Trial.
      In the PLAY Collaborative strategy being evaluated therein, the Seed Team comprising Sugira
      Muryango experts with ECD and family violence prevention experience, will be employed by FXB
      and physically based near and linked to IZUs at the village level. The Seed Team will work
      across our three target districts to oversee Sugira Muryango delivery while establishing
      regional teams of IZU interventionists, Cell Coordinators and Sector Associate Trainers to
      embed the SM practice in the community.

      By developing local expertise through regional collaborative teams, and a Seed Team that
      shifts ownership to local partners for training and ongoing supervision, cross-site learning,
      dissemination and sustainability are enhanced. The PLAY Collaborative is modeled after the
      Interagency Collaborative Team model utilized by Dr. Gregory Aarons in scaling up the
      SafeCare intervention for families involved in or at-risk for involvement in the child
      welfare system in the United States. Through this work, collaboration emerged as a key
      element for the implementation and sustainment of evidence-based practices into established
      service delivery systems. Within the PLAY Collaborative, collaboration primarily involves
      in-country Sugira Muryango experts (FXB), ECD stakeholders (NCC, NECDP, MIGEPROF), Sector
      Associate Trainers, Cell Mentors, and service providers (IZU interventionists). This model is
      uniquely aligned to sustain and scale the evidence-based SM ECD home-visiting intervention as
      reliance on remote expertise in low resource settings is neither feasible nor sustainable.

      Two main activities will be conducted:

        1. Expansion of Sugira Muryango to include families with children aged 0-6 months, thereby
           targeting all Ubudehe 1 families with a child 0-36 months in Nyanza, Rubavu and Ngoma
           Districts.

        2. Testing of an evidence-based implementation strategy, the Promoting Lasting
           Anthropometric Change and Young Children's Development (PLAY) Collaborative.

      Our specific hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Intervention effectiveness:

             1. Sugira Muryango will lead to improvements in caregiver behaviors via increased
                parent engagement in and attitudes towards playful activities, reduced violence,
                improved dietary diversity, nutritional intake, and increased care seeking for
                child illness.

             2. Sugira Muryango will lead to improvements in child health and development outcomes
                including reduced illness, increased growth on anthropometric measures and improved
                cognitive development.

        2. Implementation via the Play Collaborative:

             1. Engagement and buy-in of the PLAY Collaborative will strengthen dissemination and
                implementation of Sugira Muryango.
    
  