
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) results in nearly 750,000 hospitalizations
      annually and is the third leading cause of 30-day hospital readmissions in the United
      States.Improving the quality of care for hospitalized COPD patients has recently become a
      national priority through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' Hospital
      Readmissions Reduction Program. A key element of improving care quality is translating
      existing evidence into improved practice. Extensive evidence exists to support the efficacy
      of inhaled medications to control and reduce COPD symptoms and to improve patient outcomes.
      However, the real-world effectiveness of these medications is often limited due both to poor
      inhaler technique and to insufficient adherence to treatment plans. Most interventions for
      hospitalized patients with COPD focus on medication reconciliation, treatment optimization,
      and inhaler technique education prior to being discharged home. However, after discharge
      home, patients quickly lose inhaler technique skills, have difficulty adhering to complex
      regimens, and lack tools to aid adherence, such as lung function response to their treatment
      regimen. Interventions to reinforce skills and support adherence are needed across care
      transitions to reduce the risk of deleterious health outcomes.

      Simple and feasible at-home interventions to provide skills training and adherence support
      are needed. This novel idea is to pair at-home inhaler skill training with at-home spirometry
      measurements to comprehensively support both medication skill and adherence. The investigator
      proposes testing a novel at-home self-management support program called "BREATHES" (Bringing
      Respiratory Education for improved Adherence and Technique Home through E-interventions for
      Self-management) Program. BREATHES will include two main components: first, self-directed
      inhaler skill training sessions through the virtual Teach-To-Goal (V-TTG) intervention the
      investigator developed and tested during a K23 grant and, second, a handheld lung function
      device to provide physiologic feedback and capture medication adherence called SpiroPD. TTG
      is a patient-centered strategy that uses cycles of assessment and demonstration tailored to
      patients' self-management needs; the investigator's research shows in-person TTG is effective
      for teaching inhaler technique and reduces acute care utilization. Virtual-TTG delivers the
      key features of TTG using virtual patient-directed lessons through novel adaptive technology
      that provides tailored self-assessment and training. The investigator's studies demonstrate
      participants' willingness to use V-TTG at-home for post-discharge booster education and show
      that V-TTG is effective and may be non-inferior to in-person TTG in significantly reducing
      inhaler misuse among hospitalized patients. However, it remains unknown whether at-home V-TTG
      sessions will maintain self-management skills over the longer term and how direct physiologic
      lung monitoring support can impact medication adherence. The proposed studies will determine
      whether combining at-home skill training with objective measurements of lung function and
      adherence monitoring through the BREATHES Program improves self-management skills and
      medication adherence in the first 30 days after hospitalization for COPD.
    
  