
    
      Eligible subjects will be treated as follows:

      Fifty (50) subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups (N=25). Subjects in the
      treatment group will receive amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) and those in the active
      control group will receive placebo. Both formulations will be supplemented with vitamin D.

      Safety parameters will be evaluated throughout the trial.

      Subjects admitting to Barzilai medical center hand clinic following a new distal radius
      fracture will be routinely evaluated. Subjects who were initially treated according to
      current practice of fracture management, (i.e.; radiographic evaluation and fracture fixation
      by splint in plaster of Paris), who are not candidates for surgery and who are aimed for
      non-invasive treatment, will be considered candidates for the trial and be invited to the
      clinical research center (CRC) for screening.

      Screening (Day -7) - Subjects will sign an informed consent form (ICF). Chemistry and
      hematology tests will be performed: sodium, potassium, hemoglobin, sedimentation rate,
      leukocytes calcium (total, albumin-corrected), phosphate, alkaline phosphatase, creatinine,
      and albumin. Also, serum parathyroid hormone (PTH), 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and
      thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) will be tested. Urinary excretion of calcium and creatinine
      will be measured. General health will be examined by medical history and physical
      examinations. Eligible subjects, complying with all inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled to the study.

      Subjects will be informed by phone or on site whether they are eligible to enter the study.

      Visit 1 - 1 week from fracture - (Day 0 (-7/+1)) - Eligible subjects will be invited to the
      CRC. A fixture device will be applied to the cast to ensure consistence imaging. X-ray will
      be performed to exclude loss of reduction. Subjects will randomly receive packs of tablets (a
      total of 180 tablets, 42 day supply + 12 spare tablets), either tablets containing 200 mg
      elemental calcium from ACC or placebo (300 mg StarLac (starch cellulose and lactose blend)).
      Subjects who will arrive prior to day 0 will be instructed to begin the treatment exactly 7
      days from the fracture event. Subjects will be instructed to take 4 tablets a day for the
      first 6 weeks (days 0-42), 2 tablets in the morning and 2 tablets in the evening, after a
      meal (i.e., the study group will consume a total of 800mg elemental calcium per day). To
      minimize the risks for calcium related side effects, subjects who take calcium regularly,
      will be instructed to discontinue their calcium supplements intake throughout the trial.

      Visit 2 - 4 weeks from fracture - (Day 21±1) - Pre-dose serum calcium concentrations will be
      measured. The cast will be removed and controlled entero posterior and lateral x-ray will be
      taken. Functional assessment (pain-free grip and force plate) measurement and questionnaires
      (VAS, DASH) will be performed. The wrist will be fixed using an adjustable brace. Subjects
      will be asked about any side effects or adverse events (AEs) that may have occurred. Subjects
      will complete the TSQM questionnaire with the representative of the CRC.

      Visit 3 - 7 weeks from fracture - (Day 42±1) - Pre-dose serum calcium concentration and
      urinary calcium and creatinine concentrations will be measured. Controlled entero posterior
      and lateral x-ray will be taken without the brace. Functional assessment (pain-free grip and
      force plate) measurement and questionnaires (VAS, DASH) will be performed. Subjects will
      receive additional packs of capsules, (a total of 180 capsules, 42 day supply + 12 spare
      capsules) with the same formulation received in day 0: either tablets containing 200 mg
      elemental calcium from ACC or placebo (300 mg StarLac (starch cellulose and lactose blend)).
      Subjects will be instructed to take 4 tablets a day for the next 6 weeks (days 42-84) 2
      tablets in the morning and 2 tablets in the evening, after a meal (i.e., the study group will
      consume a total of 800mg elemental calcium per day). To minimize the risks for calcium
      related side effects, subjects who take calcium regularly, will be instructed to discontinue
      their calcium supplements intake throughout the trial. Subjects who did not show radiographic
      healing in the x-ray will be invited for an additional radiographic assessment on day 56.

      Visit 4 - 9 weeks from fracture - (Day 56±1)* - Controlled entero posterior and lateral x-ray
      will be taken without the brace. Functional assessment (pain-free grip and force plate)
      measurement and questionnaires (VAS, DASH) will be performed. Subjects will be asked about
      any side effects or AEs that may have occurred. Subjects that did not show radiographic
      healing in the x-ray will be invited for an additional radiographic assessment on day 70.

      Visit 5 - 11 weeks from fracture - (Day 70±1)* - Controlled entero posterior and lateral
      x-ray will be taken without the brace. Functional assessment (pain-free grip and force plate)
      measurement and questionnaires (VAS, DASH) will be performed. Subjects will be asked about
      any side effects or AEs that may have occurred.

      Visit 6 - 13 weeks from fracture - (Day 84±1) - Pre-dose serum calcium and 25-hydroxyvitamin
      D concentration and urinary calcium and creatinine concentrations will be measured.
      Controlled entero posterior and lateral x-ray will be taken. Functional assessment (pain-free
      grip and force plate) measurement and questionnaires (VAS, DASH) will be performed. Subjects
      will be asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred. Subjects will complete
      the TSQM questionnaire with the representative of the CRC. The subjects will be instructed to
      discontinue the study treatment administration. Subjects that discontinued their regularly
      calcium supplementation at the beginning of the study will be instructed to continue their
      regular dose intake.

      Visit 7 - 24 weeks from fracture - (Day 161±1) - Serum calcium concentration and urinary
      calcium and creatinine concentrations will be measured. Functional assessment (pain-free grip
      and force plate) measurement and questionnaires (VAS, DASH) will be performed. Subjects will
      be asked about any side effects or AEs that may have occurred.

      * Only for subjects that did not show radiographic healing on x-ray performed on previous
      visit.
    
  