
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare disease free survival, overall survival, and local control in patients
      with bulky stage IB carcinoma of the cervix treated with radical hysterectomy and pelvic and
      para-aortic lymphadenectomy with or without neoadjuvant vincristine and cisplatin. II.
      Compare adverse effects of radical hysterectomy and pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy
      with or without neoadjuvant vincristine and cisplatin in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Arm I:
      Surgery. All patients undergo intra-abdominal and retroperitoneal exploratory laparotomy.
      Patients without metastases also undergo radical hysterectomy with pelvic and para-aortic
      lymphadenectomy. Beginning 2-4 weeks after surgery, patients with 1 or more positive lymph
      nodes or positive surgical margins on the radical hysterectomy specimen receive adjunctive
      radiotherapy 5 days each week for 4-6 weeks. Patients with histologically confirmed
      metastases do not undergo radical hysterectomy with pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy,
      but receive radiotherapy 5 days each week for 6-8 weeks beginning 2-4 weeks after the
      laparotomy. Patients who undergo radiotherapy also receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days
      when radiotherapy is administered for up to 6 doses of cisplatin. Arm II: Patients receive
      vincristine IV bolus immediately followed by cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 11, and 21.
      Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning approximately 4 weeks after the last doses of neoadjuvant
      vincristine and cisplatin, patients receive surgery, radiotherapy, and cisplatin as in Arm I.
      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 170-340 patients will be accrued for this study over
      approximately 4.5 years.
    
  