
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2/2019-nCoV) and has developed into a pandemic with serious global
      public health and economic sequelae. As of June 30, 2020 over 10,000,000 cases have been
      confirmed worldwide leading to over 500,000 deaths (https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html).
      Currently no vaccine exists, however chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine have been documented
      as potentially having antiviral properties with efficacy against COVID-19 disease.
      Chloroquine is used in the treatment of malaria and amebiasis and is still used in the
      prophylaxis of malaria. Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is a derivative of Chloroquine that has
      been demonstrated to be much less (~40%) toxic than Chloroquine in animals.
      Hydroxychloroquine is widely used to treat autoimmune diseases, due to its immunomodulatory
      properties, such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, with an excellent
      safety profile. In vitro studies have suggested that their mode of action in COVID-19 disease
      is blockade of SARS-CoV-2 transport from endosomes to endolysosomes, which appears to be a
      requirement to release the viral genome. Clinical investigation has found that high
      concentrations of cytokines are detectable in the plasma of critically ill patients infected
      with SARS-CoV-2, suggesting that cytokine storm is associated with disease severity;
      therefore, Chloroquine/ hydroxychloroquine may reduce this response by acting as
      anti-inflammatory agents in accord with their use in autoimmune disease, where their
      reduction in cytokine response has been extensively researched and demonstrated.

      Favipiravir is an antiviral drug developed in Japan (as noted in the data sheets) that it is
      a pyrazinecarboxamide derivative with activity against influenza viruses, west nile virus,
      yellow fever virus, foot and mouth disease virus as well as against flaviviruses (i.e.
      arenaviruses, bunyaviruses and alphaviruses). Its mode of action is through inhibition of
      viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. In February the drug was used for COVID-19 disease in
      China and was declared effective in treatment, and a report published (in press) comparing
      Favipiravir with Lopinavir /ritonavir suggested that Favipiravir was superior for prevention
      of disease progression and viral clearance.

      "The Solidarity Trial" is a global pragmatic clinical trial being undertaken by WHO that aims
      to explore the efficacy of different treatment modalities for SARS-CoV-2. An application for
      Bahrain to join the study for collaboration has been made. In "The Solidarity Study" there
      will be four treatment modalities investigated, including chloroquine phosphate alone,
      remdesivir, lopinarvir with ritonavir or lopinarvir with ritonavir plus interferon.
      Favipiravir is not included, and therefore this study will not be replicating features of
      "The Solidarity Trial" but instead will provide additional and novel findings on favipiravir
      efficacy.
    
  