
    
      Blood loss during major paediatric spine surgery is significant, and it is well established
      that patients undergoing such surgery have a substantial risk for requiring a blood
      transfusion in the perioperative period (1-4). Given the cost and associated risks with
      allogeneic blood product transfusion (5-7), a significant effort has been directed towards
      reducing transfusion requirements through various methods of blood conservation (8-12).

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) is a synthetic antifibrinolytic that functions through competitive
      blockade of the lysine-binding sites of plasminogen, plasmin, and tissue plasminogen
      activator resulting in the inhibition of fibrinolysis and clot degradation (13). When used
      parentally, it has been shown to safe, efficacious, and effective in reducing transfusion
      requirements and blood loss during the perioperative period of various orthopaedic
      procedures, including major surgeries of the spine (14-23). A growing body of literature has
      supported the topical application of TXA in lower extremity joint reconstruction, among other
      procedures (24-29), in which a saline solution containing TXA is placed directly in the
      surgical incision prior to closure. Two randomized controlled trials have compared topical
      TXA and placebo for use in lumbar fusion and laminectomy cases. Both of these trials
      demonstrated a significant reduction in perioperative blood loss with the use of topical TXA
      as compared to placebo, and no reported no adverse events (36, 37).

      While intravenous TXA has proven efficacy in reducing perioperative blood loss, despite its
      routine use during major paediatric spine surgery, blood loss and transfusion requirements
      remain significant (14-23). Thus, methods to further reduce perioperative blood loss in the
      children are of clinical significance. As highlighted above, topical TXA has clearly
      demonstrated excellent local anti-fibrinolytic action. Furthermore, when applied within a
      surgical incision, there is a negligible increase in serum TXA concentration (33-35).

      We therefore propose a randomized trial to evaluate the effect of topical TXA on
      perioperative blood loss when used in addition to intravenous TXA for major paediatric spine
      surgery. In doing so, we seek to evaluate whether additional benefit may be conferred through
      direct application of TXA within the incision intravenous to that already provided by IV TXA.
      To date, such a question has not been evaluated in the surgical literature.
    
  