
    
      Three field radical esophagectomy versus two field esophagectomy - a prospective randomized
      controlled trial

      Background Esophageal cancer is a common problem worldwide and is associated with poor
      prognosis. Surgery is the mainstay of treatment and offers the only realistic possibility of
      cure and long term survival. Neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been
      tried in addition to surgery and have only marginally impacted on survival. In spite of
      advancements in postoperative care and refinements in surgical technique, overall results
      with surgery have been disappointing. Moreover studies of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy
      have been confounded by the lack of a uniform surgical approach and extent of
      lymphadenectomy.

      The efficacy of prophylactic radical lymph node dissection in surgical treatment of
      esophageal cancer has been a topic of major controversy for many years. It has not been
      studied in a randomized controlled trial with adequate numbers. Non randomized studies have
      been criticized on the basis of selection bias and stage migration. There is presently no
      convincing evidence regarding improvement in survival by extensive three field
      lymphadenectomy.

      Objectives

        1. To compare overall survival after three field and two field esophagectomy

        2. To compare locoregional recurrence, disease free survival after three field and two
           field esophagectomy

        3. To compare postoperative morbidity and mortality in the two groups

        4. To evaluate short and long term quality of life after the two procedures

      Design Prospective randomized controlled trial Setting Tertiary level comprehensive cancer
      care centre in Western India. Patients and methods All patients with biopsy proven carcinoma
      of the esophagus presenting to our hospital will be considered for the study.

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Patients with biopsy or cytology proven (squamous or adenocarcinoma) esophageal cancer
           (including Siewert's type I and II CO junction cancers)

        2. Patients with staging investigations indicating operability

        3. Surgical plan for total transthoracic esophagectomy

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Patients with low performance status (ECOG score > 1)

        2. Past history of malignancy

        3. Staging investigations indicating advanced disease

        4. Patients medically unfit for surgical resection

        5. Patients with pulmonary reserve inadequate to undergo thoracotomy and extensive
           mediastinal dissection

        6. Patients considered for salvage surgery after definitive chemoradiotherapy

        7. Patients unreliable for follow up

        8. Patients above the age of 70 years

        9. Patients with enlarged supracarinal nodes on CT scan / EUS

       10. Grossly enlarged supracarinal lymph nodes seen intraoperatively

       11. Patients with Siewert's type III cancers.

      A detailed history including the main complaints and symptoms, symptoms suggestive of
      advanced disease or dissemination, comorbid conditions and performance status of the patient
      will be recorded on presentation. A confirmed diagnosis of esophageal carcinoma will be
      documented in our hospital.

      Staging investigations will be standard and will include

        1. Computed Tomography (CT) scans in all patients

        2. Endoscopic Ultrasonography (EUS) wherever possible

        3. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy (all upper and middle third growths and patients with history of
           recent voice change).

        4. Symptomatic patients will undergo further investigations depending on the symptom.

      Patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy will not be excluded but
      will be one of the stratification criteria for randomization. Patients will be assessed for
      operability by a team including two qualified thoracic surgeons and a radiologist. All
      patients will undergo routine and special investigations where indicated to assess fitness
      for major surgery and anesthesia. The perioperative risk will be assessed by a combination of
      the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grading and a modified risk score (Annexure
      1). Patients with ASA grade I or II and those who have low or intermediate risk according to
      the modified risk scoring system will be considered for the trial. Patients will be explained
      about the trial and written informed consent will be taken (Annexure 2). Patients considered
      operable (either per primum or after neoadjuvant therapy) and fit for either procedure and
      who consent for the trial (Eligibility confirmation and randomization form, annexure 3) will
      be randomized into two groups.

      Randomization Block randomization will be done using a computer generated sheet.
      Randomization will be performed intraoperatively after confirming resectability of the
      primary tumor and confirming the absence of grossly enlarged supracarinal lymph nodes

      Stratification criteria

        1. Preoperative T stage (T1&2, T3 and T4)

        2. Preoperative N stage (N0, N1)

        3. Level of disease (upper, middle and lower third)

        4. Neoadjuvant therapy (none, chemotherapy, chemoradiotherapy)

        5. Histology (squamous or adenocarcinoma).

      All patients considered for the trial will have a proforma filled for pre, intra and
      postoperative details (Annexure 4). Preoperative patient preparation would be routine and
      identical in both groups and will include chest physiotherapy, deep breathing exercises and
      incentive spirometry. Bronchodilators and antibiotics will be used selectively only if
      indicated.

      Trial schema Patients with esophageal cancer

      Staging investigations (CT scan, EUS, FOB) indicating operable disease with surgical plan of
      total transthoracic esophagectomy

      Investigations for fitness for surgery indicating good risk for surgery STRATIFY

        1. Preoperative T stage (T1&2, T3 and T4)

        2. Preoperative N stage (N0, N1)

        3. Level of disease (upper, middle and lower third)

        4. Neoadjuvant therapy (none, chemotherapy, chemoradiotherapy)

        5. Histology (squamous or adenocarcinoma)

      RANDOMIZE

      Three field esophagectomy Two field esophagectomy

      All surgeries will be performed under general anesthesia with epidural analgesia. The surgery
      will be either performed by or under the direct supervision of consultant thoracic surgeons
      with experience in esophageal surgery. Thoracic esophageal mobilization and mediastinal
      lymphadenectomy will be done by open thoracotomy or video assisted thoracoscopic surgery.
      Lymphadenectomy will be as defined in the consensus conference of the fifth IGSC at Munich.

      Field 1. The abdominal field will include all lymphatic and connective tissues between the
      hiatus cranially, the upper border of the pancreas caudally, the splenic hilum to the left
      and the hepatoduodenal ligament and right gastric artery to the right.

      Field II. This refers to the intrathoracic compartment and is defined as

        1. Standard lymphadenectomy: This includes para esophageal lymph nodes, subcarinal lymph
           nodes and right and left para bronchial lymph nodes.

        2. Extended lymphadenectomy: This includes the standard lymphadenectomy plus the right
           apical nodes, right recurrent nerve nodes and the right paratracheal nodes.

        3. Total lymphadenectomy: This includes the extended lymphadenectomy plus the left apical
           nodes plus the left recurrent nerve and paratracheal nodes.

      Field III. This refers to the cervical compartment and includes clearance in the omohyoid
      triangle with sparing of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and the internal jugular vein. The
      cranial landmark is the cricoid cartilage and the caudal landmark the upper margin of the
      clavicle.

      Three-field lymphadenectomy: The type of resection will include lymph node clearance of
      Fields I and III and a total type Field II lymphadenectomy.

      Two field lymphadenectomy: The type of resection will include lymph node clearance of Field I
      and any of the types of lymphadenectomy in Field II. Standard mediastinal lymphadenectomy
      will be done in all patients; no special effort will be made to dissect the supracarinal
      compartment unless grossly enlarged lymph nodes are seen.

      Three field lymphadenectomy Two field lymphadenectomy

      Operative time, blood loss, blood product replacement and all intraoperative details will be
      recorded in the proforma. Patients will be shifted postoperatively to the intensive care unit
      (ICU) for observation and subsequently to the recovery or high dependency ward once
      stabilized. Postoperative details including period of postoperative ventilation, hemorrhage,
      pulmonary and cardiac complications, arrhythmias, thoracic duct leak, anastomotic leak, wound
      infection and recurrent laryngeal nerve paresis or palsy will be recorded. Postoperative
      complications will be recorded as per Annexure 5. Postoperative mortality will be defined as
      30-day mortality plus death before discharge after surgery.

      Patients will be started on oral feeds between the 8th and 10th day in the absence of an
      anastomotic leak. The total duration of ICU stay and hospital stay will also be recorded.

      Follow up Patients will be followed up four to six monthly for the first three years and
      annually thereafter. A detailed history and clinical examination will be done on every follow
      up with the quality of speech, swallowing recorded. Patients who had a fixed cord
      postoperatively will undergo laryngoscopy to assess recovery of function. Symptomatic
      patients will be investigated by upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, CT scan, ultrasound and
      haematological and biochemical investigations. Asymptomatic patients will not be routinely
      investigated.

      Sample size The sample size considering an improvement of survival from 25% to 35% will be
      588 patients (289 in each arm). The trial will aim at enrolling 700 patients in order to
      adjust for loss to follow up and protocol violations. Interim analyses will be done when ¼ th
      (103 events) and ½ (206 events) of the estimated events occur. We expect to complete accrual
      of patients in seven years.

      Data management All collected data will be entered into a statistical software package for
      subsequent analysis (SPSS for Windows, Version 11.5)

      Main research variables Primary end point Overall survival in the two arms Secondary
      endpoints

        1. Disease free survival

        2. Locoregional recurrence

        3. Postoperative morbidity and mortality

        4. Quality of life - short and long term
    
  