
    
      Incidence of Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cancer is the first mortality rate of gynecologic
      malignancies (1-3) and became a more and more important disease in recent years (4-6). The
      incidence of ovarian cancer also increased in recent year in Taiwan (7). Ovarian cancer has
      the highest mortality of all gynecological cancers, with an overall 5-year survival rate of
      only 20-30% (1). The lack of symptoms, difficulties in early diagnosis, insufficient accurate
      tumor markers, and lack of information about ovarian tumor biology contribute to the poor
      prognosis in ovarian cancer patients (8). The prognostic parameters for ovarian carcinomas
      are tumor stage, histologic subtype, degree of malignancy, and residual tumor after surgical
      treatment (9-12). However, these factors present an incomplete picture of the tumor biology
      of ovarian cancer and are frequently interrelated (13). Thus, the identification of new
      biologic factors predictive of individual disease course and prognosis would be extremely
      useful. From the above-mentioned data, ovarian cancer indeed is a disease that should be
      respected, however, there were only few of research work focusing on it in Taiwan.

      Tumor marker for ovarian cancer Detection of tumor markers that are released into the
      circulation can aid in the diagnosis and/or monitoring of therapeutic responses of patients
      with various tumors, including carcinomas of ovary (14-17), prostate (18), the
      gastrointestinal tract (19, 20), or breast (21). CA125 is the most commonly used serum marker
      for patients with ovarian carcinoma (14). Although it has proven clinically valuable in
      monitoring the response of patients to therapy, some ovarian carcinomas do not express CA125,
      and CA125 often is increased in patients with inflammatory disease. Thus, there is a need for
      improvement, either in the form of a more specific and/or sensitive assay or an assay that
      uses a different marker and can be used to complement CA125 toward the goal to improve
      patient survival by improving diagnosis.

      New potential molecule as tumor marker for ovarian cancer Mesothelin is a 40-kDa
      glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked glycoprotein. It is synthesized as a precursor of
      molecular mass 69 kDa, which then is proteolytically processed into an N terminal secreted
      form of molecular mass 30 kDa and a membrane-bound form of 40 kDa (22, 23). The 30-kDa
      secreted form has been termed megakaryocyte potentiating factor (23). In normal tissues, the
      expression of mesothelin has subsequently been shown to be largely restricted to mesothelial
      cells, although immunoreactivity has also been reported in epithelial cells of the trachea,
      tonsil, fallopian tube, and kidney (24). Mesothelin has been shown to be expressed in
      pancreatic carcinomas(25), gastric carcinoma (26) and ovarian carcinoma (27), and it seems
      that mesothelin may be utilized as a tumor marker for ovarian carcinoma.

      We will evaluate the amount of mesothelin in pre- and post-treatment serum samples of
      patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. We will also correlate the clinicopathologic items
      and the prognosis of ovarian cancer patients and evaluate whether mesothelin can be a new
      rumor marker for ovarian cancer patients.
    
  