
    
      This is a Prospective study to demonstrate that the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad can reliably rule in
      or rule out amniotic fluid leak as a cause of vaginal wetness in pregnancy, thus, can be
      adopted by hospitals as an amniotic fluid leak detection tool, and can be recommended by care
      providers for use in a home usage setting.

      Study Group 1: Women attending the triage / delivery room with unidentified wetness will be
      provided with an AMNIOSENSE Blue pad to use in hospital until they notice any wetness but for
      no longer than 2 hours prior to a clinical assessment as per hospital standard procedure.

      The clinician performing clinical diagnosis tests (clinical assessment) for amniotic fluid
      leak detection, according to the hospital standard procedure will be at all times blinded to
      the results of the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad.

      Clinical diagnosis of ROM and subsequent management of care will be determined as per
      clinicians' judgment using the standard hospital procedures of ferning and/or positive
      Nitrazine testing and/or sterile speculum examination.

      The research team or attending nurse (non-bias to the subject's result record) will read the
      results of the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad, record the results in the data collection forms, and
      place the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad in a sealed envelope labeled with the study ID. These results
      will not be communicated to the attending clinicians who will remain blinded.

      In each case, the subject will also be required to read and record any occurrence of color
      change of the AMNIOSENSE Blue 10 minutes after removing the test on the designated form.

      Study Group 2: Women attending the obstetrical antenatal clinic for a routine antenatal visit
      > 36+0, and has not been referred for further assessment in triage/delivery unit by the
      physician will recruited to this study group (Study Group 2). Before leaving the antenatal
      clinic, they will be given one AMNIOSENSE Blue pad to use at home when vaginal wetness is
      experienced or in any case when they suspect that they have amniotic fluid leakage.

      The participants will be provided with instructions for use and also instructed to read the
      Instructions For Use (IFU) prior to applying the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad. They will be instructed
      to only apply the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad when they are planning to attend the triage/delivery
      unit for assessment of wetness/leaking. The participant will be instructed to arrive at the
      hospital within 2 hours of applying the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad, regardless of the test results
      (positive or negative), to have a clinical diagnosis by the attending physician.

      Upon arrival to the triage/delivery unit, the participant and the attending nurse or research
      team member (non-bias to the subject's result record) will retrieve the AMNIOSENSE Blue pad
      and record the results in the designated data collection forms and place the AMNIOSENSE Blue
      pad in a sealed envelope labeled with the study ID. These results will not be communicated to
      the attending clinicians who will remain blinded.

      In each case, the subject will also be required to read and record any occurrence of color
      change of the AMNIOSENSE Blue 10 minutes after removing the test on the designated form.

      While in the hospital, participants will be managed according to standard hospital procedure
      at the discretion of the clinician and have clinical diagnostic tests (clinical assessment)
      for amniotic fluid leak detection, according to the hospital standard procedure. The
      clinician will be blinded to the results of the AMNIOSENSE Blue during the study, and as such
      subject treatment will be based only on the standard hospital diagnostic methods.
    
  