
    
      Typhoid fever remains common, serious, and difficult-to-treat throughout the world including
      Vietnam. Limitations of the three licensed typhoid vaccines have prevented their use for
      routine vaccination of infants. The most recent, Vi polysaccharide typhoid vaccine is useful
      only in individuals greater than or equal to 5 years of age because of its age-related and
      T-cell independent properties. The immunogenicity of Vi in individuals less than 5 years-old
      has been improved by binding it to a protein. In 2 to 4-year-olds, 2 injections of the Vi
      conjugate induced higher levels of serum IgG anti-Vi than Vi in 5 to 14-year-olds.

      A double-blind, placebo controlled and randomized efficacy study in 2 -to-5 years old
      children in Vietnam showed an over-all efficacy after 27 months of active surveillance
      followed by 19 months of passive surveillance of 89%. Subsequently a dosage study in the same
      age group showed the highest antibody levels were induced by the 25 mcg dose.

      Now we wish to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity, and compatibility of our Vi-rEPA
      conjugate administered to infants with their routine vaccinations.

      We propose to recruit 300 full term healthy newborns in Vietnam and randomly divide them to
      receive Vi-rEPA plus DTP (Group A), Hib-TT (not yet used in Vietnam) plus DTP (Group B), or
      DTP alone (Group C). Maternal and cord blood are taken routinely on all deliveries in
      Vietnam; these sera will be retrieved for storage when consent is obtained following
      interviews of mothers during prenatal visits, or after delivery. All vaccines will be
      administered at 2, 4, and 6 months. A booster of Vi-rEPA or Hib-TT conjugate will be
      administered at 12 months of age and reactions monitored at 6, 24 and 48 hours after each
      injection. Blood will be taken at 7, and 12 months of age from all study infants and at 13
      months from infants injected with Vi-rEPA or with Hib-TT at 12 months. The blood samples will
      be assayed for Vi, Hib, diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis antibodies.

      The levels of serum IgG anti-Vi elicited by Vi-rEPA administered to infants by the above
      schedule will be compared to those elicited by this vaccine in 2 to 5 year-olds in the
      efficacy trial conducted in Dong Thap.
    
  