
    
      Study design To evaluate the incidence of phlebitis using the PICC compared to peripheral
      venous access a randomized clinical trial was conducted in the period between 12/07/2012 and
      10/02/2014, in adult cardiology department of a university hospital in Brazil. Patients were
      randomized into two groups permuted blocks of four. The sequence of randomization was built
      with random allocation blocks 4 through of random number tables. (3).The primary endpoint was
      occurrence of phlebitis.

      Population Patients who were admitted with congestive heart failure of decompensated in use
      of intravenous inotropic agents were screened for eligibility to participate in this study.
      Inclusion criteria were: advanced congestive heart failure, use of vasoactive drugs, patients
      with platelet ≥50.000 mm3, left ventricular ejection fraction <0.45, upper limb venous system
      able for catheter insertion and central catheter peripherally inserted. Exclusion criteria
      were age <18, cardiac pacemaker or defibrillator, active systemic infection without treatment
      or without control, platelets <50.000 mm3, injury skin in cubital region and presence of
      central catheter.

      Sample size calculation Based on pilot study data, we estimated the occurrence of phlebitis
      20% in PICC group and 80% in control group. Considering statistical power of 80% and α-error
      in 5%, the sample size was estimated by 39 patients in each group. For more conservative
      estimation we defined 40 patients in each group (80 patients in total).Considering these
      values the sample size was 39 patients in each group in a more conservative estimate set the
      size in 40 patients for each group and 60% in the control group and 20% in the PICC group. In
      total 172 patients were evaluated, of these 86 patients did not meet the inclusion criteria
      and six did not agree to participate.

      Ethics considerations Eligible patients were invited to participate and receive written
      information about the study objectives and procedures. After detailed explanations about the
      study if the patient agreed to participate they signed the informed consent. The study
      protocol was approved by the local ethics committee, and the study is in accordance with the
      principles set out in the Declaration of Helsinki. (1989) Intervention and endpoints Patients
      were divided into two groups: PICC Group and Control Group - peripheral venous access. In
      patients PICC group the catheter was inserted by the researcher and used to puncture
      technique guided by ultrasound (2). In the control group, patients were maintained with
      venous access by peripheral vein with flexible peripheral intravenous device and evaluation
      similar to the PICC group. The researcher evaluated daily the insertion site and asked the
      patient whether feel pain or not. The degree of phlebitis considered according to phlebitis
      scale Infusion Nurses Society (Table 1). Daily photo of all catheters and insertion site were
      performed. The patients were followed up to present the outcome, phlebitis; in his absence
      they were followed for ten consecutive days.

      The dobutamine infusion was prescribed by responsible cardiologists well as the remaining
      drug therapy.

      Statistical Analysis Categorical variables were expressed as number and percentage and
      compared between groups using the chi-square test (א 2) or Fisher's exact test. Continuous
      variables were expressed as mean, standard deviation and variance and compared between groups
      by Student's t test. Kaplan-Meir free-event curve (4) was built according the groups.
      Logistic regression analysis examined the predictive value of PICC Group and other variables
      for the occurrence of phlebitis, determining the odds ratio and its 95% confidence interval.
      Was considered statistically significant P <0.05. The primary analysis respected the
      principle of intention to treat, including only randomized patients.
    
  