
    
      STUDY DESIGN: Single-center, blinded (rater, investigator, and clinician), longitudinal, RCT
      comparing a 12-week SKY online intervention group to a 12-week HEP online intervention group.

      STUDY RECRUITMENT: Participants include men and women (n=130), 18-75 years of age, with PTSD.
      The study will recruit via referrals from the General Adult Ambulatory, the Traumatic Stress
      Services Program (TSS), the PTSD clinical research unit and the Geriatric Mental Health
      Program of London Health Sciences Centre at an expected rate of approximately 1 to 2
      participants per week. Referred participants will be individuals who in the opinion of
      investigators or referring physicians will likely meet inclusion and exclusion criteria. A
      letter will be sent to primary care physicians in London, ON and surrounding area requesting
      the referral of potential participants. The letter will be accompanied by a poster
      advertising the study and by a list of the studies inclusion/exclusion criteria. Posters will
      also be placed online on the websites of the studies investigators as well as websites and
      social media sites of relevant organizations such as Project Trauma Support and
      Ivegotyourback911. Online posters will indicate that individuals should not share or comment
      on posters to protect their identity. Printed posters will be placed in community centres,
      libraries, hospitals, medical centres, locations where veterans frequent, and locations where
      first responders work such as fire halls and police stations. Information sessions will be
      held at locations where first responders work or may frequent to inform potential
      participants about the study.

      SCREENING AND INITIAL ASSESSMENT: Referred potential participants will be provided with a
      Letter of Information (LOI) to review and consider. Participants will be given a minimum of
      24 hours to review the LOI before being contacted over-the-phone by one of the study Research
      Assistants (RA). During this initial phone call the RA will answer any questions the
      potential participants have, briefly explain the study, and invite potential participants to
      a screening appointment to be conducted either remotely or in person. During the initial
      screening appointment participants will complete the informed consent process which includes
      an opportunity to ask any questions. Participants will be screened for inclusion and
      exclusion criteria by a trained member of the research team. These participants will have
      clinically diagnosed PTSD, further confirmed through a structured clinical interview, the
      Clinician-administered PTSD Scale for DSM5-past month version (CAPS5). Any additional
      diagnoses will be screened by the MINI (Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview). The
      CAPS5 will also be used to rule out severe depersonalization and derealization as per
      exclusion criteria. If the participant is above the age of 65 years of age, they will
      complete a cognitive screening test using the Mini Mental State Examination, MMSE>24 to rule
      out significant cognitive impairment. Participants meeting all study criteria who wish to
      join the study will be enrolled and assigned a unique study identifier e.g. HEPSKY001.

      RANDOMIZATION: Participants meeting inclusion criteria will be randomized to either SKY or
      HEP with equal probability (1:1), stratified by gender, using computer generated
      randomisation numbers. Concealment of randomisation to outcome assessors and investigators
      will be ensured by an independent consultant who will perform the randomization. The
      independent consultant will be responsible for randomization and will inform an unblinded
      study team member of allocation codes. The unblinded study team member will send an email to
      study participants informing them of their treatment allocation.

      TRIAL INTERVENTIONS: The investigators will offer the two interventions, online via Cisco
      WebEx, in groups of 6-8 participants on a rolling basis 1. Sudarshan Kriya Yoga (SKY): 1.
      Participants in the SKY group will undergo a 12-week training course conducted by certified
      teachers of the Art of Living Foundation. 2. HEP Intervention: Participants in HEP will learn
      about health promotion, healthy diet, music, and exercise, but will not learn breathing
      techniques, or meditation. HEP will be delivered by trained staff.

      All participants will continue to receive standard care through their providers.
    
  