
    
      This a randomized controlled clinical trial with first primary end point at four weeks and
      second primary end point at two months.

      Sample size was determined through power analysis. The Minimal Clinically Significant
      Difference (MCID) of our main outcome measure, Kujala Anterior Knee Pain Scale, was used for
      the estimation. The MCID of the Kujala scale has been reported to be 10 points with an
      estimated standard deviation of 13,5 points. For a power of 0.80 and a level of significance
      a=0.05 and considering a two tailed t-test the sample size was calculated to be 60
      participants total (30 in each group). The GPower 3.0.10 software was used to calculate the
      sample size. By estimating a possible 20% drop out we concluded to a sample size of 75.

      The participants of this study will be volunteers and considered a sample of convenience
      since no official records or data base exists in Cyprus with all PFP patients. Participant
      recruitment will begin in November 2019. Potential participants will be informed for the
      study through printed posters around the European University Cyprus (EUC) campus, local
      social media online posters and will volunteer for inclusion. Screening will be carried out
      by an orthopedic surgeon, at the musculoskeletal laboratory of the EUC to determine their
      eligibility based on specific inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Volunteers who meet inclusion criteria will receive oral and written information and give
      informed consent to participate in the study by signing a consent form. They will be
      randomized into one of two treatment groups. Group 1 will be the Hip and Knee Exercise group
      and Group 2 the BFR training Hip and Κnee exercise group. Randomization will be carried out
      using a block sequence of 4 by an external statistician to maintain a balance in sample size
      across groups over time and to ensure the assessor was blind to the participants allocation.

      All interventions will take place in the musculoskeletal laboratory and the training center
      lab of the EUC. Time consistency in treatments will be a goal, in order to train participants
      at similar circadian rhythm. Room temperature for both labs will be set at 25 °C. Two
      experienced physiotherapists will each be randomly assigned to supervise one of the two
      intervention groups and provide the treatment. The therapists role is to supervise treatments
      and their progression, keep track of compliance with the study design, adverse effects and
      drop outs. If patients do not comply with the study (seek other treatment for PFP, exercise
      during the study, inability to attend treatments) design they will be excluded. The two
      therapist will be blinded as to the other groups treatment protocol and the studies outcomes.
      They will be given written information for all procedures of their intervention group in
      order to ensure consistency throughout the study. Data collected by the therapists will be
      stored at the E.U.C laboratories and will only be available to them. Additionally, the
      therapists will be assisted by fourth year physiotherapy undergraduate students in
      supervising participants during treatments. Participants who fail to complete at least 10/12
      therapy sessions will be excluded and their data will not be analyzed. All therapy sessions
      will be supervise by a physician who will be in charge of participants safety. Any adverse
      events will be reported with publication of final results. Participants are free to withdraw
      from the study at any given moment. In case of any complaints, participants have the right to
      file official complaints to the university bioethics committee.

      Planed statistical analysis: Statistical analysis will be performed by the studies assessor
      who is blinded to the participants treatment group using the IBM SPSS "Statistical Package
      for the Social Sciences" (SPSS, Version 20.0). Descriptive statistics will be analyzed with
      the calculation of means, standard deviations, minimum and max values for each variable. A
      normality check will follow using the One Sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (p<0.05). The
      chi-squared test will be used to test for difference between the two groups with respect to
      the categorical variable gender. To check for differences within groups (baseline-4weeks,
      baseline-2months follow up and 4weeks-2months follow up) we will use the paired t-test for
      each comparison. In case of nonparametric data, the Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used.
      In order to estimate differences between the two groups (baseline-4weeks, baseline-2months
      follow up and 4weeks-2months follow up) we will use the mixed two way ANOVA with time as a
      within-subjects factor and treatment as the between subjects factor. Homogeneity of variance
      will be checked with the Levene test <0.05. In the case of not normally distributed data we
      will use the generalized mixed effect model with treatment as a fixed factor, time as a
      random factor, and inverse as the link function. Possible correlations will also be checked
      for our outcome measures using the Pearson correlation coefficient. In case of not normally
      distributed data the Spearman correlation coefficient will be used if there seems to be a
      linear correlation from a scatter plot. Missing values in the Patient Reported Outcome
      Measures will be imputed using Multiple Imputation (MI). Only upon agreement by the authors
      that there will be no further changes and/or analysis, results of the study will be
      published.
    
  