
    
      1. Extraction of Ig gene sequences from IBD patient gut samples. The proposed study aims to
           elucidate the role of B cells in IBD via investigating their Ig gene diversification.
           Hence the first step should be to extract Ig gene sequences from samples (cases of
           resection procedure) archived in the pathology laboratory of the Sheba Medical Center.
           Samples from both CD and UC cases will be used, DNA will be extracted and Ig gene
           sequences will be amplified via PCR, in order to generate sufficient data for the
           bioinformatical analysis. Samples from inflamed gut segments will be compared to samples
           from uninflamed segments (where available), in order to provide an internal control for
           the comparison of IBD-related and unrelated B cell clones.

        2. Investigation of the repertoire and the degree of clonality in B cells implicated in
           IBD, based on the sequences extracted under aim (1).

           We assume that B cells involved in a chronic disease state undergo Ig gene
           diversification for much longer times than B cells in normal short-term immune
           responses, and hence Ig gene sequences from IBD-related B cells will exhibit a high
           degree of clonality. There may also be biases in specific Ig variable region (V) gene
           segment usage, as has been observed in other chronic diseases. Hence, the sequences
           obtained under aim (1) will be aligned with human germline V segment sequences, in order
           to identify any possible biases in V segment usage, and to identify clonal relationships
           between sets of sequences from the same patient. Since even gut samples from healthy
           humans contain many clonally related Ig gene sequences (see below), we expect to find
           many such clonal sequences in most samples.

        3. Elucidation of the dynamics of the responding B cell clones, using lineage tree analysis
           of clonal Ig gene sequences found under aim (2).

           Sets of clonally-related Ig gene sequences discovered under aim (3) will be subjected to
           lineage tree analysis using the methods developed by the Mehr group. The results of this
           analysis will point at the differences between IBD-related and unrelated B cell clones
           in the dynamics of somatic hypermutation and antigen-driven selection.

        4. Search for correlations between the parameters resulting from lineage tree analysis (aim
           3) and clinical and patient parameters.

      A particularly interesting question is whether the parameters generated by lineage tree
      analysis of Ig gene sequences are correlated with clinical parameters describing the patients
      (e.g. age, gender), the course of the disease (e.g. age of onset, disease duration, symptom
      severity) and histological characteristics. We expect that analysis of these two types of
      data (bioinformatical and clinical) will reveal quite a few correlations, and that based on
      these correlations we may be able to enhance the set of diagnostic and prognostic tools
      currently available to clinicians specializing in IBD.
    
  