
    
      Diabetes affects 31 million (12%) U.S. adults, and another 82 million (34%) adults have
      prediabetes, a precursor to diabetes. The ramifications of diabetes are grave and include
      cardiovascular disease, disability, and death. While these statistics highlight the
      importance of diabetes prevention, current approaches have only partial effectiveness. This
      has created a clear need to identify new primary prevention targets and approaches for
      diabetes, and depression and depression treatment are strong candidates in this regard. Over
      20 years of evidence indicates that depression is an independent, clinically important,
      robust, biobehaviorally plausible, and modifiable risk factor for diabetes. However, research
      has yet to determine whether depression treatment can prevent the development of diabetes in
      people with prediabetes. Given that depression is still receiving limited attention in
      settings where diabetes prevention occurs (e.g., primary care), there is a large cohort of
      patients with an underdetected or undertreated diabetes risk factor (depression). This status
      quo and the strong state of the depression-to-diabetes science create the need for a pilot
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate the utility of depression treatment as a new diabetes
      prevention strategy. Thus, we propose a pilot RCT of 64 primary care patients (50% minority)
      with a depressive disorder and prediabetes. Patients will be randomized to 6 months of
      eIMPACT-DM (intervention) or Active Control (comparator). eIMPACT-DM is our modernized
      collaborative stepped care intervention consisting of (1) computerized and telephonic
      cognitive-behavioral therapy for depression and (2) select antidepressant medications
      included in an algorithm optimized for diabetes risk reduction. Our preliminary data
      establish the feasibility and antidepressive efficacy of eIMPACT-DM. The Active Control
      consists of depression education, symptom monitoring, and primary care for depression. Our
      primary aim is to determine the preliminary efficacy of eIMPACT-DM in improving the diabetes
      risk markers of hemoglobin A1c (primary outcome) and insulin resistance (secondary outcome).
      Our exploratory aim is to explore whether somatic depressive symptoms - i.e., hyperphagia
      (increased appetite/weight) and/or hypersomnia (increased sleep) - moderate the effect of
      eIMPACT-DM on diabetes risk markers. A positive pilot trial would pave the way to an
      R01-level RCT by: (1) generating critical proof-of-concept data (eIMPACT-DM can improve A1c)
      to support the premise of the definitive trial; (2) providing preliminary effect sizes for
      eIMPACT-DM on diabetes risk markers to help justify future power analyses; (3) identifying a
      potentially important moderator of eIMPACT-DM efficacy that may need to be incorporated into
      the definitive trial. Ultimately, demonstrating that depression treatment reduces diabetes
      risk would identify a novel target (depression) for diabetes prevention efforts, and it would
      equip healthcare providers with a new practical, scalable, and disseminable intervention
      (eIMPACT-DM) to help lower diabetes risk for a large cohort of high-risk patients. These
      practice changes should translate into reduced diabetes morbidity, mortality, and costs.
    
  