
    
      Skeletal muscle is crucial for health and accounts for approximately 40% of total body mass.
      A loss of skeletal muscle mass is seen in the process of ageing, with reductions between
      0.2%-0.5% of muscle mass per year starting in the fifth decade. Accelerated loss of muscle
      and function above a certain threshold is characterized as sarcopenia. Age-related sarcopenia
      is prevalent in the UK; it is estimated to affect 4.6% men and 7.9% women with an average age
      of 67 years. Older people have an impaired capacity to increase muscle protein synthesis
      (MPS) rates in response to protein intake; this is thought to be a key contributor to
      age-related sarcopenia. Therefore, it is essential to elucidate new strategies to prevent and
      treat the accelerated loss of muscle mass and function.

      Omega (ω)-polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs) derived from fish oil have possible
      beneficial effects on health. Evidence suggests potential therapeutic effects of n-3 PUFAs in
      maintenance/prevention of loss of skeletal muscle mass. N-3 PUFAs probably exert their
      effects by incorporation into tissue membranes. However, the relation between dose and
      incorporation into tissue membranes is unclear. Interestingly, a higher dose ingested over 4
      weeks seen by McGlory et al. induced similar omega-3 incorporation in the tissue compared to
      the low doses over 8 weeks studied by Smith et al. If higher doses change tissue composition
      earlier, then there will be earlier benefits for muscle health and function. Thus, there is a
      need to examine whether an initial loading dose incorporation into tissues can be sustained
      by moving to a lower maintenance feeding dose. Furthermore, the exact molecular mechanisms of
      how n-3 PUFAs act on skeletal muscle are unclear. Several metabolic and molecular responses
      are affected, but wherein these pathways n-3 PUFAs act remain largely unknown and requires
      more investigation, with a focus on long-term settings.

      This study aims to tackle these problems by executing a 5-month study where we will track the
      incorporation and washout of n-3 PUFAs into different tissues following two different dosing
      strategies in healthy young and older volunteers. Data gathered from this study will be used
      to establish novel dosing strategies and provide insights into the incorporation of n-3 PUFAs
      in different tissues and their washout in young and older participants. Ultimately, these
      insights will help targeting, prevention, and treatment of sarcopenia.

      Participating in this study requires approximately 30 hours of commitment, of which 12 hours
      will be spent in the lab.
    
  