
    
      In this research study each participant will have the study MRI (USPIO MRI) before he/she
      undergoes surgery. Radiologists (doctors trained to read and understand this test) will
      review this study MRI. The imaging results will be compared with the pathology reports from
      the tissue removed during your surgery.

      Before the research starts (screening):

      After signing this consent form, the participant will be asked to undergo some screening
      tests or procedures to find out if the participant can be in the research study. These tests
      and procedures were done as part of regular care and would have been done even if it turns
      out that the participant does not take part in the research study.

        -  An tumor assessment by CT (Computerized Tomography) scan or thyroid US (ultrasonography)
           scans.

        -  If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research
           study, they will begin the study. If the participant does not meet the eligibility
           criteria, they will not be able to participate in this research study.

        -  Because women who are pregnant or nursing a baby cannot be in this research study, the
           participant will have a urine pregnancy test if they are a woman of child bearing
           potential. The participant cannot be in this research study if they are pregnant or
           breastfeeding.

        -  The investigator will also ask if the participant is allergic to iron. Because the study
           agent contains iron, the participant cannot be in this research study if they have this
           allergy.

      After the screening procedures confirm that the Participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study:

      The participant will have one research MRI scan:

      On the first day, the participant will receive the contrast agent intravenously. This visit
      will take about 30 minutes.

      Before injecting the contrast medium, the investigator will clean the skin on the
      participant's forearm with alcohol. Then the investigator will insert a small plastic tube
      (IV) into a vein in the participant's forearm. The investigator will give the participant the
      study agent, ferumoxytol, through the IV line. The dose of ferumoxytol and the rate of
      administration will not be more than the dose the FDA has approved when people who have
      anemia use this for iron replacement therapy. Before, during and until 30 minutes after the
      participant get the ferumoxytol, the investigator will monitor (watch) the participant
      closely for any reactions to the infusion. The participant will return to Massachusetts
      General Hospital, Boston MA 02114, 48-72 hours for the post contrast MRI. The participant
      will not receive Ferumoxytol before this MRI. This study visit will take about 45 minutes.

      The participant will lie on a padded table. The table will move into a scanning machine. The
      space in the scanning machine is very narrow, just a bit wider than that participant's body.
      The participant will need to lie quietly for about 30 minutes while the images are being
      taken. If the participant has problems with claustrophobia (fear or discomfort in small or
      confined spaces), let the study doctor or a member of the staff know before enrolling in this
      study.

      During the MRI procedure, the participant will hear loud "banging" noises. This is the sound
      the powerful magnets make during the test. The participant will be given earplugs to help
      reduce the noise. The participant will also be able to talk to the MRI technologist during
      the test and the technologist will be able to talk to the participant. If, during the test,
      the participant feels too uncomfortable to continue, let the technologist know, and the test
      will be stopped immediately.

      If any of the participant's MRIs show unusual results that might be important for your
      health, the study doctor will contact the participant's primary surgeon. The participant's
      MRIs will be reviewed by a radiologist. They will be read and interpreted and the results
      will be communicated to the participant's surgeon before scheduled surgery. The MRI scan may
      show abnormal signals in lymph nodes that are outside the area that the surgeon normally
      removes and the surgeon may decide to extend the surgery to include this additional area.
      During the scheduled surgery, the participant's surgeon will remove the participant's thyroid
      and any lymph nodes that s/he believes are involved.

      The surgery will be performed within 30 days of the MRIs. The imaging results will then be
      compared with the tissue that is removed during the surgery.

      The thyroid and involved lymph nodes that were surgically removed will be evaluated by a
      pathologist and then stored for future assessment in case the thyroid cancer recurs in the
      body. This will allow the investigators to compare the kind of tumor removed at time of first
      surgery to the tumor that has recurred.
    
  