
    
      This study is a double-blind, randomized, two-arm (with crossover to other arm) trial that
      will investigate the benefit of rate responsive pacing with either MV or XL in pacemaker
      patients that have chronotropic incompetence (CI). Blinding will occur for both the patient
      and the research personnel who are collecting primary endpoint data. The study will enroll
      patients that have an implanted dual/single chamber pacemaker, which has both the minute
      ventilation (MV) and accelerometer (XL) rate-adaptive sensors.

      The initial study visit called as baseline visit for newly implanted patients (at 2 weeks
      from implant) and for previously implanted patients (at the time of enrolling in the study).

      Patients will complete a 6-min walk test at the baseline study visit to screen for CI based
      on the intrinsic heart rate achieved during the walk while pacemaker set to DDD/VVI with both
      sensors set to passive. All patients that are enrolled in the study will get treadmill
      exercise stress test by chronotropic assessment exercise protocol (CAEP) to confirm CI.
      Patients will be determined to have CI by completing a maximal effort exercise treadmill
      stress test with peak perceived exertion by Borg scale of >16 (18) with the pacemaker
      programmed to DDD/VVI with both device sensors set to passive. Patients that do not meet the
      criteria of CI after CAEP treadmill test will not continue in the trial.

      Patients that have CI will then be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to programming the rate-adaptive
      sensor to either MV or XL. The MV or XL rate-adaptive sensor will be optimized for each
      patient using stress test derived age predicted maximum heart rate by adjusting response
      factor to achieve MCR slope of 1.

      At the 4-week visit, patients that have CI will complete a second CAEP treadmill test in
      their randomized setting with pacer set as DDDR/VVIR. They will also complete 6-minute walk
      test and pacemaker interrogation. They will be crossed over to the other sensor group at this
      time by changing the sensor setting.

      At 8 week visit, patients will have another CAEP treadmill test, 6-minute walk test and
      pacemaker interrogation in their randomized crossed over group setting.

      Patients that have CI will get quality of life assessment using SF-36 questionnaire and
      Aquarel questionnaire at baseline visit, 4 and 8 week visit in their randomized setting.
    
  