
    
      1. The Need for a Trial What is the problem to be addressed? Respiratory distress syndrome
           (RDS) is a major clinical challenge affecting 60% of babies born before 30 weeks
           gestation and significantly contributes to mortality and morbidity in very preterm
           infants, including chronic lung disease and bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Given that the
           immature lungs of these tiny infants are developmentally deficient in surfactant,
           exogenous surfactant administration might be beneficial to prevent pulmonary
           atelectasis. The traditional method in preterm infants is via endotracheal tube
           accompanied by mechanical ventilation using positive pressure. The latter predisposes to
           permanent lung injury.This study seeks to assess the feasibility of conducting a
           large-scale clinical trial to compare two minimally invasive methods of surfactant
           administration to very low birth weight preterm infants. As such a comparative study has
           not been reported, the proposed study is a pilot trial to test the feasibility of the
           study design and to gather preliminary data on the comparison of two methods of
           surfactant administration. Results from this study will inform the design of a larger
           clinical trial including appropriate power calculation.

           Current management of lung disease in preterm infants RDS significantly contributes to
           mortality and morbidity in very preterm infants and is, itself, a major determinant of
           chronic lung disease (CLD) in the premature infant. One of the most common causes of RDS
           is surfactant deficiency; therefore, exogenous surfactant is frequently used for the
           treatment of RDS of the preterm infant. Endogenous surfactant is typically produced by
           alveolar cells type II and this substance, among other functions, decreases and
           modulates the surface tension in the small gas exchanging units of the lung, the
           alveoli.1 It has been shown that surfactant treatment is more effective when used within
           first hours of life rather than later as rescue therapy. The traditional method of
           surfactant administration is via an endotracheal tube where the infant is intubated and
           mechanically ventilated, with the latter often resulting in a pulmonary inflammatory
           response. This response is known to be a significant contributor to the development of
           CLD which is the main pulmonary morbidity, both in the short and long term, associated
           with premature birth, thus traditionally supporting the need for mechanical ventilation
           in a highly vulnerable phase of lung development. Despite advances in management of
           respiratory distress, about 30% of infants born under < 1,000 g still develop CLD -
           defined as an oxygen need at 36 weeks postmenstrual age. Some of these infants develop
           severe lung disease requiring ventilation and/or supplemental oxygen for months or
           years. Significant contributors to this adverse long term outcome of premature birth are
           oxidant - and ventilation mediated injury and inflammation, leading to disrupted
           alveolarization and septation of the lungs.

           One well established therapy to prevent RDS is antenatal administration of steroids to
           mothers with imminent preterm birth for induction of lung maturation, a treatment that
           has resulted in significant improved outcome following preterm birth. This treatment
           results in improved neonatal lung compliance with fewer infants requiring exogenous
           surfactant therapy.7 The increasing use of this intervention has led to more infants not
           necessarily requiring postnatal surfactant and thus reduced need for mechanical
           ventilation, which allows to manage even extreme low birth weight infants with
           non-invasive pressure support as CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) to establish
           functional residual capacity.

           Postnatal non-invasive respiratory support using continuous positive airway pressure
           (CPAP) has been shown to be effective in reducing lung damage in several studies,
           especially when initiated during the immediate postnatal adaptation period. This results
           in fewer days of ventilation and a trend towards a lower risk of CLD, when compared to
           intubated and mechanically ventilated controls. However, the number of infants who are
           started on CPAP but who ultimately require intubation for the administration of
           exogenous surfactant within the first 72 hours remains high in the extremely low birth
           weight category. Usually CPAP failure is due to unremitting RDS requiring surfactant
           therapy. There is evidence that failing CPAP therapy, defined as need for intubation
           within 72 hours of postnatal age, is associated with adverse outcome in infants between
           25 to 28 weeks gestation with a higher risk of CLD, death or CLD and necrotizing
           enterocolitis. In the same trial infants between 29 and 32 weeks of gestation failing
           CPAP were at higher risk of pneumothorax.

           In current clinical practice neonatologists are faced with the quandary of avoiding
           mechanical positive pressure ventilation, but with the knowledge that surfactant
           treatment is more effective in earlier phases of RDS, and that CPAP failure could lead
           to higher risk of an adverse outcome. Hence efforts have been made to develop
           non-invasive strategies of surfactant application to take advantage of the high efficacy
           of this treatment and to decrease duration of mechanical ventilation and subsequent lung
           injury. To date, all attempts to produce an effective surfactant for nebulization have
           been unsuccessful.

           Recent advances in treatment of RDS In 1999, a Swedish group developed the InSurE
           procedure of surfactant administration, which involves intubation solely for the purpose
           of surfactant administration followed by immediate extubation to CPAP, thereby avoiding
           prolonged positive pressure ventilation. A Cochrane systematic review in 2008 concluded
           that this method, when compared with later selective surfactant therapy and continued
           mechanical ventilation, is associated with less need for mechanical ventilation, lower
           incidence of CLD and fewer air leak syndromes. InSurE has been shown to be effective
           even if used multiple times in the same patient. Failure of InSurE was associated with
           severity of RDS and extremely low birth weight < 750g. The CURPAP trial compared
           prophylactic administration of surfactant using the INSURE technique with early CPAP and
           early selective surfactant therapy if required. This trial found no difference for the
           outcome of mechanical ventilation in the first 5 days of life.

           Minimally invasive surfactant application (MISurf) via feeding tube or IV cannula device
           is a recently described innovative method of surfactant administration without the need
           for positive pressure ventilation. Using the same technique of visualization of the
           larynx by direct laryngoscopy as with classical intubation, the respective device is
           positioned in the infant's trachea, surfactant is applied, and the device is removed
           immediately without mechanical ventilation; If not already on CPAP, the patient is
           placed on nasal CPAP immediately following the procedure. In a large open-label multi-
           center randomized controlled trial, this method significantly reduced the need for
           mechanical ventilation in preterm infants between 26 and 28 weeks of gestation.

           What is/are the principal research question(s) to be addressed? This pilot study seeks
           to assess the feasibility of conducting a large-scale randomized trial to compare the
           two described methods of delivering surfactant, MISURF and INSURE. If this study design
           proves feasible, a larger trial would test the hypothesis that early surfactant
           administration via feeding tube/ IV cannula device under complete avoidance of
           mechanical ventilation as compared to INSURE will decrease the incidence and duration of
           invasive ventilation in the whole study population and decrease the incidence of CLD in
           infants of 25-28 week gestation.

           Why is a trial needed now? Evidence shows that the classical, invasive way of
           administering surfactant therapy is associated with serious side effects. This method is
           currently the most commonly used in neonatology, including at McMaster. MISurf and
           InSurE are the most common minimally invasive surfactant application techniques used in
           neonatology; InSurE is considered best practice for minimally invasive application and
           MISurf is promising practice. They have been compared to either CPAP therapy or to the
           classical way of administering surfactant with some evidence of benefit. No systematic
           review exists of randomized trials using minimally invasive surfactant delivery. Our
           literature review with search terms of surfactant therapy, minimal invasive surfactant
           application, InSurE, comparison, preterm infant, non invasive surfactant application, in
           different combinations, has not revealed one trial comparing these two methods directly
           with each other. The combination of minimally invasive surfactant application without
           mechanical ventilation with early CPAP therapy should offer the best lung protective
           strategy. A theoretical counter-argument could be that administering surfactant without
           the pressure of the ventilation (MISurf), the distribution of surfactant into the lung
           tissue could be less efficient compared to (INSurE) where intubation and surfactant
           administration are accompanied by positive pressure ventilation. Hence a comparative
           randomized trial will significantly contribute to the evidence and knowledge about the
           role of these two minimal invasive strategies for surfactant administration and as such
           influence or respectively change practice at Hamilton Health Sciences and beyond. The
           outcome of this trial could support the rationale for a multicenter trial throughout
           Canada.

           Why is a pilot study necessary? As this will be the first study to compare these two
           methods, aspects of feasibility have to be tested. The design of the proposed pilot
           study is a randomized, two armed intervention trial, with a masked intervention. It is
           vital to investigate if the procedures of the trial and masking of intervention are
           feasible. Recruitment rate, drop-out rate because of meeting exclusion criteria, refusal
           rate, consent- and randomization process, acceptance by clinicians and staff, also need
           to be investigated. The results of this pilot trial will inform the sample size
           calculation of a larger trial. This pilot will also confirm acceptability of study
           inclusion criteria.

           Clinical relevance As described above, CPAP therapy alone might lead to unfavorable
           outcome in a group of patients using intubation failing this treatment and needing
           rescue surfactant therapy. However, undertaking surfactant therapy in all extreme
           premature infants is not considered good clinical practice. What is needed is to be able
           to identify the patient group who is most likely to benefit from surfactant therapy, and
           then to define the optimal time and method of surfactant application. This should lead
           to better outcome due to less days of ventilatory treatment, translating in significant
           decrease of cost in the short term (one surfactant application costs between 300 to
           >1000$, depending on product and country) as well as long term, considering the burden
           costs of CLD, with children needing specialist care for the first years of life.

        2. The Proposed Trial

           Study Design We propose to assess the feasibility of a masked, prospective randomized
           controlled trial, with two intervention arms, to compare surfactant application using
           the InSurE technique versus the MISurf technique. As early CPAP therapy is currently the
           standard of care for patients less than 33 weeks gestation, patients in both arms of the
           study will receive this intervention.

           What are the planned trial interventions?

             1. MISurf: Minimally invasive intratracheal surfactant application without mechanical
                ventilation by feeding tube device

             2. InSurE: Surfactant application by InSurE strategy (Intubation - surfactant -
                extubation sequence).

           Both interventions will be performed by intervention teams, comprised of an attending
           physician, a neonatal fellow, a respiratory therapist, nurse practitioner and nurses.
           The physical visualization and application of surfactant will be performed by the
           attending physician or the neonatal fellow, who is part of the intervention team. For
           the MISurf intervention, it was decided to use the minimally invasive method via feeding
           tube exclusively due to concerns about possibility of airway injury with the iv cannula
           device.

           Surfactant Two porcine derived surfactant products have been used in the published
           trials for minimal invasive surfactant application, Curosurf© and Survanta©. Due to
           safety reasons we will use these products also in our pilot study however, only the
           latter is currently available in Canada. Hence we will use Survanta© 100 mg/kgBW,
           equivalent to 4 ml/kgBW per dose.

           Medication Considering the non invasiveness of the procedure, medication (anaesthetic
           agents, analgosedation) will not be administered for study interventions.

           What are the proposed practical arrangements for allocating participants to trial
           groups? This pilot trial will allocate participants to groups using simple randomization
           with sealed nontransparent envelopes. Every eligible patient for whom parental consent
           has been obtained will be randomized after birth.

           What are the proposed methods for protecting against sources of bias?

           Details of masking procedure Intervention teams will be established and will be
           comprised of health professionals (as above) who are not part of the infants' care team
           within the first 3 days of life. The procedure itself will be performed either in a
           different room (infant stabilization room (ISR)), or behind a folding screen.

           Blinding of health professionals in the circle of care Eligible patients will be
           randomized at birth or as soon thereafter as possible, once parental consent has been
           obtained. Professionals in the infant's circle of care and those assessing outcome will
           be blind to their study group.

           What are the planned inclusion/exclusion criteria? Eligible are all preterm infants born
           ≤ 30 weeks gestation at McMaster Inclusion criteria

             -  CPAP of 5-6 cm H2O and FiO2≥ 0.35 or CPAP of 7-8 cm of H2O and FiO2≥ 0.30

             -  Less than 36 hours of age

             -  Worsening clinical signs of RDS such as retractions (clinical judgment of the
                responsible physician) Exclusion Criteria

             -  Previous Intubation or in imminent need of invasive mechanical ventilation because
                of e.g. apnea, severe bradycardia or other deterioration not attributed to RDS,
                e.g. shock

             -  Congenital anomaly or conditions that might adversely affect breathing

             -  Pneumothorax before intervention

             -  No parental consent

           What is the proposed duration of treatment period? Infants are eligible to enter the
           study for intervention within 36h of life. The intervention itself will take 5 to 15
           minutes. A second (one repeat) non invasive intervention is allowed in case of a second
           surfactant dose to be required.

           What is the proposed frequency and duration of follow up? Outcome will be assessed
           within first 3 days of life, within 48 hours after intervention and until discharge.

           What are the proposed primary and secondary outcome measures?

        3. Primary feasibility outcome

           • Proportion of included infants who were treated according to protocol

        4. Secondary feasibility outcome

             -  Recruitment rate

             -  Consent rate

             -  Proportion of intervention procedures in which masking has not been successful

             -  Proportion of interventions, when intervention team has not arrived in time leading
                to emergency intervention

             -  Success rate in antenatal approach for consent

        5. Primary clinical outcome

           Failure rate of the intervention, where failure is defined as:

             -  Need for invasive ventilation, requiring either FiO2 more than 0.6 or pCO2 more
                than 65 mm Hg and pH < 7.20 or both for more than 2 hours after surfactant
                administration up to 72 hrs of life

             -  Intubation/requirement for mechanical ventilation within 48h after first
                intervention (same criteria as above)

             -  For InSurE: Failed extubation within 15 min after intubation for surfactant
                application

             -  SAE during immediate intervention leading to intubation (e.g. severe
                bradycardia/resuscitation, pneumothorax)

        6. Secondary clinical outcome

             -  Proportion of infants not requiring the intervention

             -  Proportion of the following co-morbidities until discharge? - Incidence of grade 3
                and 4 IVH (intraventricular hemorrhage), - PVL (periventricular leucomalacia), -
                ROP (retinopathy of prematurity) requiring treatment, - NEC (necrotizing
                enterocolitis) stage 2 and 3

             -  Total duration of invasive and non-invasive ventilation (extubation criteria will
                follow the extubation- and weaning guidelines), duration of oxygen supplementation
                until discharge

             -  Proportion of patients requiring oxygen supplementation at discharge

             -  Proportion of surfactant related adverse events like tube blockade, episodes of
                desaturation, bradycardia, pulmonary hemorrhage, pneumothorax differ in the two
                groups

             -  Total number of surfactant doses required compared in the two groups

             -  Incidence of CLD. CLD is assessed as per physiological CLD definition with the
                severity score of mild, moderate and severe

             -  Death

           How will the outcome measures be measured at follow up? Clinical outcome data will be
           collected from patient medical records by the research coordinator and verified by the
           principal investigator. Feasibility outcome data will be documented by the intervention
           teams and collected by the research coordinator.

           What are the criteria for success of this pilot study? We aim to verify that it will be
           possible to perform a large scale clinical trial with this study design. Given that
           currently almost 100% of our patients are treated with classical surfactant application,
           a rate of >50 % of recruited patients treated according to protocol and a recruitment
           and consent rate indicating that a large scale trial with a estimated sample size of 150
           to 200 patients within 2 to 3 years can be performed will determine success of this
           pilot trial.

           Sample size

           The sample size was primarily determined based on feasibility considerations. To test
           the feasibility of the study design a total of 40 patients (that is, 20 patients in each
           arm).In general, we estimate that 200 preterm infants are admitted to McMaster NICU per
           year and 40% of these would fulfill the eligibility criteria for this trial. Thus, we
           will have sufficient numbers to assess the feasibility of recruitment for the main
           trial. Main study:

           The sample size will be calculated based on results of the pilot study.

           What is the planned recruitment rate? How will the recruitment be organized? Over what
           time period will recruitment take place? What evidence is there that the planned
           recruitment rate is achievable? Where possible, recruitment will take place antenatally.
           The research coordinator will screen the Labour & Delivery high risk patients for
           eligibility. Mothers will then be informed of the study and approached for consent, if
           they provide consent to contact. A recruitment rate of more than 70% should be
           achievable based on previous experience with clinical studies in our unit with this
           population. All infants of gestational age < 30 weeks are eligible. Based on the data
           for McMaster NICU from Vermont Oxford Network and Canadian Neonatal Network around a
           proportion of 40% of these patients is estimated to meet the inclusion criteria for the
           intervention.

           What is the proposed type of analyses? The reporting of this pilot trial will be in
           accordance with the CONSORT Statement (www.consort-statement.org). The demographics and
           baseline characteristics of the trial participant will be analyzed using descriptive
           statistics reported as mean standard deviation [SD] or median (minimum, maximum) for
           continuous variables depending on the distribution, and count (percent) for categorical
           variables. The feasibility outcomes will be reported as percentages. For clinical
           outcomes, we will use the t-test for comparing groups on continuous outcomes and
           chi-squared test for categorical variables. All tests will be performed at alpha = 0.05
           level of significance. We will not adjust the overall level of significance for multiple
           testing as the tests will be primarily exploratory. All analyses will be performed using
           SAS 9.2 (Cary. NC).

           What is the proposed frequency of analyses? Interim analysis will be conducted following
           inclusion of first 20 patients, which is expected at around 6 months, under the
           assumption of a population of 200/year, recruitment rate of 70% and an eligibility rate
           for entering one of the intervention arms of 40%.

           Safety DSMB: Considering the patient population and the intervention a DSMB will be
           established. This will comprise of an external trialist/statistician, an external
           neonatologist and an external experienced clinical researcher outside the subject area.
           SAEs: SAEs will be captured and reported to DSMB within 24h.

           Alternative treatment: There is a considerable amount of patients (around 25%) who will
           not require intervention and will remain on CPAP treatment alone.31 The alternative
           pathway would be intubation and mechanical ventilation due to various causes of
           respiratory failure.

           Ethical considerations Full approval of the FHS/HHS REB will be obtained prior to
           commencement.

        7. Risks to the safety of participants involved in the trial Although this is the first
           time these interventions have been compared neither intervention is considered
           technically challenging or new. Hence no enhanced risk compared to the classical
           surfactant application is expected. The thresholds for intervention are chosen according
           to best practice recommendations and similar to other surfactant trials.14-21,26,28,29
           Adverse events related to the intervention such as pneumothorax, tube blockage,
           pulmonary hemorrhage will be treated with current best practice intensive care as any
           other complication. They will be reported as described under 2.15.

        8. Informed consent Written informed parental consent will be obtained by the research
           coordinator or by a physician who is not involved in the intervention team or the infant
           immediate care, when the coordinator is not available. Efforts will be undertaken to
           obtain parental consent prenatally. This should be feasible in most cases as more than
           80% of the women with imminent preterm birth receive an antenatal consult by Neonatology
           and can be informed about the study at that point. When antenatal consent is not
           possible, consent will be taken as soon as achievable after birth, if the infant meets
           eligibility criteria.
    
  