
    
      The mobile application to be tested provides guidance on moderating alcohol use in real time
      based on individual user's pre-defined drinking limits. This mobile application will be
      compared to a drink tracking strategy and corresponding tool outlined within the National
      Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Alcohol Moderation Strategies
      (https://www.rethinkingdrinking.niaaa.nih.gov/thinking-about-a-change/strategies-for-cutting-
      down/tips-to-try.aspx).

      Participants will be recruited from the community in Northeastern Ohio. Eligible participants
      will meet the following inclusion criteria 1) be age 21 or older, 2) report experiencing at
      least three negative consequence of alcohol use in the past month (assessed via Brief Young
      Adult Alcohol Consequences Questionnaire: BYAACQ), 3) report having consumed at least 5
      drinks (for men) or 4 drinks (for women) on one or more occasions in the past 2-weeks, 4) not
      be seeking treatment for alcohol use from a health-care provider, and 5) have access to a
      smartphone and 6) endorse some importance in changing their drinking (2 or greater on Alcohol
      Ladder Scale Importance to Change). Participants who endorse seeking treatment for alcohol
      related problems from a health care provider will be provided with a list of university
      sponsored and community based treatment providers, and excluded. Participants (n=64) will
      complete a battery of assessments including demographic measures, alcohol and substance use
      measures, psychological measures, behavioral economic and neuropsychological measures.

      The Timeline Follow-back Interview will be used to assess alcohol use. The Brief Young Adult
      Alcohol Consequences Questionnaire (BYAACQ ) will be used to assess a range of negative
      consequences of alcohol use that young adults may experience (e.g., while drinking in the
      past month, I have said or done embarrassing things).

      Following this initial baseline assessment, participants will be randomized to one of two
      experimental conditions detailed below (Alcohol Moderation Group 1 and 2). Doctoral
      Candidates in Clinical Psychology will review strategies for moderating alcohol use with all
      participants (strategies recommended by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
      Alcoholism; detail included as supplement). The only variation in the discussion of
      strategies is the the Alcohol Moderation Group 1 will receive detail and training on how to
      use the mobile application; whereas, the Alcohol Moderation Group 2 will receive detail and
      training on how to use the drinking tracker card recommended within the NIAAA guidelines.

      Primary outcome variables, in addition to variables assessing user design experience of the
      application and use of moderation strategies, will include (1) negative consequences of
      alcohol use during a 14 day observation period following randomization, and (2) number of
      drinks consumed per drinking day during a 14 day observation period following randomization.
      Assessment of primary outcome variable (1) will include baseline negative consequences of
      alcohol use (BYAACQ score) during the 14 day period prior to randomization as a covariate as
      well as additional covariates defined a priori based on the extant literature. Assessment of
      primary outcome variable (2) will include consideration of average drinking limit for each
      drinking day defined by the user, and number of drinks per drinking day in a 14 day period
      prior to randomization, as well as covariates defined a priori based on the extant
      literature.
    
  