
    
      Human blood samples will be collected prospectively from 50 obese patients, who are enrolled
      and planning to undertake bariatric surgery in the Outpatient Bariatric Surgery Clinic at
      Tulane University, HSC (Christopher G. Ducoin, MD, MPH; Chair of Bariatric Surgery Clinic and
      Surgeon, and Shauna Levy, MD, Bariatric Surgeon Specialist). Type of bariatric surgery used
      in each patient will be recorded. Because it has been shown that after 6 months of bariatric
      surgery, there is about 50-60% BW loss 15-18, we plan to obtain two tubes of blood samples
      with 5 mL of blood each. Blood will be drawn during the pre-Op visit and during 3 visits
      following the bariatric surgery: 1 week ± 2-3 days, 1 month ± 2 weeks and 6 months ± 1 - 2
      months. Blood samples will be used for plasma measurements of: glycaemia, HbA1c, lipids
      profile (LDL, HDL,triglycerides) and sPRR. Time of drawing of blood sample will be recorded
      due to potential effects of circadian rhythms to the RAS. Quantification of plasma sPRR by
      ELISA will be performed in Dr. Minolfa Prieto's laboratory located at Tulane University
      School of Medicine. Patient biological samples will be identified by a code that will link
      the sample to the patient. After conclusion of the study, samples will be used exclusively
      for obesity and T2DM related conditions research. Background Factors will include: sex, age,
      race, ethnicity, health insurance status, and personal medical history will assess presence
      of any of the following conditions: diabetes mellitus or hypertension (including any of the
      following treatments: antihypertensive drugs -ACEi, AT1R blockers, diuretics, or calcium
      antagonists), use of oral contraceptives or hormone replacement, previous surgeries (type,
      date), last menstruation date including any menstrual irregularity, congestive heart failure
      (CHF), peripheral vascular disease (PVD), pulmonary hypertension (PHTN), or ischemic heart
      disease, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), asthma, deep vein thrombosis/pulmonary embolism
      (DVT/PE), gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), liver disease, dyslipidemia, polycystic
      ovarian syndrome, depression, alcohol use, substance abuse, and/or tobacco use. Physical exam
      will include: BW, BMI, waist circumference, height, office BP (DBP and SBP measured at the
      Outpatient Clinic with the patient in a sitting position after resting for at least 5 min),
      and pulse rate Patient biological samples will be identified by a code linking the sample
      with the patient. Plasma samples for ELISA measurements will be assayed in duplicate in a
      blinded fashion. ELISA kits are commercial available and manufactured by IBL America, Inc.
      This assay is routinely performed in the PI's laboratory and has been validated using
      appropriate standards (provided by the manufacturers). We will use duplicate or triplicate
      samples when assayed. Biological controls such as buffer as blank will be used as technical
      controls. Because ELISA kits will be obtained from commercial vendors, authentication by the
      vendor(s) includes certifications of reactivity, purity, applications. These methods and
      outcomes have been previously reported. Internal controls standards curve of various
      concentrations of sPRR will be included in each plate reading for comparison purposes. To
      reduce bias, samples will be randomly assayed wherever possible and include positive standard
      controls with known concentrations for comparisons purposes. Both, a data handling plan
      (outliers, report of missing data) and a statistical analysis plan (Statistical analysis
      plan, endpoints [primary and secondary], inclusion for multiple testing will be used.. Our
      lab has authenticated sPRR ELISA and compared with measurements published by others. To
      ensure the detection of meaningful and realistic differences, the sample numbers are based on
      the requirement to perform each assay (Power and Sample size calculations). To ensure
      reproducibility, all protocols will be reported including all of the experimental conditions
      in detail. After conclusion of the study, samples will be used exclusively for obesity and DM
      related research. Aim 1: Determine whether plasma levels of sPRR decrease in obese patients
      after bariatric surgery. Scientific Premise and Rationale: In obese rats, PRR and renin are
      augmented two-fold in adipose tissue. Preliminary data from mice with T2DM-induced by high
      fat diet showed presence of a phenotype characterized by obesity, increased SBP, glucose
      intolerance, marked insulin resistance, and increased levels of sPRR in plasma by 18-wks on
      the dietary regimen. These mice also showed increased PRR expression in adipocytes from
      visceral fat. Our preliminary study showed that plasma sPRR levels are higher in lean men
      than lean women. In contrast, plasma sPRR levels were higher in obese diabetic women than in
      men. Furthermore, we found that obese patients with T2DM exhibited a positive correlation
      between plasma sPRR and BMI in women but not in men. This aims seeks to test the hypothesis
      that adipose tissue is the major supplier of plasma sPRR in obese patients.

      Experimental Design: quantifications will be done in plasma samples obtained from 50 obese
      patients undergoing bariatric surgery. Plasma samples will be drawn before bariatric surgery
      (pre-Op visit) and at each of 2 follow-up visits (1 month ± 1 - 2 weeks and at 6 months ± 1-2
      months) for the assessment of plasma sPRR by ELISA (Prieto's Lab, Tulane University) (See
      Power Analysis). These samples will be obtained from patients of the Bariatric and Minimal
      Invasive Surgery Clinic of Christopher G. Ducoin, MD at Tulane HSC (Collaborator).
      Comparisons will be established with human biological de-identified plasma samples from lean
      control patients that have already been collected and are available as part of the Tulane
      Obesity-Endocannabinoids Study (Tina Thethi, M.D, Collaborator). After patient's consent
      agreement, the patient will be examined in the Bariatric and Minimal Invasive Surgery Clinic
      for vital signs, BP (SBP and DBP, taken by sphygmomanometry), waist-to-hip ratio, and BMI.
      Fasting blood samples will be drawn by vein puncture for glycaemia, HbA1c, lipids profile
      (LDL, HDL, triglycerides), and sPRR. Background factors and personal medical history will be
      taken as described in the Study Design section. Power Analysis and Statistical
      Considerations: All the outcomes at each time point will be summarized as mean and standard
      deviation (SD). The repeated measures analysis of variance and paired test will be conducted
      to evaluate the change across the time points. The historical data suggest that about 10
      patients receive bariatric surgery per month in the Outpatient Bariatric Clinic at Tulane
      University; we expect that at least 50 eligible patients will be recruited in the first 6
      months of this project.

      Aim 2: Define whether changes in plasma levels of sPRR correlate with improvement of T2DM
      parameters in obese patients subsequent to weight loss after bariatric surgery. Scientific
      Premise and Rationale: Obesity and T2DM are major risk factors for CVD.

      Activation of RAS is implicated in the pathogenesis of CV risk factors. Often T2DM is
      improved immediately after bariatric surgery and even further with the sustained substantial
      BW loss. However, it remains unknown whether adipose tissue is the major supplier of sPRR in
      the plasma of obese patients, and if plasma sPRR contributes to T2DM and CV complications in
      these patients. Use of sPRR inhibitors would constitute a novel therapeutic approach to
      manage obesity in women and CV complications. We will test the hypothesis that decreases in
      levels of plasma sPRR after bariatric surgery is associated with the improvement in glycemic
      control and lipid profile in obese patients. Analysis and Statistical Considerations:
      Multiple linear regression models will be used to measure the association between sPRR,
      glycaemia, HbA1c, lipids profile (LDL, HDL, triglycerides). Comparisons will be established
      with values before and 2 visits after surgery. The proposed n=50 will be sufficient to fit
      models with up to 7 predictors and to have 80% power to detect a significant association
      between sPRR and any one predictor if at least 12.25% of the total variability of sPRR is
      accounted for by the predictor. Unadjusted and adjusted correlations and associated P values
      will be reported.

      Expected Results, Pitfalls, and Alternative Approach Aim 1: To our knowledge, no previous
      study has defined the relationship among plasma sPRR-obesity-T2DM or has established the
      correlations between plasma sPRR and BMI, WHR, or HbA1c. We expect that plasma sPRR levels
      will be higher in obese than in lean control samples, and that compared with control, plasma
      sPRR levels will be higher in T2DM obese patients. We anticipate that plasma sPRR levels will
      be positively associated with obesity in T2DM obese women but not in male counterparts after
      adjusting for background factors, suggesting that increases in plasma sPRR in women might be
      due to hyperandrogenemia. Aim 2: will define whether changes in plasma sPRR correlate with
      the improvement of T2DM and lipid profile in obese patients after bariatric surgery. Based on
      our strong preliminary data, we anticipate that the outcomes will allow better understanding
      of the role of sPRR and metabolic risk factors in obese patients. Potential pitfalls: Because
      patients undergoing bariatric surgery are more commonly women, if recruitment/enrollment of
      men results to be low, we will justify the analysis with women to men frequency data ratio of
      4:1.19 Alternative Approach: We expected that the outcomes allow comparing the impact of the
      direct effects of the bariatric surgery vs. the long-term effects (probably related to weight
      loss) on plasma sPRR and insulin resistance. If recruitment is less than expected, we will
      reach out to other local bariatric surgery centers,including Ochsner Clinic.
    
  