
    
      This is a prospective, observational cohort study of emergency department patients designed
      to assess for radiographic changes suggestive of lung hemorrhage after thoracic ultrasound.

      The investigators will only approach patients scheduled for CT scan as part of their routine
      care in the emergency department for enrollment. Only patients > 18 years old. Patients who
      are not english speaking will only be consented if there is a medical interpreter immediately
      available who can be approached for informed consent.

      Patients who have given informed consent will have a lung ultrasound performed by a study
      physician immediately prior to CT scan - after the patient has been transported to the ED
      radiology area but before the CT scan is performed. The lung ultrasound will be performed
      using a low frequency probe (2-5 MHz). Of the four standard positions used in lung
      ultrasonography (Zone 1, 4, 5, 8; see Image 1 below), study ultrasonography will be performed
      on only two.

      The two positions selected for use will be chosen immediately prior to ultrasound performance
      by the performing physician using a simple binary random number generator for each lung. This
      will ensure that one zone is subjected to ultrasound on each lung. A small radio-opaque
      button will be placed overlying all four zones (i.e., those exposed and those not exposed) in
      the standard position of the ultrasound footprint (ie where the ultrasound was or would have
      been performed) and then the patient will undergo the CT scan according to standard radiology
      department protocols.

      The CT scan will then be reviewed for signs of alveolar hemorrhage in the lung tissue
      immediately adjacent to the radio-opaque button. Radiologists will be blinded as to which
      buttons abut zones exposed to ultrasound or not exposed. Any findings will be immediately
      reported to the patient's care team and the patient and standard protocols for treatment and
      observation will be followed.

      The investigators have calculated the need to enroll 200 patients to observe a 7% range above
      and below previously published numbers of incidental findings on chest CT scan.
    
  