
    
      The occurrence of no-reflow phenomenon after recanalization of the infarct related artery in
      acute myocardial infarction is described in up to 40% of cases. This event is associated with
      a worse prognosis at follow up and an unfavourable left ventricular remodelling. Two main
      pathogenetic mechanisms cause no-reflow: distal embolization and ischemia-reperfusion injury.
      Microembolization, which may be well prevented by a mechanic approach (device-based), play of
      course an important role in the no-reflow during primary percutaneous coronary intervention
      (primary PCI), however ischemia reperfusion injury is also independent of microemboli, indeed
      it occurs in the animal model after ligation of a non atherosclerotic coronary. Thrombus
      aspiration assisted primary intervention achieves complete resolution of the ST segment in
      60% only of patients, whereas results of filter based studies have been substantially
      negative. A recent meta-analysis confirmed that thrombus aspiration improves microvascular
      perfusion, whereas filters do not.

      Taken together available data suggest that other approach need to be tested in conjunction
      with the mechanical one to further improve microvascular integrity in this setting.
      Importantly, current antiplatelet therapy during reperfusion therapy for acute MI has not
      abolished the no-reflow phenomenon. Based on the experience matured in many studies of basic
      cardiology which investigated the model of ischemia and reperfusion various drugs have been
      tested in the human model.

      Two drugs have emerged in particular as possible adjunct to reperfusion therapy:
      nitroprusside and adenosine. For the former good results have been obtained in small series,
      in contrast adenosine has been tested in a large randomized trial (AMISTAD-II trial) with
      controversial results when used at low dose. Another study using larger doses and a
      sub-analysis of a high dose group of the AMISTAD-II trial suggested a beneficial effect on
      infarct size. Importantly, none of this studies have been performed in the setting of
      thrombus aspiration.

      Due to the multifactorial pathogenesis of no-reflow during acute MI a combined mechanic and
      pharmacologic approach is believed to offer a better solution for achieving optimal
      microvascular reperfusion. Thus, in this randomized study we will assess the effect of
      nitroprusside or adenosine in adjunct to current best therapy (thrombus aspiration and
      IIb-IIIa antagonists) for ST elevation MI using ST segment resolution on standard 12 leads
      ECG as primary endpoint of myocardial reperfusion.

      Study Design

      The REOPEN-AMI will be a placebo-controlled, randomized, open label, blind-examination
      (PROBE), multicenter, trial of the effects of intracoronary adenosine or nitroprusside on
      coronary reflow in patients undergoing primary or rescue PCI and thrombus-aspiration. The
      recruiting period comprises 1 year time between January 2008 and December 2008. During the
      last months, the others participating centres in Italy, were contacted and entered in the
      study after agreement. As result prospective recruitment should start at the same time in all
      participating centers. Each center, to be activated for the study, had to warrant (fully
      describing the search process as well as the characteristics of the internal database)
      ability to provide detailed data regarding all the patients.

      The study protocol complied with the declaration of Helsinki and has been approved by the
      ethics committee of the coordinating center. Informed consent to both the treated group (
      adenosine or nitroprusside) or placebo will have to be obtained for each patient enrolled in
      the study

      METHODS

      All patient will receive intravenous administration of abciximab prior to PCI. After wire
      crossing, thrombus aspiration will be performed. The device will removed outside the body,
      flushed with saline and subsequently reintroduced in the culprit vessel beyond the occlusion
      site and intracoronary drugs will be selectively administered. At this stage the patient will
      be randomized either to intracoronary Adenosine (80 mcg as fast bolus followed by 2 mg given
      in 33cc of saline in 2 minutes as slow bolus), nitroprusside (60 mcg as fast bolus followed
      by 100 mcg given in 33cc of 5% glucose in 2 minutes as slow bolus) or placebo (33 cc of
      heparinized saline given in 2 minutes as slow bolus). Due to the short half-life of both
      drugs we have chosen a bolus plus infusion regimen in order to allow a more sustained effect
      of the two drugs on the microcirculation. The safety and efficacy of this drug regimen has
      been tested in a small pilot study in our catheterization laboratory. We have compared the
      two drugs regimens to traditional single bolus administration of adenosine for the evaluation
      of fractional flow reserve (FFR) in ten patients (5 for adenosine and 5 for nitroprusside)
      undergoing pressure wire evaluation of an intermediate stenosis. We found similar FFR in both
      groups but more prolonged dilatation of the microcirculation compared to group of traditional
      single bolus adenosine administration (data not shown).

      If the thrombus aspiration device cannot be advanced for mechanical reasons in the culprit
      vessel, drugs administration will be performed trough the guiding catheter after
      predilatation. Data will be analyzed according to the intention to treat principle.

      Angiographic measures

      Coronary angiograms will be obtained with the aim of facilitating angiographic analyses (long
      acquisition without magnification). All CDs of primary PCI will be sent to the coordinator
      center where they will be processed by extrapolating the images regarding baseline, thrombus
      aspiration, diver reintroduction in the culprit lesion beyond the occlusion site and the
      post-PCI view. The core laboratory for centralized, blind analyses will be the Catholic
      University of Rome. For each patient coronary angiograms will be analyzed to assess the
      following:

        -  Antegrade coronary flow according to the standard TIMI criteria flow

        -  Corrected TIMI Frame Count according to Gibson

        -  MBG according to van't Hof et al.

        -  Thrombus score according to TIMI study group (0= no cineangiographic characteristics of
           thrombus are present; 1 = possible thrombus is present with such angiography
           characteristics as reduced contrast density, haziness, irregular lesion contour, or a
           smooth convex meniscus at the site of total occlusion suggestive but not diagnostic of
           thrombus. 2 = definite thrombus, with greatest dimension <1/2 the vessel diameter; 3 =
           definite thrombus , with greatest linear dimension >1/2 but <2 vessel diameters; 4 =
           definite thrombus, with the largest dimension >2 vessel diameters ; 5= there is a total
           occlusion);

        -  collateral grade according to Rentrop Angiographic "no-reflow" will be defined as a
           final TIMI flow ≤ 2 or TIMI flow 3 with a MBG < 2.

      Intracoronary ECG

      Monitoring of intracoronary ST segment during PCI, up to the end of the procedure will be
      performed according to flow chart . The technique has been described elsewhere (22). Briefly,
      the proximal end of the wire chosen for recanalization will be used as a unipolar derivation
      which substitutes the V5 leads on precordial ECG. ST resolution will be monitored during the
      procedure and ECG acquisition will be done at baseline, after effective thrombus aspiration,
      after intracoronary drugs administration and at the end of the procedure. Each ECG will be
      quantitatively assessed. Lack of resolution will be defined as a ST elevation resolution of <
      30%. Partial resolution will be considered a ST resolution ≥30% but <70%. Furthermore times
      needed to obtain full or partial ST resolution will be recorded. Anginal pain at starting and
      at each time points will be assessed.

      12-leads surface ECG After the procedure, at 90 min, a standard 12 leads ECG will be used for
      evaluating ST resolution both on single lead, showing maximal ST elevation, and on the sum of
      multiple leads, showing ST elevation on admission. Lack of ST resolution will be defined as
      an ST resolution <30%. Partial resolution as an ST resolution <70% but > 30%. The detailed
      analysis of ECG resolution has been described elsewhere. The core laboratory for
      intracoronary or surface ECG analysis will be the Catholic University of Rome.

      Contrast and bidimensional echocardiography

      Echocontrastographic evaluation of reperfusion will be carried out on day 7.
      Echocontrastographic definition of no reflow is, according to previously described methods,
      when > 25% of dysfunctioning segments had reduced or absent opacification (score 2-3). The
      technique has been described elsewhere. Briefly, myocardial contrast echocardiography studies
      will be performed using real-time contrast pulse sequencing operating on a Sequoia ultrasound
      system (Siemens, Malvern, Pennsylvania). Contrast pulse sequencing is a novel real-time MCE
      method that, thanks to the analysis of non-linear response of contrast bubbles in fundamental
      and higher harmonics, is able to provide an image with excellent signal-to-noise ratio and
      with particularly high sensitivity and penetration using a very low mechanical index. A
      second-generation ultrasound contrast agent Sonovue (Bracco, Milan, Italy) will be
      administered intravenously (5 ml at 1 ml/min). Myocardial opacification at MCE will be
      visually assessed in each of the 16 myocardial segments and semiquantitatively scored. Single
      perfusion score will be assigned on the basis of both the change in myocardial signal
      intensity throughout the replenishment curve and the degree of opacification at the peak
      contrast effect. Scores were graded as 1 = normal, 2 = reduced, or 3 = absent opacification.
      A contrast score index (CSI) will be calculated by the sum of MCE score in each segment
      divided by the total number of segments..

      Echocardiographic evaluation will be obtained on day 7 and at follow up (6 months). Regional
      wall motion (WM) will be semiquantitatively scored by 2 experienced blinded observers
      according to the recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography (1 = normal, 2 =
      hypokinesia, 3 = akinesia, 4 = dyskinesia) and a wall motion score index (WMSI) will be
      calculated by the sum of the score of all segments divided by the total number of segments.
      Left ventricular (LV) volumes will be calculated by the modified Simpson biplane method.
      Endocardial length of severe WM abnormality (WM score = 3) (WML) and of transmural contrast
      defect (CD score = 3) (CDL) will be calculated in each apical view, averaged, and expressed
      as a percentage of LV length.

      Ejection fraction will be calculated from the formula: (end-diastolic volume end-systolic
      volume)/end diastolic volume. Functional improvement at 6 months will be calculated as
      percentage change of WMSI at 6 months compared to 7 day. Temporal changes in LV volumes will
      be calculated as the percentage changes at 6 months compared to baseline. Left ventricular
      remodelling will be considered as an increase in LV end-diastolic volume > 20% at 6 months
      compared to baseline (25-26). The core laboratory for the echocardiographic analysis will be
      the Catholic University of Rome.

      Clinical follow-up

      The incidence of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, target lesion revascularization and
      heart failure requiring hospitalization will be assessed at 6 months and 1 year by telephone
      contact. A cumulative of such end-points will be defined as major adverse cardiac events
      (MACEs).

      Endpoints of the study

      Primary end-point of the study will be rate of ST resolution on surface ECG. Secondary
      end-points will be: 1) rate of angiographic no-reflow; 2) changes of LV volumes at follow-up;
      3) rate of no-reflow on IC ECG; 4) rate of no-reflow at echocontrastography; 5) rate of
      MACEs.

      Statistical analysis and sample size calculation Data distribution will be assessed by the
      Kolgomorov-Smirnov test. Comparison between groups will be performed by Anova or
      Kruskall-Wallis test as appropriate. Post-hoc comparison will be performed with the
      Bonferroni correction. Comparison between categorical variable will be done using the Fischer
      exact test. Student T test for dependent variables will be used to compare changes in LV
      volumes in each group over time and interaction assessed by Anova. Pre-specified sub-group
      analysis according to main clinical and angiographic data will be also performed, in order to
      identify subgroups of patients who may have a particular benefit from treatments.

      Sample size is calculated as follow. Considering an effect size of 0.2 (improvement of the
      primary endpoint by 20%, which is obtained considering an ST resolution of 50% in the placebo
      group and an ST resolution of 70% in the treatment groups), a power of 0.8 and an alfa of
      0.05, with 2 degree of freedom the required sample size is 240 patients.
    
  