
    
      The goal of this VA Innovation Seed project is to test the best approach for the delivery,
      feasibility, and usability of a patient-centered CKD-QPS to facilitate better Veteran
      understanding and engagement in their CKD-care in nephrology clinics at two geographically
      distinct VA hospitals (Chicago and Dallas) through on-going user feedback in real time.
      Specifically, the pilot goals are to:

        1. Test the process of delivering the CKD-QPS into clinical workflow to optimize patient
           and provider use of the QPS. We will rely on user (patient and provider) feedback about
           the feasibility of using the QPS in a real world VA environment (e.g., time required for
           visits using the QPS, impact on clinical workflow, patient and providers' preferences
           for delivering the QPS to Veterans with CKD) to adjust delivery throughout the project
           period.

        2. Obtain continuous provider and patient feedback during the project period about QPS
           feasibility, use, patient participation, and provider information-giving and
           encouragement of question-asking during outpatient clinic visits.

        3. Test how well iterative adjustments to delivery can help improve CKD-QPS
           patient-reported outcome measures (e.g., satisfaction with provider).

      The multi-site study will take place at Hines, VA, and at VA North Texas Health System, in
      Dallas, TX. The intervention entails providing the CKD-Question Prompt Sheet to patients to
      use during patient-nephrologist (or Nurse Practitioner or Physician Assistant) clinic visits.
      The CKD-QPS is a 31-item list of questions about treatment options for CKD. The QPS is
      designed to empower patients to ask questions by reminding them of questions that they may
      consider asking.

      Data collection entails pre-post clinic visit surveys among CKD patients, a post-clinic
      interview with CKD patients and nephrologists (separately), and audio-recording the clinic
      visit.

      The knowledge gained from this study may improve other patients' satisfaction with care and
      communication with providers.
    
  