
    
      Sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) have been epidemiologically linked to serious health
      problems including heart disease, liver disease, and diabetes. This study will recruit
      frequent SSB drinkers who are employees at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF)
      and measure markers of metabolic health on two occasions, 10 months apart. During this time,
      UCSF will cease selling SSBs at all campus and medical center locations. Additionally, at the
      first assessment half of participants will be randomly assigned to a brief intervention to
      help reduce SSB consumption, consisting of a 10-20 minute semi-structured interview designed
      to share health information about SSBs, elicit motivations to reduce consumption, and help
      set concrete plans to reduce consumption. We will be able to compare changes in metabolic
      health among those who do and do not reduce SSB consumption. This will make a unique
      contribution to the growing evidence regarding both the effects of SSB consumption on health
      and the modifiability of SSB-related health conditions.

      Two key clarifications about the design of this study:

        1. The cessation of sugar-sweetened beverage sales is a pre-existing workplace initiative.
           This study is taking advantage of its initiation but it is not part of the study
           intervention.

        2. The primary predictor in this study is SSB consumption, not condition assignment.
           Although we will report on the efficacy of the brief intervention, the main goal of the
           study is to examine the correlational relationship between changes in SSB consumption
           and changes in health, whether the reduction is associated with the intervention or with
           other factors.

      Planned analyses:

        1. For all outcomes other than sugar consumption and SSB consumption (see below), the
           primary analytic strategy will be to correlate changes in SSB consumption with changes
           in the outcome.

        2. We will additionally assess the efficacy of the university initiative and the brief
           counseling intervention using a linear mixed regression model estimating the effects of
           1) time (pre to post), representing the effect of the university SSB initiative, and 2)
           assignment to the brief intervention interacting with time.

      For both types of analysis, we will include demographic and job-related covariates based on
      fit criteria to guide model selection.
    
  