
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the feasibility of a 12-month community-based combined physical activity
           and dietary change weight-loss intervention in overweight and sedentary female breast
           and colorectal cancer survivors recruited via the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG).

        -  To estimate the effect size of the intervention on weight loss at 12 months.

      Secondary

        -  To measure changes in anthropometric measures from baseline (body mass index [BMI],
           waist and hip circumference) at 6 and 12 months and body composition (% body fat as
           assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry [DXA] scan) at 12 months.

        -  To measure changes in minutes spent per week in moderate-to-vigorous aerobic activity
           from baseline using Curves attendance records and a 7-day physical activity assessment
           at 6 and 12 months.

        -  To measure changes from baseline to 6 and 12 months in dietary intake of carotenoids via
           serum carotenoid measures.

        -  To assess changes from baseline to 6 and 12 months in perceived benefit of dietary
           change, physical activity, and weight loss after a cancer diagnosis.

        -  To measure changes from baseline in metabolic and hormonal biomarkers associated with
           breast and colorectal cancer recurrence risk (fasting insulin, fasting glucose,
           hemoglobin A1C, bioavailable estradiol, free testosterone, and adiponectin) at 6 and 12
           months.

        -  To assess changes from baseline in anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep, satisfaction
           with social roles, pain, and physical function using the PROMISE-43 at 6 and 12 months.

        -  To assess baseline predictors (medical history, health behaviors, quality of life) of
           subjects who adhere to and complete the intervention.

        -  To assess the diversity of subjects who enroll and complete the intervention.

        -  To assess the availability and acceptability of the Curves fitness centers at 12 months.

        -  To explore changes in DNA methylation.

        -  To assess the intervention and study process via open-ended interviews with SWOG sites
           and Curves franchises.

        -  To measure changes in anthropometric measures and assess feasibility of extended
           follow-up at 24 and 36 months.

        -  To assess the safety of the Curves® fitness centers for this population by assessing
           self-reported changes in lymphedema and any injuries as measured at 6 and 12 months.

      OUTLINE: Participants are stratified according to type of cancer (breast vs colorectal).

      Participants are instructed to practice 30-45 minutes of medium-to-hard exercise 5-7 days a
      week at a Curves fitness center (paid by study) or outside Curves for 12 months. Participants
      receive written materials on physical activity guidelines for survivors and a pedometer to
      track their physical activity outside Curves. They also receive the Curves Fitness & Weight
      Management Plan and are instructed to follow a "higher carbohydrate" diet plan, which
      promotes a 1,500 kcal/day diet that is high in fruit and vegetables consisting of 30%
      protein, 45% carbohydrates, and 25% fat. In addition, participants receive the dietary
      guidelines for cancer survivors, which recommend eating 5 or more servings of
      fruit/vegetables per day, a diet high in whole grains, low in saturated fat, low in sugary
      foods, and low in alcohol. Participants receive 14 behavioral-counseling sessions by
      telephone with the goal to increase intervention adherence and participation retention. Each
      session lasts 40 minutes and occurs weekly on weeks 1-5 and then every 6 weeks by month 6.
      Participants receive monthly email newsletters with health tips and motivational messages to
      encourage adherence and retention to the study program. Counselors also conduct three 24-hour
      dietary recall assessments and 1 physical activity assessment at 6 and 12 months.

      Participants complete a PROMIS-43 quality-of-life questionnaire at 6 and 12 months via
      internet, mail, or telephone.

      Participants also undergo blood sample collection at baseline and at 6 and 12 months for
      fasting glucose and insulin tests, and biomarker studies. Anthropometric measurements
      (height, weight, waist, and hip circumference) are also collected.

      After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up at 24 and 36 months.
    
  