
    
      Background: Stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability in Canada. There are
      approximately 50,000 new cases every year. Stroke victims often experience decreased mobility
      and significant disability as a result of impaired motor control and velocity-dependent
      muscle hypertonus (spasticity) in the lower extremity. Over the past 25 years, there has been
      an increasing interest in the use of acupuncture for the management of stroke-related
      neurological deficits.

      Research questions: Is acupuncture more effective than sham treatment in reducing lower
      extremity spasticity, and improving gait speed in the chronic phase of stroke recovery?

      Methodology

      Recruitment: Forty patients will be recruited from the out patient rehabilitation program of
      a university affiliated teaching hospital.

      Group Assignment and Blinding:

      The study design is a randomized double blind format. Once identified, interested patients
      will be screened for eligibility by an intake secretary and randomly assigned to sham (n=20)
      or acupuncture treatment (n=20) groups using a computer random-number-generation system.
      Sealed envelopes containing the group assignment will be delivered to acupuncture-trained
      therapists delivering sham or true acupuncture treatment. Treating therapists' interactions
      will be standardized to minimize therapist/participant interaction bias Treating therapists
      will remain blinded to outcome assessment results. Patients will be blinded to the receipt of
      true acupuncture or sham needles. Outcome measurements will be done by a single assessor who
      is blinded to the group assignment.

      Intervention: Subjects will attend 4 acupuncture treatments sessions within a 3 week period.
      Needles will be applied to the following acupuncture points: Jiao's foot motor sensory scalp
      points (2 in total) and 2 additional standardized acupuncture points in the lower legs
      bilaterally based on Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) approach. Treatment needles are
      pre-sterilized single disposable type, 0.20 mm size and 40 mm in length. The locations of the
      acupuncture point will be cleaned with alcohol (99%) swab. Needles will be left in place for
      20 minutes. In the true acupuncture group, needles will be inserted to a depth at which
      participants report a tingling sensation (as described De-qi in TCM approach). Subjects
      randomized to the control group will be treated with retractable needles to avoid
      transcutaneous insertion at the same acupuncture points.

      Outcome Measures: The following outcome measures will be assessed by a blinded assessor.
      Primary outcome measures:2-minute walk test. Secondary outcome measures: ankle range of
      motion and self report soft tissue tightness. The outcome measures time frame is set at from
      baseline to the completion of the intervention period at 3 weeks.

      Analysis: Descriptive statistics including mean, standard deviation and frequencies will be
      used to describe the study participants, as appropriate. Paired t-test will be used for the
      parametric variables, number of steps per minute, distance on a 2-minute walk test and
      dorsi-flexion range of motion. Significance is set at p smaller than 0.05. All statistical
      analysis will be two sided and performed with SPSS (V21).
    
  