
    
      Acute Upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage (UGIH) is frequent, with an estimated annual
      incidence of 150/100 000 in France. Its second etiology is the rupture of portal
      hypertension-related gastro-esophageal varices, accounting for 20 % of the patients and
      responsible for more than 50 % of the hospitalizations in intensive care unit (ICU) for UGIH.

      In cirrhotic patients, variceal bleeding is the main cause of UGIH (over 70 %) and death (30
      %), which occurs in the most severe patients (Child-Pugh score B or C and/or high MELD score,
      and high levels of portal hypertension).

      Acute UGIH is directly responsible for 50 % of the deaths, either because it remains
      uncontrolled during the acute phase (within 5 days), or because of early relapses (within 6
      weeks). Every episode of acute UGIH worsens the middle and long-term vital prognosis: about
      60 % of the patients present with UGIH recurrence within one year and the survival rate is
      only 30 % 3 years after the first episode.

      Moreover, acute UGIH is a triggering factor for several severe cirrhosis-specific
      complications (such as hepatic encephalopathy, sepsis and ascites liquid infection,
      hepatorenal syndrome), which themselves lead to high mortality rates. Despite the improvement
      of preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic strategies, UGIH remains stable in France.

      The haemostasis of cirrhotic patients is often abnormal at baseline : thrombopenia, decrease
      of factors II, V, VII, IX, X and XI, decrease of fibrinolytic proteins, increase of factor
      VIII and spontaneous fibrinolysis. When compensated, the cirrhotic's haemostasis remains
      globally preserved, due to the balance of pro and anticoagulant alterations.

      Every cause of cirrhosis decompensation, such as acute PHT-UGIH, can increase hemostatic
      disorders, leading to hyperfibrinolysis. This could slow down or inhibit the clotting, thus
      disrupting pharmacological control of acute UGIH.

      TA could be efficient in acute UGIH of cirrhotic patients. It is a simple antifibrinolytic
      which showed clinical benefits on haemorrhage and/or mortality in several other indications
      (surgical, obstetrical and traumatic). It is now widely used according to recommendations.

      Early administration of TA seems to be beneficial in UGIH haemorrhage. Despite theoretical
      efficiency, 4 recent Cochrane meta-analysis concluded to the lack of significant data (poor
      overall trials quality). The benefit of the use of TA in acute UGIH (and acute PHT-UGIH)
      remains uncertain.

      At this day, TA has still not been studied in acute UGIH of cirrhotic patients, although it
      showed benefits on blood transfusion's requirements and on haemorrhagic complications during
      liver transplantation (for which cirrhosis most frequent cause).
    
  