
    
      1. Objectives:

             1. To evaluate the intervention of a wind-up, handheld Doppler fetal heart rate
                monitor (Doppler) and to identify implementation challenges;

             2. To identify process issues and the impact of the Doppler on rates of intrapartum
                stillbirth and neonatal deaths within 24 hours, in comparison to use of the Pinard
                horn (current practice);

             3. To assess the quality of partographs using a standardized scoring system to audit
                overall completion and quality, and fetal heart rate monitoring specifically; we
                will compare the audit results between partographs where monitoring was done with
                the Pinard horn versus the Doppler. The hypothesis being that the quality of
                partograph completion and of fetal heart rate monitoring may systematically differ
                between these two groups;

             4. To build the research capacity of Ugandan midwives by facilitating their
                participation in this research study.

        2. Study design

           Equal randomization clinical trial to compare Pinard horn (current practice) versus
           Doppler (intervention) to monitor the fetal heart in labour.

        3. Characteristics of the study population

             1. Number of participants Based on the results of a randomized controlled trial in
                urban Zimbabwe in 1994 [Mahomed, BMJ], the investigators hypothesize that use of a
                handheld Doppler fetal heart monitor will reduce the rate of intrapartum stillbirth
                by at least 30% compared to monitoring fetal heart rate with a Pinard horn. With
                80% power to detect at least a 30% reduction in stillbirths with 95% confidence,
                840 labouring women would need to be enrolled in each of the two comparison groups.
                Adding 20% to allow for losses to follow-up and statistical
                adjustments/stratification, 1008 labouring women are required for each comparison
                group.

             2. Location of the research The study will be conducted in the San Raphael of St
                Francis Hospital Nsambya Hospital, in Uganda. This is a general hospital and
                maternity located in the peri-urban region of Kampala City. It is a private
                not-for-profit institution with 7,500 annual deliveries. In addition, it offers
                training for residents, intern doctors, nurses, midwives and technicians.

        4. Data analysis The investigators will review the partograph and record their findings on
           a tool developed for this purpose. The data that will be recorded will be of statistical
           nature but at the bottom of each Partograph Assessment Tool is space for qualitative
           comments from the reviewer. Besides date of birth and the patient file identity number
           no data will be recorded which can reveal the identity of the patient. This is to ensure
           patient privacy and confidentiality of the data, without losing the possibility to
           retrieve the file from medical records if needed. After recording the data on a hard
           copy in the hospital, the data will be entered twice into the statistical package before
           analysis. The information that this will give will be descriptively analysed. The
           proportion and incidence risk rate of participants who experience each fetal outcome
           under study and the mean partograph scores will be compared between the intervention and
           control groups.
    
  