
    
      Preeclampsia is a leading cause of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality in the US, and
      affects about 5% of pregnancies. Despite its morbidity, preeclampsia is challenging to
      distinguish from worsening chronic hypertension or gestational hypertension. Furthermore, it
      is challenging to identify who among those with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy will
      develop preeclampsia with severe features, including kidney, liver, pulmonary, or cerebral
      injury. The only definitive treatment is delivery of the placenta, and therefore the fetus,
      which can lead to severe morbidity and mortality to the neonate if delivery is very
      premature. New methods of risk stratification are needed to identify who among women with
      hypertensive disorders of pregnancy are at risk of developing preeclampsia with severe
      features in order to allocate resources (e.g. betamethasone and magnesium for fetal
      neuroprotection) accordingly.

      Several serum proteins (sFLT-1 and PlGF) correlate well with the development of preeclampsia,
      particularly with preeclampsia with severe features, and may be used to predict the
      development of preeclampsia with severe features within a certain timeframe. The goal of this
      study is to identify a cut-off of the sFLT-1/PlGF ratio using automated assays that
      differentiates women who will develop preeclampsia with severe features from those who will
      not among women with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy within 2 weeks of testing. The
      secondary outcomes include time to delivery, the performance of the cut-off to predict
      adverse maternal and adverse fetal outcomes, and a comparison of the performance of the
      cut-off with clinical and laboratory factors per American College of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists (ACOG) guidelines. Investigators will also look at the levels of sFLT-1 and
      PlGF in the urine and the saliva to determine if they correlate well with serum levels and
      may provide a less invasive alternative to serum samples.
    
  