
    
      Thumb CMC OA is common, with radiographic prevalence ranging from 7% to 35% in the
      literature, with symptomatic OA affecting 2% to 6% of the population. There is predilection
      for involvement of the non-dominant hand, and thumb CMC OA is the leading cause of hand pain
      due to degenerative changes. Gender-specific differences in thumb CMC OA prevalence have also
      been described in the literature. Retrospective review of 615 patients revealed a 6-fold
      higher prevalence of thumb basilar joint OA for females in nearly every age group, noting the
      presence of radiographic OA at younger ages in females, and quicker progression to end-stage
      degenerative changes.

      While conservative treatment, such as injections, therapy, splinting, and pharmacotherapy,
      may palliate symptoms, operative intervention is recommended if symptoms are persistent.
      Trapeziectomy with or without suspensionplasty is most commonly performed for advanced
      osteoarthritis, and studies have shown that trapeziectomy with ligament reconstruction and
      tendon interposition (LRTI) is the most frequently performed procedure. Because of the
      extensive nature of this surgery with dissection and removal of the trapezium as a common
      central procedure, immobilization of the thumb and wrist has been a standard part of
      postoperative protocols to improve postoperative pain, function, and aid with return to daily
      activities.

      Across many studies of operative technique and post-surgical care, there is no high-level
      evidence on the optimal duration of postoperative immobilization. With no consensus on the
      duration during which patients should restrict range of motion after thumb CMC joint surgery,
      there is a gap in knowledge on this topic. Immobilization following surgery is critical for
      wound healing, pain control, and aid with activities of daily living in the early recovery
      period, though the duration of this must be weighed against the negative impacts of
      immobilization, such as stiffness, contracture, and delay in return to full function. The
      information gained in this study may allow hand surgeons to use an evidence-based
      postoperative rehabilitation protocol. Thus, our goal is to compare varying durations of
      postoperative immobilization after thumb CMC arthroplasty in a randomized trial design.

      In this study, we will prospectively evaluate varied duration of postoperative immobilization
      in patients older than 40 years, undergoing base of thumb arthroplasty at an academic,
      tertiary referral center. Patients will be randomized to either 2 or 6 weeks of immediate
      postoperative immobilization in a plaster thumb spica splint or cast. Functional outcome
      measures, including quickDASH (Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, and Hand), PROMIS UE (Patient
      Reported Outcome Measures Information System Upper Extremity) form, and VAS (Visual Analog
      Scale) pain scale will be captured at short-term, intermediate-term, and final follow-up
      periods. Additionally, exploratory objective metrics, such as strength, range of motion
      (ROM), return to work, and occupational therapy (OT) utilization will be monitored at all
      time periods.

      Randomization into two cohorts of postoperative rehabilitation will occur via sealed envelope
      at the time of surgery. Patients will be consented through a formal written process detailing
      the purpose, risks, and benefits. Randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio into 2-week versus
      6-week immobilization groups. Opaque envelopes will be sealed and only opened at the time of
      randomization, immediately after completion of the surgical procedure, in the post-anesthesia
      care unit (PACU). Every patient will be immobilized postoperatively in a nonremovable thumb
      spica plaster splint to allow for swelling. At the 2 week (+/- 3 days) postoperative visit,
      patients will be placed into either a cast for 4 additional weeks of immobilization (6-week
      immobilization group) or be provided a removable thermoplastic thumb spica splint (2-week
      immobilization group) and specifically instructed to use it for comfort "as needed" with
      removal at their discretion. A similarly fashioned thermoplastic thumb spica splint will be
      provided to the 6-week group after the duration of their immobilization, again with
      instructions for "as needed" use. At the conclusion of each group's respective immobilization
      period, the same standardized hand therapy rehabilitation regimen will be initiated.
    
  