
    
      The MagnaSafe Registry is an investigator initiated study designed to determine the risks of
      performing MRI for patients with pacemakers and Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators
      (ICDs). We hope that the results of the registry will provide physicians the risk-assessment
      data needed to assess the use of MRI as a diagnostic tool when no alternative diagnostic
      imaging technology is appropriate.

      The number of patients living with permanent pacemakers or ICD devices in the United States
      is increasing dramatically as a result of expanded indications. Between 1990 and 2005, an
      estimated 2.8 million pacemakers and 690,000 ICDs were implanted in the United States. The
      number of implanted devices continues to increase without an apparent plateau.

      Magnetic resonance is the imaging modality of choice for the diagnosis of many diseases of
      the brain, spinal cord, and musculoskeletal system. For some disease states, no acceptable
      alternative diagnostic imaging method is available. As the number of implanted cardiac
      devices is increasing, the clinical indications for MRI are expanding as well. Marketing
      research estimates that approximately 27.5 million MRI procedures were completed in 2007 (The
      Medical Information Division of IMV, LTD). It is predicted that there is a 50-75% probability
      that a patient with a pacemaker or ICD will have the need for an MRI over the lifetime of the
      device.

      Most physicians consider the presence of a pacemaker or ICD to be an absolute
      contraindication to an MRI study. Patients are denied the examination, even when MR is
      clearly the superior diagnostic modality or when there is no acceptable alternative imaging
      test available. To provide optimal care to the increasing number of patients with an
      implanted cardiac device, health care professionals must have the capability to perform MR
      imaging with minimal risk and full knowledge of the possible complications.

      The present study will create a registry of patients with pacemakers and ICDs who will
      undergo clinically indicated MRI and will document any adverse event or change in device
      parameters that may be associated with the imaging procedure. The results of this registry
      will provide the medical community with an accurate documentation of risk to patients and
      will establish a protocol of patient screening and device reprogramming for the purpose of
      maximizing the safe performance of MRI as a diagnostic tool in patients with implantable
      cardiac devices when indicated.

      This is a physician-initiated study that will be coordinated by Scripps Clinic, Green
      Hospital. It is being performed under an IDE from the FDA. Funding for the MagnaSafe Registry
      comes from multiple sources including competitive grants, institutional grants, foundation
      fellowship support, unrestricted educational grants from industry, and philanthropy.

      Scripps Clinic/Green Hospital, La Jolla, CA, has performed more than 125 MRIs on patients
      with implanted cardiac devices. Results of retrospective clinical observations at Scripps
      Clinic were presented at the American Heart Association 2008 Scientific and American College
      of Cardiology 2009 Scientific Sessions.

      Up to 35 sites will be recruited to participate in the registry. The registry uses a protocol
      designed to minimize potential risk to the patient and device. MRI compatible equipment will
      be required to monitor vital signs (non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, pulse oximeter,
      and single lead cardiac rhythm monitor) while performing scans on patients with implanted
      devices. Recommendations from the American Heart Association for performance of MR
      examination in patients with pacemakers or ICDs will be followed.

      The MRI procedures will be conducted for clinical purposes at the discretion of the ordering
      physician. MR examination of patients with permanent implanted cardiac devices will only be
      performed if there are highly compelling circumstances and when the benefits clearly outweigh
      the risks in the opinion of the ordering physician. The decision to have an MRI must be based
      on clinical indication, and is not part of the research protocol.

      Those wishing to participate in the registry as an investigational site will be required to
      obtain approval of the FDA-authorized protocol from their reviewing IRB, and complete a
      written investigator agreement.
    
  