
    
      Interventions

      The multidisciplinary program is composed of 3 elements: exercise, nutritional supplements
      and psychological coping strategies

      Exercise program

      Patients will be seen by a kinesiologist for a period of 1 hour and he/she will assess
      patients' mobility and capacity to undertake exercise, will prepare a personalized program
      and will explain and monitor the exercise program. Patients will be instructed on how to
      conduct aerobic exercise in the lab and at home, by either walking or cycling initially at
      50% of the calculated heart rate reserve for 20 min three times per week, and this will be
      increased in stepwise increments by 10% each week, if tolerable.

      Muscular resistance training will be also carried out 3 times a week to avoid muscle
      soreness. Persons will be instructed to do push-up, sit-ups, and standing strides (lunges)
      until volitional fatigue increasing this number to reach 12 repetitions. The resistance
      chosen for strengthening of biceps, deltoids and quadriceps will be based on what the person
      can lift to reach volitional fatigue with 8 repetitions.

      Psychological program

      It is expected that patients undergoing surgery for cancer are anxious with some component of
      depression. Since both anxiety and depression can influence the motivation to carry out
      social and functional activities, psychological strategies can be put in place to help
      patients to cope with the stress of surgery and disease. For this reason patients will be
      seen by a trained psychologist. Patients will receive a total of 1.5 hours of psychological
      intervention in the first session and more sessions if necessary.

      In the first preoperative session, the first hour will address the patient's anxieties,
      coping strategies, and post-operative expectations, with the goal of optimizing psychological
      well-being & ways of coping with surgery. The importance of the patient's active
      participation in the healing process will also be discussed. The last thirty minutes will be
      devoted to teaching relaxation techniques and breathing exercises. Patients will be given a
      relaxation CD to take home for practice.

      Nutritional supplementation

      The nutritional status of patients affected by lung cancer is directly influenced by the
      presence of cancer, which impacts on all aspects of intermediary (protein, carbohydrate,
      lipid, trace element, vitamin) metabolism, and by other factors such as age, adjuvant cancer
      therapy and stage of the disease. The greater sensitivity of protein catabolism to
      nutritional support, in particular to amino acids, could have important implications for the
      nutritional management of these patients during the period of catabolic stress, with
      particular emphasis on substrate utilization and energy requirement.

      The patients' nutritional status and dietary intake will be assessed by the nutritionist.
      Percentage of lean body mass and fat percentage will be measured. All patients will receive a
      daily dietary supplement known as whey protein (Immunocal, Immunotec ©). Special precautions
      will be considered if patients have specific medical conditions (e.g. diabetes).
    
  