
    
      This is Phase 3 of our three- year ABI Lokomat study . Phase 1 was conducted in 2016-2017 and
      was a single-group pre- and post-test feasibility study of the Lokomat in pediatric ABI
      inpatients and daypatients in which we enrolled 9 patient participants. The co-primary
      outcome measures for this first phase were the Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM), Canadian
      Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) . Other measures of function (PEDI-CAT), gait (6
      minute walk test and Timed up and GO) and individualized goals (Goal Attainment Scaling) were
      included. Study feasibility was evaluated via indicators such as enrollment, number of
      sessions completed, drop out rate, and adverse events. Phase 2 was conducted in 2017-2018
      using the same core outcome set, and added a qualitative study component with child and
      parent and physiotherapist interviews for their perspective on the Lokomat experience and
      associated outcomes. The investigators enrolled 6 patient participants (quantitative and
      qualitative) and their caregivers (qualitative). Phase 3 will aim to enroll 6 to 8 more
      children to strengthen effect size estimates for the GMFM and COPM in particular (proposed
      co-primary outcome measures for future randomized controlled trial). The investigators will
      also add in an observational gait scale to measure potential changes in gait pattern/quality
      which investigators have noted in the first 2 years of the study, and pilot a measure of
      children's self-efficacy that the investigators will design for this study. Finally, the
      investigators will take a close look at motor learning strategies (MLS) used by the PTs in
      both LOK and PT sessions using the validated Motor Learning Strategies Rating Instrument
      (MLSRI) to begin to get a profile of comparative MLS use in gym-based PT and LOK sessions.
      The investigators will continue to study feasibility and add to the data from the first 2
      phases the ABI LOK project.
    
  