
    
      The prevalence of multi-drug resistant (MDR) pathogens in intensive care units (ICUs)
      worldwide has reached epidemic proportions. In some cases, the choice of potential therapy is
      limited or even non-existent. Antibiotic prescription, through selection pressure, represents
      the main mechanism by which resistance emerges. Limitations in the development of new
      antibiotics underscores the importance of adherence to the principles of antibiotic
      stewardship.

      Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) is the most common serious infection in mechanically
      ventilated, critically ill patients. Approximately one half of antibiotic prescription in the
      ICU is related to VAP, including prophylactic, empiric, and definitive therapy. The
      development of evidence-based algorithms for the rational use of antibiotics in the
      management of patients with both suspected and confirmed VAP is pivotal to decreasing the
      emergence of MDR pathogens.

      Shortening the duration of antimicrobial therapy for VAP represents one strategy to curtail
      the emergence of MDR pathogens. Although current guidelines recommend a treatment course of
      8-14 days, both clinical and microbiologic resolution (MR) of infection typically occur much
      sooner [10, 11]. In one study of ICU patients ventilated for > 5 days who developed VAP, 8
      days of antimicrobial therapy was equally as effective as 14 days, provided VAP was not
      caused by a non-lactose fermenting gram negative bacillus. Favorable results following
      shorter courses of therapy for VAP have been observed, albeit in small, uncontrolled series.

      One subset of patients for whom a decreased duration of antimicrobial therapy may be
      particularly effective is those who develop VAP ≤ 5 days after intubation (early VAP). Early
      VAP comprises approximately one half of cases of pneumonia diagnosed in the ICU. Furthermore,
      as compared to patients who develop late VAP, patients who develop early VAP are more likely
      to be infected with community-acquired pathogens sensitive to narrow spectrum antibiotics.
      Finally, nearly all cases of early VAP caused by sensitive pathogens demonstrate MR after
      relatively short (3-5 days) courses of therapy.
    
  