
    
      The purpose of this study is to find out if a new polymeric, water-free formulation of
      lidocaine is safe and can provide effective, long-lasting pain relief in chronic scrotal pain
      (CSCP) patients. This new formulation ST-CP is injected into the spermatic cord of patients
      in a very comparable way that the currently available lidocaine solution (Lidocaine HCl 1%
      USP) is administered. The only difference is that the polymer solution stays in the area of
      injection longer by forming a soft implant.

      The investigators therefore hypothesize that the polymer formulation of lidocaine will
      release the drug over an extended period of time and will not dissolve away like the
      currently used lidocaine solution (Lidocaine HCl 1%, USP). This will lead to long-lasting
      pain relief for CSCP patients.

      The investigators' primary objective is to determine if the single injection of our polymeric
      lidocaine formulation is well tolerated by patients with CSCP. Secondary objectives are to
      determine the duration and extent of pain relief, the impact of ST-CP on pain-related quality
      of life and the systemic exposure to lidocaine.

      The clinical study is conducted at the Vancouver Prostate Centre. Potential participants will
      undergo a screening period to determine basal pain levels over 7 days and test their ability
      to respond to a spermatic cord block with a standard lidocaine injection (Lidocaine HCl 1%,
      USP). Up to 15 men will receive our ST-CP study formulation and will be monitored over the
      the following 4 weeks. Follow-up procedures will include blood draws, daily pain evaluations
      and standard questionnaires on scrotal pain and erectile function. Up to 3 dose levels are
      planned but dose escalation will only occur once the previous cohort (3 patients) has
      completed the follow up and safety assessment.

      Summary descriptive statistics (including mean and standard deviation, median, range,
      proportion) will be provided for important parameters and outcome measures. These include
      subject demographics, subject disposition, subject compliance, pharmakokinetic laboratory
      test outcomes, overall adverse events, adverse events related to lidocaine and adverse events
      related to study procedure. Pain scores and questionnaires will be summarized by score and
      pre- and post- treatment levels will be compared.
    
  