
    
      The mortality rate among people with Serious Mental Illness (SMI) is 2 to 3 times that of the
      general population (DeHert et al., 2011), meaning that those with a serious mental illness
      die, on average, 25 years earlier than those without a SMI (Parks et al., 2006). There is
      evidence that these deaths are largely attributed to preventable medical conditions, many of
      which are more common in the SMI population. System bifurcation, or the separation of mental
      and physical health services, has been identified as a critical factor that leads to
      significant health disparities for those with SMI (Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law,
      2004).

      Grounded in patients' experiences, needs, and voices, investigators seek to generate
      knowledge about effective interventions, use outcomes that are central to patients and
      caregivers, attend to issues of implementation and dissemination, and may seek to optimize
      outcomes in the context of factors such as burden, technology, and stakeholder perspectives.
      Based on pilot work funded by the UniHealth Foundation, the goal of this Patient Centered
      Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) proposal is to test the effectiveness of a peer health
      navigation intervention (The Bridge) in comparison to usual treatment. The Bridge is a
      peer-staffed comprehensive healthcare engagement and self management model, situated in an
      outpatient mental health clinic, where clients are taught the skills to access and manage
      their healthcare for any condition. The investigators' goal is train clients to successfully
      engage and navigate the primary health care system as well as other needed health care
      services (specialty care, lab, and pharmacy). Guided by a version of Gelberg, Andersen, and
      Leake's (2000) Behavioral Model of Health Service Use for Vulnerable Populations that
      investigators adapted for the seriously mentally ill (Brekke et al., in press), the Bridge
      combines three approaches: integrated care, patient education, and cognitive-behavioral skill
      building with an in vivo (real world) focus.

      Investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial comparing 2 groups: a) a treatment
      as usual waitlist (n =73), and b) the Bridge peer navigator intervention (n=73).
      Investigators will compare these groups across 3 time points (baseline, 6 months, 1 year) to
      examine the Bridge's effectiveness at improving health care service use, satisfaction with
      care, health knowledge, health status, health related self-efficacy, and quality of life.
      Outcomes will be measured through patient self-report and according to objective measures of
      health (medical records and insurance claims data).

      In addition, investigators will conduct interviews every three months with selected
      stakeholders to assess the degree to which the intervention and the study are succeeding and
      what challenges have occurred. This will allow for corrections as the study proceeds.
      Investigators will focus on the factors that will contribute to the implementation and
      sustainability of the health navigator intervention including: cost, training, supervision,
      billing issues, and how this position will fit into the organizational model of the clinic.
      To begin the interview, investigators will ask each person interviewed for his or her ideas
      about what are the critical factors for implementation and sustainability. Finally
      investigators plan on conducting exit interviews with each patient as part of their final
      assessment. Exit interviews will focus on the patients' perceptions about the study, how it
      affected them, what went well, and what challenges they encountered. Each interview should
      last about 20-30 minutes and will be audio-recorded using an encrypted tape recorder.
      Investigators will use a semi-structured interview guide so that all interviewees are asked
      the same questions and data are comparable. Basic demographics such as gender, ethnicity, and
      age will be recorded for all participants.

      This PCORI proposal relies on significant stakeholder involvement in the intervention
      development, project development and management, and in the plans for dissemination and
      implementation. The ultimate goal is to provide the field a peer-delivered intervention that
      significantly reduces disparities in the utilization and outcome of health services for the
      seriously mentally ill and thereby reduce morbidity and mortality in this highly vulnerable
      population.
    
  