
    
      There is an increase in the incidence and prevalence of chronic diseases, including oral
      problems in older persons. Coronal and root caries, and periodontitis represent the main
      causes of tooth loss, and in older adults they have a great impact on quality of life,
      nutritional status, social life, and the increased risk of systemic problems related to
      dental infectious processes. At present, older adults have more remaining teeth and dental
      caries is highly prevalent. It is important to investigate and implement methods that prevent
      the formation of new carious lesions and that arrest existing lesions. The utilization of
      silver diamine fluoride as a method to prevent coronal caries has been recognized and has
      proven to be highly effective in treating dentin hypersensitivity and arresting active
      lesions, also it is easy to apply. Therefore, it is important and necessary to implement
      methods that avoid the formation of lesions and that inhibit the root caries lesions already
      present.

      If greater effectiveness of silver diamine fluoride in preventing and arresting active root
      caries is confirmed, its use in conjunction with oral health education can be proposed as a
      preventive method to be included in oral health programs in institutionalized persons in whom
      dental care and attention are less frequent. Its ease of application, the longer time between
      applications and its cost can facilitate better oral care. On the other hand, the results can
      guide professionals in clinical practice in making decisions regarding the most appropriate
      method to prevent and arrest root caries lesions in their patients.

      Hypothesis The incidence of root caries (new root caries lesions) after 30 months will be
      lower on root surfaces that have been treated with silver diamine fluoride solution (38%
      concentration [44800 ppm]) compared to those treated with sodium fluoride varnish (5%
      concentration [22,600 ppm]) and to those in the control group (artificial saliva).

      The number of active root caries lesions arrested at baseline will be higher in people who
      have been treated with silver diamine fluoride solution (38% concentration [44,800 ppm])
      compared to those treated with sodium fluoride varnish (5% concentration [22600 ppm]) and
      with the control group (artificial saliva).

      General objective:

      To identify whether the annual application of silver diamine fluoride solution combined with
      an individualized oral health education program is more effective than biannual application
      of sodium fluoride varnish combined with an individualized oral health education program and
      a group control (artificial saliva and oral health individualized educational program) in the
      reduction of the incidence of root caries and in the arrest of active root caries lesions
      over a period of 30 months in a population of adults over 60 years of age in residents of 4
      gerontological centers and a DIF day care center, in 2017-2020.

      Specific objectives:

        -  To compare the incidence of root caries after 30 months in three groups receiving the
           annual application of silver diamine fluoride solution (44800 ppm), the biannual
           application of sodium fluoride varnish (22600 ppm) and the biannual application of
           artificial saliva respectively, controlling for age, gender, frequency of toothbrushing,
           use of dental floss, use of removable prostheses.

        -  To compare the number of active root carious lesions arrested at baseline after annual
           application of silver diamine fluoride solution (44,800 ppm) and biannual application of
           sodium fluoride varnish (22,600 ppm) and biannual application of artificial saliva, all
           combined with an individualized oral health education program, controlling by age,
           gender, frequency of toothbrushing, use of dental floss, use of removable prostheses.

        -  To design and implement an individualized oral health education program on prevention
           and treatment of root and coronal caries, promotion and reinforcement of toothbrushing,
           and the proper care and cleaning of removable prostheses.

      METHODS Area: clinical research Study type: Intervention Study design: randomized controlled
      clinical trial. Study characteristics: prospective, longitudinal, comparative. Participant
      allocation: randomized Study classification: efficacy study Intervention model: parallel
      groups Masking: blind (participant) Main purpose: Prevention Study population Residents of
      four gerontological centers "Arturo Mundet" (Mexico City), "Vicente García Torres" (Mexico
      City), "Los Tamayo" (Oaxaca, Oaxaca) and "Olga Tamayo" (Cuernavaca, Morelos ) and a day care
      center in Santa Ana Tlapaltitlán (Toluca, State of Mexico). All centers are administered by
      the National System for Integral Family Development, a public welfare institution that works
      at the federal and state levels.

      Sample size Three groups of size 60 are required, in a no probabilistic convenience sampling.

      The administration will be carried out in the same way in the three groups using a mini
      applicator brush.

      Control group: biannual application of artificial saliva on exposed root surfaces. Sodium
      Fluoride varnish: biannual application of sodium fluoride varnish (22,600 ppm) on exposed
      healthy root surfaces and application at baseline and biannually on active root lesions.
      Silver Diamine Fluoride: annual application of silver diamine fluoride solution (44800ppm) on
      exposed healthy root surfaces and alternate annual application of artificial saliva, as well
      as initial and annual application on active root lesions.

      Before data collection persons will be invited to participate, the purpose of the study will
      be explained, and if they accept will be examined to identify whether they meet the selection
      criteria.

      Once the participants have been selected and signed the informed consent, they will be
      randomly assigned to one of the three groups. The baseline questionnaire on knowledge,
      attitudes and practices, the clinical evaluation and the initial application of the
      preventive agents or placebo, and the first personalized oral health education session will
      be carried out.The clinical examination will be carried out in each center using a portable
      dental unit and artificial light.

      The evaluations will be repeated at 6, 12, 18, 24 and 30 months. The examiner will be
      standardized for the evaluation of root caries using the International Caries Detection and
      Assessment System (ICDAS) for root caries, and in the assessment of dental plaque and dental
      calculus.
    
  