
    
      Atrial Fibrillation (AF) is the commonest heart rhythm disturbance and is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality. Catheter ablation (CA) is a procedure where catheters
      (leads) are passed into the heart and energy is used to disrupt and isolate (by freezing or
      cauterising) heart tissue causing AF. CA is an established therapy for AF. Success rates for
      CA for paroxysmal AF lies in the region of 70% or better. However, success rates for
      persistent AF is much lower and estimates lie in the region of 30-60%.

      Current CA protocols for AF centre on isolating the pulmonary veins (the pulmonary veins
      drain into the left atrium) which have been proven to trigger AF. Pulmonary Vein Isolation
      (PVI) ablation alone seems sufficient to remove the trigger for the vast majority of patients
      with paroxysmal AF. However, in patients with persistent AF it is common for AF to continue
      after the pulmonary veins have been electrically isolated.

      The difference in success rates between the paroxysmal and persistent form of AF is thought
      to be due to changes within the heart atria after AF has been established for some time. In
      persistent AF the atria dilate and remodel structurally and electrically, and therefore the
      maintenance of persistent AF differs from paroxysmal AF.

      Persistent AF is thought to be maintained by focal sources, whether rotors or sites of radial
      activation. Currently, targeting other sites within the atria in addition to PVI such as
      fractionated electrograms (areas of electrical activity) are thought to be imprecise and
      require extensive ablation. Often AF will persist despite targeting additional sites within
      the atria.

      Currently clinical characteristics of patients or structural imaging have limited accuracy in
      selecting patients likely to benefit from CA. Mapping studies have shown that patients with
      persistent AF who have higher frequency signals near the pulmonary veins than being
      distributed in the left atrial body are more likely to terminate to sinus rhythm (normal
      heart rhythm) with PVI alone and to maintain sinus rhythm.

      Studies have suggested that patients undergoing standard PVI ablation procedures for
      persistent AF who have coincidental interruption of drivers have a far better long term
      outcome. This suggests that the characteristics of atrial heart tissue and electrical
      activation patterns maintaining AF are likely to determine the response to ablation therefore
      it may be possible to determine more directly and accurately the likelihood of success by
      performing non-invasive mapping of the atria using the ECG-I.

      ECG-I is able to localise the drivers of AF and one of the objectives is to study the
      electrical characteristics of the tissue. ECG-I is currently being used in research into AF.
      A recently published a study using ECG-I to identify targets of ablation in 103 patients.
      They suggested that using ECG-I may improve CA success rates and reduces the procedure time
      and amount of ablation. The prospective multicentre AFACART study had similar findings.

      We intend to enrol 40 patients who will undergo Atrial Mapping with ECG-I during catheter
      ablation. After isolation of the pulmonary veins patients drivers will be targeted guided by
      the system.
    
  