
    
      In late 2019, a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) appeared in Wuhan, China. The various ways that
      humans will recover from COVID-19 infections is just starting to be observed and it is clear
      there will be a wide range of convalescent experiences. This phased protocol is designed to
      observe and study the convalescence and recoveries from acute COVID-19 infections.

      Phase A Surveying (Phase A) will enable people in the community that are convalescing from
      COVID-19 infections to be studied using telephone interviews and internet-based
      questionnaires. The objective of Phase A Surveying is to observe and describe the range of
      medical syndromes that occur in the wake of an acute COVID-19 infection. Participants are
      required to be within the first six months of their recovery and have documentation of a
      positive laboratory test for COVID-19. Additional cohorts of persons with neurological
      sequelae and persons with a clinical diagnosis of COVID-19 with negative testing will also be
      studied. The data collected during Phase A will inform the nature of the patient populations
      to be evaluated in more detail.

      Phase B Evaluation (Phase B) will allow surveyed participants of research interest from Phase
      A to be invited to the NIH Clinical Center for a medical evaluation and to undergo a panel of
      standard research measurements. Each participant would be medically and psychologically
      characterized to best understand if their complaints can be attributed to known disorders.
      The observations made during Phase B will provide first insights into the range and character
      of the post-COVID-19 syndromes. Individuals found to have disorders being studied within the
      Division of Intermural Research at NIH will be appropriately referred. The data collected
      during Phase B will identify patient populations that may benefit from deep phenotyping
      research.

      Evaluated individuals of research interest may be invited back to the NIH Clinical Center
      from broad and deep research measurement during Phase C Deep Phenotyping (Phase C). The deep
      phenotyping methods employed will be synchronized with other NIH-approved deep phenotyping
      protocols to foster cross-phenotype comparison research with other medical syndromes, such as
      Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and Gulf War Illness. Deep phenotyping
      characterizations would be used to generate scientific hypotheses for testing in future
      studies.

      Evaluated individuals with Post-COVID-19 syndromes of research interest may be invited to
      participate in Phase D Longitudinal Evaluation phase (Phase D). This would enable the
      observation of the natural history of Post-COVID convalescence and allow for exploration of
      the biological mechanisms underlying successful recovery and how recovery can go awry.

      Previous epidemics have created unique medical syndromes in the past. It seems possible that
      a unique POST-COVID 19 Syndrome or Syndromes may manifest from the global pandemic. If so,
      data from this protocol may be used to define the nature of any Post-COVID 19 Syndromes. If
      warranted, a Criteria Development phase will develop data-driven research consensus criteria
      for any Post-COVID 19 Syndromes.

      The results of this protocol will provide novel insights into COVID-19 convalescence and its
      potential outcomes.

      This current version of the protocol provides the details for Phase A of the study only.
      Additional phases will be detailed in planned protocol Amendments.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      Phase A: to observe and describe the range of medical syndromes that occur in the wake of an
      acute COVID-19 infection.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Phase A: To observe and describe recovery trajectories following an acute COVID-19 infection.

      Endpoints:

      Outcome measures:

      Phase A: The number and severity of persistent symptoms associated with COVID-19
      convalescence. Collected data will be used to characterize different narratives of COVID-19
      convalescence.

      Study Populations:

      Phase A:

        -  1000 adults who are within six months of their convalescence from an acute COVID-19
           infection with documentation of a positive COVID-19 test.

        -  100 adults recovering from neurological sequelae from a COVID-19 infection that may be
           eligible for participation in Protocol 00094 An Observational Study of Neurological
           Function After COVID 19 Infection .

        -  100 adults with medical documentation supporting a clinical diagnosis of a COVID-19
           infection with negative or absent PCR testing and negative antibody testing.

      Description of Sites/Facilities

      Enrolling Participants:

      Phase A: All activities will be done using telephone interviews and internet-based
      questionnaires that participants will complete offsite.

      Study Duration:

      Participant Duration:

      Phase A: Participants will be invited to complete questionnaires for a period of three years.
    
  