
    
      As a consequence of COVID 19 and after consultation with research oversight, regulatory and
      monitoring entities enrollment has been placed on a temporary hold.

      Background: Despite the need for clinically appropriate use of blood products in the
      postoperative setting, blood transfusion practices are empiric and variable. In the absence
      of a physiologic test that can effectively guide transfusion-related decisions after an
      operative intervention, hemoglobin-based transfusion triggers have been suggested as clinical
      tools. Traditionally, clinicians have transfused patients to maintain hemoglobin (Hb) above a
      minimum (typically 10 gm/dl) level, in order to prevent adverse cardiac events and death.
      Recent randomized trials, however, have shown that restrictive transfusion policies
      (transfusion when Hb falls below 8 gm/dl or even lower) are well tolerated by specific
      patient populations. Furthermore, these trials have demonstrated that in some patient subsets
      reduced transfusion is associated with reduction in postoperative complications and death.
      Thus, guidelines have been developed emphasizing the need for a restrictive transfusion
      strategy in most stable hospitalized patients.

      Despite the emerging enthusiasm with respect to the safety of restrictive transfusion
      strategies, high quality evidence on the value of such an approach in patients at high risk
      for postoperative adverse cardiac events remains scarce. This is a serious limitation of the
      current literature, as ischemic heart disease (IHD) is highly prevalent and represents the
      leading cause of mortality in this country, accounting for the death of one American every
      minute. Furthermore, there is evidence from small trials and secondary analyses that in this
      subset of patients withholding transfusion when Hb falls below 10 gm/dl increases the risk of
      death or myocardial infarction, suggesting that widespread use of restrictive transfusion
      policies may actually result in patient harm. This uncertainty on transfusion thresholds in
      high cardiac risk patients has created a knowledge gap that requires urgent attention. IHD is
      highly prevalent in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), and myocardial
      infarction represents the leading cause of postoperative mortality in patients undergoing
      PAD-related surgical interventions. Furthermore, a substantial proportion of patients
      undergoing Vascular and General Surgery operations have history of prior IHD, making this
      patient population an ideal high cardiac risk group in which to analyze the effect of
      transfusion strategies. In order to address the knowledge gap of postoperative transfusion
      thresholds in patients at high risk for postoperative adverse cardiac events, the
      investigators propose the current study under the hypothesis that transfusion strategy will
      affect important postoperative outcomes after major surgical interventions in high cardiac
      risk patients.

      Objectives: The goal of the proposed study is to determine whether a liberal postoperative
      transfusion strategy (transfusion trigger at Hb<10gm/dl) in patients at high risk for
      postoperative adverse cardiac events will reduce the risk of adverse postoperative outcomes
      after major vascular and general surgery operative interventions. The primary end point is
      the composite rate of all-cause mortality, acute myocardial infarction (MI), coronary
      revascularization, stroke, or acute renal failure within 90 days from the time of
      randomization. The secondary end points are rates of postoperative infectious complications
      (wound infections, pneumonia, and sepsis), and postoperative cardiac complications (new
      cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure exacerbation, and cardiac arrest) at 90 days
      post-randomization; the composite rate of all-cause mortality, MI, coronary
      revascularization, stroke, or acute renal failure, within 30 days from the time of
      randomization; the length of hospital stay; and all-cause mortality up to one year after
      randomization.

      Design: CSP #599 - TOP study is a randomized, intent-to-treat, two-arm, parallel design,
      single blind, multicenter trial. Vascular and General Surgery programs at Veterans Affairs
      Medical Centers with expertise in performing the operations of interest will be invited to
      participate and participants will be screened for enrollment using established
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. Enrolled participants will be randomized to one of the two
      arms; liberal (transfusion trigger at Hb < 10gm/dl) or restrictive (transfusion trigger at Hb
      < 7gm/dl). Consent for the study will be obtained prior to the index surgical intervention.
      Randomization will be performed postoperatively after the patient has a confirmed Hb <
      10gm/dl. Assessments will be collected pre/post-operatively and at discharge, or at 30 days
      after randomization if the patient is still hospitalized. Follow up forms will be filled out
      during a clinic visit after the 30th and 90th post-randomization day. Patients who cannot
      present to the clinic will have a phone call for follow up. One year post-randomization
      mortality will be ascertained using electronic medical records, phone follow-up, and search
      of the national death index.

      Sample Size and Study Duration: This study will randomize 1520 participants undergoing major
      vascular and general operations at 15 VA medical centers with expertise in Vascular and
      General surgical procedures. Assuming a recruitment rate of 3 participants per site per
      month, total recruitment will take approximately four years to complete. The duration of the
      study will be five years with four year recruitment, three months active follow up, and nine
      months passive follow up which will be performed by the Chairman's office in order to collect
      1-year post-randomization data on all-cause mortality.

      Study Population: The study will include a) patients who undergo open (non-endovascular) PAD
      - related operations, and b) patients who undergo selected major Vascular and General Surgery
      operations and have prior history of PAD or IHD. Vascular Surgery operations examined will
      include, but not be limited to, PAD-related: aortobifemoral or aortobiiliac bypass, open
      abdominal aortic aneurysm repair with simultaneous repair of aortoiliac occlusive disease,
      visceral bypass, iliofemoral bypass, femoral bypass or endarterectomy, infrainguinal bypass,
      supra-aortic trunk bypass or endarterectomy, carotid endarterectomy, and major lower
      extremity amputations (transfemoral, through the knee, or transtibial); Other vascular
      surgeries: open aneurysm repair (including but not limited to carotid, subclavian, abdominal
      aortic, iliac, femoral, or popliteal aneurysms); and complex endovascular aneurysm repair
      (defined as fenestrated endograft, or endograft with need for iliac conduit, or endovascular
      aneurysm repair with simultaneous femoral artery reconstruction or bypass). General Surgery
      operations examined will include open cholecystectomy or other complex biliary reconstruction
      (such as open common bile duct exploration for stones, reconstruction as part of oncologic
      operations such as palliative pancreatic cancer procedures) , small bowel resection,
      pancreatectomy, colon resection, rectal resection, splenectomy, transhiatal esophagectomy,
      liver resection, and open ventral hernia repair. Patients will be included in the study if
      their postoperative Hb falls below 10gm/dl within 15 days after surgery. Intervention:
      Liberal transfusion strategy is the conventional transfusion method for the surgical
      procedures the investigators will include in the study, and is defined as transfusion when
      the postoperative Hb drops below 10gm/dl, with a goal to maintain Hb above 10 gm/dl.
      Restrictive transfusion strategy will be defined as transfusion when the postoperative Hb
      drops below 7gm/dl with goal to maintain Hb above 7 gm/dl.

      Significance: The proposed CSP# 599 study is uniquely positioned to address the knowledge gap
      of postoperative transfusion thresholds in high cardiac risk patients undergoing major
      surgical interventions, who are currently transfused based on data from patient populations
      with different risk profile. The study will include patients with high IHD burden, a
      population that should be the most likely to benefit from a liberal transfusion strategy and
      CSP#599 will examine this hypothesis directly. Conversely, if the proposed trial demonstrates
      that this high cardiac risk patient population can tolerate restrictive transfusion well,
      then the results will be easy to generalize to other patient populations and the question of
      transfusion thresholds will be definitively addressed. Thus, the investigators believe that
      regardless of outcome this trial will have significant clinical and policy implications, and
      will substantially impact the VA and national transfusion-related guidelines.
    
  