
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate whether the addition of cetuximab to a concurrent radiation-cisplatin regimen
           will improve progression-free survival in patients with stage III or IV squamous cell
           carcinoma of the oropharynx, hypopharynx, or larynx.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the impact of the addition of cetuximab to a concurrent radiation-cisplatin
           regimen on overall survival, local-regional control, acute and late toxic effects,
           quality of life, and health utilities in these patients.

        -  Correlate the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its down-stream
           molecules with outcome in patients participating in this component of the trial.

        -  Correlate pre-treatment positron emission tomography (PET) scan findings with
           progression-free survival, overall survival, and local-regional control in patients
           participating in this component of the trial.

        -  Correlate post-treatment PET scan findings with nodal response and nodal relapse in
           patients participating in this component of the trial.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to primary site (larynx vs non-larynx), nodal stage (N0 vs N1, N2a, N2b vs N2c,
      N3), Zubrod performance status (0 vs 1), use of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) (no
      vs yes), and pre-treatment PET/CT scan (no vs yes). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      NOTE: *A neck dissection is optional for patients with multiple lymph nodes or lymph nodes >
      3 cm in diameter who achieve a complete clinical and radiographic response in the neck.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, once during the last 2 weeks of treatment, at 3 and
      12 months from the start of treatment, and then annually for 4 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  