
    
      BACKGROUND: Visual impairment affects 285 million people worldwide. The prevalence of visual
      impairment in the US is expected to rise from 3.3 million in 2000 to 5.5 million in 2020.
      This will exacerbate the current economic burden of vision loss, which is already $38.2
      billion per year in direct and indirect costs. The leading cause of blindness in high income
      countries is due to age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a disease that leads to gradual
      loss of the photoreceptor cell layer. An estimated 1.75 million people have AMD in the US and
      another 7.3 million are at risk. Importantly, despite the loss of photoreceptor cells in AMD,
      the other cellular layers in the retina remain largely intact.

      The retina lines the back of the eye and is composed of structural layers. The outer nuclear
      layer contains photoreceptors called rods and cones. The inner nuclear layer includes
      bipolar, horizontal, and amacrine cells. Most anteriorly, the ganglion cell layer has axons
      that exit the eye as the optic nerve. Visual image formation begins when a photon of light
      enters the eye, passes through all retinal layers, and is absorbed by the photoreceptor
      cells. These cells transduce the photon of light into an electrochemical signal, which is
      communicated to bipolar cells, followed by the ganglion cells. Here, an action potential is
      generated and propagated via the optic nerve to the area of the brain where vision perception
      occurs. When the eye is dark adapted, the cells in this pathway are potentially more
      sensitive to other types of stimuli, such as IR. The investigators believe cation channels
      called TRP channels in ganglion cells are activated by IR in this dark adapted state,
      creating the visual response to IR. Heat is a known activator of certain subtypes these
      channels elsewhere in the body. TRP channels are also responsible for IR vision in pit vipers
      and vampire bats.

      Palczewska et al. reported that visual perception to IR occurred through a process of direct
      two-photon isomerization of visual pigments. However, other evidence suggests IR perception
      can occur through single IR photon absorption. Studies that use IR to test the functionality
      of implanted visual prosthesis have noted a greater response to IR in the non-implanted eye
      when compared to the implanted eye on both VEP tests and ERG. On ERG, a specialized response
      specific to IR was found called the scotopic threshold response (STR). This response occurs
      under dark-adapted conditions and correlates with a response at the ganglion cell layer.
      Direct IR activation of TRP channels on ganglion cells could initiate a visual response.
      Based on these findings, the investigators hypothesize the human response to IR under dark
      adaptation occurs at the level of the ganglion cells through heat-activated TRP channels.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AIM1: To determine the optimal IR wavelength for human visual perception
      while dark-adapted.

      Introduction for Aim 1: The objective of this aim is to determine the optimal wavelength of
      IR to which the human eye is sensitive. To obtain this objective, the investigators will test
      the working hypothesis that the healthy human eye, and those with colorblindness, will detect
      a range of IR wavelengths, with a preference for a specific wavelength. The investigators
      will test the working hypothesis using a broad-spectrum light source with wavelength-specific
      bandpass filters in the IR range. The investigators rationale for this aim is that
      understanding the optimal IR wavelength of the human eye will aid in future investigations
      when testing the visual response to IR using diagnostic equipment. This is important because
      it could impact the way other ophthalmologic modalities use IR to diagnosis and treat visual
      pathologies.

      Research Design for Aim 1: A total of healthy 25 participants (15 with normal vision and 10
      with colorblindness) aged 18 and older will be recruited using the University of New Mexico
      (UNM) Clinical and Translational Science Center (CTSC) Clinical Research Volunteer Registry
      HRRC-06412. Informed consent, participant demographics, past medial and visual history, and a
      general eye exam will be obtained using the CTSC research coordinator. Each participant will
      be placed in a dark room for an hour to allow for optimal dark adaptation of the eye. The
      investigators will use a broad-spectrum light source with wavelength-specific bandpass
      filters of different IR wavelengths. A total of 12 filters will be used ranging from 850 nm
      to 1400nm. Intensity curves will be build for each wavelength, by slowing turning up the
      power until the participant indicates a visual response to the stimulus.

      Data Analysis for Aim 1: Data will be analyzed by the investigators. Descriptive statistics
      will be used to evaluate demographics, general and visual health information, and reported
      optimal wavelengths. The investigators analysis will compare differences among responses for
      each wavelength. To the investigators knowledge there have been no studies evaluating which
      IR wavelength is optimal for human visual perception, thus the investigators assume a low
      effect size of 10%, which would produce an 82% chance of at least two out of 30 healthy
      participants giving a preferred response to a specific wavelength. The investigators will
      describe the estimated effect sizes in response to the findings.

      Expected Outcomes for Aim 1: The investigators expect the human eye to perceive a range of IR
      wavelengths, but have a specific wavelength optimal in terms of brightness.

      Potential Problems & Alternative Strategies for Aim 1: To prevent sampling bias, the
      investigators plan to obtain a representative sample from New Mexico; however, participants
      may be younger and more educated than the general population. Confounding bias of light
      pollution may occur, which would prevent dark adaptation and decrease the IR sensitivity. A
      photometer will assess the room for background photons.

      AIM 2: To test the electrophysiologic response to IR in healthy humans after dark adaptation.

      Introduction for Aim 2: The objective of this aim is to determine the site of IR transduction
      in the visual pathway. To obtain this objective, the investigators will test the working
      hypothesis that IR elicits an amplitude change in human subjects on ERG and VEP tests after
      dark adaptation. The investigators will test the working hypothesis with a clinical trial in
      which the electrophysiologic visual response to the baseline of visible light is compared to
      IR. The investigators rationale for this aim is that the proposed research will contribute to
      an important understanding of an alternative mechanism of vision. It is important to
      investigate this pathway to further understand general visual health and to demonstrate how
      IR directly elicits a visual response. Such a finding would be important because it would
      expand the visually responsive light spectrum to include IR.

      Research Design for Aim 2: A total of 6 healthy participants aged 18 and older will be
      recruited using the same criteria as in Aim 1. The investigators will collect the same
      documentation and health information as in Aim 1. Participants will be tested in the UNM Eye
      Clinic using VEP and ERG at both baseline and under dark adapted IR conditions. Both tests
      are non-invasive and considered safe. The International Society for Clinical
      Electrophysiology of Vision (ISCEV) guidelines for clinical VEPs and full-field ERGs will be
      followed. These protocols will be extended to test the IR stimulus after dark adaptation.
      Total time for participants will be 5 hours and each will participate only once.

      Data Analysis for Aim 2: Data will be analyzed by the investigators. Descriptive statistics
      will describe demographics and general and visual health information. As per ISCEV protocol,
      when experimenting outside of the normal laboratory ranges, the investigators will not assume
      a normal distribution. Reports will specify stimulus and recording parameters. The
      investigators primary analysis will test the underlying probability of a response to the
      stimulus using binomial distributions (HO = 0, HI > 0). Using exact tests, the investigators
      secondary analysis will compare differences among dark adaptation time intervals of 0, 15,
      30, 45, 60 minutes for each stimulus type, and the tertiary analysis will compare differences
      between baseline and IR stimulus at each time interval. The investigators pilot data and
      animal models have demonstrated a consistent visual response to IR. However, to the
      investigators knowledge, there have been no electrophysiologic studies to an IR stimulus in
      humans. Thus, the investigators will assume a low effect size. However, due to the cost of
      the diagnostic test we are limited to 5 participants. The investigators will describe the
      estimated effect sizes in response to the finding.

      Expected Outcomes for Aim 2: The investigators expect an IR response in ERG and VEP in
      dark-adapted humans.

      Potential Problems & Alternative Strategies for Aim 2: Aim 2 shares the same potential
      problems as Aim 1, and the investigators will address these in an identical manner. In
      addition, calibration bias may occur with the ERG and VEP. The investigators will follow the
      ISCEV protocols for both of these tests. IR trials may require averaging additional stimulus
      repetitions to improve the signal-to-noise ratio of ERG and VEP signals. To avoid bias in
      interpretation of results, The investigators will use intra and inter-reliability
      comparisons.

      AIM 3: To test the electrophysiologic response to IR in humans with retinal diseases or
      injuries after dark adaptation.

      Introduction for Aim 3: The objective of this aim is to determine which retinal cell layer is
      responding to IR and the nature of TRP channel involvement. To obtain this objective, the
      investigators will test the working hypothesis that IR will not elicit an amplitude change in
      certain retinal diseases. The investigators will test the working hypothesis with a clinical
      trial by testing the visual response to IR in certain retinal diseases using ERG and VEP. The
      investigators rationale for this aim is that the proposed research will examine if certain
      retinal diseases are visually sensitive to IR. This is important to investigate because it
      could allow a different approach to visual research in certain retinal diseases. Such a
      finding would be important because it could provide the basis for a novel form of visual
      prosthesis.

      Research Design for Aim 3: A total of twenty-five participants, or five per retinal disease,
      will be recruited using the CTSC Clinical Research Volunteer Registry HRRC-06412. Retinal
      diseases include retinitis pigmentosa, age related macular degeneration, congenital
      stationary night blindness, cataracts. Five participants with colorblindness will also be
      included. The same protocol will be followed as in aim 2 for demographic collection and ERG
      and VEP tests under baseline and dark-adapted conditions.

      Data Analysis for Aim 3: In addition to using the same type of data analysis as in Aim 2,
      results will also be compared between retinal diseases and with healthy participants.

      Expected Outcomes for Aim 3: The investigators expect an IR will not elicit a response on ERG
      and VEP in certain retinal diseases after dark-adaptation.

      Potential Problems & Alternative Strategies for Aim 3: Same as in Aim 2.
    
  