
    
      If you are willing to participate in this research study you will be asked to undergo some
      screening test or procedure to find out if you are eligible. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular care and may be done even if it turns out that
      you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures
      recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures include the
      following: a medical history, performance status, blood tests, assessment of disease and
      pregnancy test. If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study, you will begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you
      will not be able to participate in this research study. After confirming eligibility you will
      also have a bone marrow test, electrocardiogram and urinalysis.

      You will receive a maximum of 6 cycles of study treatment. Each treatment cycle will last
      approximately 4 weeks. In each cycle, you will receive the study drug clofarabine daily on
      the first 5 days (days 1 to 5) and rest for the remaining days. Clofarabine will be
      administered into the vein (IV) over two hours in the clinic or in the hospital. If you have
      high-risk disease, the dose of clofarabine will be higher during the first two cycles.

      Before the start of each cycle, and at the end of your therapy, you will have a physical exam
      and you will be asked questions about your general health and specific questions about any
      problems that you are having and any medications you are taking. You will also have blood and
      urine tests done to monitor organ functions. You will also undergo an assessment of your
      disease by x-ray, CT scan, MRI or PET or bone scans, which wil be performed every two cycles
      and at the end of study treatment.

      After the final dose of the study drug there will be a follow up period. Once every three
      months for the first year, twice yearly for the second and third years, and then annually,
      you will have a physical exam and be asked questions about your general health. You will also
      have blood and urine tests performed.

      Twice yearly for the first three years, x-ray, CT scan, MRI, PET, and/or bone scans will be
      repeated if your doctor feels they are necessary.
    
  