
    
      Background

        -  Genetic polymorphisms in drug-metabolizing enzymes, transporters/receptors might affect
           an individual s response to drug therapy.

        -  Inter-individual differences in efficacy and toxicity of cancer chemotherapy are
           especially important given the narrow therapeutic index of these drugs.

        -  During analysis of investigational agents, inter-individual variation in
           pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) is most often noted. Genetic variation in
           genes encoding proteins that regulate or mediate the metabolism and transport of drugs
           often account for some of the wide variation seen in PK/PD, and ultimately the response
           to, and toxicity from, pharmaceutical agents.

      Objectives

        -  To obtain and analyze the genomic DNA from patients with cancer on a therapeutic
           clinical trial.

        -  To prospectively explore correlations between genetic variants involved in
           inter-individual differences in drug disposition versus pharmacokinetics,
           pharmacodynamics, response, and toxicity endpoints in patients receiving pharmaceutical
           agents.

        -  To mitigate harm due to treatment with ineffective or toxicity-inducing drugs in
           patients where gene-drug interactions are established.

      Eligibility

      - All individuals enrolled on IRB approved therapeutic clinical trials at the National Cancer
      Institute.

      Design

        -  Exploratory study with a planned accrual of 1,000 patients

        -  Genomic DNA will be extracted from blood samples collected from patients (patients with
           leukemia will have cheek swab samples collected) and genotyped using the Affymetrix Drug
           Metabolizing Enzymes and Transporter (DMET).

        -  In cases where patients carry genetic variants that are related to poor outcome or
           significant toxicity on a given drug, clinical recommendations will be provided where
           specific instructions are available in the package insert. This will apply to
           non-anticancer agents as well given that patients with cancer often receive multiple
           agents to manage side effects and co-morbidities.

        -  The association between genetic variants in DMET-covered genes will be correlated with
           PK/PD and clinical outcomes such as response and/or toxicity.
    
  