
    
      The drug, liraglutide 3.0 mg was approved for chronic weight management in management in
      obese adults with an initial BMI of 30 kg/m2 or greater or in overweight adults BMI of 27
      kg/m2 or greater with at least one weight-related co-morbid condition as an adjunct to a
      reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity. Liraglutide is an acylated human
      glucagon-like peptide -1 (GLP-1) analog that binds to and activates the GLP-1 receptor. It
      lowers body weight through decreased caloric intake while stimulating insulin secretion and
      reducing glucagon via a glucose-dependent mechanism. For obesity management, patients may
      lose weight with GLP-1 receptor agonists due to other unique actions. Glucagon-like peptide-1
      receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) can slow gastric emptying and increase satiety. While predictors
      of weight loss success for the general population are available (protein intake, weight loss
      medications), predictors of weight loss success may differ between normal and hyperandrogenic
      women. Glucagon-like peptide 1 agonists are linked with dose dependent weight lowering
      potential in different obesity related populations. The weight loss effects of GLP-1RAs
      previously demonstrated in diabetic and obese non-diabetic patients, offer a unique
      opportunity to expand the medical options available to patients with PCOS.

      Given this lack of information, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects
      of liraglutide 3mg vs. placebo on body composition as well as hormonal and metabolic features
      in non-diabetic obese women with PCOS.The non-diabetic obese female with PCOS offers a unique
      model to study the relationship between insulin resistance and adiposity. The investigators
      propose a double-blind, placebo-controlled 30-week trial designed to directly examine the
      therapeutic effects of liraglutide 3 mg (LIRA 3 mg) compared to placebo on body weight,
      hormonal and cardiometabolic parameters in obese non-diabetic women with PCOS. All patients
      will receive diet and lifestyle counseling, including advice on exercise commencing during
      the lead-in period and continuing throughout the study. In this study, the investigators will
      examine the efficacy of LIRA 3mg on body weight and body composition, reproductive function
      metabolic parameters and cardiovascular risk factors in a well-defined group of
      pre-menopausal obese non-diabetic women with hyperandrogenism, focusing on the relationship
      to obesity and insulin resistance.
    
  