
    
      There have been a number of studies that have examined a link between intraoperative
      decreases in rSO2 and adverse perioperative outcome3-7. These studies, the vast majority of
      which have been in the setting of cardiac surgery, suggest that decreases in rSO2 (as
      detected by near-infrared spectroscopy) may be related to both adverse neurologic and
      non-neurologic sequelae. Interestingly, and importantly, the studies examining cerebral
      desaturation in non-cardiac surgical patients (such as those undergoing major abdominal
      surgery, carotid endarterectomy, liver transplantation, and pulmonary resection) have also
      uncovered a link between cerebral desaturation and non-neurologic outcomes3,7-12. These small
      studies have reported preliminary correlates between decreases in rSO2 and various
      postoperative complications and prolonged length of stay. These studies have also shown that
      the changes in rSO2 are not correlated with changes in traditional hemodynamic parameters
      (mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate).

      All of these studies suffer from similar flaws, however. They are typically small in size,
      have varying definitions of what constitutes a cerebral desaturation event, and have
      incompletely, or poorly defined complications. Also lacking is a mechanistic explanation for
      the cerebral desaturations as peripheral oxygen saturation typically remains near normal.

      As a result, two natural questions arise in relation to this prior research. First, are these
      cerebral desaturations causative of the adverse outcomes (including non-neurologic
      complications), and second if these desaturations were treated (i.e. if cerebral oxygenation
      was normalized) would outcome be improved (i.e. or are cerebral desaturations merely an
      epiphenomenon)? Numerous studies have demonstrated the poor correlation of traditional
      hemodynamic parameters (such as blood pressure and heart rate) to cardiac output and oxygen
      delivery13-17. Historically in the fields of anesthesiology and critical care, we have
      focused our monitoring and resuscitation targets on perfusion pressures rather than organ
      flows. Neglecting the fact that organs require flow as well as pressure has led to an
      over-reliance on normal vascular pressures (such as arterial, central venous, and pulmonary
      capillary wedge pressures) as a surrogate for adequate organ flow18.

      It is entirely possible that monitoring cerebral oxygenation and discovering a link between
      desaturation and non-neurologic outcomes may show that the brain is an index organ for tissue
      perfusion monitoring. That is to say, since the perfusion of major organs are typically not
      monitored during anesthesia, cerebral oximetry is an excellent means to monitor global
      decreases in tissue oxygen delivery. Consistent with this hypothesis, in the largest cerebral
      oximetry trial to date, Murkin and colleagues discovered that the incidence and magnitude of
      cerebral desaturations was related to major non-neurologic organ morbidity19.

      The investigators will also be collecting blood samples preoperatively and at 24 hours
      postoperatively to determine if a panel of inflammatory biomarkers has the ability to predict
      postoperative complications.

      Primary Objective: to determine the incidence and severity of cerebral desaturation in
      high-risk patients undergoing major vascular and abdominal surgery

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine the factors associated with the occurrence of cerebral desaturation

        2. To determine the relationship between desaturation and adverse perioperative outcome

        3. To determine if the levels of a panel of inflammatory biomarkers is related to cerebral
           desaturation and postoperative complications.

      Study design: prospective observational study Population: 200 consecutive high-risk patients
      undergoing non-cardiac surgery. High-risk patients will be defined as age> 65 undergoing
      major non-cardiac surgery including abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, major hepatic
      resection, colonic resection, pancreatoduodenectomy, or esophagectomy.

      Methods: In addition to standard CAS monitors, all patients will undergo pulse contour
      cardiac output monitoring and cerebral oxygen saturation monitoring. The anesthetic technique
      will be at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist. During the procedure, the
      attending anesthesiologist will be blinded to the rSO2 data.

      As with previous studies conducted at our institution, cardiorespiratory variables (such as
      heart rate, systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressures, peripheral and cerebral
      oxygen saturation, end tidal CO2 tension, end tidal anesthetic gas concentration, and cardiac
      index) will be sampled at a frequency of 60Hz. Data will be acquired from the Philips
      Intellivue速 Monitor (Philips Healthcare, Andover, MA), FloTrac/Vigileo速 minimally invasive CO
      monitor (Edwards Lifesciences, Orange County, CA), and the ForeSight速 Cerebral Oximiter
      (CasMED, Brantford CT) and processed with TrendFace Solo速 software (IExcellence Software,
      Germany). Arterial blood gas sampling will occur every 20 minutes. Other intraoperative
      variables collected will include case duration, blood loss, total narcotic dose, total
      benzodiazepine dose, use and dose of vasopressors, and use of neuraxial local anesthetics.

      The definition of a cerebral desaturation differs between previously performed studies. Some
      have used an absolute decrease below 55%, variably defined decreases from the patients
      'baseline' (either breathing room air or 100% oxygen), the time below a specific cerebral
      saturation threshold, or area under a specific cerebral saturation threshold (this
      measurement takes into account the duration and magnitude of a desaturation)3,5,21,22. Based
      on the intraoperative data collected, The investigators will examine all of the currently
      utilized definitions of cerebral desaturation and then construct receiver operating
      characteristic curves to determine which parameter has then highest predictive ability to
      link cerebral desaturation with perioperative outcome.

      In consultation with our Biostatistical Consulting Unit the investigators calculated our
      sample size using previously reported incidences of cerebral desaturation, which range from
      15-26% and accepted a margin of error of 5%. Based on a conservative estimate of the
      incidence (15%), The investigators would need a total of 195 patients to determine the
      incidence of cerebral desaturations with a 5% margin of error (see figure 1). The
      investigators will include 5 additional patients in our study due to our previous experience
      of a 1% rate of data loss during acquisition of rSO2 data (related to technical failures).
      The Lan and DeMets alpha spending function will be utilized to determine if the trial can be
      stopped early.

      As secondary outcomes, the investigators will attempt to correlate decreases in rSO2 with a
      composite of well defined perioperative complications such as death, myocardial infarction,
      cerebrovascular accident, acute kidney injury (defined by the AKIN criteria, table 223),
      delirium (as defined by the CAM-ICU method, figure 324), postoperative infections, and the
      need for mechanical ventilation >24 hours in the first 28 postoperative days.

      Based on the results of this study the investigators will be able to determine, with the aid
      of multivariate logistical regression analysis and the calculation of odds ratios, which
      definition of cerebral desaturation is mostly closely linked with the aforementioned outcome
      measures.
    
  