
    
      A large proportion of extremely preterm infants are mechanically ventilated through the use
      of endotracheal intubation. However, clinicians try to avoid intubation due to the
      complications that may arise from being mechanically ventilated such as ventilator associated
      pneumonia (VAP), pulmonary hemorrhage, air leak etc. In order to the prevent these
      complications, clinicians accelerate weaning and provide non-invasive respiratory support.
      The most commonly used type of non-invasive respiratory support following extubation is nasal
      continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP). NCPAP has been shown to improve oxygenation,
      reduce airway resistance, increase tidal volume, stabilize chest wall and maintain functional
      residual capacity. In addition to NCPAP, nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation
      (NIPPV) has become a popular choice as a post-extubation respiratory support mode. However,
      there is a lack of knowledge regarding the effects of synchronization between the infant's
      own spontaneous respiratory efforts and ventilator inflations.

      Synchronization, especially during non-invasive ventilation, is difficult to achieve in
      preterm infants due to their rapid respiratory rates, short inspiratory times, periodic
      breathing, leaks and small tidal volumes. Previous studies have used devices such as an
      abdominal capsule to allow for synchronization while the infant is receiving NIPPV. The
      abdominal capsule itself is prone to incorrect placement, time delays and ineffective
      synchronization. Neurally Activated Ventilatory Assistance (NAVA) is a new technology that
      can be used during invasive and non-invasive ventilation. In this novel mode, the electrical
      activity of the diaphragm, called EAdi, is detected be electrodes inserted at the tip of a
      specialized nasogastric tube. The EAdi represents the patient's inherent neural respiratory
      drive. The ventilator assists each spontaneous breath by delivering pressure that is linearly
      proportional to the EAdi. The mechanical breath is initiated at the start of diaphragmatic
      contraction and maintained until the EAdi is at 60 to 70% of the peak pressure generated.
      Therefore, the inspiratory time, expiratory time and peak inflation pressure are all
      controlled and determined by the patient, providing patient-ventilator synchrony.
    
  