
    
      Written informed consent must have been provided voluntarily by each subject before any study
      specific procedure is initiated.

      A physical examination (including examination of heart, lungs, abdomen, neck and assessment
      of peripheral circulation and oedema) must be performed; vital signs (blood pressure, and
      heart rate); and height and weight must be recorded. A medical history must be obtained, and
      age; gender; New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional status; risk factors (hypertension,
      smoking, and diabetes); symptom duration, and concomitant disease must be recorded. All
      concomitant medication (incl. vitamins, herbal preparation and other "over-the-counter"
      drugs) used by the participant within 28 days of treatment start must be recorded in the CRF
      by generic name and dose. Blood samples will be obtained to determine haemoglobin; white
      blood cell count, platelet count; serum potassium; serum sodium; glucose, glycosylated
      haemoglobin; creatinine; ALT; bilirubin; albumin; INR; CRP; N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic
      peptide; total cholesterol; ferritin; transferrin, serum iron and total iron binding
      capacity. Blood for efficacy analyses must be drawn and appropriately labelled and stored for
      later analysis. A 6 min walk test will be performed in accordance with current guidelines at
      baseline. The results of this test will be used for adjustment of the test-result six months
      after study drug infusion. The latter result, with adjustment for the baseline result,
      constitutes the primary endpoint of the IIISAS trial. Right and left hand grip strengths will
      be measured by a hand-held dynamometer. Body composition (weight, total water, total fat,
      percent fat, the ratio of extracellular water to intracellular water [measuring oedema], and
      visceral fat) will be measured at baseline and after 6 months with the InBody 770 body
      composition analyser. Self-reported, health-related quality of life will be gauged with the
      SF-36, EQ 5D 3L, EQ-VAS, HAD and the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaires. Cognitive
      function will be assessed with the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery
      (CANTAB).

      A physical examination, medical history, all concomitant medication, blood samples, 6 min
      walk test, right and left hand grip strengths, body composition, and self-reported,
      health-related quality of life as well as cognitive function will be conducted again on
      average approximately 3 months after study drug administration, and it is designed to assess
      initial efficacy and safety. This will be conducted again 3 months after transcatheter aortic
      valve implantation (TAVI).

      Patients will be followed for the first year after the TAVI procedure for safety assessment,
      including MACE, and all-cause mortality. At 12 months after that TAVI procedure,
      approximately 15 months after study drug infusion, a visit to Oslo University hospital, the
      local hospital or a telephone interview will be performed to assess NYHA functional class,
      adverse events and clinical events.

      Patients may be discontinued from study treatment and assessments at any time. Specific
      reasons for discontinuing patient follow-up are:

        -  Voluntary discontinuation: participating patients are free to discontinue his/her
           participation in the study at any point in time, without prejudice to further treatment.

        -  Major protocol deviation

        -  Incorrect randomisation, i.e. the patient does not meet the required inclusion/exclusion
           criteria for the study

        -  Patient lost to follow-up

        -  Patient's non-compliance to study treatment and/or procedures

      Patient withdrawal must be documented in the CRF as well as in hospital records. If possible,
      a final assessment should be obtained (end of study visit). The reason for discontinuation is
      recorded. The investigator is obliged to follow up any significant adverse events until the
      outcome either is recovered or resolved, recovering/resolving, not recovered/not resolved,
      recovered/resolved with sequelae, fatal or unknown. Patients who withdraw will be included in
      the intention-to treat analysis.

      The whole trial may be discontinued at the discretion of the primary investigator or the
      sponsor in the event of any of the following:

        -  Occurrence of AEs unknown to date in respect of their nature, severity and duration

        -  Medical or ethical reasons affecting the continued performance of the trial

        -  Difficulties in the recruitment of patients

        -  Cancellation of drug development The sponsor and principal investigator will inform all
           investigators, the relevant Competent Authorities and Ethics Committees of the
           termination of the trial along with the reasons for such action. If the study is
           terminated early on grounds of safety, the Competent Authorities and Ethics Committees
           will be informed within 15 days.
    
  