
    
      The purpose of this research study is to examine the effectiveness of a client-directed
      version of a well-supported psychological therapy, cognitive processing therapy (CPT), for
      the treatment of psychological effects of traumatic experiences. Participants in this study
      are expected to be women who have experienced one or more interpersonal violence experiences
      (i.e. physical or sexual assault).

      During the first assessment, participants will be interviewed by a qualified
      investigator/interviewer. The investigator/interviewer will ask participants about life
      experiences and reactions, including traumatic experiences and symptoms participants might be
      experiencing. This portion of the study will take approximately 2-3 hours. If participant's
      assessment reveals that participant is eligible for the study participant will begin the
      treatment portion of the study. If eligible, participant will also be given a packet of
      questionnaires to complete before participant's first treatment session. If participant is
      not eligible for the study, investigator/interviewer will provide participant with a list of
      referrals from which participant could seek treatment with other agencies.

      If participant begins the treatment portion of the study, participant will participate in a
      client-directed version of cognitive processing therapy (CPT). CPT is a treatment designed to
      help participant understand the ways participant's traumatic experience has affected various
      aspects of participant's life (feelings, beliefs, behaviors, etc.). The treatment will
      consist of four main components: education about trauma responses, experiencing emotions
      related to the assault, development of skills for examining the truth of thoughts, and
      examination of beliefs in areas commonly influenced by traumatic experiences. During this
      treatment, participant will be exploring the ways in which the assault has affected
      participant's beliefs, such as participant's beliefs about participant's own safety, trust,
      and ability to have relationships. In the sessions, participant will explore these areas to
      discover and change the ways participant believes, since the assault has led to feelings of
      distress, fear, anxiety, and depression. Participant will be asked to do activities in
      between sessions each week, which will ask participant to think and write about participant's
      traumatic experiences. The treatment includes 12 sessions, each for one hour. Sessions will
      be held once or twice a week. The current version of CPT will include all the components of
      the regular CPT treatment, but may vary in order of sessions. The regular treatment protocol
      provides sessions in a set order, but the current study will allow participant some choices
      in when participant complete certain activities.
    
  