
    
      This is a Phase 2, randomized, dose-escalation, dose-expansion, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, multi-center study that will evaluate safety, PK, and POC efficacy in
      subjects with acute STEMI undergoing PCI.

      The study will be conducted in two parts. Part 1 is the dose escalation portion of the study.
      A minimum of 24 evaluable subjects will be enrolled into Part 1 to receive either IK-1001 (n
      = 18) or placebo (n = 6). Each subject will receive a continuous infusion of study drug at
      one of three dose escalating levels of 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5 mg/kg/hr infusion for 3 hours. At
      each dose level, 8 subjects will be enrolled (6 will receive IK-1001 and 2 will receive
      placebo). Placebo will consist of commercially available normal saline (NS) [0.9% sodium
      chloride (NaCl)].

      Treatment with study drug (either IK-1001 or placebo) will be initiated only after informed
      consent is obtained and STEMI diagnosis is made based on clinical and ECG findings. ECG
      criteria for STEMI diagnosis include:

        -  Subjects presenting with ≥ 30 minutes of ischemic chest pain but within 12 hours of
           symptom onset

        -  Subjects having persistent ST-segment elevation of ≥ 2 mm in at least 2 contiguous leads
           in ECG

      All subjects who receive study drug and have a successful PCI (defined as subjects in whom
      Grade 3 reperfusion was achieved) will be followed up for safety and efficacy for up to 6
      months post-PCI and study drug infusion. Study samples will be collected from all subjects
      over the first 4 days following PCI for determination of PK parameters of sulfide in blood
      and thiosulfate in plasma. In Part 1, subjects who do not undergo a PCI for any reason will
      have study drug discontinued, will be excluded from the efficacy assessments but will be
      followed up for safety for 7 days, and will be replaced with a new subject.

      Part 2 of the study will be an expansion of the highest safe continuous infusion dose
      evaluated in Part 1. Part 2 aims to further evaluate safety and establish POC efficacy at
      this dosing level. Initially, up to 190 eligible subjects will be randomized to receive
      either IK-1001 or placebo at a 1:1 ratio. Two interim analyses (IAs) will be done after 64
      and 128 subjects complete the MI size evaluation at Day 4 (range 3 to 5 days), respectively.
      If there is a safety concern at any dose level, then enrollment in Part 2 will restart at the
      next lower safe dosing level determined from Part 1. If there is only an adequate or no
      efficacy signal at any dose level, then enrollment in Part 2 may restart at either an
      increased dose level (e.g., 1.75 mg/kg/hr for 3 hours) or at a longer duration of infusion
      (1.5 mg/kg/hr for 6 hours). A decision to stop the trial for safety, efficacy, or futility
      will be assessed at each IA. No more than 446 subjects will be enrolled in Part 2 of the
      study.
    
  