
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in the US.
      Although medical therapy may delay disability and death, there has been no definitive therapy
      to improve pulmonary function in these patients. The resection of emphysematous lung
      parenchyma, lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS), has been reported in uncontrolled studies
      in highly selected emphysema patients to substantially improve parameters of pulmonary
      function, dyspnea, and quality of life. Numerous case series have reported significant
      short-term benefits. Current LVRS data regarding outcomes is limited by study design lacking
      parallel control groups and lack of long term data.

      The main objectives of this proposal are: 1) To study the effects of LVRS in addition to
      maximal medical therapy when compared to maximal medical therapy alone in terms of
      improvement of physiology and quality of life. 2) To better define preoperative selection
      criteria to determine which patients would benefit from this surgical intervention. To
      accomplish these objectives, patients who meet clinical criteria and complete a pulmonary
      rehabilitation-program will be randomized into 2 groups: 1) Continuing optimal medical care
      or 2) bilateral LVRS via median sternotomy in addition to medical therapy.

      The Houston Veterans Affairs Medical Center is currently performing LVRS under a protocol
      supported by Merit Review funding (1996-200O, Effects of lung volume reduction surgery in the
      treatment of severe emphysema) in selected patients with severe emphysema. This controlled
      study is designed to determine patient selection criteria, as well as, both the short and
      long term benefits of operated and non-operated patients with severe emphysema receiving
      maximal medical therapy. Given the strict selection criteria and unexpectedly high survival
      in both treatment groups to date, it is unlikely in a study of this size that survival
      differences will be detected.

      In 1997 the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and Health Care Financing
      Administration organized a national registry and a controlled, multicenter clinical trial to
      compare bilateral LVRS to maximal medical treatment (NETT, National Emphysema Treatment
      Trial).

      Both our on-going LVRS study and the NETT have been hindered by an underestimation of the
      difficulty in recruiting patients who qualify for this invasive study. Both studies have
      evaluated/recruited to date approximately 50% of the projected number of subjects required to
      achieve statistical power to draw significant clinical conclusions. In fact, the NIH is
      investing additional funds in the national "marketing" of the NETT and LVRS. We believe that
      this national marketing effort, as well as changes and enhancement of local recruiting
      strategies will allow us to enroll adequate patients for study completion. This controlled
      clinical trial will provide data to address crucial clinical and potential economic
      implications of this surgical intervention in patients with severe emphysema.
    
  