
    
      For multiple reasons, the SCOT investigators and the sponsor of the SCOT trial, the Division
      of Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation (DAIT) of the National Institute of Allergy and
      Infectious Diseases (NIAID), determined that it is important to track the course of a
      'matched' group of patients, who are not exposed to these treatments but receive currently
      available therapy in the community. First, such a group will provide information to determine
      if the SCOT entry criteria do indeed identify these high-risk individuals. More importantly,
      such a group of patients is likely to be treated with a variety of medical regimens,
      including some immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide or other immunosuppressive
      agents that may modify the natural history of the disease. In evaluating the relative
      efficacy of the two treatment regimens, it will be important to assess whether outcomes in
      the subjects treated under the SCOT protocol have outcome profiles that differ from those
      associated with the matched group of patients treated in the community. One readily available
      group that meets these criteria are those individuals who are otherwise eligible for the SCOT
      trial but fail to be randomized because they either decline to participate or are denied
      insurance coverage to receive the SCOT treatment regimens.

      The duration of this trial is 44 months. Participants will be enrolled over the same period
      as the SCOT trial. Participants will follow the course of treatment prescribed by their
      treating physician with no interference from the registry. All participant contact, including
      obtainment of informed consent and telephone interview regarding outcome measurements will be
      performed by SCOT study personnel at the University of Texas, Houston (one of the SCOT
      transplant centers). Participants will be contacted by phone every 3 months to determine
      vital status, record medical and other therapy, and administer the modified Scleroderma
      Health Assessment Questionnaire (S-HAQ). Medical records will be obtained to verify
      self-reported medical events.
    
  