
    
      CVC related infections are associated with increased morbidity and hospitalization rates,
      high treatment costs, and poor survival compared to use of an arteriovenous access. To
      prevent infection, patients should preserve the integrity and dryness of their CVC dressings.
      Showering should be avoided, as it is difficult to attain full protective coverage of the
      exit site using dressings and barriers. Wet dressings place patients at increased infection
      risk, especially if their CVC exit site is not fully healed. However, in a survey of 274 CVC
      dependent HD patients, 64% indicated that the recommended prohibition to shower was
      moderately to extremely inconvenient and reduced their quality of life. Additionally 77% of
      patients admitted to showering at least once while they had a CVC.

      While submersion of the CVC in water is discouraged by clinical practice guidelines, they
      also state that if precautions can be taken to reduce the likelihood of bacterial CVC entry
      then showering may be acceptable. However, this guidance is opinion based with no evidence to
      support specific precautions. Thus, to address the patients' desire to shower safely, at
      least 2 separate dialysis facilities in Ontario, Canada have developed a showering procedure
      as an alternative method of CVC care. Preliminary data from a small proof-of-concept study of
      65 patients suggests acceptable CRB rates (0.46/1000 CVC days) using such showering
      procedures. The study was conducted in satellite HD units on a select population of patients
      who were infection-free for 6 months using the same CVC. Satellite units offer dialysis in an
      outpatient setting for those patients who are stable and require less intensive care than
      in-centre patients. The satellite HD population is typically younger and healthier, and
      likely more able to perform showering procedures than in-centre patients. With increasing
      patients in satellite HD, it is crucial that a pragmatic, yet effective, prophylactic CVC
      infection strategy be formally tested and established for this setting.

      Following the proof-of-concept study, nephrologists, vascular access coordinators, and HD
      centres from five dialysis centres across Ontario, collaborated to create a formal Shower
      Technique Protocol (STP) which includes chlorhexidine applicators after showering to minimize
      the risk of bacterial entry at the CVC exit site. STP is designed specifically for patients
      with a fully endothelialized CVC tunnel and healed exit site. Participants allocated to STP
      are able to shower and change their dressing up to 3 times per week. Prior to more widespread
      implementation of the STP, it is critical to determine whether it is safe for use in patients
      with healed CVC exit sites. In other words, to confirm that CRB rates in patients using STP
      are not greater than the CRB rates in patients using the gold standard of CVC care. It is
      unknown whether using the STP improves patient satisfaction with their CVC care.
    
  