
    
      Exercise therapy (ET) is effective as the first line of treatment for reducing pain and
      disability in patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA), but studies show its effects diminish
      considerably over time. 'Booster' intervention sessions (periodic face-to-face follow-up
      appointments following discharge from supervised therapy designed to review and progress the
      patient's home program, troubleshoot problems with the program, etc.) have been recommended
      to make beneficial effects endure however this recommendation has not been adequately tested.
      There are also indications that manual therapy (MT), manually applied treatment techniques
      such as joint mobilization/manipulation, manual traction, soft tissue manipulations, and
      passive stretching, when combined with ET, may improve the overall effectiveness of
      rehabilitation for reducing pain and disability, and, may significantly delay or reduce the
      need for total knee arthroplastic surgery and reduce medication intake in people with knee
      OA. However, current published evidence-based treatment guidelines indicate there is not
      enough data to make a definitive recommendation regarding the use of MT with ET in
      rehabilitation programs. Therefore, the overall aim of the project is to examine the clinical
      and cost-effectiveness of utilizing booster sessions in the delivery of ET, and supplementing
      ET with MT techniques.The study will be a multi-center,randomized clinical trial, using a 2 x
      2 factorial design (factor 1 = booster vs no booster, factor 2 = ET alone vs ET + MT). Three
      hundred subjects (100 per study site) with knee OA will be randomized to one of the following
      groups: 1) ET - no booster, 2) ET - with booster, 3) MT + ET - no booster sessions, 4) MT +
      ET - with booster sessions. Clinical outcome measures (WOMAC, knee pain, global rating of
      change and performance-based measures of function) will be taken at baseline (prior to
      randomization), at the completion of the initial therapy sessions (9 weeks) and at 1 year
      follow-up. The primary endpoint for clinical outcome will be the WOMAC at 1 year.For the cost
      effectiveness analysis, the primary cost outcome will be osteoarthritis treatment costs from
      the societal perspective, which will include health system costs for implementing each
      intervention, medical/surgical costs (primary, secondary, and tertiary care costs), and
      personal costs to participants (travel, non-funded medications, time off work, and
      quality-of-life burdens). The primary effectiveness outcome measure will be quality-adjusted
      life-years (QALYs), derived using quality of life utilities from EQ-5D scores. Cost and
      effectiveness values between interventions will be compared via incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratios, yielding incremental costs per QALY gained when a given
      intervention is chosen. Secondary analyses will examine cost-effectiveness from health system
      and from patient perspectives. Cost and effectiveness data will be obtained at 1 year and 2
      year follow-ups. The 2 year follow-up will be the primary endpoint for the cost-effectiveness
      analysis.
    
  