
    
      Background: Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a chronic, persistent and common
      medical problem. The standard of care for GERD includes chronic administration of
      acid-suppressive drugs. However, clinical failure in GERD is increasingly reported.

      Aim: To determine the efficacy of treatment with melatonin as compared to standard dose
      proton pump inhibitor (PPI) as compared to placebo in patients with GERD.

      Study objectives: [1] To compare the degree of GERD symptoms improvement and esophageal acid
      sensitivity before and after treatment. [2] To determine the effect of treatment on the %
      total, upright and supine time pH <4 using 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring. [3] To determine
      the effect of treatment on frequency and duration of lower esophageal sphincter relaxation.
      [4] To compare the quality of life and quality of sleep in GERD patients before and after
      treatment.

      Methods: This is a randomized, double blind, parallel groups study of 150 patients with GERD.
      Patients with classic heartburn symptoms (heartburn and/or regurgitation) and normal upper
      endoscopy from the gastroenterology department at Rabin Medical Center will be enrolled into
      the study. At baseline, all enrolled patients will have 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring and
      a modified acid perfusion test to assess the extent of distal esophageal acid exposure and
      esophageal acid sensitivity, respectively. Patients will be evaluated by a demographics
      questionnaire, the GERD Symptom Questionnaire, the Quality of Sleep questionnaire and the
      SF-36. Baseline urinary excretion of the main melatonin metabolite, 6-sulfatoxymelatonin
      (6SMT) will be assessed in all subjects at baseline. Patients will be randomized to either
      melatonin or standard dose PPI or placebo over a period of 4 weeks. In addition patients will
      fill a diary on a daily basis that documents severity and frequency of GERD-related symptoms.
      Symptom score (frequency x severity) will be calculated for previous 7 days at baseline and
      at the end of treatment in all groups. After 4 weeks of treatment, patients will undergo a
      second 24-hour esophageal pH monitoring, a modified acid perfusion test and will complete the
      GERD Symptom Questionnaire, the Quality of Sleep Questionnaire and the SF-36.

      Implications: This study will determine if melatonin decreases GERD symptoms, acid esophageal
      exposure and improves quality of life and sleep in patients with GERD. Furthermore, if there
      will be a significant clinical response to melatonin it will be possible to add this compound
      to the treatment armamentum of GERD.
    
  