
    
      About 1 million new cases of gastric cancer were estimated to have occurred in 2008 (988,000
      cases, 7.8% of the total), making it currently the fourth most common malignancy in the
      world, behind cancers of the lung, breast, and colo-rectum. Gastric cancer is also the second
      leading cause of cancer-related death in both sexes worldwide with 700,000 deaths occurring
      annually. The incidence and mortality rates for gastric cancer vary widely in different
      regions of the world. The incidence has dramatically declined in the United States where it
      ranks seventh as a cause of cancer- related deaths. In the Asia-Pacific region, the highest
      incidences of gastric cancer can be found in China, Japan, and Korea, where the age
      standardized incidence rate (ASR) is greater than 20 per 100,000 populations. Intermediate
      risk countries (ASR 11-19/100,000 population) include Malaysia, Singapore, and Taiwan, while
      low-risk countries (ASR < 10/100,000 population) include Australia, New Zealand, India, and
      Thailand.

      Approximately 95% of all malignant gastric neoplasms are adenocarcinomas. One of the most
      striking epidemiologic observations has been the increasing incidence of adenocarcinomas
      involving the proximal stomach and distal oesophagus including the oesophagogastric junction.
      These tumours are thought to have different etiologic factors; gastric body and antral
      lesions are associated with low acid production and Helicobacter pylori infection, whereas
      cardiac lesions are not associated with either.

      The treatment for advanced and un-resectable disease has remained essentially unchanged for
      the past 2 decades, with platinum and fluoro-pyridine-based combination chemotherapy being
      the mainstay of therapy. The molecular biology responsible for carcinogenesis, tumour
      biology, and response to therapy in gastric cancer are active areas of investigation.
      Amplification and/or over-expression of epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER 2) have been
      found to promote tumourigenesis and to be involved in the pathogenesis of gastric cancer.
      Recently, data from randomised studies of trastuzumab (Herceptin®) in patients with HER 2
      amplification demonstrated significant improvement in outcome in comparison to chemotherapy
      alone. Studies on a number other molecularly targeted agents used alone or in combination
      with chemotherapy have been undertaken, or are ongoing. Translational research, undertaken as
      part of these studies, demonstrates the great molecular heterogeneity of the disease, with
      multiple growth factor and survival pathways being implicated.

      In view of this, successful therapeutic intervention is likely to require both the
      identification of molecularly defined subsets of disease, and the evaluation of
      rationally-selected combinations of targeted agents.
    
  