
    
      The most recent population-based studies carried out in Europe and the US on hundreds of
      thousands of individuals have unequivocally identified three principal causes of mortality,
      morbidity and chronic disability: tobacco smoke, inadequate diet, and reduced physical
      activity. These risk factors are in large part reversible, because in heavy smokers, even
      after 60 years of age, cessation is associated with a clear reduction in all-cause mortality.
      The finding that lifestyle and eating habits are associated with the development of cancer
      has been confirmed in many studies: smoking, a sedentary lifestyle, excess red meat,
      processed foods and sugars are associated with increased risk, while an active lifestyle,
      non-exposure to smoke (both active and passive), consumption of whole grains, legumes and
      vegetables are associated with protection or a reduced incidence in at-risk subjects.

      What is clear, and confirmed by many studies, is that cancer occurs more often in overweight
      individuals, and that cancer patients who are overweight have more difficulty treating their
      disease. Elevated plasma levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), even when still within normal
      limits, are the reflection of a chronic state of inflammation and are associated with poor
      prognosis in several tobacco-related diseases. CRP measurement is besides a simple test to
      predict the risk of heart attack and stroke as well as mortality from all causes and from
      cardiovascular disease. In a systematic review on adult solid tumors, elevated CRP levels
      were associated with higher mortality and recurrence rates, and this observation was
      confirmed in early-stage lung cancer by a recent meta-analysis. In patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), high CRP is a strong and independent predictor of
      future morbidity and mortality, and an increase in CRP concurrent with a reduction of the
      forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) shows an even stronger effect on patient's
      outcome.

      High levels of CRP are associated with poor prognosis in cancers of the upper aerodigestive
      tract, rhinopharynx, lung and urinary tract. From a dietary point of view, consumption of
      saturated fats has been directly associated with an increase in inflammatory status as
      measured by high levels of CRP, just like consumption of meat, while an inverse correlation
      with consumption of vegetables has been observed. For example, low levels of inflammatory
      factors have been found in individuals adhering to a Mediterranean diet. Another recurrent
      finding, at least for cancer, is the importance of daily physical activity, such as brisk
      walking for 30 minutes. Moreover, regular physical activity is associated with better
      prognosis and increased survival in patients with a cancer diagnosis.

      The number of heavy smokers that will participate in early-diagnosis programs using spiral CT
      will undoubtedly increase in the future as a result of awareness campaigns, and the
      participating volunteers represent an excellent opportunity to evaluate the efficacy of
      targeted primary prevention programs.

      The present program will combine several interventions according to the randomization arm,
      proposed in combination or in single treatment, including treatment with cytisine, reduction
      of chronic inflammation by treatment with low-dose aspirin (ASA), targeted modification of
      diet and physical activity, in addition to early diagnosis with annual ultra low-dose spiral
      computed tomography (LDCT).

      At baseline each volunteer will undergo:

        -  questionnaires on population evaluation (e.g. socio-demographic, smoking habits,
           physical activity, etc)

        -  blood sampling for the assessment of the inflammatory and metabolic profile

        -  evaluation of respiratory function and measurement of carbon monoxide (CO)

        -  thorax ultra low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) without contrast

        -  anthropometric evaluation (e.g. weight, height, BMI, etc)

      To reduce levels of chronic inflammation will be used:

        -  treatment with low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA)

        -  dietary / nutritional intervention in order to promote an optimal diet, based on
           characteristic of the Mediterranean Diet, for weight maintenance, visceral fat control
           and an adequate nutritional status

        -  physical activity intervention, through the reduction of sedentary behaviour and the
           implementation of a moderate intensity activity of about 30 min a day

      In the Smoking cessation will be used Cytisine. It is a molecule known since the early 60s
      for the treatment of smoking. In recent clinical trials it revealed efficacy in smoking
      cessation. In 2014, the NHS (National Health Service) produced a document evaluating the
      cost-effectiveness of drug treatment of smoking, concluding that cytisine has the most
      favorable profile among the drugs taken into consideration

      The imaging will be performed by volumetric acquisition with a computed tomography scanner
      equipped with advanced technology hardware and software, including: high performance X-ray
      tube with low potential, high sensitivity detectors combined with dedicated reconstruction
      algorithms for optimisation of the signal to noise ratio within an ultra low radiation dose.
      The protocol for ultra-low dose computed tomography will be specifically set for lung cancer
      screening with semiautomated image analysis and nodule quantification, according to the
      international standard for image quality (Quantitative Imaging Biomarker Alliance). In
      particular, the ultra-low dose computed tomography protocol will be developed for the lowest
      radiation exposure and tested by dedicated phantom for quantitative analysis of imaging
      metrics.

      In the control group subjects will receive an information booklet containing advice on an
      optimal lifestyle with particular reference to smoking, diet and physical activity according
      to the best international guidelines.
    
  