
    
      Although cancer is very common in older patients, the optimal treatment for cancer for this
      subset of patients is not well established. As a result of lack of knowledge on the safety
      and efficacy of chemotherapy in older adults, a significant proportion of older patients
      receiving chemotherapy have toxicity. There is also little information regarding how to best
      make decisions for and implement interventions to improve outcomes of older patients with
      cancer who are to receive treatment. Additionally, there is marked heterogeneity in the
      geriatric population, and patients of similar chronologic age may have wide disparity in
      their overall health status. Geriatricians utilize a tool called the Geriatric Assessment
      (GA) to gauge an older patient's overall health status and identify potential areas of
      deficits. The GA is a comprehensive tool, incorporating the assessment of physical function,
      co-morbid conditions, social support, nutritional, psychological, and cognitive status and
      medication review. A small number of studies in the oncology literature have demonstrated the
      value of GA in guiding cancer-directed treatment plans for older patients. GA can identify
      potential areas of deficits in an older patient's overall health status that have been shown
      to predict chemotherapy toxicity and guide interventions to improve outcomes for older
      patients. Studies of interventions in community-dwelling older adults have demonstrated
      efficacy at improving deficits identified on GA. However, in older patients with cancer,
      there is currently limited data regarding how GA can affect decision-making for treatment and
      impact overall clinical care.

      In a two-arm, randomized pilot study, we will evaluate the effect of GA and GA-driven
      interventions on the outcomes of older cancer patients receiving first-line or second-line
      chemotherapy.
    
  