
    
      Autism and Asperger's disorder are life-long neurodevelopmental disorders that involve
      significant social, communicative, and behavioural abnormalities. Social impairments are
      arguably the most debilitating aspect of these disorders, and persist into adulthood,
      creating difficulties in various domains including employment, education, and interpersonal
      relationships. This impairment is also frequently associated with additional mental health
      concerns, including depression and anxiety, with the former affecting as many as 40% of
      individuals with autism (Stewart, Barnard, Pearson, Hasan, & O'Brien, 2006). It has been
      suggested that the core deficit underlying social dysfunction in autism and Asperger's
      disorder is impairment in "theory of mind" (ToM) (Baron- Cohen et al., 2005).

      An important aspect of social cognition, ToM refers to the ability to use environmental cues
      to infer others' mental states. It includes the recognition that other individuals experience
      thoughts, feelings, intentions, and desires that may be different to our own. ToM is crucial
      to social functioning, allowing us to predict others behaviour and gain an appreciation of
      their perspective, thereby facilitating effective social interactions.

      ToM has been assessed using an array of behavioural tasks. Such tasks typically illustrate a
      social scenario, and the aim of the task is to identify various aspects of a character's
      mental state. Increasingly, researchers distinguish between cognitive ToM, which encompasses
      inferences of another individual's beliefs, knowledge or memory, and affective ToM, which is
      concerned with predicting others' emotional states (Shamay-Tsoory & Aharon-Peretz, 2007).

      Cognitive ToM measures include false-belief tasks, successful completion of which requires an
      understanding that another individual can hold a mistaken belief (first-order false-belief),
      and that are therefore different to their own belief, or that another individual can hold a
      mistaken belief about the mental state of a third person (second-order false-belief;
      Harrington, Siegert, & McClure, 2005). Another cognitive ToM task involves inferring
      intention from a series of short animations that demonstrate interactions between non-human
      objects (e.g., geometric shapes; Castelli, Frith, Happe, & Frith, 2002).

      By contrast, affective ToM measures include the "eyes task" (Baron- Cohen, Wheelwright, Hill,
      Raste, & Plumb, 2001), which requires the inference of another individual's emotional
      experience through the presentation of their eyes only. The eyes task is considered a ToM
      measure in that it involves the inference of another individual's mental state from
      environmental stimuli, but unlike false-belief tasks there is a central affective component.

      An additional ToM test that is thought to involve both cognitive and affective aspects of ToM
      is the faux pas test (Stone, Baron- Cohen, & Knight, 1998), which assesses the ability to
      recognize a faux pas within the context of a series of vignettes describing social
      interaction. This ability requires an understanding of the mental state of two people: the
      individual who unwittingly committed the faux pas (cognitive ToM), and the individual who
      might be offended or insulted by the faux pas (affective ToM). Thus, ToM tasks are all
      concerned with the inference of others mental states, but whereas cognitive ToM tasks require
      inferences concerning others beliefs, affective ToM tasks require inferences concerning
      others emotions.

      The brain basis of ToM is increasingly well established; recent fMRI studies utilizing
      cognitive ToM tasks indicate widespread frontotemporal activity. This includes the temporal
      poles bilaterally and the right superior temporal sulcus (STS), which seem to reflect the
      role of memory and visual perception respectively (Gallagher & Frith, 2003; Schultz & Robins,
      2005). It is the activation within the bilateral medial prefrontal cortex, however, that is
      thought to reflect a unique contribution to ToM. Gallagher and Frith (Gallagher & Frith,
      2003) suggest that a distinct area within the medial prefrontal cortex, the bilateral
      anterior paracingulate cortex (x = 8, y = 54, z = 1), is the crucial region for ToM ability.
      While the medial prefrontal cortex is strongly implicated in cognitive ToM, neural networks
      recruited during affective ToM are somewhat different (despite substantial overlap), and
      involve the amygdala, orbitofrontal cortex, and ventromedial frontal lobes in addition to
      temporal regions. A recent lesion study of ToM supports this neuroanatomical dissociation
      between cognitive and affective ToM (Shamay-Tsoory & Aharon-Peretz, 2007).

      There is substantial evidence for impaired ToM in autism and Asperger's disorder. Individuals
      with these disorders consistently demonstrate delayed or impaired performance on both
      cognitive and affective ToM tasks (Baron-Cohen, Jolliffe, Mortimore, & Roberstson, 1997;
      Baron-Cohen, Leslie, & Frith, 1985; Kaland, Smith, & Mortensen, 2007; Rogers, Dziobek,
      Hassenstab, Wolf, & Convit, 2007). Indeed, it has been suggested that ToM impairment is the
      core deficit of autism, and that it underlies the characteristic social and communicative
      symptoms (Baron-Cohen et al., 1985; Tager-Flusberg, 2001). Imaging studies among individuals
      with autism demonstrate reduced activity with the medial prefrontal cortex, particularly
      during cognitive ToM tasks (e.g., Castelli et al., 2002).

      Justification for project

      Social dysfunction, including impaired ToM, is arguably the most debilitating aspect of
      autism and associated disorders. There are currently few treatment options for targeting
      these social deficits in autism and Asperger's disorder. An increasing prevalence of autism
      spectrum disorders (Chakrabarti & Fombonne, 2005) ensures that the next decade will see an
      unprecedented number of adult cases; it is therefore imperative that we now develop effective
      therapeutic techniques to reduce the impact of core autistic symptoms. Functional imaging
      data reviewed above suggests that the bilateral medial prefrontal cortex is a promising site
      for neurobiological intervention in these groups to improve ToM (particularly cognitive ToM)
      and broader social functioning.

      We suggest that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) may be an effective
      therapeutic technique to enhance medial prefrontal cortex activity and improve ToM in
      individuals with autism, with anticipated benefits to social aspects of this disorder. rTMS
      is a safe and non-invasive technique that involves the repeated administration of localized
      magnetic pulses to a distinct cortical region. When applied at high-frequencies, rTMS
      enhances cortical activity at the site of stimulation. This is particularly useful in a
      clinical setting, where rTMS is administered to a cortical region that functional imaging
      suggests is underactive in a particular psychiatric disorder (e.g., left dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex [DLPFC] in depression), an approach that is effective in alleviating core
      symptoms of the disorder. Conversely, low-frequency rTMS decreases cortical activity at the
      site of stimulation.

      Hypothesis/research questions

      It is hypothesized that two weeks of high-frequency rTMS to the medial prefrontal cortex,
      which is expected to increase cortical activity within this region, will significantly
      improve ToM performance (particularly cognitive ToM) among individuals with autism or
      Asperger's disorder. Improvements in social function are expected to be seen one month after
      the last treatment session.

      Methodology including project design and sequence of procedures

      This project will involve the administration of rTMS via a "deep TMS'" H-system coil
      (Brainsway Inc., Jerusalem, Israel). This is administered by a modified TMS coil, but uses
      our existing stimulator equipment (Magstim), which has been used in our previous rTMS
      studies. This H-system coil will allow deeper penetration of the TMS pulse, which will ensure
      that we accurately stimulate the part of the medial prefrontal cortex that is most relevant
      to ToM. Safety and efficacy studies of deep TMS indicate equivalence with the conventional
      TMS (figure-of-eight) coil (Levkovitz et al., in press; Zangen, Roth, Voller, & Hallett,
      2005).

      This study is an rTMS trial to improve ToM and social function among adults with autism or
      Asperger's disorder. Adults diagnosed with either autism or Asperger's disorder will be
      randomized (via a computer generated number sequence) to either active rTMS or a sham
      condition, under strict double-blind conditions. Based on prior imaging data, rTMS will be
      administered to the bilateral medial prefrontal cortex. This study will involve deep TMS via
      the use of the H-system coil.

      Prior to the rTMS sessions participants will undergo high-resolution (3T) structural and
      functional MRI. The fMRI component will again include cognitive and affective ToM measures.
      Using reliable neuronavigational methods, each individual's brain scan will be used to
      determine the site on the scalp that lies above the cortical region of interest (bilateral
      medial prefrontal cortex), and which will therefore be targeted for rTMS.

      Prior to the first rTMS session, the participant will complete a battery of neurobehavioural
      tests that assess theory of mind (e.g., false-belief task, eyes test, faux pas test). In
      order to gauge whether there is any impact on the broader realm of social functioning in
      autism, participants will also be administered the "Autism Spectrum Quotient" (AQ;
      Baron-Cohen, Wheelwright, Skinner, Martin, & Clubley, 2001), a fifty item self-report
      measure.

      At the beginning of the first rTMS session, we will determine resting motor threshold (RMT)
      by administering TMS to the left motor cortex, and recording (via EMG) the response from the
      right thumb muscle. RMT is again defined as the lowest intensity at which 3 out of 5
      consecutive TMS pulses results in an EMG response greater than 50 µV.

      Using the deep TMS coil, participants will receive 15 minutes of either active or sham rTMS
      (5 Hz) each consecutive weekday for a two-week period. During each session, there will be 10
      seconds of 5Hz rTMS, followed by a 20 second rest. Thus, for each session there will be 30
      10s trains of 5Hz rTMS administered.

      After the final rTMS treatment, the three ToM measures and the AQ will be readministered.
      These measures will then be administered one-month after the final rTMS treatment. The
      researcher administering these measures will be blind to the participant's treatment (i.e.,
      active or shame).

      After the completion of the one-month follow-up, participants will be unblinded to their
      study condition. Those who were allocated to the sham condition will be given the opportunity
      to complete two weeks of active rTMS treatment.

      Statistical analyses and sample size calculations

      As the effect of rTMS on ToM has not been investigated, it is somewhat difficult to conduct a
      power analysis. However, based on the sample size of previous rTMS studies that involves
      modulation of a cognitive ability (e.g., Giovannelli et al., 2006; Kwan et al., 2007; Tunik,
      Frey, & Grafton, 2005) or treatment for psychiatric disorders (e.g., Fitzgerald et al., 2006;
      Horacek et al., 2007), we are confident that our sample size will be sufficient to detect a
      significant result.

      ANOVA will be used to investigate the effect of rTMS to the medial prefrontal cortex on ToM.

      Outcome variables will not only include ToM measures, but also an autism-relevant rating
      scale to determine social functioning and associated aspects. Thus, we will conduct repeated
      measures ANOVA for each measure (pre, post, and one-month post rTMS), with group (active vs.
      sham) included as the between-subjects variable.
    
  