
    
      Liver transplantation (LT) is the best curative treatment of hepatocellular cancer (HCC)
      developed in an underlying liver disease. LT is considered as an oncologic successful
      procedure when a long-term post-transplant tumour-free survival is obtained. Conversely, a
      failure is equal to pre-transplant drop-out, post-transplant tumour recurrence or death. Due
      to the allograft scarcity, a HCC patient waiting for a LT is most often treated using
      neo-adjuvant loco-regional therapies (LRT) in order to minimise the risk of drop-out. When
      the tumour burden meets the Milan Criteria (MC) at moment of diagnosis, such an approach is
      called "bridging towards LT".

      Two recent international guidelines underlined the importance of the bridging strategy, due
      to its potential to reduce the risk of pre-LT drop-out and post-LT recurrence. This is
      especially valid in the case in which a partial/complete tumour response is achieved before
      LT. Unfortunately, the quality of the evidence obtained from the currently available
      literature is low due to the lack of randomized controlled trials (RCT). Actually, it is
      inconceivable to realize RCT in this setting because of logistical and, even more, ethical
      reasons. Consequently, the majority of reported studies just compare post-LT outcome of
      treated and untreated patients, failing thereby to analyse the clinical course from an
      intention-to-treat (ITT) point of view.

      Even when looking at studies including the waiting list period, one should keep in mind that
      substantial differences may exist among initially bridged vs untreated HCC patients regarding
      tumour burden. In order to overcome these limits, a retrospective analysis of a large
      European population of MC-IN HCC patients listed for LT was done. After "balancing" this
      cohort with an inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW), we investigated the risk
      factors for tumour-specific LT failure, especially focusing at the role of LRT.
    
  