
    
      Major depression is a recurrent and debilitating mental disorder with a lifetime prevalence
      of up to 20% in the general population, among the highest for psychiatric disorders. Its
      diagnosis is based upon the presence of persisting affective, cognitive and behavioural
      symptoms, with a depressive episode requiring at least five of these symptoms during a period
      of at least two weeks. When considering the biological mechanisms that underpin depression,
      the most conclusive findings include deficits in the serotonergic (5-HT) neurotransmission,
      alterations in the expression of BDNF, deficient immune activation and neuroinflammation, and
      dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Thus, understanding the
      pathophysiological mechanisms of MDD has widespread implications for the development of novel
      treatment and prevention strategies. However, despite advancements in the development of
      novel therapeutics, current treatment options have not reached optimal efficacy. Treatment
      resistant depression occurs in up to 40% of patients and standard antidepressant medication
      has a variety of undesirable side effects such as sedation, decrease of blood pressure,
      increase of weight, indigestion or sexual dysfunction. This often results in patients' poor
      compliance resulting in a break-up of medication with recurrence of depressive symptoms and
      increased suicidal risk. As there is an unmet need to develop safer and more effective
      treatments in depression, a major topic of future psychiatric care is to focus on different
      possible physiologically relevant mechanisms in order to establish alternative, causative and
      easy available treatment strategies.

      In the past few years, it has become increasingly evident that resident gut bacteria are an
      important contributor to healthy metabolism and there is significant evidence linking altered
      composition of the gut microbiota and metabolic disorders such as obesity and depression.
      Preclinical work in animals have reported associations between alterations of the gut
      microbiome (the community of microorganism that live in the human gut) and anxiety-like
      behaviour, depressive-like symptoms and stress responsiveness. In line with these preclinical
      findings, a recent study found an altered composition of faecal microbiota in patients with
      MDD. Most notably, the MDD group had increased levels of Enterobacteriaceae and Alistipes but
      reduced levels of Faecalibacterium, which was negatively correlated with the severity of
      depressive symptoms.

      Accumulating evidence suggest that there exits a bi-directional communication system between
      the gastrointestinal tract and the brain. Changes in gut microbiota can influence cognitive
      and emotional stress processes through interactions with the brain and altered emotional
      states and dysfunction of the gut microbiome-brain axis has been implicated in stress-related
      disorders such as depression. Brain-gut interactions could occur in various ways: 1)
      microbial compounds communicate via the vagus nerve, which connects the brain and the
      digestive tract, and 2) microbially derived metabolites interact with the immune system,
      which maintains its own communication with the brain. Although the pathways linking gut
      bacteria with the brain are incompletely understood, one of the principal mechanisms proposed
      to underlie stress-induced alterations is the "leaky gut" phenomenon. Specifically, increased
      translocation of bacterial products, due to a compromised gut barrier has been linked to
      activation of the immune system and HPA axis. In line with these findings, human studies have
      demonstrated a stress-induced increase in bacterial translocation in depression. The
      stress-induced interactions between the gut microbiome and the brain are further mediated via
      central processes such as neurotransmission and neurogenesis. For instance, there is
      substantial evidence to demonstrate a role for the gut commensals in the regulation and
      development of the 5-HT system and the expression of BDNF. Virtually all corticolimbic brain
      structures that are involved in mood regulation and stress response express 5-HT receptors.
      These include the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus and nucleus accumbens. A recent
      meta-analyses of fMRI studies support hyperactivation of several of these regions in response
      to fearful faces in MDD, which extent correlated positively with the severity of depressive
      symptoms. Furthermore, during resting state fMRI, MDD patients showed lower connectivity
      between the amydgala, hippocampus, parahippocampus, and brainstem, while the connectivity
      strength was inversely correlated with general depression. The hippocampus, and its
      connection to other limbic, striatal and PFC regions, seems to play a key role in stress
      regulation, given that hippocampal neurogenesis mediates antidepressant effects via the
      ventral hippocampus' influence on the HPA axis, and mechanisms by which antidepressants may
      reverse chronic stress-induced 5-HT and neurogenic changes. Notably, BDNF may contribute to
      the modulation of neurogenesis in response to both stress and antidepressants, as hippocampal
      BDNF levels decrease in response to chronic stress and increase in response to antidepressant
      treatments.

      Besides being a fundamental player in eating processes and in hypothalamic regulation of
      energy balance, the appetite-regulating hormones leptin and ghrelin had been implicated in
      the etiology of mood disorders. Importantly, particular species of bacteria in the gut are
      know to affect the levels of leptin and ghrelin. In humans, the onset of depression was
      associated with a combination of high leptin levels coupled with high visceral fat, and the
      link between leptin levels and severity of depressive symptoms was mediated by adiposity. It
      was suggested that leptin might influence depression by acting on leptin receptors present on
      5-HT neurons within the raphe nuclei and dopamine neurons in the midbrain and, thus, might
      influence reward processes. Consistent with this supposition, when leptin receptors in the
      rat hippocampus were genetically deleted, a stressor-induced depressive profile was apparent,
      and deletion of leptin receptors on midbrain dopamine neurons in mice elicited elevated
      anxiety. Thus, identifying the key brain regions that mediate leptin's antidepressant
      activity and dissecting its intracellular signal transduction pathways may provide new
      insights into the pathogenesis of depression and facilitate the development of novel
      therapeutic strategies for the treatment of this illness.

      The gut peptide ghrelin also plays a fundamental role in eating and energy regulation and
      there have been indications that ghrelin functioning might contribute to depressive illness.
      Like leptin, ghrelin receptors have been reported in the midbrain and the dorsal raphe
      nucleus and have been associated with reward processes, as well as stressor-induced
      depressive-like symptoms, such as anhedonia. In line with a role for ghrelin in
      stressor-elicited depression, negative events promote an increase of circulating ghrelin
      levels and in emotionally reactive individuals the normalization of ghrelin levels after
      stress may be attenuated. Moreover, ghrelin was elevated among depressed patients and
      declined following pharmacotherapy and among patients who did not respond to treatment,
      ghrelin levels were higher than among patients who responded positively.

      Compelling preclinical data demonstrated the beneficial effect of probiotics in normalizing
      HPA axis functioning, BDNF levels and 5-HT neurotransmission. In particular, certain
      probiotics such as lactobacilli and bifidobacteria can reverse psychological stress-induced
      HPA axis activation and possess antidepressant or anxiolytic activity in rats. A seminal work
      in experimental animals showed that altered stress responsiveness has been partially reversed
      by colonization of the gut. Importantly, a recent and innovative study showed that short-term
      consumption of mostly animal or mostly plant diet rapidly and reproducibly altered the human
      gut microbiome, suggesting that the development of dietary interventions may provide a novel
      promising adjuvant therapy in addition to pharmacological antidepressant treatments in MDD.
      Indeed, recent reports of trials administrating a combination of probiotics to healthy
      subjects demonstrated improvements in depression or anxiety outcome measures. Moreover,
      urinary free cortisol levels were significantly reduced by the probiotics, providing a
      potential mechanism for the improvement in psychological symptoms observed. Consistent with
      this finding, other studies in healthy subjects found that the consumption of a
      probiotic-containing yogurt improved mood and that a multispecies probiotic (different
      strains of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria) reduced rumination and aggressive thoughts.
      Moreover, a pioneer study in healthy subjects revealed by using fMRI that consumption of
      probiotic bacteria (including strains of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria) in fermented milk
      for 4 weeks modulated brain activation in corticolimbic regions while viewing frightened and
      angry facial expressions. Most important, a very recent study demonstrated that
      administration of probiotics, a mixture of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria, ameliorated
      depressive symptoms in unmedicated patients with mild to moderate depression. These studies
      together suggest that restoring disturbed gut microbiome-brain interactions via probiotic
      bacteria might be a desirable treatment strategy for depression, especially as most of the
      clinically depressed patients additionally suffer from obesity, weight loss or gain, appetite
      disturbances and constipation.

      This project is aimed at investigating for the first time if probiotic supplementation
      improves the effect of antidepressants on depressive symptoms (i.e. better and faster
      remission) in patients with severe MDD. Furthermore, this study will also test if probiotic
      supplementation modulates immune signalling and inflammatory processes, HPA axis responses,
      neurogenesis, the release of appetite-regulating hormones, the composition of gut microbiota
      and brain perfusion, structure and activation and if these changes are associated with the
      probiotic-induced effect on depressive symptoms.
    
  