
    
      The development of neutralizing anti-factor VIII (fVIII) antibodies, fVIII inhibitor, is the
      most significant complication affecting patients with hemophilia A (HA). Once an inhibitor
      develops, treatment is less effective and costly. Although inhibitors occur most commonly in
      those with severe HA, 25% of new inhibitors occur in those with non-severe HA. In patients
      with non-severe HA, the development of a fVIII inhibitor can change the course of disease
      from one that is easily managed to one with the potential for spontaneous life-threatening
      difficult to treat bleeding. Although significant advances have been made in understanding
      risk factors for fVIII inhibitor development in patients with severe HA, studies that seek to
      understand the risk for fVIII inhibitor development in those with non-severe disease have
      been limited to retrospective analyses. In these retrospective analyses, intensive fVIII
      treatment and surgery have been identified as risk factors for fVIII inhibitor development in
      non-severe HA. Additionally, receiving fVIII by continuous infusion has been associated with
      fVIII inhibitor development in non-severe HA in some but not all studies and may be due in
      part to a more robust proinflammatory response during continuous infusion. Accordingly, the
      next logical step to evaluate the risk of inhibitor development associated with continuous
      fVIII infusion is a prospective observational cohort study. Additionally, knowledge of the
      immune response to fVIII in the surgical setting is essential for identification of patients
      at high risk for inhibitor development and development of strategies to prevent inhibitor
      development and is best evaluated in the setting of an prospective cohort study.

      This multicenter prospective observational cohort study will enroll a total of 140 subjects
      at 10 centers who have mild or moderate hemophilia a (fVIII activity 1-40%) who are scheduled
      to undergo surgery for which at least 5 consecutive days of fVIII replacement therapy is
      required. The study will gather clinical data and collect blood specimens on 4 occasions over
      a 3 month period. Outcomes include: inhibitor development, total fVIII usage, bleeding, and
      markers of T cell activation.
    
  