
    
      When women are in labour, they firstly undergo the first stage of labour where the cervix
      (neck of the womb) progresses to full dilatation. Once this occurs, they have reached the
      second stage, where the mother can start pushing to deliver the baby. It is accepted practice
      to allow mothers to actively push for a maximum of one hour.

      In most cases, the baby will deliver spontaneously. However, in about 30% of cases of those
      who manage to labour to the second stage (fully dilated cervix), the obstetrician will have
      to assist delivery by the use of forceps or vacuum extraction (instrumental delivery). There
      are two main situations where delivery needs assistance; 'fetal distress' where the baby is
      suspected to be compromised, or failure to progress where the baby has not delivered after
      one hour of pushing. Unfortunately, instrumental delivery is associated with increased
      maternal and fetal problems, particularly arising from trauma to the tissues. Therefore, the
      identification of any new ways to increase the spontaneous delivery rate may decrease future
      complications.

      Shoulder dystocia is a rare but dangerous scenario where the baby's head is delivered, but
      the shoulders are trapped behind the pubic bones. The McRoberts' position is used in this
      situation to deliver the baby. The mother's legs are flexed, and pushed up and out, lateral
      to her abdomen. It is believed that this helps by flattening out the sacral bone (tail bone),
      thereby widening the bony opening and allowing the shoulders to become free.

      A recent paper (1) reported the novel finding that McRoberts' position also doubled the
      pressure generated by contractions compared to normal pushing. The authors believed that this
      increase in pressure was caused by the fact that the uterus was brought closer to the
      diaphragm that provides the power generated with pushing.

      Our group wondered whether this substantial increase in pressure could be harnessed beyond
      the rare setting of shoulder dystocia. We therefore propose to conduct a
      randomised-controlled study to investigate whether adopting McRoberts' position, after 45
      minutes of active pushing with no signs of progress, can increase the probability of vaginal
      delivery, preventing the need for forceps or vacuum assistance. Studies have shown that after
      one hour of active pushing, the fetus shows signs of increasing distress. In our study we
      will allow 45 minutes of pushing before a further 45 minutes of either the same, or our
      intervention (McRoberts' manoeuvre).

      Women in their first pregnancy will be approached at 36 weeks in the antenatal clinic and
      advised of our study in the form of written information. The majority of women will not be
      approached again since they will not be relevant to this study, most having already
      delivered. However, women who have been pushing for 45 minutes will be invited to participate
      in the study.

      The second stage of labour is a demanding process where it may not be practicable to obtain
      written consent. Therefore, having given information about the trial at their 36 week
      antenatal visit, we will enrol women after obtaining informed verbal consent. They will be
      specifically asked whether they have read and understood the prior information given to them
      at clinic.

      Those consenting will be randomised to either continue in their current position or be placed
      in McRoberts' position. The woman will be allowed to push for a further 45 minutes. After
      this time, women in both groups who have not yet delivered will be aided by instrumental
      delivery, if deemed necessary. A few days after delivery, we will provide women with a
      questionnaire to determine patient satisfaction and how well they tolerated the procedure
      they ended up having (i.e. Operative delivery or McRoberts position).

      We hope to find a significant reduction in the number of instrumental deliveries in the group
      of women placed in McRoberts' position as compared with the other group. A positive finding
      may be immediately, and widely applicable.

      References:

        1. Catalin, SB et al, "Use of McRoberts' position during delivery and increase in pushing
           efficiency", The Lancet (2001); 358: 470-471

        2. Nordstrom L et al, "Fetal and maternal lactate increase during active second stage of
           labour", British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, (2001); 108;263-268.
    
  