
    
      A phase II trial in human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer
      (as determined by p16 immunohistochemistry with confirmatory ISH or PCR) to determine
      radiologic response to induction chemotherapy with nivolumab. Patients will undergo
      evaluation by a multidisciplinary team prior to risk assessment. The patients will be
      assigned to high or low risk groups based on tumor size, lymph node involvement, and smoking
      history. Patients will be assigned to treatment with induction chemotherapy with carboplatin,
      nab-paclitaxel, and nivolumab. Radiologic response to induction chemotherapy according to
      RECIST measurement of tumor shrinkage will then be used for therapeutic stratification of
      locoregional therapy, consisting of either transoral robotic surgery (TORS) or radiation with
      or without chemotherapy. Patients with low risk disease (see table above) and small volume
      tonsillar/BOT disease (T1-2 primary, non-bulky N2A-N2B nodal status) who have ≥50% reduction
      by RECIST following induction chemotherapy will undergo TORS for primary site resection and
      selective nodal dissection as a definitive treatment if technically feasible with adjuvant
      radiation for adverse pathologic features. Patients with other low risk tumors e.g. with
      higher volume disease, or who refuse surgery, who also have ≥50% reduction by RECIST
      following induction chemotherapy will be given de-intensified treatment with radiation alone
      to 50 Gy (no chemotherapy). Patients with low risk features and <50% but ≥30% reduction OR
      high risk features (T4, bulky N2B or N2C-N3, >10 pack-years tobacco use) with ≥50% reduction
      will receive de-intensified chemoradiation with concurrent cisplatin-RT to 50 Gy (5 weeks) or
      TFHX to 45 Gy (3 cycles/6 weeks). Patients with low risk features and <30% reduction OR high
      risk disease with <50% reduction or any patients with progressive disease during induction
      chemotherapy will undergo chemoradiotherapy with concurrent cisplatin-RT to 70 Gy (7 weeks)
      or TFHX to 75 Gy (5 cycles/10 weeks). Patients with both high and low risk features who have
      ≥50% reduction will receive locoregional therapy targeting the pre-chemotherapy extent of
      disease only. Adjuvant nivolumab will be offered to all patients for 6-months post completion
      of definitive therapy (7 doses given as a flat dose of 480mg, every four weeks).
    
  