
    
      This is a two-arm pilot cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving 240 participants
      with uncontrolled hypertension (HTN) with the healthcare setting as the unit of randomization
      and patients as the unit of analysis. Each of the four healthcare settings will be recruited
      and randomly assigned to the multilevel intervention or control group. A statistician will
      generate the randomization using a computer-generated random sequence program with an
      allocation ratio of 1:1 and a block size of 6 (to assure equal numbers in each arm). After
      having met study criteria for enrollment, 60 eligible patients for each setting will be
      assigned to either control or intervention arm according to the patients' healthcare
      setting's intervention assignment by the study coordinator. A cluster RCT has been chosen to
      avoid potential treatment contamination in which physicians within healthcare settings might
      unintentionally provide patients with different degrees of attention or blending of treatment
      protocols. The intervention will be administered for six months following which it will be
      withdrawn, and patients will be followed for six more months to assess outcomes.

      The investigators will use quota sampling to oversample socioeconomically deprived persons to
      ensure that socioeconomically deprived persons comprise 50% of the sample. Poverty will be
      defined by (1) Household income, based on Ghana minimum monthly wage of 210 Ghana cedis
      (equivalent of $55). After screening eligible participants, the investigators will assign
      four clusters of 60 patients to the intervention or control arms. The investigators will
      require 30 patients in each cluster to be male and 30 to be female since in the
      investigators' previous work, men have been underrepresented potentially due to
      gender-differences in healthcare seeking behaviors. Men have also had inferior treatment and
      control rates in previous studies.
    
  