
    
      In this study we will analyze Google queries of patients hospitalized in the Tel-Aviv
      Sourasky Medical Center with stroke, between the years 2016-2020. following the formal
      completion of the signed informed consent form, consenting subjects will personally request
      their search data from Google Takeout service from up to 2 years before to one year after the
      stroke and provide access to the researchers by creating a one-time file of these data and
      sharing them with the researchers. Following an informed consent data of Google queries will
      extracted by the participants using google "Take Out" service, from up to 2 years before to
      one year after the stroke. The control groups will consist of patients diagnosed with acute
      myocardial infarction (MI) and MI/stroke -free patients' spouses. Recruitment will be
      primarily from two institutionally approved data bases of stroke and acute MI. A total of 450
      participants will be recruited, 150 in each group, based on prior experience for the
      minimally-sized dataset of query logs needed to construct a model and test its performance.

      Anonymity will be guaranteed through several modalities; access to the Google Takeout data
      will be limited to the minimal amount required to perform the research and will be given only
      to members of the data analysis team in the Tel-Aviv University, while access to the medical
      data will be provided only to researchers from the Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center.
      Additionally, members of the Tel-Aviv University Partner Team will be obligated to refrain
      from any positive attempts to identify subjects participating in the trial. All data shared
      with Tel-Aviv University will be stored on a local, encrypted, hard disk. The data will be
      deleted from Tel-Aviv University's computers at the end of the project.

      Our previously developed Machine Learning model, which was able to predict stroke in subjects
      as compared to age matched controls with an area under curve (AUC) of 0.972 which translates
      to a positive predictive value of 52.7% at a false-positive rate of 1%, will be used to
      predict, for each day, the likelihood that a person will undergo a stroke event on that day.
      This will be compared to the known date of stroke or MI. The measure of performance will be
      the Receiver Operating Curve (ROC) of the detection and the corresponding Area Under Curve
      (AUC). Additionally, a new model will be trained using the collected data and tested
      similarly, albeit using 10-fold cross-validation. Stroke detection sensitivity and
      specificity will be derived.
    
  