
    
      Rationale: Cardiac surgery relieves symptoms and increases life expectancy in cardiac
      patients, with and without congenital heart disease (CHD). However, cardiac surgery involves
      many risks of complications, such as bleeding, arrhythmias, and death. Right ventricular
      failure is another complication, contributing to poor clinical outcome. This clinical
      syndrome is often difficult to treat and is characterized by edema, elevated jugular venous
      pressure, oliguria, hypotension, and in severe cases shock, multi organ failure and death.

      Patients at increased risk for developing post operative right ventricular failure are those
      with CHD or with mitral valve lesions, because of their elevated afterload. Other clinical
      factors contributing to right ventricular failure are mechanical pulmonary ventilation,
      pre-existing pulmonary hypertension and cardiac surgery. Right ventricular failure due to
      cardiac surgery is caused by the cardiopulmonary bypass, by reperfusion with high partial
      pressures of oxygen, air embolism, and the release of cytokines. The endothelin-1 cytokine
      release during cardiac surgery induces vasoconstriction of the pulmonary arterioles resulting
      in right ventricular afterload elevation. Therefore, we hypothesize that treating patients
      with an endothelin-1 receptor antagonist will improve clinical outcome, measured by aerobic
      capacity (peak V'O2), by decreasing right ventricular afterload peri-operatively.

      Objective: To investigate whether an endothelin-1 receptor antagonist improves aerobic
      capacity (peak V'O2) in adults with CHD or with mitral valve lesions who undergo cardiac
      surgery.

      Study design: A prospective randomized open label assessment with blinded end-points
      (PROBE-design). Total duration of the study is 18 weeks with 6 weeks pre-operative and 12
      weeks post-operative treatment with bosentan.

      Study population: Adults with CHD who undergo cardiac surgery and patients undergoing mitral
      valve surgery in the Academic Medical Centre in Amsterdam. Patients will be randomized six
      weeks before surgery. The study will continue until 12 weeks postoperatively.

      Intervention: The treatment group receives a starting dose of 62.5 mg tablet bosentan twice
      daily for four weeks followed by 125 mg tablet of bosentan twice daily two weeks prior to and
      12 weeks after surgery. The other group receives no study medication.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: 1) on the intensive care unit a) hemodynamics b)Sequential
      Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score and c) hours of hospitalization 2) at discharge the
      right ventricular function (assessed by transthoracic echocardiography) 3) six weeks
      post-operatively a) clinical condition with exercise capacity (peak V'O2) b) right
      ventricular function (assessed by transthoracic echocardiography) c) the quality of life 4)
      twelve weeks post-operatively a) right ventricular function (assessed by transthoracic
      echocardiography) b) differences in clinical status and symptoms
    
  