
    
      Cough is part of the defense mechanism to protect the lung from foreign particles and remove
      secretions from the airways . While the cough reflex is essential in protecting the lung from
      foreign materials and infection, its excessive or chronic presence is both bothersome and
      might interfere with the quality of life, sleep pattern and exercise tolerance of the
      patient. Such a symptom may potentially be indicative of an on-going pathological process , .

      People with respiratory infection, asthmatic patients and CF patients suffer from a multitude
      of pathologies of airways and are often inflicted with chronic cough.

      Treatment of cough in these patients consists of many types of expectorants, cough
      suppressors, secretion modifiers, inhaled bronchodilators etc. In addition, chest physical
      therapy (PT) is often prescribed as part of the treatment regime.

      The assessment of coughing is currently subjective and based on the symptoms qualitative
      description as expressed by the patient or parent. Quantitative and objective methods for
      cough assessment are not available beyond the investigative laboratory and are unique to the
      specific investigator.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and validity of novel cough
      counting device based on the WIM Technology.

      The PulmoTrack™ technology includes the PulmoTrack™ 3010/5050 devices that are intended for
      the analysis, interpretation and recording of lung sounds, and the Automatic Cough Counting
      Application.

      The recording of the lung sounds will be performed by a PulmoTrack™ 3010/5050 device. The
      lung sounds can subsequently be analyzed for the presence of wheezes and for the presence of
      cough by the Automatic Cough Counting Application (ACCA).

      The technology enables accurate cough count and timing as well as wheeze detection over time.
    
  