
    
      This clinical trial is aimed at assessing the utility of a minimally invasive surgery
      preoperatively guided by a new nuclear medicine imaging procedure called SPECT/CT. In
      patients suffering from an early stage of gynecological cancer with no clinical evidence of
      lymph node involvement, there is theoretically no reason to perform systematically an
      aggressive lymphadenectomy as demonstrated for other types of lymphophilic cancers such as
      malignant melanoma, breast cancer, and head and neck cancer.

      We plan to follow a well known and safe procedure in Nuclear Medicine called lymphatic
      mapping and sentinel lymphadenectomy (LM/SL). The patient will be injected by the
      gynecologist referee in the department of Nuclear Medicine. These injections consist of a
      radioactive tracer routinely used in Nuclear Medicine, which allows the detection of the
      first nodes draining the primary tumor. The so-called sentinel lymph node (SLN) may be
      different from the lymph nodes anatomically predefined. As well demonstrated for other
      cancers, including those mentioned above, we hypothesized that the histological status of the
      SLN may accurately reflect the histological status of the entire nodal basin. If this
      assumption is clinically validated, the minimally invasive procedure may avoid the cost and
      the morbidity of unnecessary complete lymph node dissections in the majority of patients with
      uninvolved SLNs.

      The originality of this clinical trial also relies upon the use of a new hybrid imaging
      device called SPECT/CT, which allows the ability to obtain in a single study both functional
      and anatomical information. This is critical to precisely guide the surgeon in his task. No
      contrast medium will be injected during this study. The radiation exposure remains within the
      limits accepted worldwide; for instance, the CT dose index (CTDI) will be 3.0 mGy, which is
      in the order of the yearly natural background radiation exposure (< 2mSv).

      In this clinical trial, all patients will be treated according to the standard of care
      currently applied for gynecological cancers. Therefore, either the hysterectomy or the
      vulvectomy will be followed by a complete lymph node dissection (CLND).

      Overall, the research protocol will be carried out in a 1-day protocol including the SPECT/CT
      guided LM/SL and the CLND.
    
  