
    
      This study will accept participants meeting the eligibility criteria and data will be
      collected at baseline visit and 6-monthly regular follow up visits for 3 years (at month 6,
      12, 18, 24, 30, and 36). The study will allow a ± 3-month window period for each scheduled
      regular follow up visit to minimize loss to follow up. Additional follow up data may be
      collected between regular follow up visits on certain participants who meet the additional
      follow up criteria.

      During each visit, data collection will include socio-demographics, family history, past and
      current medical history, clinical assessments, laboratory and/or other supporting diagnosis
      examination. Blood specimens from each study visits will be collected for future research on
      immune function, pathogenesis, and genetics or genomics of HIV and risk related
      coinfections/comorbidities. The stored specimens will be investigated during the study and/or
      after the study completion.

      Based on the highest number of HIV cases in hospitals from the National HIV/AIDS Control
      Program (MoHRI, 2016), 33 hospitals were identified as the proposed study sites (Appendix B).
      Ten hospitals are established INA-RESPOND's study sites. They are Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo
      Hospital, Prof. Dr. Sulianti Saroso Infectious Diseases Hospital, and Persahabatan Hospital
      in Jakarta; Dr. Hasan Sadikin Hospital, Bandung; Dr. Kariadi Hospital, Semarang; Dr. Sardjito
      Hospital, Yogyakarta; Dr. Soetomo Hospital, Surabaya; Sanglah Hospital, Denpasar; Dr. Wahidin
      Sudirohusodo Hospital, Makassar; and Kab. Tangerang Hospital, Banten.

      Ten additional new study sites will be selected from the list (Appendix B) and the
      INA-RESPOND team will conduct site assessments to determine their willingness and readiness
      to be INA-PROACTIVE study sites. If site activation is lagging, other hospitals not on the
      list can also be assessed as a potential study sites.

      The total 20 study sites will be activated gradually based on their readiness within 2 years
      (12 sites on year-1 and additional 8 sites on year-2). It is expected that the additional new
      sites will expand the network, increase participants' recruitment, and will be able to
      represent Indonesian situation.
    
  