
    
      Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG), is now widely used as a stand-alone procedure for
      long-term weight loss. With fewer potential morbidities, comparable weight loss and greater
      ease of conversion to other procedures, many patients now opt for LSG as their bariatric
      procedure of choice. During surgery gastric decompression and calibration are compulsory for
      patient safety, gastric anatomic delineation, ease of surgery and optimal weight loss. The
      removed gastric volume at surgery seems to predict the procedure's success rates2. LSG
      performed without calibration (tube) could result in inconsistent staple lines, with retained
      high sleeve volume and consequent failure. Traditionally, although different tubes are used
      for gastric decompression and calibration, this protocol interrupts operation room (0R)
      workflow. Accidental stapling of orogastric tubes and bougies do occur in the OR but are
      seldom reported. The need for this multiple tube system can be obviated with the ViSiGi™
      Calibration Tube System. A single, multipurpose tube that integrates all these various steps
      could prevent breaks in OR; improve workflow; reduce patient injuries, cross contamination
      and transmission of infections; and a consistent and reproducible staple line. A similar
      device has been in use in Europe, Australia and Asia, but the ViSiGi™ Calibration Tube System
      is the first of its kind to be approved by the FDA. Currently, there are no data on its
      clinical safety/efficacy in comparison to standard care of separate orogastric tube and
      bougie in the United States. Therefore, this exploratory study will investigate the gastric
      delineation ability, general safety and efficacy of the ViSiGi™ Calibration Tube System along
      with the regular bougie in LSG patients over a six- to twelve-month period. Descriptive
      outcomes will be reported, with no formal sample size calculation in light of the exploratory
      study design.
    
  