
    
      Introduction:

      Previous studies, mainly performed in the USA and a few in Europe, showed that the role of
      the anesthesiologist, their education and role within the hospital is not known by the
      general public (1). Other studies questioned the expectations as well as fear of patients
      with respect to anesthesia (2). The lack of knowledge about the anesthesia can be an
      important factor in patients' fear before the planned surgery and can therefore impact
      patient's general satisfaction. While studies have been performed in several countries, not a
      single study as far as the investigators know, has been performed in Belgium. Given the fact
      that the anesthesiologist plays an important role during all stages of surgery (pre-, per-,
      post-operative), it is important to know how patients experience anesthesia and the role of
      the anesthesiologist. In this way, possible points of attention can be explored which can
      lead to a better patient satisfaction in the future.

      Outcome measures:

      With this study, the investigators want to investigate the perception of patients regarding
      the anesthesiologist, their education and role within the hospital, the general knowledge of
      the patient regarding anesthesia and possible pre-operative fears and concerns.

      The investigators will determine these outcome measures by performing a survey (standardized
      questions) which will investigate the following 8 parts:

        -  Patient demographics

        -  The perception of the role and educational training of the anesthesiologist

        -  The role of the anesthesiologist in the hospital

        -  General knowledge of anesthesia

        -  Trust in medical specialist and anesthesiologist

        -  Fear and concerns about anesthesia

        -  Patients' expectation regarding recovery and postoperative pain

        -  Information for the anesthesiologist and possible points of improvement

      Design:

      In this monocentric, investigator-initiated, observational, cohort-study, the investigators
      will perform a survey in all patients that are planned to undergo elective surgery, both
      ambulatory as well as inpatient surgery. This study will be performed according to the
      Declaration of Helsinki and will be approved by the Ethical Committee of the Jessa Hospital
      before the start of the study. A written informed consent will be obtained before
      participation in the study.

      Study Procedures:

      Patients that are planned for elective surgery, both ambulatory and inpatient surgery, will
      be contacted by a researcher prior to the surgery and asked to participate in the study.
      After a written informed consent is obtained, the survey will be performed by a single
      researcher, to minimize inter-individual variability. During the survey, family or other
      people present in the hospital room are not allowed to help the patient. In hospital rooms
      where more than 1 patient is present, the survey will be performed only once.

      Statistical analysis:

      Based on previous, comparable studies (1,3,4), 350 patients will be included in this study.
      Descriptive statistics will be presented as frequencies and percentages of the total amount
      of patients for categorical variables, while numerical variables will be presented as mean ±
      SD. Multiple linear regression analysis and correlations will be calculated (depending on
      normality). A p-value <0.05 is considered statistical significant, while p<0.10 is considered
      a tendency.
    
  