
    
      Functional abdominal pain disorders (FAPD) are among the most common chronic pain conditions
      of childhood and are associated with significant functional disability, pain, and comorbid
      anxiety that adversely impacts treatment outcomes. Thus, the PI developed a psychological
      intervention, Aim to Decrease Anxiety and Pain Treatment (ADAPT; F32HD078049), that targets
      both pain and anxiety using cognitive behavioral therapy and mindfulness meditation
      approaches to improve patient outcomes. Preliminary testing has shown that ADAPT reduces pain
      and anxiety in youth with FAPD. In this study, brain mechanisms implicated in the modulation
      of pain and response to ADAPT will be investigated. Participants with FAPD and comorbid
      anxiety will be randomized to either ADAPT or a waitlist control (each condition will last
      for approximately 6 weeks). Participants will undergo fMRIs to explore changes in functional
      connectivity and regional brain activation during visceral pain induction (via the water load
      symptom provocation task; WL-SPT). In Aim 1, functional connectivity patterns associated with
      a subjective response to pain induction in youth with FAPD who receive ADAPT will be compared
      to the waitlist control. Conventional blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) fMRI will be
      used to assess functional connectivity to capture moment-to-moment fluctuations in activity.
      In Aim 2, changes in regional brain activation for those receiving ADAPT will be compared to
      those in the waitlist condition. The novel arterial spin label (ASL) MRI technique will be
      used to gain inferences into regional brain activity. In line with the NCCIH funding
      priorities, this study seeks to increase understanding of the mechanisms through which mind
      and body approaches impact clinical outcomes in chronic pain and anxiety. Results will
      advance the field by providing crucial information needed for the refinement and testing of a
      tailored mind body intervention for FAPD and comorbid anxiety.
    
  