
    
      Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of a peer-led pain management program (PAP) in improving
      pain self-efficacy, reduce pain, enhancing use of drugs and non-drug methods and quality of
      life among nursing home residents

      Hypothesis: PAP lead by peer volunteer (PV) is more effective than receive usual care and
      pain management pamphlet, in reducing pain intensity, enhancing pain self-efficacy, use of
      drugs and non-drug methods, health-related quality of life upon completion of the PAP (week
      12) and over time (week 24).

      Design and subjects: Clustered randomized controlled trial with nursing homes as cluster; 288
      residents will be recruited from 12 nursing homes. Each nursing home will be randomly
      allocated to experimental group (PV led PAP), control group (receive usual care and pain
      management pamphlet).

      Study instruments: Brief Pain Inventory, Pain Self-Efficacy Questionnaire, Use of drugs and
      non-drug methods log book, Short Form Health Survey-12 and process evaluation.

      Intervention: 12-week PAP (one 1-hour session per week). Each session includes 20-minute
      exercise, 30-minute interactive pain management education, practices on non-drug management
      techniques, and portfolio entry for activities of the day. The interventionist is the PV. The
      one hour session per week will consisted of 20-minute exercise, include correct body posture
      and alignment, stretching of arms, legs, and body muscles, balancing exercise; shoulder &
      neck exercise; knee exercise; towel dancing. While the 30-minute interactive pain management
      education as well as practices on non-drug management techniques. Topics include: 1) pain
      situations among older adults; effects of pain in daily life; can we do something? 2) The use
      of oral drugs for pain: effects and side-effects; 3) The use of non-drug therapy: hot pad &
      cold pad; how to use & safety issues? 4) The use of non-drug therapy: listening to music; 5)
      the use of non-drug therapy: massage; 6) the use of non-drug therapy: visual stimulation -
      watching the natural environment & making a photo album; 7) the use of non-drug therapy:
      sense of smell & taste- making a bag of dried flowers & tasting tea; 8) Revision & wrapping
      up. Portfolio entry include the PV will work with the participants to make entry on the
      activity of the day in the portfolio.

      Outcome measures: Pain intensity, pain self-efficacy, use of non-drug pain relief methods,
      perceived health-related quality of life and experience in participating PAP, to be collected
      at baseline (T0), week 12 (T1), and week 24 (T2).

      Data analysis: Multilevel regression and/or Generalized Estimating Equation will be used for
      within-group and between- group comparisons.

      Expected results: Significant reduction in pain and enhancement in pain-related parameters,
      making peers support models in elderly care.
    
  