
    
      Asthma affects an estimated 300 million people worldwide with a population prevalence of ca
      15% in the UK. The WHO has estimated UK disability adjusted life-years per 100,000 population
      for asthma to be greater than diabetes and breast cancer. Much of this excessive disability
      is in the 10-20% of patients with asthma which is difficult to control despite currently
      available therapies. This high morbidity and disproportionate use of health care resources
      reflects the considerable unmet need in this patient group, and their significance for health
      care providers.

      Asthma has been traditionally 'stratified' on the basis of response to 'step-wise'
      incremental treatment with inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) therapy forming the cornerstone of
      this approach. However, more recently, asthma has been stratified on the basis of
      inflammatory phenotype to better understand disease heterogeneity with a view to developing
      biomarkers of therapeutic response and for the better targeting of both new and existing
      treatments.

      Investigators have recently examined the predictive value of a composite biomarker strategy
      using FeNO, blood eosinophils and serum periostin together to predict exacerbation risk in
      the placebo arms of clinical trials. Investigators propose to examine if this composite
      biomarker strategy predicts exacerbation risk in patients with asthma on high dose ICS
      (+/-long-acting beta agonist) treatment and to evaluate the utility of this composite score
      to facilitate personalised biomarker specific titration of corticosteroid therapy in this
      population. This study will examine subjects with FeNO<45 ppb and the scoring system will
      potentially allow identification of a 'low-risk' group who can safely reduce corticosteroid
      dose. This study will address a second important question of estimating the proportion of
      patients with severe disease who develop typical (T2)-driven eosinophilic inflammation on
      progressive corticosteroid withdrawal.
    
  