
    
      Cognitive decline in the elderly is a rapidly growing concern in Singapore and other
      developed Asian nations. Among the major but understudied factors that may exacerbate this
      decline is poor sleep quality. Targeting sleep to decelerate or even reverse age-related
      cognitive decline may represent a low-cost, high-return solution to a widespread societal
      problem.

      To accomplish this goal, the investigators propose to test mindfulness-based training (MBT)
      as an intervention to improve sleep quality and cognition.

      In this pilot grant, the investigators will study a group of participants (N = 120) in a
      randomized controlled design pitting MBT (N =60) against sleep hygiene education (SHEEP, N =
      60).

      Hypothesis 1: MBT will lead to significantly greater improvements in sustained and executive
      attention relative to SHEEP (measured both behaviorally and using functional magnetic
      resonance imaging).

      Hypothesis 2: Cognitive outcomes will be mediated by improvements in subjective and objective
      sleep quality.

      Good sleep is critical for cognition at all ages, and especially in the elderly

      Adequate sleep is important for optimal cognitive function across the lifespan. Although the
      association between sleep and cognitive function is bi-directional, alterations in sleep
      frequently occur prior to the appearance of cognitive symptoms in Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
      Almost 50% of older adults report at least one sleep problem, and there is growing evidence
      that sleep complaints and disturbances might have negative effects on cognition.

      Retired older adults have the freedom to sleep ad libitum but this benefit is offset by
      age-associated changes in sleep such as poorer subjective quality, increased fragmentation
      and/or altered macrostructure. Although sleep duration is the measure that has received the
      most attention, there is accumulating evidence that sleep quality (Blackwell et al., 2014)
      and sleep fragmentation in particular, can have deleterious effects on brain structure and
      cognition. A change in sleep pattern in late adulthood can foreshadow cognitive decline,
      perhaps as a result of accumulation of neurotoxic substances that are normally cleared during
      sleep.
    
  