
    
      Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) denotes a family of inherited disorders with defects in
      the cortisol biosynthesis. CAH has been traditionally considered a disease restricted to the
      adrenal cortex. However, recently observed abnormal adrenomedullary structures in three
      adrenalectomized patients with classic CAH, as well as low baseline urinary and plasma
      epinephrine levels in children with CAH suggest that this condition is associated with marked
      morphological and functional abnormalities of the adrenal medulla.

      The adrenal medulla synthesizes and secretes catecholamines, mainly epinephrine.
      Catecholamines influence virtually all tissues. Yet, the clinical implications of epinephrine
      deficiency in humans are not clear.

      Short-term intense exercise is a natural, quantifiable stimulus of the adrenal cortex and
      medulla as well as of the sympathetic nervous system. We would like to employ a standard
      cycle ergometer exercise protocol to study the adrenomedullary and systemic sympathetic
      function of patients with CAH. This protocol has been run by the Clinical Center
      Rehabilitation Medicine Department (RMD) for 10 years. No serious adverse effects have been
      observed or reported in adults and children with a healthy cardiovascular system.

      The goal of this protocol is to evaluate adrenomedullary and systemic sympathetic function
      and exercise tolerance in patients with CAH and in appropriately matched healthy controls
      using the above standardized cycle ergometer test. Subjects with CAH will exercise with and
      without doubling their morning dose of hydrocortisone to evaluate whether impairments - if
      present - can be corrected by a "stress dose" of hydrocortisone. We hypothesize that subjects
      with CAH have a reduced epinephrine reserve and impaired exercise tolerance, which can at
      least partially, be corrected by an increase in exogenous hydrocortisone. We will also
      determine whether the systemic sympathetic nervous system compensates for the adrenomedullary
      deficiency as observed in states of acquired adrenal insufficiency. The results of this study
      will increase the understanding of the physiologic interactions between adrenal cortex and
      adrenal medulla.
    
  