
    
      The aim of the project is the identification of Salmonella specific proteins that can be
      detected in samples derived from the host (= humans) during an acute infection. This can
      support the development of rapid tests to improve the diagnosis of invasive Salmonellosis.

      The study is taking place at the travel clinic of the Institute of Tropical Medicine in
      Antwerp, Belgium, and at the Sihanouk Hospital Center of HOPE in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. It is
      planned to start in 2016 at the Centre Hospitalier de Kingasani in Kinshasa, Democratic
      Republic of the Congo in collaboration with the Institut National de Recherche Biomédicale in
      Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo. The expected number of participants in total is
      2500.

      Patients (children and/or adults) presenting with (a history of) fever are asked permission
      (informed consent and/or assent) to draw additional blood samples (along with routine care
      samples, so no need for additional venipuncture), and for the long term storage of these
      samples (whole blood and plasma) in a freezer together with left-over serum and urine
      samples. They are also asked permission for the collection of coded data including basic
      demographic, clinical and laboratory data.

      Blood for plasma and urine are centrifugated. All samples are aliquoted into cryotubes (coded
      labelling) before storage in a -80 ⁰C freezer.

      Depending on the final diagnosis, patients can be divided in 4 groups:

        1. Patients for whom blood cultures grew Salmonella species

        2. Patients for whom blood cultures did not grow a pathogen

        3. Patients for whom blood cultures grew with another pathogen

        4. Healthy controls

      The frozen samples collected in Cambodia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo will be
      shipped to Belgium.

      All selection of all the samples collected will undergo proteomic analysis by researchers of
      the Institute of Tropical Medicine in collaboration with the Vlaams Instituut voor
      Biotechnologie and coded data related to the samples is shared with these partners.

      Once this test has been developed, the samples will also be used for validation and
      evaluation of this test.
    
  