
    
      V. STUDY PROCEDURES

      1. Preoperative evaluation

        1. Psychosocial Assessment: After the patient gives informed consent, preoperative
           demographic, medical, psychosocial and pain questionnaires will be completed by the
           patient during their preoperative office visit. Questionnaires assessing psychosocial
           factors have been chosen based upon previous retrospective association with PPMP, and
           preliminary evidence from our prospective study in the same population, strong
           psychometric validation characteristics, and brevity. The Pain Catastrophizing Scale
           (PCS), which has been validated in pain patients and controls, will be used to measure
           catastrophic thinking associated with pain. Depressive symptoms, anxiety and sleep
           disturbance will be assessed using short-form instruments from the NIH roadmap
           initiative, Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS). The PROMIS
           instruments have been extensively validated in studies comparing results with
           established scales, and have been calibrated on over 20,000 persons.The Brief Symptom
           Index 18-Somatization Scale, also previously validated in chronic pain patients, will be
           used to measure somatization. The Positive Affect/Negative Affect Scale (PANAS) measures
           affective stance.

        2. Pain assessment: The primary pain outcome measure will be Pain Burden Index as measured
           by the Breast Cancer Pain Questionnaire (BCPQ), which was originally developed by
           Gartner et al and used in over 600 patients in our previous studies. The BCPQ includes
           assessment of average pain, pain frequency (how many days/week), and specific assessment
           of pain at 4 body areas (breast, arm, side, axilla), from which a Pain Burden Index
           (PBI) can be calculated. A later iteration of the BCPQ also includes questions about
           other body pain, seeking medical help for pain, painkiller use, neuropathic/sensory
           symptoms, and functional impairment due to pain, and has been successfully employed in
           our current prospective observational study. We will also use the Brief Pain Inventory,
           a well-validated general measure of pain and disability worst pain, least pain, and
           interference. We will supplement this with a standard VAS assessing pain with and
           without arm movement and deep inspiration. The Pain Coping Questionnaire will be
           administered to prospectively assay for effective coping strategies used by patients and
           we will use a 2 item version of this questionnaire to assess the use of these
           strategies.

        3. Quantitative sensory testing:

             1. Pressure pain testing methods: Pressure pain threshold and tolerance will be
                assessed in a similar manner to our previous studies using a digital pressure
                algometer (Wagner FDX, Greenwich, CT, USA) with a flat round transducer, probe area
                0.785 cm2. Testing sites will be bilateral on the dorsal aspect of the proximal
                forearm (extremity site) and over the trapezius muscle at the upper back (truncal
                site). For pressure threshold determination, pressure is increased at a steady rate
                of approximately 1 lb/second until subject indicates that the pressure is first
                perceived as painful. Pressure Pain Tolerance will be determined by instructing
                patients to indicate the pressure at which the pain was no longer tolerable. Two
                trials will be performed at each site.

             2. Temporal Summation testing methods: Mechanical pinprick pain will be assessed in a
                similar manner to our previous studies using standardized weighted pinprick
                applicators similar to those described by Rolke et al using a range of forces (128
                mN, 256mN and 512mN) which result in a painful sensation in most subjects. First, a
                single stimulation of the lower force pinprick will be applied to the dorsal aspect
                of the index finger between the first and second interphalangeal joints of the each
                hand while resting palm down on the armrest, and then rated by the subject on a
                scale of 0-10. Next, after a break of at least 10 seconds, a train of 10 stimuli
                will be applied at the same premarked spot, at a rate of 1 stimulation/second. The
                subject will rate pain on a scale of 0-10 after the first, fifth and tenth
                stimulus, then rate any ongoing pain 15 seconds after cessation of the last
                stimulus. The same procedure will be repeated on the third finger of the each hand.
                Subjects will undergo two trials at each force, with a break of at least one minute
                between trials.

        4. Genetic sample collection: In order to obtain genetic information about particular
           genetic sites of variability that may impact post-surgical pain, we will collect saliva
           samples from using the Oragene Self-Collection kit. This procedure is non-invasive,
           safe, effective, and widely used. Samples will be labeled with an alphanumeric code NOT
           including the subject's name, initials, medical record number, date of birth, or Social
           Security numbers in order to protect the subject's privacy and confidentiality. The code
           key will be kept in a seperate secure location. Any tissue samples/data sent outside
           Partners will not be labeled with names, birth dates, or medical record or social
           security numbers.

           2. Perioperative intervention Patients will receive a 0.5 mg/kg dose of IV ketamine (max
           dose 50 mg) or the same volume of saline 15 minutes after induction of general
           anesthesia. Thereafter, a continuous infusion of 0.15 mg/kg/hr ketamine with a maximum
           dose of 15 mg/hr or saline will be administered until the end of surgery (when the
           surgical closure has begun, approximately 30-60 minutes prior to emergence from general
           anesthesia). The investigational drug service will prepare blinded solutions (2 mg/mL
           ketamine or saline) and deliver to OR pharmacy before the beginning of each case to
           hands-on providers. Cost of ketamine is $12 per 200 mg vial, and will be covered by the
           NIH K23 budget. General anesthesia will be provided by the hands-on anesthetist, who
           will be free to use at their discretion the following anesthetic drugs, which are
           typically used in this population, and are all compatible in solution with ketamine:
           Midazolam 2 mg, Fentanyl <500 mcg, Dilaudid <5 mg total, Propofol 1-2 mg/kg, Lidocaine
           50-100 mg, Vecuronium, Rocuronium, succinylcholine or Cisatracurium as needed, Zofran 4
           mg, Decadron 4 mg, Cefazolin, Glycopyrrolate and Neostigmine as needed for reversal, as
           well as inhalational agents other than nitrous oxide.

      Subject and investigator blinding of screening and treatment: As part of informed consent,
      subjects will be appraised of the fact that the study investigates risk of short- and
      long-term pain and whether people in different risk groups respond to a treatment, but will
      not be told whether they are considered high- or low- risk, or whether they received ketamine
      or placebo. Effectiveness of blinding will be assessed by querying patients about which group
      they think they are in on POD1. Investigator and hands-on provider will be blind to treatment
      (ketamine vs placebo). Nursing staff in PACU will be appraised of the fact that patients are
      in a study, but also blinded to the treatment. Effectiveness of blinding of study staff who
      is asking patient to rate perioperative pain will be achieved by having this study staff
      record their impression of group on a single item questionnaire in the Redcap system.
      Responses of patient and study staff as to their impression of group will be compared to
      actual group at the end of the study.

      3. Perioperative data collection

        1. Surgical, Anesthetic, and analgesic data collection: Using the Weiner preoperative
           evaluation center email alert system, the hands-on anesthetist and/or anesthesiologist
           will be contacted to inform them on the patient's participation in the study, and given
           instructions about the volume of bolus and rate of infusion. The total time and volume
           of infusion will be recorded will be recorded in the anesthetic record, so that a total
           dose of ketamine can be calculated. In order to adjust for potential impact of other
           anesthetic techniques or pharmacological agents on PPMP, the following data will be
           extracted from the electronic anesthesia record: Primary anesthetic method (volatile vs.
           IV propanol vs. regional/paravertebral vs. combined PVB/GA), amount and type of local
           anesthetic administered, and opioid analgesic used (the latter expressed as morphine
           equivalent units/hr). In addition, information about other relevant analgesic
           preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative medications such as Oxycontin,
           gabapentin, pregabalin, and dexmedetomidine will be gathered from the electronic record.
           Other potentially confounding intraoperative factors such as vasopressor use/amount,
           fluids or blood administered, total anesthesia time, and airway management (LMA, ETT, or
           native) will be recorded. Among this group of breast surgeons, there is relative
           homogeneity in anatomical technique and tissue disturbance, although there is some
           variation in dissection technique. Detailed assessment of surgical technique will
           include primary surgeon, duration of surgery, presence of bilateral surgery, type of
           surgery (total mastectomy, segmental mastectomy), performance of nodal dissection
           (axillary or sentinel node), and presence and type of concurrent reconstruction.

        2. Acute postoperative pain assessment: Initial pain score upon arrival will be assessed by
           PACU nursing staff and/or anesthetist. One hour and 24 hours after PACU arrival, patient
           will be assessed by research study personnel, being asked to rate pain at rest, with arm
           movement, and with maximal deep inspiration using the pain verbal rating scale (VRS).
           Presence of nausea and treatment with supplemental antiemetics in recovery area will be
           recorded. In addition, opioid consumption and adjuvant analgesic use will be ascertained
           from the patient's medication administration record. Upon discharge, which is typically
           on POD1 or 2 for mastectomy patients, total postoperative opioid use/hours of
           postoperative time as inpatient will be calculated and expressed in morphine equivalent
           units/hr. On postoperative day 1, mastectomy patients will undergo brief bedside QST (as
           at preoperative evaluation, described above).

           3. Persistent pain, long term psychosocial and psychophysical assessment: Follow up
           assessments of persistent pain using the BCPQ, BPI, VAS, and pain coping questionnaires
           will be made at 2 weeks, 3 mo, 6 mo, 12, and 24 mo, with follow-up either via secure
           link to the REDcap electronic data capture system. Patients are seen at visits with the
           surgical team, or oncologists at these times. The brief QST and psychosocial
           questionnaires will be re-administered at 2 weeks and 1 year postoperatively during one
           of the patient's follow-up visits.
    
  