
    
      The workplace has special features about human behaviors. Studies (Shepard 1996, Pratt 2008)
      has shown that workers participate of this kind of health promotion programs for various
      reasons: One reason is the convenience of doing something without having to look for it;
      another reason is group support, many workers who share difficulties due to their working
      demands can find support in each other, so that they could change health behavior.
      Furthermore there are patterns of formal and informal communication that can contribute to
      help more people to become healthier making their environment better. Finally, the norms of a
      corporate behavior can unite the group of workers seeking same objectives.

      Additionally the literature has shown that adults increased workload, job insecurity and
      pressure to perform tasks (Sparks 1997). These facts has been shown that workplace is
      different from community based interventions and leisure interventions.

      The outcomes proposed to study are different from other studies since the interventions focus
      changes in behaviors. Sedentary behavior has shown to have 23% of deaths from major chronic
      disease (WHO 2002).

      As the populations rises around the world and with the prolonged life expectancies, the
      number of people with chronic diseases will raise (WHO 2006). By having positive changes in
      health behavior the costs of public health can be reduced. Studying different types of
      interventions and testing its efficacy in different places can help the policy makers to
      create healthier environments.

      There are strategies being developed in the workplace, but its efficacy is being challenged.
      There are some researches that show no evidence to prove the continuity of these
      interventions and there are evidences proving the opposite, positive changes in clinical
      outcomes as diabetes, blood pressure and elevated blood cholesterol. In addition some
      measures as BMI, anthropometric, fitness level have shown good association as prediction of
      development of chronic disease with low cost (Dishman 2004).
    
  