
    
      Background:

      Bariatric patients represent a unique surgical population and present significant challenges
      regarding safe and effective postoperative pain control. Recent analyses demonstrate that
      rates of prolonged opioid use in the initial postoperative year is higher amongst bariatric
      patients when compared to the general surgery population in both opiate-naïve and chronic
      opioid users. While bariatric surgery is an important treatment for obesity and improves many
      co-morbid conditions including musculoskeletal and nonspecific pain, it is interesting to
      note this has not translated to a reduction in use of opioid analgesics. These findings are
      likely the result of unique psychosocial and physiologic factors that affect obese patients.
      The co-occurrence of mood disorders such as anxiety and depression is well established within
      the bariatric and psychiatric literature. Depression, psychological vulnerability, and stress
      are closely associated with persistent postoperative pain, and the use of preoperative
      benzodiazepines and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) directly correlate to
      prolonged postoperative narcotic consumption. In addition, several studies indicate higher
      rates of substance abuse in patients following bariatric surgery thus highlighting a
      potential predisposition for addictive behavior. Postoperative pain control following
      bariatric surgery is further complicated by the general avoidance of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) and altered drug absorption following roux-en-y gastric
      bypass (RYGB).

      Mindfulness meditation represents an important and validated means of non-pharmacologic pain
      control. While different types of meditation exist, the cornerstone of a mindfulness practice
      involves a heightened awareness and non-judgmental acceptance of the present moment. While
      there have been several proposed theories regarding its mechanism of action, neuroimaging
      studies demonstrate altered sensory processing and cognitive control mechanisms when such
      techniques are employed during experimentally-induced pain. The most well studied mindfulness
      intervention is mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR). MBSR is a 6-8-week program that
      involves weekly group-training sessions in mindfulness meditation. Randomized-controlled
      trials demonstrate improved quality of life, reduced stress, improved depressive symptoms,
      and reduced pain scores in patients with chronic illness who participate in an MBSR program.
      Importantly, symptom improvement was immediate and durable with effects lasting up to one
      year without the need for continued practice. More recent studies suggest that single, brief
      mindfulness interventions may deliver effective pain relief as well. A randomized-controlled
      trial published in 2017 demonstrated clinically significant reductions in pain, comparable to
      5 mg of oxycodone, after 15-minutes of guided mindfulness meditation in patients experiencing
      an acute pain crisis.

      In spite of the overwhelming evidence demonstrating mindfulness meditation as an effective
      pain management strategy in both acute and chronic pain syndromes, it remains underutilized
      in the clinical setting. The investigators have identified two principle barriers to
      implementation of mindfulness interventions in surgical patients: 1) limited access to
      validated mindfulness interventions and 2) a prohibitive mode of delivery to patients. While
      more rigorous studies and systematic reviews have produced validated mindfulness
      interventions, delivery of interventions depended on lengthy, classroom instruction or use of
      inpatient social workers and nurses. Conversely, the health and wellness community has taken
      advantage of the ubiquity of mobile phones to provide the general public a multitude of
      consumer health apps geared towards mindfulness yet few of these are driven by evidence-based
      medicine or report having been tested for efficacy. While mobile technology offers a unique
      platform to cost-effectively engage, educate, and intervene in specific patient populations,
      input from clinicians and researchers is imperative. For this reason, the investigators
      propose investigation of a validated mindfulness intervention adapted for delivery via a
      mobile platform in patients undergoing bariatric surgery.

      Rationale:

      Chronic opioid use represents a national health crisis, fueled by the over-prescription of
      narcotic pain medications for surgical procedures. In spite of the opioid epidemic, opiate
      analgesics continue to represent a primary modality for acute postoperative pain management
      with more than 80% of patients receiving opioids even after low risk surgery. Unfortunately,
      both poorly-controlled postoperative pain and short-term opioid use are associated with the
      development of chronic postsurgical pain and increases one's risk of subsequent opioid
      dependence. Surgical patients therefore represent an at-risk population for impaired
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and opioid-related adverse events.

      Patients undergoing bariatric surgery pose a unique challenge to healthcare providers with
      regards to opiate-sparing pain control. Co-existing mood disorders are common amongst
      bariatric patients which may predispose them to substance abuse and dependence. Altered
      postoperative anatomy and physiology limits administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      agents (NSAIDs) and impairs drug absorption. In an effort to address the growing opioid
      epidemic, the Joint Commission recently revised its pain standards adding an emphasis on
      inclusion of non-narcotic and non-pharmacologic adjuncts to current hospital-based pain
      management strategies. While there has been significant effort in identifying effective
      narcotic-sparing pain regimens for bariatric patients, all rely on pharmacologic means of
      pain control, impart a mild to moderate economic burden, and fail to address the myriad of
      psychosocial factors that influence postoperative pain and chronic opioid use in bariatric
      patients. As such, there exists both a need and an opportunity to further expand our current
      armamentarium of pain control by investigating non-pharmacologic modalities.
    
  