
    
      This study aims to compare the efficacy of manual therapy and TENS for immediate control of
      pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis. They will be included 62 patients with clinical
      and radiological diagnosis of knee osteoarthritis, presenting pain of at least 3 in VAS,
      which are recruited from rheumatology and geriatrics clinics in Fortaleza / CE through a
      prior screening.

      Will be three assessments, prior to the intervention, immediately after it and after 72
      hours. The data collected shall appear in individual printed records. Participants will be
      divided into two therapy groups, of which one will be applied manual therapy and other TENS.
      There will be randomisation allocation of individuals in the groups and because of the nature
      of the interventions only the evaluator may be blind.

      In manual therapy group will be assigned a protocol with manual passive stretching for the
      quadriceps muscles, hamstrings, triceps surae, adductors and abductors of the hip; myofascial
      release peripatellar; joint mobilization grades 1 and 2 for tibiofemoral joint and femoro -
      patellar in the affected knee.

      In TENS group will be applied to continuous current mode, frequency 100Hz and pulse width of
      50μs for 40 minutes in a single application. The intensity will be defined by the patient,
      should the stimulus be considered intense, but pleasant to it.

      The Kolmogorov - Smirnov test is used to verify the data distribution normality. The
      characterization of the participants is performed by means of descriptive statistical
      analysis. Parametric or non-parametric tests will be used according to the data distribution
      normality for comparison between groups at baseline. The evaluator blinding will be tested
      using the chi -square test by comparing the randomization code with the evaluator opinion.
      The difference between the groups and their respective confidence intervals will be
      calculated by linear mixed models using interaction term of "time versus group."
    
  