
    
      This study is a prospective case series. All patients should go through a preoperative
      evaluation with an anesthesiologist. At that time the eligibility for the study will be
      evaluated and if the patient consent to participate in the study.

      The following parameters shall be evaluated in the ambulatory evaluation:

        -  Age

        -  Anthropometric data (weight and height);

        -  Presence of comorbidities;

        -  Revised cardiac index (LEE);

        -  Estimation of functional capacity in metabolic equivalents (METs) by history;

        -  Performance Status by the scale of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG);

        -  Determination of the physical status by the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
           classification;

        -  QoR-40 recovery quality scale, validated for Brazilian Portuguese;

        -  Quality of life EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, validated for Brazilian Portuguese.

      During the anesthetic procedure, the following standard technique should be applied:
      peripheral venous access, dipyrone 30 mg/kg, antibiotic according to the institutional
      protocol, moderate sedation with intravenous propofol in continuous infusion in the absence
      of any contraindication. Midazolam will be used in case of contraindication to propofol or
      during the execution of the block according to preference of the researcher who will perform
      the block. Associated with propofol infusion, the alpha agonist dexmedetomidine may be used
      in continuous infusion associated with fentanyl, tramadol, dextroketamine, magnesium sulfate,
      dipyrone and tenoxicam, whose uses will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and will be
      recorded in the database.

      In case of conversion to general anesthesia, the airway control should be carried out
      preferably with laryngeal mask, with the orotracheal intubation as an alternative option. The
      maintenance of anesthesia will be in this case using propofol continuous infusion in the
      absence of contraindications, otherwise sevoflurane will be used. Postoperative nausea and
      vomiting prophylaxis will be done with four milligrams of dexamethasone and ondansetron.

      Patients will be submitted serratus plane block according to the technique described in
      Blanco. The patients will be positioned in a supine position. The transducer of the
      ultrasound device is protected with sterile cover. The ultrasound probe is positioned in the
      mid clavicular region of the thoracic wall in a sagittal plane. Using a nether-lateral path
      with the probe, will be counted the ribs, until the fifth rib is identified in the mid
      axillary line. In this position, over the fifth rib, the latissimus dorsi muscle
      superficially and the serratus muscle deeper and lower can be easily observed. The
      identification of the thoracodorsal artery with use of doppler imaging assists in identifying
      the superficial plane to the serratus muscle. Once identified the structures, the needle is
      introduced in the plane of the transducer positioning its tip on the surface of the serratus
      muscle. Then 40 ml of solution with 1% lidocaine, adrenaline 1:200,000 and ropivacaine 0.25%
      are injected in patients above 50kg and 32ml of the same solution in patients with body
      weight between 40 and 50kg aiming to respect the maximum dose of local anesthetic
      recommended.

      At the end of the surgical procedure the patient will be referred to the anesthetic recovery
      unit. The extension of the blockade will be then evaluated. They will be discharged to ward
      as soon as they get the discharge criteria.

      The surgical time, time for execution of the blockage (counted from the placement of the
      sterile field until the removal of the needle), the surgical room time, estimated bleeding,
      presence of surgical complications or anesthetic and number of lymph nodes extracted will be
      registered. At the end of the surgery the surgeon will be asked to fill out a range of Likert
      5 points on his opinion on the quality of anesthesia (extremely satisfied, satisfied, not
      satisfied or dissatisfied, dissatisfied, extremely dissatisfied) and to compare the quality
      of anesthesia with general anesthesia on a 3-point scale (indistinguishable from general
      anesthesia, sufficient to perform the procedure, extremely challenging/inadequate).

      On the first day of postoperative the standard analgesia will be carried out with dipyrone 30
      mg/kg IV every 4 hours, associated with tenoxicam 20mg every 12 hours. In case of
      contraindication to dipyrone, will be administered paracetamol 500 mg VO every 6 hours. As a
      rescue therapy the default option is tramadol 50mg IV up to every 4 hours (daily maximum dose
      of 300mg/day and morphine 4 mg each hour (in case of allergy or intolerance to tramadol and
      rescue the tramadol). If necessary more than 24 hours of hospitalization, postoperative
      analgesia will be performed as option of the assistant team. The use of postoperative
      painkillers will be recorded in the database.

      All patients should be evaluated on the first postoperative day with record of the verbal
      numerical scale for the evaluation of pain at rest, cough and abduction of 90 Degrees of the
      member and the presence of adverse effects. They be asked to fill the scale of Likert of 5
      points with his opinion on the quality of anesthesia (extremely satisfied, satisfied, neither
      satisfied nor dissatisfied, dissatisfied, extremely dissatisfied) and the scale of recovery
      quality QoR-40. Between the twenty-eighth and the thirtieth-fifth postoperative day All
      patients will be reassessed, occasion where the scale of recovery quality QoR-40 and the
      scale of quality of life EORTC QLQ-C30, presence of surgical wound infection will be applied,
      cutaneous necrosis, seroma, lymphedema, lymphatic fistula and date of drain removal.
    
  