
    
      Transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urinary bladder is responsible for >12,000 new cases
      of cancer and >5,000 deaths per year in England and Wales. Most bladder cancers are
      non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and do not invade deeply at presentation, but 80%
      of tumours recur within 3 years. For muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), the 5 year
      survival is around 50%. Cystoscopy is the standard test for detection of bladder cancer along
      with imaging to assess the upper tracts and the common presenting symptom is haematuria.
      Cystoscopy is an invasive procedure and results in urinary infection in up to 5% of cases.
      Cystoscopy is performed under local anaesthetic and patients are required to attend hospital
      clinics for the test. About one in 10 patients who are investigated for haematuria will be
      found to have bladder cancer. Frequently, patients are not referred for investigation of
      haematuria at the time of first presentation and there is a delay in diagnosis of the
      disease. The early detection of bladder cancer by means of a non-invasive tumour marker test
      would impact on the management of the disease. There is an unmet need for a simple,
      non-invasive, highly sensitive and specific method for detecting bladder cancer.

      This study will determine the accuracy of UroMark a high-throughput multiplex PCR test to
      detect bladder cancer in DNA from urine. The study will address the unmet clinical need to
      improve detection of bladder cancer. The rationale for the trial is based on proof of concept
      studies which provide compelling evidence that a panel of methylation markers can be applied
      to detect bladder cancer with high sensitivity and specificity. It will be also be possible
      to collect and store fractions of urine for assessment of other DNA related biomarkers as
      well as non-DNA assays for example cellular proteins, soluble biomarkers in urine supernatant
      and RNA transcripts in sediment cells. In this study we will compare the UroMark assay with
      established assays including urinary cytology, FISH as well as developing assays such as
      MCM5. In this proposal excess urine will be stored for these studies.
    
  