
    
      Asthma is a highly prevalent condition, which results from inflammation and
      hyper-responsiveness of the airways resulting in variable airway limitation and symptoms of
      wheeze, cough, breathlessness and chest tightness. 4.3 million adults (1 in 12) in the UK are
      currently receiving treatment for asthma. Treatment usually involves a combination of
      reliever and preventative inhaler therapy. On average 3 people a day die from asthma. The
      National Review of Asthma Deaths (NRAD) has shown that much of the morbidity relates to poor
      management particularly around the use of preventative treatment concluding that two-thirds
      of asthma deaths were preventable.

      We have a well-established evidence base of how to help control asthma and prevent attacks
      using interventions that focus on maintaining control and reducing risk of an attack.
      However, there are concerns that the current National health Service (NHS) model of care: a
      once annual asthma review may not capture the full picture of asthma control and is generally
      limited to the period around that review, which is a fraction of the time people are living
      with asthma. Healthcare professionals aim to deliver the best care and motivate good asthma
      self-management, but this can be complex and time-consuming and so often is not possible in
      the allotted time for primary care appointments, leading to adverse outcomes and to variation
      in care.

      Opportunities to address this variation in care were identified in the NRAD. These included
      improving risk stratification to distinguish between those with asthma requiring minimal
      support through an annual review and those who require closer monitoring throughout the year,
      ensuring safer prescribing to highlight where people with asthma have been prescribed
      excessive quantities of Short Acting Beta Agonist (SABA) inhalers, improving systems to
      arrange follow up, raising the quality of medical records and enabling systems to support
      asthma self-management.

      The NHS spends around 1 billion a year treating and caring for people with asthma. Asthma
      accounts for about 60,000 hospital admissions per year. The annual 2016 asthma survey
      reported an overwhelming majority of patients, 82%, said their asthma was poorly controlled.
      Almost half of respondents said their asthma interfered with their day to day life and 46%
      said they had difficulty sleeping due to their asthma symptoms. Those with uncontrolled
      asthma were almost twice as likely to be admitted to hospital as those whose asthma symptoms
      were under control. The majority of patients admitted to hospital did not receive follow up
      putting them at higher risk of future attacks and re-admission to hospital. In the United
      Kingdom (UK) seven out of ten people with asthma receive care that fails to meet basic
      quality standards with 30-70% reported as not taking their asthma medication as prescribed.

      With 85% of asthma patients being managed exclusively in primary care, asthma is estimated to
      account for around 2-3% of General Practitioners (GP) consultations19, costing an estimated
      £108 million annually. As highlighted by the recent General Practice Five Year Forward View,
      with an ever-increasing burden on services, conventional models of care are constantly being
      challenged and alternative, cost-effective ways of delivering healthcare to a larger cohort
      of patients are being sought.

      Digital healthcare interventions may help to address some of these challenges by enabling
      remote delivery of patient-centred care, facilitating timely access to health advice and
      medications, prompting self-monitoring and medication compliance, and educating patients on
      trigger avoidance.

      Telemonitoring, the transmission of monitoring data from a patient to an electronic health
      record which is shared with and monitored by healthcare professionals has the potential to
      improve outcomes. The impact of telemonitoring is likely to be strongly influenced by the
      level of professional support provided and personalisation of feedback. Studies have shown
      that people with poorly-controlled asthma have the potential to gain more by engaging with
      telemonitoring, helping people recognise worsening control and take preventative action to
      reduce their risk of an attack early. There is a substantial body of evidence to show that
      self-management education incorporating written personalised asthma action plans improves
      health outcomes for people with asthma. Self-management education reduces emergency use of
      healthcare resources including Accident and Emergency department visits and hospital
      admissions and improves markers of asthma control, including reduced symptoms and days off
      work and improved quality of life. Internet technology might offer an attractive means for
      encouraging patients to use self-management strategies within a day-to-day context.

      In 2015, two thirds of patients with asthma had a smartphone, and with this ever-increasing
      presence of technology in homes, online prescribing and remote monitoring is beginning to
      emerge as an alternative way of delivering services. Nearly three-quarters of patients wanted
      to see an mHealth device that would help them monitor their asthma and nearly half would
      value a system which could be used as part of their asthma action plan and advise them if
      changes to medication have improved their asthma and when to seek medical attention.
      Three-quarters of healthcare professionals said they would value an mHealth system that would
      monitor patients' asthma symptoms over time and provide patients with an asthma action plan.

      Systematic review has shown that despite the heterogenous interventions, technology enabled
      healthcare can improve process outcomes such as knowledge adherence to monitoring,
      self-management skills, improvement in inhaler technique and increased use of preventer
      medication. However, to date studies have shown an inconsistent effect on clinical outcomes
      such as symptoms lung function SABA use and quality of life. The use of computerised decision
      support systems need to align better with professional workflows so that pertinent and timely
      advice is easily accessible within the consultation. Evidence to support asynchronous remote
      consulting suggests that it leads to reductions in healthcare usage and disease status
      although evidence is very limited and of low quality in this patient group.

      Systematic review of the use of technology enabled healthcare in asthma care has not
      identified significant harms or instances in which it was less effective than conventional
      care and the studies in asthma patients gave results encouraging enough to suggest further
      analysis of digital models of care. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study
      looking at an integrated approach of using a self-management app, telemonitoring and
      asynchronous remote consulting in asthma patients.
    
  