
    
      Patients may stay either in-hospital while being treated with Tacrolimus, receive treatment
      as an outpatient, or a combination of the two. Additionally, patients who are too sick to be
      treated at Rockefeller University (RU) (eg. patients actively seizing), but are in need of
      urgent treatment, may be treated at either Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center or New
      York-Presbyterian Hospital. During treatment, patients will undergo blood draws, at set
      intervals (see section g below), clinical evaluation, possibly repeat leukapheresis or large
      volume blood draw, and lumbar puncture (see below). Since many patients live far away from
      New York, some of these procedures may be performed by RU staff or in conjunction with their
      local MDs.

      Patients who are terminated from Tacrolimus treatment after 7-21 days will be followed up as
      outpatients for evaluation of their neurologic and medical status. Wherever possible, these
      patients will be seen on days 3 and 10 post treatment termination, and then on a biweekly
      basis for two months. Since many patients live far away from New York, they may instead be
      monitored in conjunction with their local MDs. Patients who show a definite clinical response
      to Tacrolimus may be maintained on a therapeutic dose for up to one year, and will be
      followed as outpatients. For patients receiving retreatment, they may be treated as
      inpatients or on an outpatient basis, at the discretion of the PI, on the same schedule as
      patients being treated initially. Long term improvement or decline in neurologic function
      will be objectively assessed by neurologic exam, which will be quantified by use of the
      Karnofsky scale (a measure of functional neurologic status). Since the vast majority of Hu
      patients decline over a 6-12 month period following diagnosis, a stable or improved Karnofsky
      score over such a time period will be taken as a measure of successful treatment. Repeat
      lumbar puncture (up to eight per year) and leukapheresis or large volume blood draw (approx.
      100 cc) may be performed (up to four of each per year), especially in the setting of
      neurologic change, to assess the immune responses to the medications.
    
  