
    
      The alveolar bone is formed during tooth eruption, and consists of maxillary and mandibular
      components that shape and support the alveolar sockets. When teeth are lost, alveolar atrophy
      occurs, ultimately resulting in a short and narrow alveolar ridge . Such changes in the
      alveolar bone have a significant effect on prosthetic restoration planning, and are
      particularly important for areas with esthetic requirements, such as the maxillary incisors.
      Since preservation of the alveolar bone after extraction makes implant placement and
      prosthetic restoration easier in the edentulous jaw, alveolar ridge preservation and
      reconstruction methods using various bone graft materials together with resorbable and
      non-resorbable membranes have been introduced in order to minimize the loss of alveolar bone
      after extraction.

      Investigations of changes in the alveolar bone after extraction have frequently been
      performed through clinical measurements and radiographic analysis. In particular, after the
      extraction of a tooth with fracture or severe periodontitis, the alveolar bone shows severe
      horizontal and vertical atrophy. The reduction in the width of the alveolar ridge is more
      notable in the horizontal direction than in the vertical direction, and the buccal wall of
      the alveolar bone has been reported to undergo greater vertical atrophy than the lingual
      wall. Changes in the width of the alveolar ridge after extraction occur in a relatively short
      time, decreasing most rapidly within the first six months after extraction, followed by
      continual, slow bone resorption over the course of the rest of the patient's life .

      When a tooth has been lost, the extent of alveolar bone resorption is affected by a range of
      factors, including the number of extracted teeth and bone walls, the bone density, the extent
      of alveolar bone loss, infection, and the presence or absence of adjacent teeth.

      Dental implant has become a predictable treatment option, with excellent long-term results.
      However, the success of implant therapy depends on the amount of bone volume at the insertion
      site.Unfavorable local conditions may provide insufficient bone volume that negatively
      affects the prognosis of dental implants. Cawood and Howell in 1988 ranked the atrophy degree
      of edentulous jaws in six classes. Particularly, atrophies within class IV, also known as
      "knife-edge" ridges, present a serious horizontal defect, making challenging the placement of
      regular implants.

      Many techniques have been developed to regenerate atrophic alveolar jaws for the placement of
      dental implants, performed either in combination with graft procedures or in second stage
      surgery after a period of healing. For many years, bone blocks represented the gold standard
      to reconstruct the alveolar ridge bone defects. This technique requires to harvest a wide
      amount of bone to rebuild the atrophic crest.(20). For this reason, bone blocks were often
      harvested from extra-oral sites with an higher morbidity. Moreover some problems can occur
      when a combined defects (horizontal and vertical) need to be treated. Guided bone
      regeneration (GBR) has been proposed as a possible alternative for patients with severe
      horizontal bone atrophy, to overcome the drawback of bone blocks techniques. To protect and
      prevent the invasion of the clot by nonosteogenic cells, maintaining an adequate biological
      space for the regeneration of bone tissue, the use of both non-resorbable or resorbable
      membranes, in combination with autologous or heterologous particulate bone have been
      proposed. Particulated autogenous bone can be mixed with bone substitutes to add more
      osteogenic factors.

      Guided bone regeneration or GBR, and guided tissue regeneration or GTR are dental surgical
      procedures that use barrier membranes to direct the growth of new bone and gingival tissue at
      sites with insufficient volumes or dimensions of bone or gingiva for proper function,
      esthetics or prosthetic restoration.

      GBR is similar to guided tissue regeneration (GTR) but is focused on development of hard
      tissues in addition to the soft tissues of the periodontal attachment. At present, guided
      bone regeneration is predominantly applied in the oral cavity to support new hard tissue
      growth on an alveolar ridge to allow stable placement of dental implants.

      The first application of barrier membranes in the mouth occurred in 1982. in the context of
      regeneration of periodontal tissues via GTR, as an alternative to resective surgical
      procedures to reduce pocket depths.Barrier membrane is utilized in GBR technique to cover the
      bone defect and create a secluded space, which prevents the connective tissue from growing
      into the space and facilitates the growth priority of bone tissue.

      Several surgical techniques via GBR have been proposed regarding the tri-dimensional bone
      reconstruction of the severely resorbed maxilla, using different types of bone substitutes
      that have regenerative, osseoinductive or osseoconductive properties which is then packed
      into the bony defect and covered by resorbable membranes. In cases where augmentation
      materials used are autografts or allografts the bone density is quite low and resorption of
      the grafted site in these cases can reach up to 30% of original volume. For higher
      predictability, nonresorbable titanium-reinforced d-polytetrafluoroethylene (d-PTFE)
      membranes-as a barrier against the migration of epithelial cells within the grafted site-are
      recommended.

      Non-resorbable membranes retain their shape and structure in the tissues, requiring a second
      surgical procedure for removal, with consequent additional patient discomfort, and a raise in
      the costs and duration of the therapy. Non-resorbable membranes include: (i) expanded
      polytetrafluoroethylene (e-PTFE, Gore-Tex®); (ii) high-density polytetrafluoroethylene
      (d-PTFE) and (iii) titanium-reinforced expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (Ti-e-PTFE)
      membranes. The PTFE physico-chemical, thermal, and mechanical properties make it one of the
      most inert materials.The microstructure of e-PTFE consists of solid nodes interconnected by
      fine, highly oriented fibrils, providing a unique porous structure. The e-PTFE membranes,
      first used in 1984, have different structural features at both membrane sides.Effectiveness
      of e-PTFE membranes was investigated in numerous clinical studies, that confirmed their
      excellent biocompatibility, leading to a significant bone regeneration after 3- and 6-month
      healing period .However, drawbacks of e-PTFE membranes are (i) the need for a second surgical
      procedure and (ii) membrane stiffness that may result in soft tissue dehiscence (which is the
      cause of failure during the first 3 weeks after membrane implantation), allowing the exposure
      of the membrane to bacterial infection.

      The d-PTFE membrane, developed in 1993, is a non-resorbable membrane, consisting of a
      high-density PTFE having submicron (0.2 μm) pores. The d-PTFE membranes do not require
      primary closure and preserve the full width of keratinized mucosa, producing an interesting
      advantage in respect to e-PTFE. Compared to e-PTFE membranes, the macroporosity of which
      enhances bacterial colonization upon exposure .the density of the d-PTFE membranes (i)
      prevents the infections as widely described by different authors .and (ii) makes membranes
      easy to be removed.

      Titanium-reinforced barrier membranes were introduced (Cytoplast® TI-250 Titanium-Reinforced)
      by Jovanovic and Nevins . who reported the superior regenerative ability of these membranes
      in respect to the conventional e-PTFE ones. The titanium reinforcement provides mechanical
      support to the overlying soft tissue preventing its collapse into the defect. In addition,
      during the surgical procedure, titanium struts permit the surgeon to easily place the
      membrane under flaps with minimal dissection and flap reflection Native collagen membranes
      have rapid biodegradation by the enzymatic activity of macrophages and polymorphonuclear
      leucocytes occurs when using them. these membranes are well documented and have excellent
      results . they have good tissue integration and vascularization from periosteal side.there is
      a debate about what is more important biocompatibility or resorption time . The most
      important commercial collagen membrane is Bio-Gide®, which is based on Xenogenic collagen
      Type I form porcine skin and is characterized by a bilayered structure with a dense and a
      porous layer. The dense layer has a smooth surface able to avoid epithelial cell infiltration
      into bone defects, while the porous layer allows tissue integration.
    
  