
    
      Paramedian lumbar interbody fusion has been hypothesized to be advantageous over midline
      approaches for several reasons, the most important of which is lower post-operative infection
      rates. To achieve our long-term goal of conducting a RCT to examine this issue in-depth, a
      pilot study is initially required to examine if this surgical approach may indeed lower
      infection rates and associated health care cost savings.

      It is hypothesized that: (1) there will be a statistically- and clinically-significant
      difference in infection rates with each approach to the lumbar spine, with those for the
      paramedian approach being lower; and (2) as a result of lower infection and complication
      rates, and reduced length of stay, the costs associated with the paramedian approach to the
      spine will be substantially less.

      All consecutive patients deemed appropriate surgical candidates with single or two-level
      degenerative spondylolisthesis will be approached for participation and inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be evaluated. (Note: Target enrollments will not be set a priori, but
      determined through the course of this proposal.) Once patients are confirmed to be eligible
      for the study, baseline patient reported outcome data will be collected (ODI, SF-12, EQ-5D,
      PHQ-9 and generic demographic information). Recruits will be randomized into either the
      midline or paramedian group using a computer-generated randomization process. After surgery,
      the surgeon will complete a post-operative summary, discharge form and adverse events form.
      Follow-up appointments at 6 weeks and 3 months will include repeating the patient reported
      health outcome questionnaires (ODI, SF-12, EQ-5D, PHQ-D) as well as a cost diary and pain
      questionnaire. With the assistance of our institution's Research Methods Unit, data analysis
      will be conducted. Continuous variables (length of stay, SF-12, EQ-5D) will be compared using
      students T-test while adjusting for potential confounders (diabetes, primary diagnosis, etc)
      using multi regression models. Categorical data will be analyzed using Chi-squared analysis
      while controlling for confounders using Cox-proportional hazards ratios.

      One of the primary outcomes will be infection rates. To avoid bias in this area, infection
      will be tracked using the Center for Disease Control (CDC) criteria for diagnosing both deep
      and superficial infections. Deep infections will be diagnosed with deep wound cultures. The
      CDC criteria for diagnosing superficial infection is erythema, drainage, dehiscence and
      "surgeon opinion", allowing for significant subjectively in superficial infections. As such,
      it is possible that surgeons may preferentially diagnose more midline or Wiltse incisions
      with superficial infection depending on whether they may have an inherent favoured approach.
      While it is impossible to truly blind surgeons, allied health care personnel who would have
      less bias in favour of one approach will assess all wounds. This is in-line with current
      practice, as wounds are generally assessed by nurses in the clinic, and staples or sutures
      are removed at the two-week follow-up visit. Surgeons are only asked to assess wounds that
      are questionable. This would decrease some of the potential bias as part of this un-blinded
      study. Surgeon opinion will have no impact on deep infection, because this will generally
      require irrigation and debridement in the operating theater which will be captured.

      The benefits, in the event of a positive study outcome, will lead to substantial improvements
      in patient care with reduced infection rates. If the evidence is compelling from a pilot
      study, the goal would be to move to a prospective, multi-centered randomized control trial to
      further examine this research question and potential adoption of more midline sparing surgery
      for fusion procedures of the lumbar spine. In the event that significant cost savings are
      demonstrated, quality assurance officers and policy makers would be compelled to adjust
      remuneration codes and possibly limit the compensation in cases where a midline approach was
      chosen. The cost savings for the system would be substantial even if only a significant
      difference in infection rate was demonstrated. There are risks are for lumbar spine surgery
      in general. At present, these risks are assumed to be equivalent with the two surgical
      approaches to be examined in this study and patients joining in the study can be assured of
      high-quality care for their condition regardless of the treatment arm to which they are
      allocated. However, if this proposed study can show that infection rates can be lowered with
      surgical approach, then the benefits definitely outweigh the risks.
    
  