
    
      Among patients with heart disease, depression and anxiety disorders are extremely common.
      After a myocardial infarction (MI), depression tends to persist over the next year.
      Similarly, among individuals who have significantly elevated anxiety following an episode of
      an acute coronary syndrome, only 50% have a resolution of their anxiety in the year after the
      event, which suggests that for many patients anxiety can remain a chronic problem. Depression
      confers a 2-fold increased risk of mortality and adverse cardiac events after MI or heart
      failure and has been linked to poor outcomes after cardiac surgery.

      Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is the best-studied form of psychotherapy in patients who
      have had a myocardial infarction, in reducing depressive symptoms. However, there is a dearth
      of literature on the use of psycho-social interventions in those with medical problems in low
      and middle-income countries. This study is planned to explore the effect of culturally
      adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CaCBT) based Guided self-help (using the book, Khushi
      Aur Khatoon) compared with treatment as usual in improving depression in MI patients.
      Participants visiting Punjab Institute of Cardiology - Lahore, who meet the entry criteria
      will be randomly allocated to one of the groups, i.e., CaCBT (Intervention group) or TAU
      (Control Group) in a 1:1 ratio. after taking written informed consent.

      With a 5% significance level and 90% power, it was calculated that 48 subjects per group will
      be required for the trial, with a total number of 96. To accommodate for upto 30% of drop
      out, we plan to recruit 140 participants in the study.

      Participants will be assessed at baseline and 8 weeks (end of therapy) from baseline. Primary
      outcome measure will be the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The secondary
      outcome measures include HADS Anxiety and Depression Subscales; Bradford Somatic Inventory
      (BSI) and World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHO DAS 2.0). We will
      also measure satisfaction with the treatment at the end of therapy using a visual analogue
      scale.

      We will follow the CONSORT guidelines for reporting of randomized controlled trials. The
      analyses will be carried out on an intention-to-treat basis using SPSS version 25.
      Comparisons for an intention to treat analysis participants will be included in the groups to
      which they are randomized regardless of how long or even whether they received the treatment
      allocated to them or not. Missing values will be imputed using the last observation carried
      forward (LOCF) method. Both Chi-Square and t-test will be used for baseline comparisons. End
      of therapy scores on various outcome measures between the Intervention and the Control groups
      will be compared using an Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) to adjust for baseline scores.
    
  