
    
      T1. Objective and hypotheses Acute heart failure (AHF) is associated with the disorders of
      peripheral perfusion, leading to injury of many vital organs. Consequently, each episode of
      AHF can have a form of multiple organ failure with potential injury and dysfunction of
      skeletal muscles; however, this latter issue has not been addressed in literature thus far.
      The aim of this project is to comprehensively evaluate the skeletal muscles (at a functional
      and tissue level) during acute heart failure. The following hypotheses will be verified:(1)
      Impaired perfusion of the muscles is reflected by their injury and significant functional
      abnormalities; (2) Early implemented motor rehabilitation improves perfusion and function of
      skeletal muscles; This study will demonstrate that skeletal muscles are involved as a
      component of AHF-related multiple organ failure.

      Moreover, study will involve the analysis of the effect of physical exercise sessions on the
      hemodynamic parameters of patients with AHF (cardiac output, stroke volume, arterial blood
      pressure, and systemic vascular resistance); this question has not been addressed thus far.

      Method The study will include 30 consecutive patients with AHF (resulting from the
      decompensation of chronic systolic HF). In the case of 20 patients the therapeutic process
      will include cardiologic rehabilitation, and only standard pharmacotherapy will be
      administered in another 10 patients. The cardiologic rehabilitation will follow the protocol
      for patients with AHF used routinely at the Center for Heart Disease, Military Clinical
      Hospital with Polyclinic in Wroclaw. The protocol includes gradually increasing level of
      physical exercise: respiratory, assisted, active dynamic, and relaxation exercises, as well
      as short-term isometric exercises and general strength exercises of very low intensity, short
      duration and properly adjusted recovery phase.

      The following tests will be conducted on the first and last day of hospitalization and 30
      days following the discharge:

      Clinical evaluation - history taking, routine physical examination, echocardiography,
      determination of natriuretic peptides (NT-proBNP), basic laboratory tests with special
      emphasis on the inflammatory markers and renal and liver parameters.

      Hemodynamic evaluation - non-invasive determination of cardiac output and systemic vascular
      resistance by means of impedance cardiography.

      Evaluation of myocyte injury markers - immunochemical measurements of tissue-specific
      enzymatic isoforms will be taken in order to distinguish between the markers of skeletal
      muscle and myocardial injury. The biomarkers of muscular injury (e.g. creatine kinase CK, its
      muscular isozyme CKMM, lactate dehydrogenase 5 LDH5, myoglobin, and carbonic anhydrase III)
      will be determined in serum by means of ELISA.

      Moreover, the following tests will be conducted at rest and post-exercise on the first day of
      hospitalization, as well as on the first, third and last day of rehabilitation (the latter
      term corresponding to the last day of hospitalization as well) and 30 days after the
      discharge:

      Evaluation of skeletal muscle function will be conducted by means of surface electromyography
      (sEMG). Maximum tonus of the muscles will be determined along with the level of muscular
      fatigability and its changes over time. Moreover, two functional tests will be conducted at
      discharge from the hospital and 30 days thereafter: the 6-minute walk test and the 30-second
      "chair stand" test examining the strength endurance of the lower body (pertaining to repeated
      getting up from a chair over a period of 30 seconds).

      Evaluation of muscle tissue perfusion (examined indirectly on the basis of oxygenation level)
      will be conducted with non-invasively by direct continuous recording of perfusion in
      peripheral tissues by local tissue oximetry, the so-called near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS).
      NIRS is based on the absorption of near-infrared waves by oxygenated and reduced hemoglobin.
      The levels of absorption reflect the degree of tissue oxygenation in a given area of
      microcirculation. Furthermore, a capillary gasometry (oxygen saturation and lactate
      concentration) will be determined
    
  