
    
      An instrument, a questionnaire, previously developed by our group (IRB# 0512075) will be used
      to determine these cancer patient/subjects' preferences for the following six categories (see
      Appendix 1)

        1. How should the radiation oncologist address them (by their first name or Mr/Mrs)?

        2. Should the radiation oncologists wear a white coat?

        3. Should the radiation oncologist discuss their prognosis and survival with them?

        4. Should the radiation oncologist have physical contact with their patient (hold hand or
           hug the patient.)?

        5. Should the radiation oncologist inquire about their religious beliefs to help cope with
           their cancer?

        6. Should the radiation oncologist use basic, lay language or more technical terminology
           when describing the radiation treatment?

      This research study will consist of a randomized study of breast, prostate, and lung cancer
      patients/subjects receiving radiation therapy at the University of Pittsburgh Cancer
      Institute and UPMC Cancer Centers who will complete this questionnaire. Radiation therapy can
      be either for definitive or palliative therapy. This creates six distinct cohorts in the
      study (definitive breast, prostate, and lung cancer, palliative breast, prostate, and lung
      cancer) that provide an adequate representation of the cancer patient/subject cohorts that
      receive radiation therapy.

      Patients/subjects will answer this questionnaire at the time of the initial consultation with
      the radiation oncologist (before meeting the radiation oncologist), once midway during
      radiation therapy, and at the completion of the radiation treatment. At completion, there
      will be additional questions used from a modified version of an established validated
      instrument currently being used at the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute to assess
      patient/subject satisfaction. (Appendix 2). Participants will rate the importance of each
      item on a 5-point scale: strongly disagree, disagree, neither agree nor disagree, agree, or
      strongly agree. They will also use a parallel ranking from 0-100 on each item to more finely
      assess the satisfaction differences for the survey in Appendix 2 only.

      After subjects answer the questionnaire at time of initial consultation, the subject will
      then be randomized to either an experimental or control group. In the experimental group, the
      radiation oncologist participants will read their patient's responses to this questionnaire
      prior to their initial consultation and try to adapt to the subject's (patient's)
      preferences. In the control group, the radiation oncologist participant will be blinded to
      the results of their patient's questionnaire. At the end of treatment, the radiation
      oncologists who viewed their patient preferences will have to answer the following question
      according to the 5 point scale system: "Did knowledge of your patient's preferences influence
      your behavior?" The radiation oncologist participant will not have access to the patient
      satisfaction survey.

      The duration of study per patient participant will the duration of the radiation treatment
      which has an average length of 4 weeks. A subject accrual of 500 patient participants and 30
      radiation oncologist participants is expected at the University of Pittsburgh Cancer
      Institute and UPMC Cancer Centers, consisting of 19 Radiation Oncology centers across Western
      Pennsylvania. The expected duration of the entire study is 1 year. The data will be collected
      through these instruments to generate a database collected in our database management system.
      The data will be coded and maintained by the clinical study coordinator.
    
  