
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of pazopanib hydrochloride in combination with
           paclitaxel and carboplatin in patients with platinum-refractory or -resistant ovarian
           epithelial, fallopian tube, or peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) at 1 year according to the RECIST 1.1
           in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety and adverse event profiles in these patients. (Phase I and phase
           II)

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of this regimen using intensive sampling. (Phase
           I)

        -  To determine if there is PK interaction (and if so, what kind of PK interaction) between
           carboplatin and paclitaxel as well as pazopanib hydrochloride. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the response rate (RR) in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To determine and evaluate predictive biomarkers. (Phase I and phase II)

        -  To determine the RR, overall survival (OS), and PFS of these patients. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of carboplatin, paclitaxel,
      and pazopanib hydrochloride followed by a phase II randomized study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour followed by carboplatin IV over 30
           minutes on day 1. Patients also receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride* once daily on days
           2-7. Treatment repeats every week for up to 18 courses**. Patients then continue to
           receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride once daily in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Pazopanib hydrochloride is started in course 2 in order to evaluate the
      pharmacokinetic of paclitaxel and carboplatin prior to pazopanib hydrochloride
      administration.

        -  Phase II: Patients are stratified according to center, disease status
           (platinum-refractory vs -resistant) and number of prior lines of treatment (1 vs more
           than 1). Patients are randomized in a 2:1 ratio (arm II [experimental arm]: arm I
           [standard arm]) to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I (standard arm): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV
                over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every week for up to 18 courses.

             -  Arm II (experimental arm): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and
                carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive oral pazopanib
                hydrochloride once daily on days 2-7. Treatment repeats every week for up to 18
                courses**. Patients then continue to receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride once
                daily in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: **After course 9, chemotherapy will be interrupted for 1 week.

      Blood samples are collected from some patients periodically for pharmacokinetic and biomarker
      studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 weeks, every 3 months for
      2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  