
    
      Background:

        -  Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC) is a calcitonin producing tumor arising from the
           parafollicular C cells of thyroid. In children and adults, MTC is usually seen in
           association with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia (MEN) 2A and 2B, which are rare cancer
           syndromes resulting from germline mutations of Rearranged during Transfection (RET)
           proto-oncogene. MTC develops in virtually all patients with MEN 2, and is the leading
           cause of death in these patients. Patients with MEN 2 may have other characteristic
           manifestations such as pheochromocytoma and hyperparathyroidism in MEN 2A and
           pheochromocytoma, ganglioneuromatosis, and skeletal deformities in MEN 2B.

        -  Complete surgical resection is the only current curative treatment for MTC, and the
           tumor is unresponsive to standard chemotherapy and conventional doses of radiation
           therapy. However, more than half the patients present with advanced or metastatic
           disease and cannot be cured surgically. Novel agents are currently under investigation
           for treatment of MTC, and vandetanib, an oral RET and receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK)
           inhibitor was recently approved by the FDA for adults with advanced or metastatic MTC.
           Vandetanib also has activity in children with hereditary MTC.

        -  However, complete responses to RTKs have not been observed, and some patients develop
           resistance to the treatment with RET and RTK inhibitors or have primary refractory
           disease. The natural history of MTC, particularly in patients with MEN 2, the molecular
           pathways involved in tumorigenesis, and the development of resistance to targeted
           therapies are not well understood.

      Objectives:

      -The overall objective of this longitudinal study is to develop a better understanding of the
      biology and natural history of MEN2 with or without MTC, particularly in children and adults
      with MEN 2A and 2B, as well as study non-tumor manifestations of MEN 2. This will hopefully
      allow for developing more effective treatment interventions for tumor and non-tumor related
      manifestations, and more sensitive endpoints in clinical trials.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients, must have histologically or cytologically confirmed MTC, confirmed by the
           Laboratory of Pathology, NCI or who have MEN2 (regardless of MTC status).

        -  Parent or primary caregiver of patient participant (<= 21)

        -  Participants may be undergoing standard care or receiving treatment on a clinical trial
           while participating in this study.

      Design:

      This study will allow for longitudinal evaluations of MTC and MEN2 and non-tumor related
      manifestations of MEN 2A and 2B in children and adults. Evaluations will consist of the
      following (summarized):

        1. Clinical and radiological evaluations

        2. Detailed pathologic and molecular analysis of tumor specimens will be performed,
           including immunohistochemistry (IHC), comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), and
           genome sequencing. CGH and genome sequencing will be performd with co-enrollment on
           protocol 10-C-0086 Comprehensive Omics Analysis of Pediatric Solid Tumors and
           Establishment of a Repository for Related Biological Studies.
    
  