
    
      The investigators will conduct a large prospective Canadian multi-centre diagnostic cohort
      study. The primary diagnostic test evaluated will be CT-perfusion. The reference standard
      will be the complete clinical evaluation of brainstem functions. Comatose patients at high
      risk of neurological death exempt of confounding factors (e.g. hypothermic patients, use of
      long-acting sedatives, etc.) will be included. All patients will undergo CT-perfusion of the
      head (with CT-angiography reconstructions) followed by a complete NDD assessment. Both
      CT-perfusion and the clinical exam will be performed by independent assessors blinded from
      each others' interpretation. The primary endpoints will be the sensitivity and specificity of
      CT-perfusion to confirm NDD. Safety endpoints will be CT-perfusion -related adverse events
      (i.e. contrast-induced kidney injury, new hemodynamic instability while undergoing
      CT-perfusion). The true negative, true positive, false negative and false positive for
      CT-angiography obtained from the CT-perfusion source images when compared to the reference
      standard as well as when compared to the CT-Perfusion will also be reported. The sensitivity
      and specificity of CT-angiography compared to the reference standard and to CT-perfusion
      along with corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be calculated. Individual patient and
      population pharmacokinetics of analgesics and sedatives will be determined. To better
      investigate the impact of residual circulating sedative or narcotic levels on the accuracy of
      CT-Perfusion and CT-Angiography, Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curves for varying
      levels of narcotic or sedative thresholds and compute the ROC area under the curve for each
      threshold will be plotted. To assess the immune phenotype, peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      activation will be evaluated by flow cytometry and cytokines by multiplex analyses.
      Nanovesicles fraction will be isolated from the plasma by ultracentrifugation and antigenic
      content and enzymatic activity. The plasma will finally be analysed by ELISAs and multiplex
      analyses to determine the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
    
  