
    
      The vaccine, called NMRC-M3V-Ad-PfCA (key: NMRC + Multi-antigen Multi-stage, Malaria Vaccine
      + Adenovectored + P. falciparum CSP & AMA1 antigens), is a combination of two recombinant
      adenovirus-derived constructs (adenovectors), one expressing the pre-erythrocytic stage
      antigen circumsporozoite protein (CSP) and the other expressing the erythrocytic stage
      antigen Apical Membrane Antigen 1 (AMA1), both from the 3D7 strain of P. falciparum. The
      vector is an attenuated, replication-deficient adenovirus derived from wildtype serotype 5
      adenovirus through the deletion of several genes. The vaccine is formulated in a buffered
      saline solution (Final Formulation Buffer = FFB).

      This is a Phase 1/2a, randomized, open-label, dose-escalating trial of the NMRC-M3V-Ad-PfCA
      vaccine administered intramuscularly to healthy, malaria-naïve adult volunteers. All
      volunteers will be seronegative (< 1:500, by a luciferase-based neutralizing antibody assay;
      VRC, Bethesda) for adenovirus serotype 5. In the first part of the study (dose-escalation
      phase, Part A), 1 x 1010 particle units (pu) per construct or 2 x 1010 pu total will be
      administered to six volunteers as a single dose to assess safety, and 4 weeks later, 5 x 1010
      pu per construct or 1 x 1011 pu total dose (five-fold dose escalation) will be administered
      to six additional volunteers. In the second part of the study (regimen-comparison phase, Part
      B), three regimens for administration will be compared: one dose, two doses administered ten
      days apart, and two doses administered 16 weeks apart. Separate groups will receive one dose
      of the individual components of the vaccine (NMRC-MV-Ad-PfC and NMRC-MV-Ad-PfA). Following
      immunization, volunteers participating in the regimen-comparison phase as well as several
      non-immunized control volunteers (serving as infectivity controls) will be challenged with P.
      falciparum sporozoites in order to assess vaccine efficacy against non-immunized controls
      challenged at the same time. The proposed design of the regimen-comparison phase will provide
      information to direct selection of an appropriate dosing regimen for subsequent studies, and
      will also indicate whether the two constituent antigens, when co-formulated, act
      synergistically, independently, or interfere with each other in the induction of
      antigen-specific immune responses and protective immunity.
    
  