
    
      Objective

      To compare the efficacy of 1 minute versus 5 minutes time to release of budesonide with lying
      head back position following administration via mucosal atomization device (MAD).

      Hypothesis

      Budesonide delivered to the sinuses with lying head back position and a 5 minute time to
      release (5MR) of medication will be more effective at decreasing inflammation both
      objectively and subjectively when compared to 1 minute time to release (1MR) of medication
      after administration.

      Baseline and Follow-up Visits Evaluation:

      The following information will be obtained from each participant

      Baseline Demographic Data: Age, sex, smoking status, CRS subtype, pre-existing comorbidities,
      history of asthma, history of previous surgery, history of previous medications including
      oral and inhaled corticosteroids.

      Clinical Data: Modified Lund-Kennedy (MLK) scores, sinonasal cultures, Sino-nasal Outcome
      Test-22 (SNOT-22), EuroQol-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) scores, and culture.

      Conduct of Study:

      The proposed study is a single blind randomized, controlled crossover study at of 20 weeks in
      duration. Participants who have CRS and who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will
      be invited to participate in this study.

      Participants will undergo a 2 week "washout" period before starting their respective
      administration method. The first administration methods will be once daily for 8 weeks in
      duration. This is then followed by an additional "washout" period of 2 weeks. Finally,
      participants will switch to the other administration method for an additional treatment
      duration of daily application for 8 weeks. The goal is to assess which administration method
      is more effective. Participants will be asked to administer budesonide daily with a minimum
      requirement of at least five days a week to ensure changes seen are related to the
      appropriate treatment arm. The "washout" period will involve standard of care daily
      non-medicated intranasal saline irrigation. Data will be collected at baseline, 2 weeks, 10
      weeks, 12 weeks, and lastly 20 weeks follow-up visit. SNOT-22 questionnaires, EQ-5D-5L
      questionnaires, endoscopic evaluation, and Modified Lund Kennedy Scores will each be
      completed at baseline and then again at 2 weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks, and 20 weeks.

      Upon enrolment in the study, participants will be randomly divided to either start with 5MR
      or 1MR administration methods through 1:1 block randomization. In addition, demographic data
      and clinical data will be obtained by the investigators.

      Management of Patient Care:

      The clinical care remains the same for participants participating in this study; however,
      there is a possibility that some participants will experience an increased frequency of
      visits to the clinic with some being spaced 2 weeks apart. The increased appointments are
      required to effectively transition each participants into the different treatment types and
      also to acquire additional outcome measures. This will be clearly explained to each
      participant to ensure that they are aware of the additional appointments compared to standard
      of care. Otherwise, there are no additional risks imposed on the study participants.
      Participants have the right to withdraw from the study at any time. Participants who meet any
      of the exclusion criteria that were not noted at the beginning of the study will be removed
      from this study and the physician will discuss the future management options with the
      participant.

      Sample Size:

      A recruitment goal of 60 participants (30 participants per study arm) is expected to
      demonstrate an effect for the study. To account for a drop-out rate of 25% the investigators
      plan to recruit 40 participants in each arm.

      The washout periods included in the crossover study design will allow for more control in
      regards to reducing confounding variables. In particular, this allows participants to start
      at a similar baseline by using the same standard of treatment with Budesonide for the 2 weeks
      of washout before going into the 5MR or 1MR treatments.

      Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze the baseline characteristic data and the data
      from the administered surveys and objective findings of cultures and MLK scores. In addition,
      rigorous statistical analysis will be conducted on the Likert scale-based SNOT-22 and
      EQ-5D-5L surveys. These analyses will include paired t tests with repeated measured ANOVA for
      validation and confidence intervals.

      Safety Monitoring:

      Participants who experience signs and symptoms of budesonide reaction will be noted and the
      code will be broken so that a discussion can occur between the research supervisor and the
      participants regarding the use.

      All expected and unexpected adverse events will be recorded and graded by the research
      supervisor. Stable chronic conditions, which are present prior to the clinical trial entry
      and do not worsen, are not considered adverse events and will be accounted for in the
      participant's medical history.

      During each participant visit, the research supervisor will ask appropriate questions and
      perform a physical exam to elicit any adverse events. The research supervisor will also
      review any relevant clinical data and laboratory investigations with the partcicpant. All
      reportable adverse events will be recorded on appropriate case report form. The research
      supervisor will also write the stop date, the severity of the AE and his judgment of the AE's
      relationship to the study.

      A Serious Adverse Event (SAE) is defined as an AE meeting one of the following:

      Death occurring between Day 0 and 182 days (6 months) of the study. Life Threatening Event
      (defined as a participant at immediate risk of death at the time of the event) In-participant
      hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization between Day 0 and 42 of the
      study.

      Results in a persistent or significant disability/incapacity In the event of SAE, the
      research supervisor will discuss with the partcipant (or next of kin) whether there is a
      relationship between the study and the SAE. If there is a relationship, the PI will be
      responsible for coordinating care for the participant until the SAE has been addressed.

      Pregnancy During the Trial Participants will be responsible for determining if they are
      pregnant or become pregnant during the study. If participants notify the PI they are
      pregnant, they will be removed from the study and the medical management options will be
      discussed.
    
  