
    
      Adverse effects of oral anticoagulants (warfarin, fluindione mainly) are bleeding
      complications and concern 13% of hospitalizations, approximately 17,000 admissions per year.
      They constitute 12.3% of iatrogenic adverse effect according to the latest results of the
      survey conducted by the haute autorité de santé (HAS). A study realized in 2000, with 2976
      patients, shows that 28.8% of patients were outside of any therapeutic range (<2 or> 4.5). In
      2003, a third of french biologists had no knowledge of the indication of VKA treatment of
      patients at the INR measurement, and more than fifty percent in 2000. When the therapeutic
      range was known, the value of the INR remained outside it in 30% of cases. The median time
      between INR equilibration phase was 5 to 6 days, while the recommended time is 2 to 4 days. A
      quarter of patients in phase equilibrium treatment did not have a measure of INR at least
      once a month. Followed over a period of a year, patients spent 40% of the time with a value
      of INR outside the therapeutic range, high-risk area of recurrent thrombosis or hemorrhage.
      That is why they require regular monitoring of INR.

      Currently, this monitoring is done through a blood sample analyzed by a laboratory according
      to standard techniques.

      The use of the INR measurement by capillary method provides a result in less than 3 minutes.
      This also allows the development of different monitoring strategies. In the context of a
      self-monitoring measure, the patient himself performs the test using the device and
      therapeutic adjustment is made by the health care professional.

      Data analysis by HAS showed that the use of a self-measurement device significantly improved
      the time spent in the therapeutic range, reduced the risk of major bleeding and the accident
      major thromboembolism.

      The pathologies treated by VKA are more common in the elderly. They are also more vulnerable
      to falls, overdoses of these treatments because their pharmacokinetics is amended by
      polypharmacy, malnutrition, less protein binding. The relative risk of bleeding is
      multiplicated by two beyond 70 years. Despite the emergence of new anticoagulants in the
      prevention of complications of arrhythmia (this disorder affect nearly 10% of the population
      aged over 80 years), VKA remains prevalent because these new drugs have renal elimination
      that can not be monitored, and can not be dialysable, have no antidote and represent a daily
      cost about 30 times the VKA.

      The question of the use of devices for self-measurement of INR in the elderly is particularly
      timely, because this population has never had, to our knowledge, a specific evaluation of
      this technique.

      Elderly population would derive the greatest benefit of this system because it will
      significantly improve the time spend in the therapeutic range, and reduce the risk of
      bleeding and thromboembolic events in reducing INR fluctuations.

      We build a multicenter study whose main objective is to demonstrate the concordance of INR
      measurement by the capillary way (INRatio2 ®, SAS ALERE, Jouy-en-Josas) with venous technical
      reference. It concerns patients older than 75 years treated with VKA and hospitalized in
      Internal Medicine, Geriatrics and Vascular Medicine in the fours university hospital of the
      G4 region. The secondary objectives are to estimate the prevalence of antiphospholipid
      antibodies (ranging from 12 to 55% depending on the study) and their influence on the
      measurement of the INR by capillary method and the variability of the INR veinous measurement
      in function of the hospital, with a centralized INR measurement which allow to compare. 150
      patients is required to perform this study.
    
  