
    
      1. Introduction Uncontrolled hypertension is more prevalent in patients with chronic kidney
           disease (CKD) and the risk of developing end-stage renal disease is increased in
           patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Clinical and experimental studies have clearly
           shown that sympathetic nerve activity is increased in CKD and substantially aggravates
           the progression of CKD. Recent clinical studies have indicated that invasive,
           catheter-based renal denervation (RDN) decreases the sympathetic nerve activity in the
           whole body and in particular in the kidneys. In patients with primary hypertension
           washed off of antihypertensive medications, RDN has been found to significantly decrease
           blood pressure (BP) in two randomized, double blind, sham-controlled studies.

        2. Study Purpose The purpose of the RDN-CKD Study is to demonstrate that RDN effectively
           reduces 24-h ambulatory BP in patients with CKD stage 3.

        3. Study Design RDN-CKD Study is a prospective, randomized (1:1, central randomization),
           double-blind (unblinded interventionalist and blinded study team at each center), sham
           controlled, multicenter feasibility study. All centers have participated at least in one
           of the sham-controlled trials in primary hypertension thereby having established an
           unblinded and a blinded team.

        4. Patient Population

      80 patients with CKD stages 3a or 3b (according to the currently used estimation formulas
      [MDRD, CKD-EPI] and uncontrolled hypertension.

      5 Endpoints Primary Efficacy Endpoint The primary efficacy endpoint will be the change in
      systolic 24-h ambulatory BP at 6 months post-procedure compared between the 2 groups.

      6 Visit and Follow-Up Schedule The primary efficacy endpoint will be assessed at 26 weeks (6
      months) post-procedure in both cohorts; however, all subjects will be followed for a minimum
      of 12 months post-procedure. Scheduled in-clinic follow-up (FU) visits will occur at 3, 6, 12
      (3 months), 19, 26 (6 months), 39 and 52 (12 months) weeks post procedure.

      7 Blinding The subjects and all study personnel taking BP measurements will be blinded to the
      randomization. Subjects will complete a blinding assessment prior to hospital pre-discharge
      and at 3 weeks and 6 months FU.

      8 Crossover to treatment Crossover of patients allocated to the sham group is allowed after
      12 months. At that time, after 12 months of blinded FU, unblinding of the individual patient
      takes place. To be eligible for crossover treatment, patients have to fulfill the same BP
      criteria as specified at the inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria within the next 4
      weeks after FU.

      All randomized patients will be included in a registry after 12 months to capture long-term
      safety signals.

      9 Medication Adherence Adherence to drug therapy will be captured by interviewing patients,
      checking the patient's BP diary and by urinary toxicological analysis at baseline, 6 months,
      and 12 months visit.

      10 Safety Signals A major combined safety endpoint is the incidence of any major adverse
      events (MAE) through the 12 months FU.

      11 Study Geographies The RDN-CKD Study will be conducted at 4 clinical investigational sites,
      which are the University Hospitals in Erlangen, Homburg/Saar, Düsseldorf, and Nürnberg.

      12 Escape Criteria Enrolled subjects will be excluded if office (attended) BP exceeds
      ≥170/105 mmHg confirmed by 7-day average of home blood pressure measurements ≥ BP >160/100
      mmHg or confirmed by office (attended) BP ≥170/105 mmHg at another study visit.

      13 Ethics The study will be conducted in accordance with the declaration of Helsinki, ISO
      14155:2011, FDA 21 CFR parts 50, 54, 56, 812 and other applicable local and national
      regulations.
    
  