
    
      BACKGROUND: Advanced understanding of brain structure and function has improved the diagnosis
      and treatment of neurological disorders such as epilepsy, stroke, and spinal cord injury
      (SCI). Over half a century ago, the pioneering studies of Penfield used electrical
      stimulation of motor and sensory areas of cerebral cortex and revealed a distinct somatotopic
      organization of the brain. Today, this and additional knowledge of neuronal coding functions
      are being used to develop revolutionary devices that interface directly with motor and
      sensory neurons in the brain to establish functional connections with prosthetic and
      assistive devices. These so-called brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) require electrodes to be
      placed precisely in brain areas responsible for volitional control and sensation of limb
      movements, particularly the arm and hand regions. Mapping those brain regions is possible
      using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, such mapping studies are
      difficult to perform in persons with motor and sensory impairments. People with ALS and SCI
      have disrupted efferent and afferent pathways between the cortex and the limbs making it
      necessary to rely on covert techniques, such as kinesthetic motor imagery, to map
      sensorimotor brain activity in order to guide BCI electrode placement or to study cortical
      plasticity resulting from injury or intervention. Challenges associated with brain mapping
      after injury likely contribute to the widely varying reports regarding the extent and
      prevalence of functional reorganization occurring in the brain following SCI. fMRI is a
      non-invasive tool that allows for measurement of motor and sensory-related brain activity
      with minimal risk to study participants.

      SIGNIFICANCE: Restoration of upper limb function is a top priority for individuals with
      tetraplegia. It is estimated that 236,000-327,000 people in the United States have a spinal
      cord injury. Approximately 17% of people with SCI have high tetraplegia (injury at cervical
      levels C1-C4) although this percentage has been increasing in recent years. People with high
      tetraplegia are the most likely group to benefit from BCI-controlled neuroprosthetics,
      although the covert mapping strategies developed in this proposal could be used to study
      sensorimotor activation and plasticity in anyone with motor or sensory impairment including
      amputation. Sophisticated, motorized prostheses are being developed that enable natural upper
      limb movement and have advanced sensing capabilities. People with tetraplegia would like to
      restore function to their own limbs using FES, but this technology needs further advancement
      and does not replace sensation, which may still require a BCI. While FES research and
      development continues, people with tetraplegia could take advantage of motorized prostheses
      by mounting them to their wheelchair. Motorized prostheses can provide function comparable to
      that of an intact limb, but a high degree-of-freedom control interface is needed and BCI is
      one possible solution.

      Functional neuroimaging can be used to guide BCI electrode placement in order to tap into
      existing sensorimotor circuits. Imagery-based brain mapping also enables the study of
      cortical plasticity which could be useful for understanding maladaptive cortical changes that
      occur after injury or beneficial changes resulting from rehabilitation interventions. Just as
      pre-surgical brain mapping may help identify individuals who are best suited for a BCI,
      covert brain mapping in someone with motor and sensory impairments may inform the type of
      rehabilitation paradigm that is most likely to have a benefit. The potential benefit of being
      able to study cortical plasticity in the absence of movement or sensation is wide-reaching as
      it could be applied to patients with SCI, amputation, stroke, neurodegenerative diseases like
      amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or other sensorimotor impairment.
    
  