
    
      An initial four firefighters will be evaluated for change in PAHs associated with standard
      fire department flashover training to determine if urinary PAH metabolites increase following
      exposure, comparing baseline urine samples (collected for up to 12 hours before the training
      fire) to a repeat urine sample (collected up to 12 hours after cessation of the training
      fire.) If a significant increase is not seen, then repeat testing with four firefighters will
      be completed using burn room training scenarios. Air monitoring during the training periods
      may be carried out with standard industrial hygiene instruments.

      Stage 2: Once a significant increase in PAHs has been documented, the associated training
      scenario (flashover training or alternate live fire training), testing will be carried out in
      20 subjects. Prior to starting the training scenario, the firefighters will provide a urine
      sample (collected over a time period of 12 hours prior to the training fire), swallow a core
      temperature probe and wear a monitor for recording both their core temperature and heart
      rate. In addition, dermal wipes will be collected prior to the training fire. Air monitoring
      during the training periods will be carried out with standard industrial hygiene instruments.
      Following cessation of the training scenario, the subjects will follow their standard fire
      department procedures, which may involve using skin wipes and showering. The subjects will
      then be randomized to either an infrared sauna treatment, with or without exercising as
      determined by the fire department protocol, or no additional treatment, following their fire
      department protocols. Repeat dermal wipes will be collected in all subjects. Core temperature
      and heart rate will be monitored for up to 8 hours after training scenario. The subjects will
      collect all their urine after the fire training for a period of 12 hours. The urine will be
      analyzed for urinary PAH metabolites and potentially other toxicants from the fire, and,
      dependent on the available budget, similar evaluations may be carried out on the skin wipes.
    
  