
    
      This study is a prospective randomized control trial with 1:1 randomization of 300 patients
      to either use the AliveCor device and receive behavioral altering motivational text messaging
      OR continue with usual care. The sample size and power was based on the test of the
      difference in AF detection rates between the intervention group and the control group in a
      similarly design pilot study. In the preliminary data there were 4 episodes of AF during the
      follow-up of 12 patients or a detection rate of 0.33 vs. a detection rate of 8% among
      controls. The detection window in this study as the time period from randomization to the
      6-month follow-up will be defined. All patients' clinical records will be reviewed every
      month (via charts and/or internal and external electronic medical record systems) up until
      month 6 for initiations/changes in treatments targeting AF. A recurrence of AF in the chart
      and any related therapies that are initiated as a result of electrocardiogram (ECG) findings
      through usual cardiac care or from the AliveCor™ Heart Monitor will be specifically looked
      at. Changes in cardiovascular measures (blood pressure, glucose control, etc.) will be
      compared between groups. The effect of participating in the intervention, which includes
      targeted text messaging on AF knowledge and cardiovascular behavior change will be determined
      by comparing the change in AF knowledge scales from baseline to 6 months. This study will
      also measure and compare the incidence of documented AF in both groups, changes in prescribed
      treatment by healthcare providers over the 6-month period, and the relationship of the
      intervention to changes in cardiac measures and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) measured
      at baseline and 6 months. A biannual time period was chosen to capture AF redetection,
      changes in AF treatment, and self-reported quality of life based on other studies that have
      shown biannual time-points as most appropriate for collecting the proposed study endpoints.
    
  