
    
      Oral mucositis (OM) can affect up to 90% of head and neck cancer (HNC) patients treated with
      radiation therapy (RT) and/or chemotherapy (CT). It can be as severe as WHO grade 3 / 4 in
      35% to more than 50% of cases. The pathobiology of OM relates to injuries that occur in the
      epithelial and connective tissues, as a response to a complex cascade of biological events,
      involving all the tissues and cellular elements of the mucosa (Sonis et al., 2004). OM may
      result in dysphagia, pain, risk of infection, weight loss, interruption or modification of
      anticancer therapy, or hospitalization.

      As OM is a major and frequent side effect of RT, the Mucositis Study Group of the
      Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer and International Society of Oral
      Oncology (MASCC/ISOO) has published clinical practice guidelines for mucositis prevention
      secondary to cancer therapy. In addition to meticulous oral hygiene, MASCC/ISOO also suggests
      several therapeutic preventive strategies: growth factors, cytokines, anti-inflammatory
      agents, natural agents, … In the 2020 guidelines, photobiomodulation (PBM) formerly known as
      Low-Level Laser Therapy (LLLT), has obtain a full recommendation for the prevention of OM in
      patients undergoing RT, with or without concomitant CT, for HNC.

      PBM is the application of lasers or non-coherent light sources such as LEDs, to beneficially
      influence cellular metabolism. In a Cochrane review that included 32 clinical trials, PBM was
      the only treatment that demonstrated a reduction in the risk of severe mucositis. In 2011, a
      meta-analysis included 11 placebo-controlled randomized trials in 415 patients treated with
      CT or RT for head and neck cancer (HNC) or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. According
      to MASCC/ISOO recommendations, PBM is now recommended to prevent OM in HNC patients receiving
      RT with or without chemotherapy . The 2014 recommendations have been endorsed by the AFSOS
      (Association Française pour les Soins de Support en Oncologie) in France. Finally, the
      National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) determined that PBM for OM shows no
      major safety concerns and that evidence on efficacy is adequate in quality and quantity.

      Taken together, these data show that PBM is an efficacious and safe option to prevent and/or
      treat radiotherapy-related OM.

      Even though PBM has proved its efficacy, delivery of PBM in OM is currently limited by lack
      of standardization, accuracy and reproducibility. In particular, the distance between the
      lighting source and the mucosa or skin is difficult to assess and control accurately.
      Therefore, the amount of energy delivered may vary from one session to another, as well as
      from one operator to another.

      CareMin650 has been developed to overcome these issues. CareMin650 allows a reproducible
      delivery of light, independently of the operator. As light is emitted by a flexible surface
      in contact with the mucosa or the skin, the dose delivered will be controlled. Additionally,
      it is meant to be easy to use and user-friendly. An interim analysis of SafePBM, a pilot
      study performed in France provided preliminary data on safety and efficacy. Among 186
      CareMin650 sessions performed to prevent (n=152) or treat (n=34) OM in patients with HNC, no
      treatment-emergent adverse event was considered related to the device and no adverse event
      led to CareMin650 discontinuation. Only one out of 7 (14%) HNC patients treated in the
      preventative setting developed OM grade 3. However, this patient had started PBM 6 days after
      the initiation of RT, instead of starting at day 1 of RT. These encouraging results suggest
      that CareMin650 is both well tolerated and efficient to prevent severe OM in these high-risk
      patients.

      The aim of the present study is to show the efficacy and safety of the CareMin650 medical
      device, in the prevention of severe OM in HNC patients receiving radiotherapy. The rate of
      severe OM will be compared to severe OM rate reported in the literature.

      This is a prospective, interventional, one-group, open-label, multicentric, international
      study that will be conducted in Belgian and German sites, specialized in radio-oncology.

      Photobiomodulation will be delivered to all included patients with the CareMin650
      (NeoMedLight).

      The studied Device CareMin 650 consists in a lightbox and a light applicator that delivers
      red light at 650nm to the oral mucosa and the neck. The applicator is composed of a
      connector, a fiberoptic beam of about 1 meter long and a light textile part. Appropriate
      non-sterile single use disposable sleeves will be added by the operator to cover the part in
      contact with the patient's mucosa or skin.

      This device is CE marked and is used in this study in its intended indication.

      No interim analysis is planned.
    
  