
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a major cause of visual impairment in the United States. Diabetic
      macular edema (DME) is a manifestation of diabetic retinopathy that produces loss of central
      vision. Data from the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy (WESDR) estimate
      that after 15 years of known diabetes, the prevalence of diabetic macular edema is
      approximately 20% in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM), 25% in patients with type 2
      DM who are taking insulin, and 14% in patients with type 2 DM who do not take insulin.

      In a review of three early studies concerning the natural history of diabetic macular edema,
      Ferris and Patz found that 53% of 135 eyes with diabetic macular edema, presumably all
      involving the center of the macula, lost two or more lines of visual acuity over a two year
      period. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), 33% of 221 untreated eyes
      available for follow-up at the 3-year visit, all with edema involving the center of the
      macula at baseline, had experienced a 15 or more letter decrease in visual acuity score
      (equivalent to a doubling of the visual angle, e.g., 20/25 to 20/50, and termed "moderate
      visual acuity loss").

      In the ETDRS, focal/grid photocoagulation of eyes with clinically significant macular edema
      (CSME) reduced the risk of moderate visual loss by approximately 50% (from 24% to 12%, three
      years after initiation of treatment). Therefore, 12% of treated eyes developed moderate
      visual loss in spite of treatment. Furthermore, approximately 40% of treated eyes that had
      retinal thickening involving the center of the macula at baseline still had thickening
      involving the center at 12 months, as did 25% of treated eyes at 36 months.

      Although several treatment modalities are currently under investigation, the only
      demonstrated means to reduce the risk of vision loss from diabetic macular edema are laser
      photocoagulation, as demonstrated by the ETDRS, and intensive glycemic control, as
      demonstrated by the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and the United Kingdom
      Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS). In the DCCT, intensive glucose control reduced the risk
      of onset of diabetic macular edema by 23% compared with conventional treatment. Long-term
      follow-up of patients in the DCCT show a sustained effect of intensive glucose control, with
      a 58% risk reduction in the development of diabetic macular edema for the DCCT patients
      followed in the Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Study.

      The frequency of an unsatisfactory outcome following laser photocoagulation in some eyes with
      diabetic macular edema has prompted interest in other treatment modalities. One such
      treatment is pars plana vitrectomy. These studies suggest that vitreomacular traction, or the
      vitreous itself, may play a role in increased retinal vascular permeability. Removal of the
      vitreous or relief of mechanical traction with vitrectomy and membrane stripping may be
      followed by substantial resolution of macular edema and corresponding improvement in visual
      acuity. However, this treatment may be applicable only to a specific subset of eyes with
      diabetic macular edema. It also requires a complex surgical intervention with its inherent
      risks, recovery time, and expense. Other treatment modalities such as pharmacologic therapy
      with oral protein kinase C inhibitors and antibodies targeted at vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) are under investigation. The use of intravitreal corticosteroids is another
      treatment modality that has generated recent interest.

      The optimal dose of corticosteroid to maximize efficacy with minimum side effects is not
      known. A 4mg dose of Kenalog is principally being used in clinical practice. However, this
      dose has been used based on feasibility rather than scientific principles.

      There is also experience using Kenalog doses of 1mg and 2mg. These doses anecdotally have
      been reported to reduce the macular edema. There is a rationale for using a dose lower than
      4mg. Glucocorticoids bind to glucocorticoid receptors in the cell cytoplasm, and the
      steroid-receptor complex moves to the nucleus where it regulates gene expression. The
      steroid-receptor binding occurs with high affinity (low dissociation constant (Kd) which is
      on the order of 5 to 9 nanomolar). Complete saturation of all the receptors occurs about
      20-fold higher levels, i.e., about 100-200 nanomolar. A 4mg dose of triamcinolone yields a
      final concentration of 7.5 millimolar, or nearly 10,000-fold more than the saturation dose.
      Thus, the effect of a 1mg dose may be equivalent to that of a 4mg dose, because compared to
      the 10,000-fold saturation, a 4-fold difference in dose is inconsequential. It is also
      possible that higher doses of corticosteroid could be less effective than lower doses due to
      down-regulation of the receptor. The steroid implant studies provide additional justification
      for evaluating a lower dose, a 0.5mg device which delivers only 0.5 micrograms per day has
      been observed to have a rapid effect in reducing macular edema.

      There has been limited experience using doses greater than 4mg. Jonas' case series reported
      results using a 25mg dose. However, others have not been able to replicate this dose using
      the preparation procedure described by Jonas.

      In the trial, 4mg and 1mg doses will be evaluated. The former will be used because it is the
      dose that is currently most commonly used in clinical practice and the latter because there
      is reasonable evidence for efficacy and the potential for lower risk. Although there is good
      reason to believe that a 1mg dose will reduce the macular edema, it is possible that the
      retreatment rate will be higher with this dose compared with 4mg since the latter will remain
      active in the eye for a longer duration than the former. Insufficient data are available to
      warrant evaluating a dose higher than 4mg at this time.
    
  