
    
      Background:

      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a condition characterized by insulin resistance and
      progressive failure of the insulin-secreting beta-cells. Previously considered a disease of
      adults, it is now becoming increasingly prevalent in children and adolescents. Patients with
      childhood onset T2DM are at very high risk for diabetes-related morbidity and mortality, due
      to a longer life-time duration of diabetes, as well as possible increased rapidity of
      Beta-cell failure.

      Aims:

      In this study, we will address the following aims:

        1. To characterize hormonal, metabolic, and behavioral traits in patients with youth-onset
           type 2 diabetes. These will include:

             1. Assessment of Beta-cell function and insulin resistance

             2. Psychological, demographic, and socioeconomic assessments

             3. Assessment of the physiology and pathophysiology of incretins and other gut
                hormones

             4. Identification of early biomarkers of diabetes complications, especially
                cardiovascular disease

             5. Validation of new methods for studying glucose metabolism

        2. To serve as a recruitment and development tool for hypothesis-driven pilot studies,
           discussed in the appendices of this protocol.

      Methods:

      Children and young adults ages 8 to 25 years with type 2 diabetes will be studied in a
      cross-sectional and longitudinal manner. Two control groups without diabetes will be studied
      for comparison purposes: healthy lean controls, and overweight/obese controls. Methods used
      to study participants include routine blood sampling, oral glucose tolerance testing, mixed
      meal testing, arginine stimulation testing, DEXA, MRI, carotid ultrasound, questionnaires,
      exercise physiology, and measurements of energy expenditure. Patients with type 1 diabetes
      will be studied using oral glucose tolerance and mixed meal tests in a pilot study of
      artificial sweeteners.
    
  