
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive ipilimumab by
      vein over about 90 minutes at Weeks 1, 4, 7, and 10. Your blood pressure will be measured
      every 30 minutes during the infusion, as well as an hour after you are finished receiving the
      study drug.

      You will continue to receive your current hormone therapy as scheduled.

      You will be given standard drugs (such as steroids) to help decrease severe side effects. You
      may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      Study Visits:

      You will have a study visit before each dose of ipilimumab, then every 4 weeks for a total of
      3 visits after the last dose of ipilimumab. At each of these visits, the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. This blood
           will also be used and to measure your protein, PSA levels.

        -  Blood (up to 7 tablespoons) and urine will be collected to test for biomarkers. (Weeks
           7, 14, and 22 only)

        -  Blood (about 1½ teaspoons) will be drawn to check your testosterone level. (Week 10
           only)

        -  Blood (up to 10 tablespoons) will be drawn to test your immune system. You will sign a
           separate consent form for this blood draw.

      At Weeks 14 and 22, the following tests and procedures will be performed to check the status
      of the disease:

        -  You may have a chest x-ray.

        -  You will have CT scans or MRIs of the abdomen, pelvis. If the doctor thinks it is
           needed, you will also have a CT scan of the chest. If a CT scan of the chest is done, a
           chest x-ray is not required.

        -  You will have a bone scan.

      If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you may have additional bone scans or CT scans or
      MRIs of the abdomen, pelvis, or chest to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive the study drug for up to 10 weeks. You will remain on study (receiving your
      standard hormone therapy) for up to a total of 22 weeks. You will be taken off study
      treatment if you have intolerable side effects, if the disease gets worse, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions. If you develop certain side effects or have certain side
      effects for a long period of time, you may be taken off study. The study doctor will let you
      know if you need to be taken off study.
    
  