
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the total survival of patients with intermediate-2 or high-risk
      myelodysplastic syndrome treated with gemtuzumab ozogamicin. II. Assess the quality of life
      of patients treated with this drug. III. Compare two different dose schedules of this drug in
      these patients. IV. Determine the safety of this drug in these patients. V. Determine the
      number of patients treated with this drug that achieve complete remission, partial remission,
      stable disease, major and minor hematologic improvements, or major and minor cytogenetic
      responses. VI. Determine the progression-free survival, relapse-free survival, and time to
      progression to acute myeloid leukemia in patients treated with this drug. VII. Determine the
      number of transfusions, number of days on IV antibiotics, and the number of days hospitalized
      in patients treated with this drug. VIII. Determine the possible predictors of response in
      patients treated with this drug, including age, karyotype, and multi-drug resistance efflux.
      IX. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. X. Correlate the results
      of pharmacogenomic studies to gene activation and response to therapy in patients treated
      with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to age (60 and under vs over 60) and IPSS score (1.5-2.0 vs 2.5 and greater).
      Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive gemtuzumab
      ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Arm II: Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2
      hours on days 1 and 15. After completion of induction therapy, patients in both arms with
      stable or responding disease may receive post-remission therapy comprising up to 3 additional
      doses of gemtuzumab ozogamicin approximately 28-42 days apart. Quality of life is assessed at
      baseline, on day 29 for arm I, on day 43 for arm II, on day 127 for patients that receive
      additional doses of study drug, and at 8 months for all patients. Patients who do not respond
      to induction therapy are followed monthly for 8 months and then every 3 months thereafter.
      Patients who receive post-remission therapy are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 128 patients (64 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 12 months.
    
  