
    
      Objectives. Alcohol use disorder (AUD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) frequently
      co-occur, and having one condition worsens the course of the other. Individuals with both
      disorders exhibit worse functioning across a number of domains than individuals with either
      disorder alone. Prolonged exposure therapy (PE) is among the most effective treatments for
      PTSD. PE has been rated as a frontline treatment by multiple guidelines and reviews including
      the VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guidelines for the treatment of PTSD. However, in studies of
      individuals with PTSD and AUD, changes in alcohol use are only slightly better than in
      control or standard care conditions, reductions in PTSD symptoms are sometimes modest
      relative to studies of PE in PTSD patients without AUD, and rates of drop out from treatment
      are high. Combining PE with medication to curb drinking shows promise to improve upon the
      effectiveness of PE for individuals with comorbid AUD and PTSD, although thus far few studies
      have examined combining psychotherapy and medication. Topiramate is the single medication
      that has shown effectiveness for both AUD and PTSD and shows promise for reducing drinking
      among individuals with AUD and PTSD. However, the effect of adding topiramate to PE to treat
      comorbid AUD/PTSD has yet to be examined. The critical next step is to test a best practice
      PTSD treatment, PE, together with a promising pharmacological agent, topiramate, which has
      been found to be effective for both AUD and PTSD. Innovation: This application seeks to shift
      current clinical practice paradigms. A refinement to existing interventions is proposed
      through integration of two evidence based treatments.

      Methodology. The investigators propose to use a randomized, controlled, double blind study
      design to examine the effect of adding topiramate (TOP) to a best practice treatment for
      PTSD, PE. Participants will be 120 male and female Veterans from all services with AUD and
      PTSD. The investigators' primary aims are to determine the relative efficacy of
      PE+topiramate, as compared to PE+placebo, in reducing problematic drinking, reducing PTSD
      symptoms, and improving functioning and quality of life among Veterans with comorbid AUD/PTSD
      at post-treatment and 3- and 6-month post-treatment follow-up. The investigators will explore
      the extent to which decreases in drinking and PTSD symptoms lead to improvement in
      functioning.

      The proposed study has the potential to improve functional and psychological recovery for a
      highly prevalent and highly impaired population of Veterans. This study will test a novel and
      innovative combination of psychotherapy and medication with the goal of improving the care of
      Veterans. The successful completion of this project will help change the practices that drive
      treatment for Veterans who have both AUD and PTSD. The fundamental rationale for this study
      is to improve the evidence base that informs how patients with AUD and PTSD can attain
      sustained recovery from both of these disorders. The investigators will also explore whether
      changes in PTSD symptoms in the PE+TOP condition are partially explained by reductions in
      alcohol cravings.
    
  