
    
      Introduction and Background:

      Achalasia cardiais a rare, chronic, esophageal motility disorder with an estimated annual
      prevalence of 1 per 1,00,000 subjects. The disease can occur at all ages, but the incidence
      seems to increase with age. The predominant symptoms are dysphagia and regurgitation, because
      of the impaired relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) and the loss of normal
      peristalsis.Achalasia is a neurodegenerative disease resulting from an inflammatory and/or
      autoimmune process ultimately leading to aganglionosis. The etiology and pathogenesis of
      achalasia is still unknown. The primary pathophysiologic abnormality is a loss of the
      intrinsic inhibitory innervation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) and the segment of
      smooth musculature of the esophageal body. The resultant denervation and reduction of
      post-ganglionic nerve fibers have been postulated to be related to the hypertensive or
      non-relaxing LES in patients with achalasia.Esophagectomy or surgical myotomy specimens have
      demonstratedabsence or reduction in ganglion cells as well as varying degrees of cytotoxic
      T-cell inflammation in the myenteric plexus of patients with achalasia. Studies demonstrating
      an association between achalasia and certain HLA phenotypes, and an increased immunologic
      response to Herpes Simplex Virus-1 (HSV-1) in the serum and LES myenteric plexusof achalasia
      patients further support the notion of inflammation playing a central role in
      pathogenesis.However, it is not known whether this inflammation is part of the process that
      leads to the loss of the plexus, or whether it is secondary to the outflow obstruction with
      consecutive stasis in achalasia. Persistent esophageal distension with retention of foods and
      fluids, bacterial overgrowth, and impaired clearance of regurgitated acid and gastric
      contents lead to chronic inflammation and passively cause dysplasia and carcinoma. The
      prognosis of patients who develop such carcinomas remains poor. The aim of therapy is to
      reduce food stasis, which might interrupt the progression to carcinoma and thus reduce the
      risk of squamous cell carcinoma.

      No currently available treatment options result in regeneration of myenteric neurons to bring
      back esophageal motility. However, lowering LES pressure can significantly reduce symptoms
      and improve quality of life. To achieve this outcome (LES pressure reduction), therapeutic
      techniques have been modified from time to time. Graded pneumatic balloon dilatation (PBD)
      has replaced conventional one-time dilatation and open Heller's myotomy has cleared the way
      for laparoscopic Heller's myotomy (LHM) with fundoplication.Recently, per oral endoscopic
      myotomy (POEM) was introduced by Inoue et al. as a less invasive and effective curative
      treatment option with minimal complications.Peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM)combines
      thelong-term efficacy of a myotomy with the benefits of an endoscopic, minimally invasive
      procedure.Other therapeutic options include endoscopic balloon dilatation and surgical
      myotomy. Endoscopic balloon dilatation is still widely performed because of its relative
      non-invasiveness and simplicity, but it has a relatively lower success rate and often
      requires multiple treatment sessions. Surgical myotomy has been thought to be the curative
      therapeutic choice for symptomatic achalasia. However, it requires skin incisions and
      additional anti-reflux surgical intervention.Unlike surgical myotomy, POEM preserves the
      anatomical integrity of the LES and possibly minimizes postoperative reflux.

      Rationale of the study:

        -  There have been very few studies systematically analysing the histopathological changes
           in the mucosa and muscle of the Esophagus in Achalasia Cardia.

        -  Therefore we want to study the histopathological changes in the mucosa and muscle of the
           Esophagus in achalasia cardia patients and observe how the histopathological changes
           differ between early achalasia cardia and long-standing achalasia cardia.

        -  Achalasia Cardia is a potential pre-malignant condition which can lead to esophageal
           carcinoma.

        -  Principal investogator want to study the pre-malignant and malignant changes in the
           Esophagus in achalasia cardia patients.

        -  Also want to study whether per oral endoscopic myotomy ( POEM ) reverses the
           histopathological and pre-malignant changes in the Esophagus.
    
  