
    
      The neurophysiological processing of chronic pain is despite large efforts in the recent
      years still not well understood. However the so called cortical pain matrix describes
      cortical areas associated with the perception and processing of pain stimuli. Most studies
      identify second somatic area (SII), the insular regions, the anterior cingulated cortex (ACC)
      as well as the contralateral thalamus and the primary somatic area (SI) (Peyron, Laurent &
      Garcia-Larrea, 2000) as areas related to pain processing. In two recent publications by a
      Swiss research group (Sarnthein, Stern, Aufenberg, Rousson & Jeanmonod, 2006; Stern,
      Jeanmonod & Sarnthein, 2006) a dynamical EEG in the cortex pattern is described which is
      obvious related to chronic neurogenic pain. This pattern consists of an increase in EEG power
      and a shift of the dominant peak towards lower frequencies, mainly high theta (6-9 Hz).
      Source localization demonstrates that this overactivation mainly takes place in the areas of
      the cortical pain matrix. The authors argue that this pattern termed thalamocortical
      dysrhythmia is due to a thalamocortical loops initiated from the central lateral nucleus in
      the thalamus. This hypothesis is supported by the effects of a therapeutic lesion within the
      thalamus which led to (a) pain relief of 95% and to (b) the disappearance of the dysrhythmic
      pattern described above.

      The investigators will set out to conduct a observational trial in order to determine pain
      related EEG characteristics in patients suffering from chonic back pain. Twenty four patients
      will be recruited for the study. A 64 channel high-resolution EEG and the following parameter
      will be recorded: Neuropathic Pain Questionnaire (Backonja and Krause 2003), EuroQol, BSI,
      Graded hronic pain scale(Klasen, Hallner, Schaub, Willburger & Hasenbring, 2004)pain (McGill
      Pain Questionnaire, VAS pain), and generic quality of life (Fragebogen zur
      Lebenszufriedenheit, Henrich & Herschbach, 1996).

      An age and sex matched control group of healthy participants will be measured with the same
      method in order to compare whether the patients show a dysrhythmia pattern.
    
  