
    
      BACKGROUND. Although widely used, the efficacy and safety of haloperidol for delirium in
      critically ill adults remain unclear. A randomised controlled trial is warranted to study the
      effect of haloperidol on delirium or coma, long-term outcomes, safety concerns, and
      cost-effectiveness.

      SUMMARY.

      The investigators will perform a multi-center, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      clinical trial to evaluate the use of haloperidol for delirium treatment in 742 critically
      ill adults with delirium. Days spent without delirium- or coma in the first 14 days after
      randomisation is the primary outcome. Study drug will be initiated at 2.5mg IV q8h and
      increased after 24 hours to 5mg IV q8h if delirium persists. Study drug dose will be tapered
      when delirium has resolved during 24 hours. All patients will be managed with a standardized
      pain, agitation and delirium protocol. Standard operating procedures for agitation (analgesia
      titration, alpha2 agonists) and hallucination management (atypical antipsychotics) will be
      implemented to accommodate possible imbalances of these symptoms in both treatment arms.
      Open-label haloperidol administration is discouraged during the trial. The sample size
      provides a power of 90% to detect statistically significant results (p<.05) and a true
      treatment difference of one day for the primary outcome between trial arms.

      This trial is expected to answer the clinically relevant question whether haloperidol still
      deserves a place in ICU delirium management. The primary outcome (delirium- and coma-free
      days) will be related to the secondary outcomes cognitive dysfunction, functional and
      psychological outcomes and patient- and family experiences. An extensive cost-effectiveness
      analysis will be done. Mortality at one year and safety concerns of haloperidol (QTc
      prolongation on EKG and rigidity) will be assessed as secondary endpoints. In conclusion,
      this large multicentre trial will assess efficacy and safety of haloperidol for ICU delirium.
    
  