
    
      Study overview:

      We are proposing to evaluate enhanced health facility-based care for malaria and febrile
      illnesses in children in Tororo district using a cluster randomized design. The health
      facility intervention (HFI) will aim to address barriers to achieving good quality health
      care that were identified in our formative research. The focus of our intervention will be
      providing RDTs and training health workers in management of both malaria and non-malarial
      febrile illnesses.

      Study site:

      The study will be conducted in Tororo district, an area with very high malaria transmission
      intensity. The estimated entomologic inoculation rate (EIR) in Tororo is 562 infective bites
      per person-year, and the prevalence of parasitemia among children aged 5-9 years is 63.5%.
      The five sub-counties of West Budama North Health Sub-district (Nagongera, Paya, Kirewa,
      Kisoko, and Petta), and two sub-counties of West Budama South Health Sub-district (Mulanda
      and Rubongi) will be included in the study population.

      Study population:

      Within the seven sub-counties, there are 22 lower-level government run health facilities,
      including 17 level II health centers (HC), and 5 level III HCs; 20 will be included in the
      randomization scheme.

      Randomization:

      The lower-level government-run health facilities in the study area will be the unit of
      randomization. Clusters will be defined as the catchment areas of the health centers,
      including households located within a 2km radius of the facilities. The clusters will be
      defined prior to randomization using the full census survey database. Households will be
      excluded from our sampling frame if they are > 2km from any health facility. The
      randomization will be conducted by an investigator who is not directly involved in the
      project. Health facilities will be stratified by level (HC IIs and HC IIIs). Because of the
      uneven numbers of HC IIs and IIIs, one of the HC IIIs without a laboratory will be 'demoted'
      and paired with a HC II to ensure even numbers. Restricted randomization will be employed to
      ensure balance on geographical location. Specifically, restrictions will be applied that
      exclude the allocation of all clusters originating from a single sub-county, or that are
      otherwise in close geographical proximity from being allocated to the same arm of the trial.

      The Health Facility Intervention:

      The intervention is designed to address barriers to delivering quality care at health centers
      and will focus on three components: (1) training in-charges in health center management, (2)
      providing training to health workers in fever case management and patient-centered services,
      and (3) ensuring adequate supplies of artemether-lumefantrine and RDTs.

        1. Training in-charges:

           All in-charges of health centers randomized to the HFI will be trained in health center
           management. The purpose of this training is to equip in-charges with the skills and
           tools required to effectively and efficiently manage their health center. The training
           will include three components: (1) financial management, (2) supply management, and (3)
           information management.

        2. Health worker training:

           A)Training in fever case management and use of RDTs All clinical staff will receive
           training in fever case management. Training will be based on the Integrated Malaria
           Management training package developed by the Joint Uganda Malaria Training Program
           (JUMP) team, and the RDT training guidelines which have been adopted and implemented by
           Uganda's MoH 'User's manual: Use of Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs) for malaria in fever
           case management in Uganda'. The training program will be conducted by the JUMP training
           team over two weeks; the first two days will focus on theory, and will be followed by
           support supervision at the health facilities the next week. The training will be
           conducted in Tororo at a local health facility, and health workers will be trained in
           two small groups to ensure that work at the health facilities continues alongside the
           training. The impact of training on knowledge will be assessed using a pre-and
           post-training evaluation administered by the JUMP team. Additional support supervision
           will be conducted at 6 weeks and 6 months after the initial training and refresher
           training will be provided as needed.

           B)Training in patient-centered services The purpose of the Patient-Centered Services
           (PCS) training module is to identify and improve interpersonal interactions between
           health workers and patients. The module builds on the results of our formative research
           which identified several barriers to proving good quality health care at health
           facilities, including poor interpersonal interactions between health workers and
           community members resulting from poor communication skills, discriminatory behaviors of
           health workers, poor health worker motivation, and lack of patient-centered thinking.
           Through the PCS module, health workers will learn to recognize these challenges and
           develop skills for communicating and interacting with patients. The PCS module training
           will be implemented in a tiered approach to (1) all clinical staff, and (2) all health
           center support staff. All clinical staff, including in-charges, will receive the full
           PCS training package which includes self-observation tasks and specific emphasis on
           clinical and patient interaction challenges. Support staff including volunteers will
           receive a scaled-down PCS training package with specific emphasis on welcoming and
           guiding patients at the health facility. All training activities and workshops will be
           led by study personnel and trainers with experience in adult learning methodology.

        3. Supply of AL and RDTs for malaria If the amount of AL provided to the intervention
           health centers by NMS is not adequate to meet demand, or if the procurement of AL fails,
           the project will supply supplemental AL. In addition, we will ensure adequate supplies
           of RDTs at all intervention health centers.

      Evaluation procedures:

      Outcomes will be measured in three distinct populations: (1) cross-sectional surveys of
      children under 15 years randomly selected from households within the clusters; (2) a cohort
      of children under five randomly selected from households within the clusters and followed for
      2 years; and (3) patients attending all government-run health facilities, including children
      under five and their caregivers participating in exit interviews on selected days every six
      months.

        1. Cross-sectional surveys will be conducted in randomly selected children under-five, and
           those between the ages of 5-15 years of age. The number of children sampled will be
           weighted according to the total population of each cluster to achieve a harmonic mean of
           200 for each age category. A total of 8766 children will be sampled in each survey.
           Surveys will be conducted at baseline and then annually for each year; new populations
           of children will be selected for each survey. The survey will include a structured
           questionnaire administered to the primary caregiver, and a clinical and laboratory
           assessment of each child.

        2. A Cohort of children under five will be enrolled from 25 households randomly selected
           from each cluster, for a total of 500 households. The cohort will be dynamic, in that
           all children within a household, who are under the age of five and who meet selection
           criteria, will be included. A household survey will be conducted at the start of the
           study. Children will undergo clinical and laboratory assessments at baseline and then
           every six months. Primary caregivers will be asked to prospectively collect information
           on the clinical symptoms of participating children and expenditures for health care
           using pictorial diaries. Study personnel will visit the households monthly to collect
           the diaries and administer a monthly questionnaire. Participants will be followed for
           approximately 18 months in total, the equivalent of approximately 12 months following
           roll-out of the intervention.

        3. Patient Exit Interviews will be conducted with children under five and their caregivers
           at all health facilities. The purpose of the interviews is to evaluate for rational
           prescribing of ACTs, and to determine the level of satisfaction with the health facility
           visit. Three rounds of surveys are planned. In the first two surveys, 10 patients will
           be selected by convenience sampling from each facility to participate in the interviews
           (200 total per survey). In the final survey, 50 patients will be recruited to
           participate (1000 total in survey). In total, 1400 patients will participate in the
           interviews.
    
  