
    
      Sleep disturbances have become a public health concern in the modern society, affecting
      millions of people. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is one of the commonest sleep disturbances.
      Obstructive sleep apnea affects mostly middle-aged work force, causing a negative impact on
      public health since it increases both mortality and morbidity. In Finland, there are
      approximately 150,000 OSA patients, of whom 15,000 patients have a severe, 50,000 a moderate
      and 85,000 a mild form of the disease. The number of the patients is assumed to be strongly
      underestimated and it has been estimated that one out of five adults has at least mild OSA.
      OSA is tightly linked with metabolic abnormalities that contribute to an increased morbidity
      and mortality through cardiovascular disease. In addition, accidents by daytime sleepiness
      deteriorate person's quality of life and working capacity.

      The most important risk factor for OSA is obesity, and thus effective treatment of obesity is
      first-line treatment of OSA. In a recent study it was observed that lifestyle intervention
      with an early weight reduction can be a curative treatment is mild OSA. However, regardless
      of these promising results weight reduction as a treatment of OSA is still underestimated.
      Particularly alarming is the exploding prevalence of morbid obesity, and that estimations
      have predicted this group of patients to increase most rapidly. Unfortunately, conventional
      lifestyle and weight reduction interventions have proven to be ineffective in long-term
      follow-up in these patients. In contrast, the permanent weight reduction achieved by
      bariatric surgery has been found to have favourable effects on diabetes, hyperlipidemia,
      hypertension, and also on OSA.

      The treatment of OSA is demanding for both patients and physicians. There are no simple
      treatment modalities. Thus, there exists a definite need to improve the existing treatment
      modalities and to search new ones. The golden standard for treating patients with OSA is
      nasal continuous airway pressure (CPAP). It has been found to effective, but somewhat poor
      adherence (40-50%) to the treatment is certainly a major limitation. Moreover, there is
      little evidence about the possible beneficial metabolic effects of CPAP. Considering the
      rapid increase of obesity and the unsatisfactory adherence to CPAP treatment, bariatric
      surgery offers an interesting and viable option alongside with the conventional treatment
      modalities of OSA. Reliable information of the prevalence of OSA in morbidly obese patients
      is still lacking. The current knowledge is based on small studies, which have demonstrated
      that the prevalence of OSA could be higher than believed, even 70-80% in morbidly obese
      patients. There is a definite need for large, well-designed, prospective clinical studies on
      the effects of weight reduction in OSA and other co-morbidities related to obesity. Ever
      increasing research data showing a strong link between obesity and OSA and OSA as a major
      risk factor in the development of cardiovascular diseases should provoke concepts to improve
      better clinical guidelines of diagnostics and treatments in a risk group, such as obese
      patients.
    
  