
    
      Patients will be assigned to acupressure and control groups according to the randomization
      list prepared earlier by the investigators.

      First of all, all patients will be informed about the procedure and their informed consent
      will be obtained. Patients in the acupuncture and control groups will be evaluated with the
      patient evaluation form, VAS and State Anxiety Inventory 15 minutes before venipuncture.
      Demographic information of each patient will be recorded by the investigator. The pain level,
      satisfaction level and anxiety levels of the patients will be recorded before the
      venipuncture procedure. The following applications will be made 10 minutes before the
      patients in the acupressure group. Hands are washed before applying acupressure. Before
      applying acupressure, the patient is allowed to sit in a comfortable position on the sofa in
      the single venipuncture room. Before starting the acupressure application, the arm is rubbed
      from fingertips to the elbow to relax, and press the acupressure points (Large Intestine
      Meridian 4th Point [LI 4], Large Intestine Meridian 11th Point [LI 11], and Heart Meridian
      7th Point [HT 7]). application is carried out. 2 minutes to each acupressure point. pressure
      (3 to 5 kg of pressure) is applied. Only one acupressure session is performed for each
      patient, and each acupressure session will last 10 minutes (WHO, 2008). Acupressure
      application is applied before venipuncture. Venipuncturen is performed immediately after the
      acupressure session. While performing the acupuncture procedure and venipuncture, other
      patients participating in the study will not see each other during the application phase.
      Venipuncture will be applied to all patients by the same nurse in the same room. Venipuncture
      will be performed on the left arm of all patients with a vacuum tube using a 0.8 * 38 mm (21G
      x 1½, green) needle tip. Immediately after the venipuncture, the pain and satisfaction
      assessment of the patients during the procedure will be made with the VAS (Pain and
      Satisfaction) and State Anxiety Inventory. The pain level, satisfaction level and anxiety
      levels of the patients will be recorded before the venipuncture procedure. All of the
      measurement results were obtained by another researcher blinded to group allocation. All
      procedures will take approximately 20-25 minutes for each participant.
    
  