
    
      Study background and rationale

      Receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (RANK), RANK ligand (RANKL) and its decoy receptor
      osteoprotegerin (OPG) play key roles in regulating bone turnover. They are involved in the
      mechanism of "crosstalk" between osteoblasts and osteoclasts. After binding with RANK, RANKL
      induces bone loss, whereas OPG prevents RANKL-RANK interaction and increases bone mass and
      strength. The expression of RANKL has been found on the surface of many cell types including
      cells of the osteoblast lineage, osteocytes, activated T cells and vascular endothelial
      cells. RANK is a cell bound receptor for RANKL. Its expression has been detected mainly on
      cells of the macrophage/monocytic lineage, including pre-osteoclastic cells. OPG is produced
      and secreted by many different cell types including osteoblasts and vascular cells. The
      OPG/RANKL/RANK system is regulated by many hormones and cytokines among which parathormone
      (PTH) is one of the most important.

      Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is characterized by sustained secretion of PTH from the
      parathyroid glands which is excessively disproportionate to calcium levels. This leads to
      enhanced bone turnover, predominantly resorption, resulting in low bone mass, hypercalcemia,
      hypercalciuria and hypophosphatemia. Successful parathyroidectomy (PTX) reverses these
      pathological conditions and is the treatment of choice in PHPT. Alternatively, the bone
      disease in PHPT may be treated pharmacologically by using bisphosphonates which are able to
      diminish bone turnover. The mechanism by which PTH exerts its effects in bone and the
      mechanism of bone loss in PHPT in humans have not been fully explained. PHPT with enhanced
      PTH seems to be a suitable model to observe possible relationships between PTH, OPG and
      RANKL.

      Study objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the serum Osteoprotegerin/sRANKL
      (soluble RANKL) ratio in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism who will be treated with
      parathyroidectomy or with alendronate

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  To compare the effect of parathyroidectomy or treatment with alendronate on bone mineral
           density (BMD);

        -  To compare the effect of parathyroidectomy or treatment with alendronate on PTH serum
           concentration and other biochemical indices of PHPT.

      Subjects and control group

      The subjects (at least 50) will be recruited from among patients diagnosed with primary
      hyperparathyroidism while hospitalized in the Department of Endocrinology of Wroclaw Medical
      University. Before including them in the research they will be thoroughly investigated both
      in terms of the symptoms of PHPT and other diseases, in particular other hormonal disorders,
      liver and kidney function during hospitalization.

      Patients with symptomatic disease or this who meet surgery criteria will be proposed to
      undergo a selective PTX. Surgery criteria are generally as follows: a serum calcium
      concentration >1.0 mg/dL above the upper limit of normal, creatinine clearance <60 mL/min,
      BMD >2.5 standard deviation below standard reference values for sex-matched peak bone mass at
      any site (T-score <-2.5), age <50 years old.

      Patients who underwent previously unsuccessful parathyroidectomy, who do not meet the
      criteria for surgery or be unsuitable or unwilling undergo PTX will be treated with
      alendronate.

      The control group will consist of generally healthy volunteers (at least 50) corresponding to
      the age, gender, and body mass index (BMI) of the patients with PHPT. They should not suffer
      from bone disease or use medications that could affect BMD and PTH or calcium levels. Healthy
      people will be used as controls because for many examined parameters the standards of
      concentrations in serum are not established.

      All subjects will sign the informed consent form before entering study. Subjects will have
      the right to withdraw from the study at any time and for any reason without prejudice to
      their future medical care by the physician or at the institution.

      Study protocol

      Patients diagnosed with primary hyperparathyroidism will be destined for PTX (as above) or to
      treatment with alendronate (Sedron 70 mg once a week taken orally) for one year. From PTX
      group only patients after successful parathyroidectomy will be followed-up during next 12
      months of study.

      All subjects will have at least 4 visits: before and after month 3, 6 and 12 during treatment
      with alendronate or after PTX.

      BMD at the lumbar spine (LS), femoral neck (FN), distal third (F-D) and ultradistal (F-UD)
      sites of the forearm, and of the total body (T) will be measured by dual-energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA) every six months.

      Fasting blood samples as well as 24-h urine specimens will be taken before and after 3, 6 and
      12 months of study.

      In the control group blood, urine and BMD examination such as in the PHPT group will be
      carried out once.

      Serum and urinary solutes (calcium, phosphate, creatinine) PTH and alkaline phosphatase (ALP)
      will be assayed in fresh samples. Additionally serum samples will be preserved at -70°C
      before further hormone and cytokine estimations. The laboratory evaluations will include, but
      not limited to:

        -  1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D)

        -  25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D)

        -  Alkaline phosphatase (ALP)

        -  Calcium

        -  Creatinine

        -  C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP)

        -  Interleukin -18

        -  Interleukin-1 beta

        -  Interleukin-6

        -  Osteocalcin (OC)

        -  Osteoprotegerin (OPG)

        -  Parathormone (PTH)

        -  Phosphate

        -  Soluble RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand)

        -  Total protein

        -  Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β )

        -  Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)

      The accuracy and completeness of data will be verified by comparing registered data with
      medical records and paper case report forms.

      Safety assessments

      Safety assessments will be based on:

        -  clinical adverse events reported by the subject or observed by the Investigator,
           including physical examination at all study visits;

        -  abdominal ultrasound examination every six months;

        -  laboratory evaluation of serum calcium, phosphate, creatinine at every visit;

        -  serum pregnancy test, if applicable, done at every visit;

        -  regular telephone contact with study staff.

      Treatment compliance

      If a patient misses Sedron administration, he should take the drug next day morning and next
      dose after one week.

      Statistical analysis

      The data will be analyzed using Statistica 10 (StatSoft Inc.). Categorical data will be
      presented by absolute and relative frequencies (n and %). Continuous data will be summarized
      by the mean, median, standard deviation, minimum and maximum. The pairwise deletion will be
      used for missing data. The statistical significance of differences between paired data will
      be calculated using Wilcoxon's signed rank test. The Mann-Whitney U test will be used to
      compare values between different sample groups. Correlation coefficients will be determined
      using Spearman's rank correlation. The results will be presented as the mean ± standard
      deviation. Statistical significance is defined as p<0.05
    
  