
    
      MINOCA occurs in 5%-10% of all patients with Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) and these
      patients are younger and more often women in comparison with patients with AMI and
      obstructive Coronary Artery Disease (CAD). The underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are
      poorly understood, although several different mechanisms have been proposed, including plaque
      disruption, spasm, thromboembolism, dissection, microvascular dysfunction and ischemic
      myocardial injury attributable to supply/demand mismatch. In most, but not all, studies of
      prognosis, MINOCA patients had better outcomes than their AMI counterparts with coronary
      artery disease but faced a high risk for recurrent events, with one study finding that 25% of
      patients with MINOCA experience angina in the following year. Optimal patient management
      requires early diagnosis as well as understanding which of the myriad of mechanisms
      (atherosclerotic or non-atherosclerotic as well as a combination of both) may be underlying
      the initial diagnosis. The effects of secondary preventive treatments proven beneficial in
      patients with classical type I AMI are unknown in MINOCA patients; randomized clinical
      trials, and large observational studies, as well, evaluating different treatments in MINOCA
      patients do not exist. Hence, evidence-based guidelines for treatment of MINOCA are lacking.
      Elucidating the associations between different treatments and outcome may also increase the
      understanding of underlying mechanisms of MINOCA. The underlying mechanisms strongly
      determine prognosis and more importantly, therapeutic interventions as well as their success.

      Likewise, multimodality imaging could provide new insights into the management of MINOCA
      patients. The current research reveals the utility of Cardiac Magnetic Resonance for
      diagnosis and risk stratification of suspected MINOCA patients but at the same time shows how
      much more information is needed to further characterize risk and ultimately develop
      therapeutic approaches to alter its natural history. Computed tomography has a suite of
      strengths including diagnosis of CAD, identification of plaque characteristics, morphology
      and perfusion data, and even possibly delayed enhancement; its ability to detect
      nonobstructive coronary disease by way of visualizing not only the lumen but also plaques is
      very helpful in our efforts trying to understand microvascular disease, plaque erosion, and
      myocardial infarction with no obstructive coronary artery. Furthermore, up until recently,
      high-risk plaque features and lesion specific ischemia are thought to be not directly
      related. However, emerging evidence suggests a possible relationship between high-risk plaque
      features, particularly low attenuation plaque volume and positive remodeling, with lesion
      specific ischemia by fractional flow reserve. Such relationship is independent of degree of
      luminal stenosis. As a result of the above, it is obvious that Cardiac Computed Tomography
      Angiography (CCTA) may have a potential role in some selected patients with MINOCA, depending
      on their clinical picture and stability.

      Regarding Greece, the MINOCA-GR registry will be the first prospectively enrolling medical
      database of this magnitude.
    
  