
    
      Objective:

      Late age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness among elderly
      in the United States. At present, the current classification systems do not take into
      consideration advances in imaging technology, visual function biomarkers, as well as
      genotyping and phenotyping.

      Clinical sites in the United States and around the world will conduct a longitudinal study
      that will bring together resources and commitment for the development of a classification
      scheme for AMD using imaging and visual function biomarkers, with the plan to correlate
      genetic information obtained in the future. These data could eventually help develop an
      understanding of the mechanisms involved in the development and progression of AMD. The
      project will recruit participants with early AMD or reticular pseudodrusen (RPD) and
      controls. All data and images from this longitudinal study will be available to researchers
      worldwide to help in the development of visual function biomarker identification and
      classification development. The initiative should provide an unparalleled state-of-the-art
      standardized phenotype and genotype including AMD status with information on imaging, visual
      function and biomarkers, with a particular focus to developing surrogate outcome variables
      for proof of principle phase 2 clinical trials.

      Study Population:

      This cohort study will recruit a minimum of 500 total participants with early AMD or RPD,
      including age-matched controls.

      Design:

      This study is designed as a multi-center, international, prospective, observational cohort
      study of participants with early AMD or RPD. Study participants will undergo clinical
      assessments, multi-modal imaging and receive the standard of care as determined by the
      participant s ophthalmologist.

      Outcome Measures:

      Further research is necessary to characterize RPD and to understand the progression of AMD
      from early to late stage disease. The primary objectives of the longitudinal observational
      study are to enroll participants with early AMD (medium size drusen) to assess rate of change
      in drusen volume and progression rates to large drusen, and associate these morphologic
      changes with psychophysical changes, including visual acuity and dark adaptation. Separately,
      participants with RPD (verified by Reading Center review) will be enrolled and followed to
      better understand the natural history of RPD as well as to document structural and functional
      changes over time and associate them with the psychophysical changes listed above and changes
      in quality of life. In addition, control participants with no drusen or little drusen (normal
      aging changes) will be enrolled as comparison groups for the early AMD and reticular drusen
      groups. Data from this study will be analyzed to identify potential risk factors for disease
      progression and possible outcome variables for future studies. The collection of multi-model
      imaging at baseline and longitudinally will allow for an assessment of the disease
      classification and morphologic changes that might serve as biomarkers for disease progression
      for eyes with early AMD or RPD. Psychophysical testing will help assess functional changes
      and associations. Information will be disseminated to help the ophthalmic community better
      understand the natural course of early AMD and RPD.

      To meet these objectives, the study will encourage up to approximately 20 sites participating
      in the AMD Ryan Initiative Study (ARIS) to recruit and characterize patients with early AMD
      or RPD for the longitudinal study.

      The longitudinal phase of ARIS will collect information on consenting participants with early
      AMD or RPD seen at participating sites. Routine data collection will focus on the following:

        -  Enhancing the understanding of the natural history of early AMD and RPD

        -  Evaluating the functional characteristics of early AMD and RPD

        -  Compiling information on the potential ocular associations and natural progression of
           RPD

        -  Evaluating risk factors for disease progression in participants with early AMD and RPD

        -  Evaluating multi-model imaging to understand the mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis
           of early AMD and RPD

        -  Determining the 5-year progression rate to large drusen or late AMD in eyes with early
           AMD or RPD (in those participants who have NO large drusen at baseline)

        -  Determining the rate of change in drusen volume in eyes with early AMD and possibly the
           rate of change in the volume of sub-retinal deposits in eyes with RPD, stratified by the
           presence or absence of large drusen

        -  Compare the rates of progression in RPD in eyes with and without early or intermediate
           AMD

        -  Developing possible surrogate outcome variables associated with progression to late AMD
           or visual acuity loss including change in drusen volume

        -  Improving classification criteria for RPD
    
  