
    
      The use of drugs in the elderly population remains a major public health problem worldwide.
      Technological advances and the development of new drugs have helped to extend life
      expectancy. However, the complex process of aging, resulting in changes in physiological
      functions, may affect the pharmacodynamics and kinetics of medications taken by the elderly.
      In addition, polypharmacy, due to multiple comorbidities, may also lead to an increased risk
      of drug or field interaction and the use of potentially inappropriate drugs (PID), increasing
      the risk of drug iatrogenic use in older users.

      With a view to optimizing drug prescriptions and preventing drug iatrogenic disease in the
      elderly, and in the context of a university-based research and teaching approach, the AP-HM
      pharmacy initiated , in collaboration with certain clinical departments, the setting up of
      clinical pharmacy activities for patients at high iatrogenic risk. These activities were
      established and formalized in close collaboration with the doctors of the departments
      concerned, the geriatrics center and the geriatric mobile teams in particular, and were the
      subject of specific funding within the framework of the Instruction N ° DGOS / PF2 / 2016/49
      of the 19/02/2016 relating to the call for project of implementation of the clinical pharmacy
      in health facility.

      The contribution of clinical pharmacists to mobile geriatric teams (intra-hospital and
      outpatient), who carry out more than 2,200 geriatric assessments a year, is a way to optimize
      the efficiency of the medication management of the elderly person hospitalized out of
      hospital. geriatric service and EHPAD. In order to promote the physician-pharmacist action
      synergy observed in practice, the investigators decided to integrate the pharmaceutical
      evaluation (medication review) with the geriatric evaluation. This new cooperation makes it
      possible to improve the knowledge of the treatments taken by the patients, to raise awareness
      on the observance of the treatments and to facilitate the administration of the drugs (choice
      of the adapted galenic forms), to reduce the risks of iatrogenic medicinal increase the
      acceptance of therapeutic interventions by the health care team (attending physician,
      coordinator, nurse). Indeed, the first results show that the mobile team's
      medico-pharmaceutical interventions have a much higher acceptance rate than medical or
      pharmaceutical interventions alone.

      However, the economic context and the human resources allocated do not make it possible to
      ensure an efficient service throughout the territory and in particular in nursing homes
      outside the city where the CHU (Marseille) is located. In order to increase the number of
      evaluations, the investigators propose to develop a tele-expertise of a medico-pharmaceutical
      hospital team (EHMP) and evaluate the impact for patients residing in nursing homes in the
      context of a high-level study.
    
  