
    
      This multicenter screening study will be conducted in order to determine a subject's tumor
      antigen expression profile and HLA subtype, and subsequent eligibility for Adaptimmune
      sponsored clinical treatment trials studying the safety and efficacy of autologous
      genetically modified T-cells engineered with enhanced TCRs targeting specific antigens. No
      treatment intervention will occur as part of this screening study. Specific Adaptimmune
      sponsored interventional protocols have been designated to utilize this screening protocol to
      determine preliminary eligibility. Therefore, details of the available interventional
      clinical trial(s) (e.g., HLA subtype, tumor antigen, and other eligibility criteria) should
      be understood before consenting subjects for this screening protocol.

      For this screening study, subjects with confirmed advanced solid or hematologic malignancy or
      recurrent disease, as described in the respective Adaptimmune clinical trial protocol(s),
      will be required to provide a blood sample for diagnostic analysis. The blood sample will be
      used for HLA subtype analysis. If the results of the analysis match the HLA subtype specified
      in the available interventional clinical trial(s), then the subject will be required to
      provide either an archival tumor specimen or fresh tumor tissue biopsy. The tumor specimen
      will be screened at a central laboratory for the expression (gene or protein) of multiple
      antigens using Clinical Trial Assays. The Clinical Trial Assays to be used in this protocol
      have undergone CLIA validation to establish the sensitivity, specificity and performance of
      the assays. The antigens to be screened may include, but are not limited to the following:
      NY-ESO-1 and/or LAGE-1a and MAGE-A10. Based upon both the tumor antigen expression and the
      HLA subtype, if eligible, subjects will be referred to appropriate available interventional
      trial(s) at the discretion of the Investigator.

      The secondary objective of the study is the collection and analysis of tumor tissue specimens
      to enable the development and validation of single and/or multiple-marker ('multiplex') IVD
      assay(s) for antigen expression profiling. It is a regulatory requirement to develop the
      IVD(s) as a companion diagnostic(s) to accompany a future new indication drug application(s).
      Therefore all tumor specimens from this study will be retained by Adaptimmune for companion
      diagnostic validation purposes.
    
  