
    
      This was a prospective, parallel and controlled clinical trial.

      - Group CTG (control n = 20) - patients who received connective tissue graft to treat
      gingival recession associated with non-carious cervical lesion. Group CTG+RC (test n = 20) -
      patients who received connective tissue graft plus partial resin composite restoration to
      treat gingival recession associated with non-carious cervical lesion.

      The surgeries, as well as all postoperative follow-up, were performed at the dental clinic of
      Institute of Science and Technology (ICT), State University of São Paulo (UNESP). For those
      recessions allocated to CTG group, two horizontal incisions were made at right angles to the
      adjacent interdental papillae, without interfering with the gingival margins of neighboring
      teeth. Two oblique vertical incisions were extended beyond the mucogingival junction, and a
      trapezoidal mucoperiosteal flap was raised up to the mucogingival junction. After this point,
      a split-thickness flap was extended apically, releasing the tension and favoring coronal
      positioning of the flap.The exposed root surface was gently scaled and planed until it became
      smooth in the CTG group. Afterwards, a thin and small connective tissue graft was removed
      from the palatal site and sutured over the root surface. Then, the flap was coronally
      positioned and sutured to completely cover the graft. For those recessions allocated to
      CTG+RC group, firstly a sterile rubber dam was placed to isolate the operative field and the
      coronal zone of the non-carious cervical lesion restoration was performed with a
      nanocomposite resin, following the manufacturer's instructions. The apical margin of the
      restoration was place 1 millimeter apically to the cemento-enamel junction estimation. In the
      following session the CTG+RC received the surgical procedure as described above where a thin
      and small connective tissue graft was removed from the palatal site and sutured over the
      root/restoration surface. Then, the flap was coronally positioned and sutured to completely
      cover the graft.

      Clinical parameters were assessed at baseline and 3 and 6 months post-operatively.
    
  