
    
      I. Research progress

      Two investigators will take turns in the service for the research duration. They will be
      responsible for informing patients of the research upon their arrival in the service, for the
      data collection and telephone follow-ups.

      The course of the research will take place as follows:

      Day of consultation (D0):

        1. Patient information on the research when he arrives in the service; explanation of its
           objectives, its modalities and constraints.

        2. Verification of eligibility criteria.

        3. Collection of the patient's non-opposition by the dentist during the consultation

        4. Consultation according to the usual care. During this procedure, the practitioner
           performs a medical history and, according to the patient's answers, completes the
           "General Information Questionnaire". He carries out the emergency care and explains the
           postoperative consequences.

        5. Patient filling in the satisfaction questionnaire immediately after consultation.

           Telephone follow-up (D1, D3, D7):

        6. Telephone follow-up by the interviewer and fill in the questionnaire - in case of
           non-availability of the patient on day 1, the patient will be recalled on day 2 and the
           extrapolated data on the slope of the curve between D1 and D2

        7. Telephone follow-up by the interviewer on the day and filling in the questionnaire - if
           the patient is not available on day 3, the patient will be recalled on day 4 and the
           data extrapolated according to the slope of the curve between D1 and D4; if the patient
           is not available at D4, he will be recalled to D5 and the extrapolated data between D1
           and D5.

        8. Telephone follow-up on the interviewer's day and fill in the questionnaire in case of
           non-availability of the patient on day 7, the patient will be recalled to D8 and the
           data extrapolated according to the slope of the curve between D3 and D8; if the patient
           is still not available on D8, he will be recalled to D9 and the extrapolated data
           between D3 and D9.

      II.STATISTICAL ASPECTS

      II.1. Statistical justification for the sample size

      58,921 patients were received in emergency consultation day and night during the year 2017. A
      sample of 1% of the population concerned will be constituted.

      Patients received in day emergencies (44,191 patients in 2017) will be eligible. On average
      121 patients are received daily in emergencies of day, about 600 per week (excluding
      weekend).

      According to a previous study in the department, 50% of patients in care could not be
      included in the study or were lost to follow-up.

      This leads to a number of 300 patients per week.

      The study will therefore be conduct over 2 weeks, to include 600 patients, ie 1.3% of the
      population consulting

      II.2. Description of statistical methods

      A descriptive analysis of the characteristics of the sample will be performed (age, sex,
      reason for consultation, diagnosis, prior appointment test, average score of anxiety and pain
      scores on D0, D1, D3, D7, compliance with instructions and making follow-up appointments,),
      satisfaction rating, appreciation of the quality of medical care, politeness of staff,
      waiting time, assessment of the quality of the care setting, the information received, the
      treatment received, and the recommendation of the service to third parties will be made.

      An analysis of the evolution of pain and anxiety scores between D0, D1, D3 and D7 will be
      performed.

      Correlations between the type of treatment and the perceived pain as well as the type of
      treatment and the perceived anxiety will be made.

      II.3. Method of taking into account missing or invalid data

      Patients unreachable during the telephone follow-up period will be contacted the next day;
      the pain and anxiety scores will then be extrapolated from the previous data and the new data
      collected, by calculating the nearest point on the curve connecting these two data. If they
      are new unreachable, the data will be considered missing. Data from patients with missing
      data will be analyzed separately.
    
  