
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the toxic effects of sequential paclitaxel (or other taxane), doxorubicin, and
           cyclophosphamide followed by immunotherapy with activated T cells, interleukin-2, and
           sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with high-risk stage II or III breast cancer.

        -  Determine the disease-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the immune function of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to number of positive lymph nodes (less than 4
      nodes vs 4-9 nodes vs 10 or more nodes), type of taxane chemotherapy during study (paclitaxel
      vs other taxane), and prior treatment with 2 of 3 study chemotherapy agents (yes vs no).

      Patients receive doxorubicin IV on day 1 and filgrastim (G-CSF) on days 3-10 of 3 consecutive
      14-day courses. Patients then receive paclitaxel or another taxane IV on day 1 and G-CSF on
      days 3-10 of 3 consecutive 14-day courses. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide IV on day 1
      and G-CSF on days 3-10 of 3 consecutive 14-day courses. Patients who enroll after previously
      receiving 2 of these 3 chemotherapy drugs may receive the third. Treatment continues in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After recovery from chemotherapy, patients undergo peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)
      collection. The PBMC are treated ex vivo with monoclonal antibody OKT3 to form activated T
      cells (ATC). The ATC are expanded for up to 14 days in interleukin-2 (IL-2).

      At 3-4 weeks after PBMC collection, patients receive ATC IV over 15-30 minutes weekly for 8
      weeks. Patients also receive IL-2 subcutaneously (SC) daily and sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC
      twice weekly beginning 3 days before the first ATC infusion and continuing until 7 days after
      completion of ATC therapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40-60 patients will be accrued for this study within 4-5 years.
    
  