
    
      Airway management is one of the main issue of anesthesia practice. The use of endotracheal
      tubes has been accepted as the standard method for many years. High pressure and long-term
      use of cuffed tubes related to mucosal hypoperfusion and submucosal stenosis are important.
      The laryngeal mask airway is produced in the 1980s and considered as a supraglottic airway
      used to provide airway clearance in short-term surgical procedures. The laryngeal mask
      airways have recently found to use in many general anesthesia applications as a minimally
      invasive airway method and continue to be used increasingly. More appropriate supraglottic
      airway vehicles with different characteristics in terms of efficacy and side effects are
      being developed.

      Laryngeal mask airway-Supreme™ is latex-free, semi-rigid, elliptical and anatomical shape due
      to the fingers in the mouth of the patient easily and quickly without inserting the new
      generation laryngeal mask airways. Designed to provide higher sealing pressures than the
      laryngeal mask airway-classic. In addition, the presence of a gastric canal for gastric tube
      passage is another important advantage.

      The efficacy of supraglottic airway device use in many surgeries has been shown. Due to
      concerns such as tracheal blood leakage and vocal cord contamination in nasal septum surgery,
      there are doubts about the use of laryngeal mask airway among anesthesiologists.

      The primary purpose of this study is; the aim of this study was to evaluate the tracheal
      blood leak with a flexible fiberoptic endoscope in patients who underwent nasal septum
      surgery and continued airway patency via laryngeal mask airway or endotracheal tube.
      Secondly, oropharyngeal leak pressure, hemodynamic response, airway reflexes (laryngospasm,
      bronchospasm, cough, desaturation), postoperative nausea, vomiting, sore throat, hoarseness
      and difficulty in swallowing will be evaluated.
    
  