
    
      Disease Prevalence:

      Orthopaedic surgeons are frequently asked to evaluate patients with stiff and painful
      shoulders. Among the most common causes for such clinical condition is adhesive capsulitis
      (or frozen shoulder), which is thought to affect approximately 2-5% of the general
      population. The incidence in patients with diabetes is much higher, up to 29% in some
      studies.

      Clinical Summary of Adhesive Capsulitis:

      Adhesive Capsulitis may be summarized briefly as the clinical syndrome of shoulder pain and
      progressive loss of motion and eventual improvement of symptoms. The cause is classified as
      either primary (idiopathic) or secondary, if due to a known precipitating condition. Risk
      factors associated with developing adhesive capsulitis include diabetes, female sex, middle
      to older age, and thyroid disease. Secondary causes of adhesive capsulitis include trauma,
      shoulder surgery, degenerative arthritis, rotator cuff tears, or prolonged immobilization.

      The condition is characterized functionally by loss of both active and passive range of
      motion and anatomically by thickening and contracture of the joint capsule. The term
      "Adhesive Capsulitis" was coined by Neviaser when he noted the contracted capsule peeled from
      the humeral head like "adhesive plaster from skin". A broader term "Frozen Shoulder" was used
      by Codman in 1934 to describe this and related conditions. There is a commonly accepted
      progression of three clinical phases: painful freezing, stiff/frozen phase, and eventually
      thawing with slow return of motion. Many patients will have some residual loss of motion for
      several years. For people with diabetes, residual, permanent loss of motion can be as much as
      50%. The natural history of the disease has been shown to be more dismal than once thought.

      Pathology of the Disease:

      Histopathologic changes that occur in the joint capsule and synovial lining are cellular
      changes of chronic inflammation, fibrosis, perivascular infiltration in the subsynovial layer
      and increased vascularity. There is some debate as to whether the disease is primarily
      inflammatory or fibrotic in nature and there is support for both, depending on the stage of
      disease. Some have shown that arthroscopy reveals a highly vascular, red, inflamed synovium.
      Neviaser defined four stages of arthroscopic adhesive capsulitis ranging from acute synovitis
      to chronic adhesions. The pathology is not clearly understood and this makes optimal
      treatment more difficult to determine.

      Limitations of Current Imaging Studies:

      Imaging modalities commonly used to evaluate the shoulder such as x-ray (to rule out
      arthritic changes or fractures) are unremarkable in primary adhesive capsulitis. Traditional
      arthrograms or contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging may show decreased capsular volume and
      edema but are invasive and expensive tests. Magnetic Resonance Arthrogram shows thickening of
      the coracohumeral ligament and the joint capsule in the area of the rotator interval.
      Although MRI can demonstrate edema and inflammatory changes, its cost seems prohibitive to
      follow clinical disease on a serial basis, perhaps monthly as the disease progresses.
      Ultrasound is a much more likely candidate for serial examination.

      Successful Use of Ultrasound in Rheumatoid Wrist Studies:

      Recent reports in the literature have shown color doppler ultrasound (CDUS) to be a promising
      tool for estimation of synovial inflammatory activity in rheumatoid arthritis. Researchers
      used specific quantitative criteria to measure the resistivity index of small blood vessels
      in the synovium and color pixel fraction. Both measures attempt to quantify vascularity as a
      surrogate indicator of inflammation in the joint capsule. In a subsequent study they injected
      the wrists with corticosteroid and then obtained ultrasound images one month later which
      showed changes in the resistivity index and color pixel fraction that correlated with the
      improved clinical evaluation and functional improvements.

      Ultrasound in Adhesive Capsulitis:

      Ultrasound study of the shoulder has many benefits over MRI/MRA including: no
      contraindications or risk to patients, non-invasive, and relatively low cos. Ultrasound is
      comparable to MRI in studying the synovium with much less downside. Despite is theoretical
      advantages; there are limited studies in the literature reporting on color doppler ultrasound
      to evaluate adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. In one study, researchers correlated
      ultrasound findings with arthroscopic findings and concluded that ultrasound can provide an
      early, accurate diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. Their criteria, however, were qualitative
      using echotexture and increased doppler flow to indicate increased vascularity. No
      quantitative measurements were made.

      Clinical Importance of Proposed Study:

      Although the objective in treating patients with adhesive capsulitis is clear (to restore
      full, pain-free motion and unrestricted shoulder function) the optimal treatment remains
      unclear. This is due in part because there is no clear consensus on diagnosis, poor
      understanding of the pathology, and difficulty comparing the effectiveness of treatment
      regimens. As in many poorly defined medical conditions, multiple, different empiric
      treatments are employed with varying success. If we could more clearly identify diagnostic
      criteria and reproducibly stage the disease we could then more reliably and scientifically
      compare treatment approaches and thus provide a real benefit to many patients with this
      common condition. Our proposed study is an important step in this process.
    
  