
    
      Status:Not yet recruiting: participants are not yet being recruited

      Parents or guardians, potential participants to the study, will be identified by the field
      staff of the project and invited to an interview host, which will be presented in the study
      objectives, the necessary procedures (vaccine, blood collection and pre-vaccination
      postvaccination, interviews, etc..), their frequency, duration, benefits and risks of the
      study. It will also read and discussed the Informed Consent Form (ICF).

      It will be made Serology, pre-and post-vaccination, using the technique of enzyme immunoassay
      (ELISA DadeBehring / SIEMENS) for measles, rubella, mumps and varicella, with titration of
      specific IgG antibodies in the Laboratory of Respiratory Virus / IOC / Fiocruz;

      Titration of neutralizing antibodies to measles and mumps, pre and post vaccination (by
      Plaque Reduction Neutralization Test, PRNT) in samples that are successful seronegative. Will
      be held at LATEV / Bio-Manguinhos / Fiocruz.

      Control of adverse events after application of vaccine will be made by means of annotations
      that should be completed by a responsible journal and analyzed by the doctor. They will be
      have a number phone 24 hours to contact with the doctor.

      The monitors will visit the initiation of the study (day 0), regular visits during the study
      and a visit closing soon after completion of the study. Monitors should review the FRC,
      comparing them with source documents to verify the accuracy of data collection, assess
      adherence to good clinical practice and ensure that the study data are complete, accurate and
      integers. Monitors should make sure of the existence of time, space and qualified personnel
      in the days of monitoring visits.

      Plan for data analysis

      The consistency of production batches (equivalence) .Upper and lower limits of the confidence
      intervals of 95% of the difference in seroprotection results for each of the three pairs of
      contrasting antigens lots (three batches compared in pairs) between -10% and +10%, two-tailed
      analysis.

      . ratio of the geometric mean titers for each of the antigens between 0.5 and 2. The 3 lots
      will be considered to be consistent in terms of TMG to a particular vaccine component, if all
      three 95% CI of the ratio of two-tailed paired TMG are between 0.5 and 2.

      Non-inferiority

        -  Difference seroprotection for each of the antigens in the vaccines under test and
           reference vaccines or greater - 10%, one-tailed analysis. More precisely, the lower
           limit of 95% of the difference between the seroprotection rates in the vaccine test and
           reference vaccine should be greater than 10% (e.g. 4%, -3%, etc. .)

        -  ratio of the geometric mean titers for each of the antigens ≥ 0.5 (for vaccines and
           vaccine Bio-Manguinhos reference).

      The analysis of non-inferiority will take into account three batches of vaccines TV1, TV2,
      TV3 and that will be compared together with the reference vaccine, if any consistency of
      production batches.

      This procedure is performed in the 2nd serology after vaccination.
    
  