
    
      Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous disorder that likely involves multiple underlying
      pathological mechanisms, which has plagued attempts to identify rational therapeutic targets.
      All available antipsychotic drugs (APD) are dopamine receptor antagonists, but clinical
      response is variable, with a third of patients being partial responders, and a third
      non-responders. Arguably, those who respond well to APD have primarily dopaminergic
      abnormalities but it is imperative to also characterize the specific underlying pathologies
      in those with poor response in order to unravel the heterogeneity of psychosis and
      effectively develop new treatments. The investigators propose to longitudinally follow
      treatment response to APD for eight months in medication-naïve first episode psychosis (FEP)
      subjects using complementary brain imaging techniques.

      The investigators have already identified provisional markers for several different
      pathophysiological mechanisms underlying psychosis, including abnormalities in glutamate,
      brain connectivity, and neurodevelopment that they can track with brain imaging. In addition,
      the investigators propose to study the changes that occur in the brain in early compared to
      delayed treatment responders and changes that occur over time in response to treatment. By
      characterizing treatment trajectories and their relationship to baseline pathophysiologic
      alterations, the investigators will further complement their mechanistic understanding of the
      heterogeneity of psychosis.

      The investigators propose to study 117 well-characterized FEP subjects who are medication
      naïve and treat them with the most frequently used APD for 32 weeks. The investigators will
      follow a rigorous longitudinal design to capture treatment response whereby those without an
      adequate response after 16 weeks of treatment will be switched to another APD for 16 weeks.
      All patients will be scanned four times: at baseline and after 6, 16, and 32 weeks of
      treatment. The investigators will use (1) proton MR Spectroscopy (MRS), (2) task and resting
      state functional MRI and (3) MRI and diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) to measure brain
      biochemistry, function and structure. Using several imaging modalities has the potential to
      interrogate different neurobiological aspects of treatment response and will offer greater
      opportunities for clustering the patterns and combinations of the underlying pathologies in
      those with poor response.

      Deconstructing the heterogeneity of psychosis has broad implications for the identification
      of specific targets for drug development, and to lay the groundwork needed to conduct
      therapeutic trials on patients characterized by their specific underlying psychopathology.
    
  