
    
      Design:

        -  Randomized open multicentre trial.

      Patients:

        -  Number 400.

      Randomization:

        -  Treatment strategy culotte technique or T-crush stenting

      Primary end-point:

        -  Combined end point of: cardiac death, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis or TVR
           after 6 months.

      Secondary end points

        -  Clinical

        -  MACE (cardiac death, MI, stent thrombosis or TVR) during hospital period, after 1 and 8
           months.

        -  Cardiac death during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.

        -  Myocardial infarction during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.

        -  Stent thrombosis during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.

        -  TVR during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.

        -  Total death during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.

        -  TLR during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.

        -  Myocardial infarction related to index procedure.

        -  CCS-angina score after 6 and 8 months.

        -  Angiographic

        -  Late loss of main vessel and side branch after 8 months.

        -  Percentual diameter stenosis of main vessel and side branch after 8 months.

        -  Angiographic restenosis (> 50% diameter stenosis) rate of main vessel and side branch
           after 8 months.

      End point evaluation:

        -  Primary and secondary end points will be assessed by an independent end point committee.

        -  The end point committee will consist of experienced interventional cardiologists.

        -  End point definitions:

        -  Q wave myocardial infarction. Appearance of a new Q wave in two or more contiguous leads
           on ECG.

        -  Non Q wave myocardial infarction. Infarction, which is considered present in a patient
           having clinical, angiographic, electrocardiographic, and/or laboratory evidence of
           myocardial necrosis with an ECG showing no new Q waves.

             -  Procedure related myocardial infarction. A > threefold increase of CK-MB/or
                Troponin-T/I.

             -  Target lesion revascularization. Coronary by-pass operation with grafting or PCI of
                index lesion.

             -  Target vessel revascularization. Coronary by-pass operation with grafting or PCI of
                index vessel.

             -  Stent thrombosis. Thrombotic occlusion of index stent/stents.

             -  Vessel measurement. Proximal reference diameter: Vessel diameter proximal to
                lesion. Distal reference diameter: Vessel diameter distal to lesion. Reference
                diameter: Mean of proximal and distal vessel diameter. Percentual diameter
                stenosis: (Reference diameter - minimal luminal diameter)/reference diameter in
                percent.

             -  Angiographic restenosis. > 50% diameter stenosis.

      Angiographic core lab:

        -  The index and the follow-up angiograms will be assessed blindly by the QCA core lab at
           the Department of Cardiology, Skejby Hospital, 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.

      Definition of index angiography

        -  The angiography obtained during the PCI procedure will be used as index angiography.

        -  Follow-up angiography. After 8 months, conventional diagnostic angiography will be
           performed and the projections used at the index angiography will be repeated.

      Steering committee

        -  The steering committee members will be selected on basis of participation in the study,
           see below. All steering committee members will have full access to the database and will
           participate in the interpretation of data.

      Progress of the study

        -  The progress of the study will be checked on a weekly basis by the steering committee.
           They will receive and evaluate data on inclusion rate and the primary end point event
           rate. Further, the steering committee will receive and evaluate the weekly safety data
           on the rate of stent thrombosis in the three groups.

      Statistics and Data Management

        -  The statistical analyses will be performed by UNI-C, University of Aarhus.

        -  Primary end point. The composite of the primary end points at six months follow-up will
           be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. Differences between the event-free survival
           curves for the three groups will be compared with the use of the Wilcoxon and log-rank
           tests.

        -  Two-sided test is used, and the p-value considered to indicate significance will be
           0.05.

        -  Secondary end points and other parameters: For continuous variables, differences between
           the treatment groups will be evaluated by analysis of variance or Wilcoxon's rank-sum
           test. For discrete variables, differences will be expressed as counts, and percentages
           will be analyzed with Fisher's exact test. Secondary end-points will be assessed after 8
           months.

        -  Two-sided test is used, and the p-value considered to indicate significance will be
           0.05.

      Safety

        -  For safety reasons, stent thrombosis after one month will be monitored continuously. A
           stent thrombosis rate of > 5% in any of the treatment groups will necessitate premature
           termination of the trial.

      Analysis Population

        -  Results are analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle i.e. patients
           randomized to a certain group will be followed and assessed irrespectively of the actual
           treatment. Protocol violations will be noted and the responsible centers notified.

      Sample size calculation

        -  200 patients will be included in each group, with a total of 400 patients in the study.
           This is based on the following: We expect a MACE rate of 25% in the control group and
           13% in the interventional group. With an alfa of 5% and a strength of 80%, 167 patients
           will be needed in each group (two-sided chi square test) to demonstrate this difference.
           By including 200 patients in each group, a possible dropout before follow-up is counted
           for.

      Randomization procedure

        -  The patient will be randomized before insertion of any stent. Both main vessels and side
           branch may be wired and predilated before randomization.

        -  There will be a block randomization according to country, a stratification according to
           sex, age > 70 years, diabetes, use of GPIIb/IIIa blocker and +/- angiographic follow up.

        -  The patients will be computer randomized by a 24 hour telephone service. The PARAVOX
           system will be used.

      Monitoring of the study

        -  Data will be monitored according to GCP rules by independent professionals. During the
           trial, the monitor will have regular contacts with the trial site(s), including visits
           to ensure that the trial is conducted and documented properly in compliance with the
           protocol, GCP and applicable regulatory requirements.

      Publication

        -  Results will be published in an international cardiovascular journal. Publication and
           author issues will be decided by the steering committee on the basis of general
           involvement in the study (core lab. function, end point committee membership etc.) and
           on the number of included patients.
    
  