
    
      SCD is an inherited blood disorder. Symptoms include anemia, infections, organ damage, and
      intense episodes of pain, which are called "sickle cell crises." In the past, SCD was
      considered a fatal disease, and many people with SCD died at a young age. Due to advances in
      medical care, people with SCD are now living longer lives; however, they often experience a
      deterioration in quality of life due to progressive organ failure. Past research has
      suggested that children with SCD commonly have frontal lobe dysfunction syndrome, which is a
      brain disorder that can affect cognitive functioning in areas such as attention,
      concentration, information processing, and decision making. Often times, however,
      neurocognitive and brain disorders are not diagnosed or treated in people with SCD. In
      preliminary brain imaging studies, at least half of adult participants with SCD had cognitive
      dysfunction that could be seen in images of the brain, while participants without SCD rarely
      had visible changes in the brain. Brain dysfunction may be one of the most important and
      least-studied problems affecting adults with SCD. The purpose of this study is to evaluate
      the extent of cognitive functioning problems in adults with SCD. The study will also
      determine if there is a connection between cognitive functioning problems and abnormalities
      seen on MRI brain images of adults with SCD.

      This study is an observational case/control study that will enroll adults with SCD and a
      control group of healthy adults who do not have SCD. At a study visit on Day 1, participants
      will undergo blood collection and will complete psychosocial questionnaires. Female
      participants will provide a urine sample for pregnancy testing. Study researchers will
      conduct a medical record review, a physical exam, and a neurological exam. They will also
      interview participants to collect medical history information. On Day 2, participants will
      undergo either a brain MRI or neuropsychological testing; on Day 3, the other procedure will
      be completed. On Day 4, study researchers will explain the study procedure results to
      participants. Participants will be asked if they are willing to take part in a second phase
      of the study in the future. Enrollment into this study ended in May 2008.

      A pilot interventional study follows this study, and is reported separately in
      ClinicalTrials.gov under NCT 00850018.
    
  