
    
      Treatment as Prevention (TasP) offers promise to: (1) prevent HIV transmission among
      incarcerated populations; and (2) improve inmate health and tuberculosis control through
      provision of immediate ART using a "universal test and treat" (UTT) approach.

      Increased uptake of routine HIV counseling and testing (HCT) services will be encouraged and
      currently available ART care will be augmented by offering immediate ART initiation to all
      HIV-infected inmates not already on ART (after screening for TB and kidney disease)
      regardless of CD4 count. In this way, the study will promote universal HCT and ART access.

      Existing, routine service delivery platforms operated by the MOH and Zambia

      Corrections Service will be strengthened in hopes of achieving the following:

        1. Universal HIV testing within 2 months of facility entry and annually for all current
           inmates

        2. Clear integration of TB screening and treatment within HIV care services

        3. Scaling-up inmate peer supporters and support groups to promote ART adherence

        4. Strengthened systems for providing integrated TB/HIV care in correctional settings

        5. Improved continuity of care for prisoners initiating ART

      The following study-specific procedures will be carried out:

        -  ART will be initiated following clinical and laboratory assessment according to local
           guidelines.

        -  All inmates with newly diagnosed or previously documented HIV infection will be offered
           immediate ART regardless of CD4+ count or WHO clinical stage. A clinical assessment,
           including TB screening, and testing of serum creatinine will be completed, per Zambian
           national guidelines, prior to starting a standard ART regimen, which in Zambia is
           efavirenz plus lamivudine/ emtricitabine and tenofovir.

        -  A study specific follow-up visit, aligned with the routine HIV care schedule, for all
           inmates identified as HIV-infected will occur:

        -  Study nurses will support blood sample collection for HIV-1 viral load monitoring at the
           single study follow-up visit for all participants initiating ART under TasP. The planned
           follow-up visit will be scheduled to occur at 6 months following ART initiation.
           However, if a high recidivism rate and loss to follow-up prior to 6 months on treatment
           is observed, the study follow-up visit may be moved up to 3 months.

      Study data collection will augment existing routine data collection mechanisms and allow
      individual-level outcome ascertainment regarding uptake of ART under TasP, as well as 6-month
      retention in care and virological suppression.

      Standardized questionnaires and in-depth interviews will be conducted with inmate
      participants enrolled under Objective 1. To assess systems-level issues, in-depth interviews
      will also be conducted with a purposive sample of correctional staff and health care workers.
    
  