
    
      Catheter Placement:

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will have surgery to place a catheter
      into the ommaya reservoir. The ommaya reservoir is a catheter system that allows drugs to be
      administered directly to parts of the brain. In this study, the catheter will be used to
      collect about 1 teaspoon of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF - the fluid surrounding the brain and
      spinal cord) to check the status of the disease and for the infusion of methotrexate directly
      into the 4th ventricle of the brain, which is 1 of the 4 connected fluid-filled cavities in
      the brain.

      If the study doctor thinks it is necessary, based on the location of the tumor, the tumor may
      also be removed while you are already under anesthesia just before the catheter is placed.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle is 4 days long and will consist of 4 daily infusions of methotrexate. You will
      have at least a 2 week rest period between each cycle.

      Methotrexate will be infused through the ommaya reservoir catheter directly into the 4th
      ventricle of the brain starting at least 7 days after the catheter placement surgery. The
      infusion should last about 3 minutes each time.

      You may also be given leucovorin, a drug used to help prevent or treat the side effects of
      methotrexate, by intravenous (IV) infusion through a catheter or port you have already had
      placed in your arm. If the study doctor thinks it is needed, this infusion will be given
      after each cycle to help with the possible side effects you may experience from methotrexate.
      The infusion should last about 5 minutes each time.

      Study Visits:

      Within 72 hours after catheter placement surgery:

        -  Any updates to your health will be recorded.

        -  You will have an MRI scan of the brain and spine to check the status of the disease and
           the flow of brain fluid.

      Within seven (7) days after catheter placement surgery:

        -  Any updates to your health will be recorded.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will have a spinal tap (also called a lumbar puncture). A lumbar puncture is a
           procedure where fluid surrounding the spinal cord is removed by inserting a needle into
           the lower back. The affected area is numbed with local anesthetic during the procedure.

        -  You will have a neuropsychological test performed by a neuropsychologist. For this test,
           you will be asked questions that will test your memory and brain function. The test
           should take about 3 hours.

      On Day 1 of each methotrexate infusion for Cycles 1-3:

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test.

      Daily during each methotrexate infusion for Cycles 1-3:

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will have an Ommaya reservoir tap (a catheter is placed into the Ommaya reservoir to
           give the methotrexate infusion).

        -  CSF (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for routine tests. Blood (about 1 teaspoon each
           time) will be drawn to learn how much methotrexate is in your blood.

      After you have completed Cycle 3:

      You will have an MRI scan of the brain and spine to check the status of the disease and the
      flow of brain fluid.

      You will have a spinal tap. You will have a neuropsychological test performed by a
      neuropsychologist. For this test, you will be asked questions that will test your memory and
      brain function. The test should take about 3 hours.

      If the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you will continue with additional
      cycles of methotrexate therapy, with required tests and procedures. Your doctor may recommend
      additional surgery. Your doctor will discuss this with you.

      Also, if the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, methotrexate may be given
      together with other chemotherapy after completion of Cycle 3. If you will be receiving other
      chemotherapy, the study doctor will speak with you in more detail about what drugs you will
      receive and how you will receive them.

      Length of Study:

      You will receive up to 3 cycles of the methotrexate, or as long as the doctor thinks it is
      your best interest. You will no longer be able to receive the study drug if the disease gets
      worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after you complete the follow-up visits.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      3 months after the final dose of study drug:

        -  Any updates to your health will be recorded.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will have an MRI scan of the brain and spine to check the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Methotrexate is FDA approved and commercially available for
      infusion directly into brain tumors. The infusion of methotrexate into the 4th ventricle of
      the brain is investigational.

      Up to 12 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  