
    
      Purpose/Specific Aims: The purpose of this study is to explore the efficacy of Aggrenox in
      patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection with symptoms consistent with COVID-19.

      Among 132 SARS-CoV-2 patients (66 patients in each randomized arm), we will determine the
      efficacy of Aggrenox on clinical outcomes.

      Hypotheses / Research Question(s) Compared to standard care, the addition of Aggrenox
      (Dipyridamole ER 200mg/ Aspirin 25mg), to standard care will result in improvement in the
      composite COVID ordinal scale at day 15. Additionally, combined Aggrenox (Dipyridamole ER
      200mg/ Aspirin 25mg orally/enterally), and standard care will reduce the need for
      ventilation, length of mechanical ventilation, hospital length of stay, ICU length of stay,
      decrease risk of thromboembolic complications and improve survival more than standard care
      alone in SARS-CoV-2 patients.

      Research Design and Methods Randomized design. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to
      Aggrenox or standard treatment. Arm 1: Active Comparator: (Aggrenox (Dipyridamole ER 200mg/
      Aspirin 25mg orally/enterally).

      Participants will receive Aggrenox (Dipyridamole ER 200mg/ Aspirin 25mg orally/enterally), 2
      times daily (FDA-recommended dose) starting on the day of enrollment for a total of 2 weeks +
      standard care.

      Arm 2: Standard care Comparator: Participants will receive standard care starting on the day
      of enrollment for a total of 2 weeks.

      The investigators will perform a randomized, 2-arm, open-label single-site pilot study to
      evaluate the effect of oral Aggrenox (Dipyridamole ER 200mg/ Aspirin 25mg orally/enterally),
      on clinical outcomes in patients with SARS-CoV-2. In this research proposal, investigators
      will randomly assign 132 consenting participants with diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 to two
      treatment groups: 1) Aggrenox (Dipyridamole ER 200mg/ Aspirin 25mg orally/enterally) +
      standard care and 2) standard care alone. Participants will be screened, enrolled, receive
      treatment and followed for 28 days. The study aim and procedure will be explained to every
      eligible subject and informed consent will be obtained from interested subjects or authorized
      proxy to participate in the study. The investigators will collect demographic, clinical,
      laboratory and radiological data. The patients would be followed daily for 2 weeks after
      enrollment while the patient is in the hospital and once discharged, they will be called
      every 3rd day to follow up on the symptoms.
    
  