
    
      N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is one of the most common causes of
      autoimmune encephalitis, with prevalence exceeding herpes encephalitis in industrialized
      nations. Typically, the disease affects patients age 10-50 causing prominent psychiatric
      symptoms, altered consciousness, seizures, movement disorders and life-threatening
      dysautonomia. Intensive care, including cardiorespiratory support is required in 75% of
      cases. The diagnosis is confirmed by detection of IgG autoantibodies against central nervous
      system NMDAR in the cerebrospinal fluid. Despite the severity of the illness, NMDAR
      encephalitis is a treatable neurological disease, with retrospective case series establishing
      the benefit of off-label intravenous steroids and immunoglobulins. These treatments are
      presumed to work through effects on IgG NMDAR autoantibody levels in the CSF, although
      prospective data informing predictors of treatment responses are limited. Even with prompt
      treatment, ~50% of patients remain disabled, requiring prolonged hospital admissions. Various
      off-label therapies have been proposed as "second-line" treatments in NMDAR encephalitis. The
      majority of second-line treatments target circulating B-cells with various degrees of blood
      brain penetrance and efficacy, and poor consensus on the timing, dose and route of delivery
      of candidate agents. High-quality evidence is needed to inform the treatment of NMDAR
      encephalitis. Inebilizumab is a promising therapeutic monoclonal antibody for the treatment
      of NMDAR encephalitis. This humanized monoclonal antibody against the B-cell surface antigen
      CD19 was recently shown to be safe and efficacious in the treatment of neuromyelitis optica
      spectrum disorder-another antibody-mediated disorder of the central nervous system. Compared
      to other off label B-cell depleting therapies, such as rituximab, inebilizumab not only
      depletes CD20+ B-cells, but also CD20- plasmablasts and plasma cells, resulting in robust and
      sustained suppression of B-cell expression. The ExTINGUISH Trial will randomize 116
      participants with moderate-to-severe NMDAR encephalitis to receive either inebilizumab or
      placebo in addition to first-line therapies. Patient outcomes will be ascertained at standard
      intervals using the modified Rankin scale and accepted safety measures (primary outcomes at
      16 weeks), together with comprehensive validated neuropsychological tests, bedside cognitive
      screening tools, quality of life/ functional indices, and outcome prediction measures.
      Clinical data will be combined with quantitative measures of NMDAR autoantibody titers and
      cytokines implicated in B-cell activation and antibody production within the intrathecal
      compartment to identify treatment responders, inform the biologic contributors to outcomes,
      and evaluate for biomarkers that may serve as early predictors of favorable outcomes in
      future clinical trials in NMDAR encephalitis. The ExTINGUISH Trial will prospectively study
      an optimized B-cell depletion therapy to promote better long-term outcomes in NMDAR
      encephalitis, to determine more meaningful cognitive endpoints, and to identify better
      biologic biomarkers to predict outcome.
    
  