
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome is characterized by the symptom complex of urinary urgency,
      usually with associated frequency and nocturia, with or without urgency urinary incontinence
      in the absence of infection or other pathology. Vaginal estrogen, a well-documented treatment
      for OAB in hypoestrogenic women, has been shown to improve symptoms of frequency, urgency and
      urgency urinary incontinence (UUI). Several theories have been proposed to explain the
      mechanism underlying estrogen's effect on lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). Investigators
      propose that estrogen treatment influences bacterial communities (microbiomes) in the vagina
      and bladder and alters urothelial and vaginal (AMPs); thereby improving OAB symptoms in
      hypoestrogenic women.

      Long-standing medical dogma has been replaced by clear evidence that a female urinary
      microbiome (FUM) exists.This suggests that the FUM is a factor in lower urinary tract
      symptoms (LUTS) and that FUM diversity contributes to LUTS and treatment response, like the
      vaginal microbiome and its contribution to vaginal symptoms.

      In hypoestrogenic women, the vaginal microbiome shifts from low diversity communities,
      commonly dominated by Lactobacillus, to more diverse communities dominated by anaerobes; this
      change can be reversed with estrogen treatment. Since the FUM of women with OAB includes
      bacteria similar to those of the vaginal microbiome (e.g. Lactobacillus, Gardnerella, and
      diverse anaerobes), investigators reason the FUM would respond similarly to estrogen and
      become less diverse. While almost nothing is known about urinary/vaginal microbiome
      interplay, even less is known about immune response modulation in the bladder and vagina.
      However, estrogen reduces the subsequent urinary tract infection (UTI) rate in hypoestrogenic
      women affected by recurrent UTI, and estrogen induces urothelial antimicrobial peptide (AMP)
      expression. Since AMPs exhibit microbicidal activity, stimulate inflammation, and facilitate
      epithelial barrier homeostasis, estrogen may work through AMPs as mediators to optimize
      microbial equilibrium.
    
  