
    
      Background Since its introduction in the late 1980's, laparoscopic cholecystectomy has
      quickly become the standard of care in surgery for benign disease of the gallbladder. When
      compared to open surgery, laparoscopic surgery is associated with decreased post-operative
      pain. Recovery time and return to usual activity are also significantly shorter following the
      laparoscopic procedure. Cholecystectomy in the era of laparoscopic surgery has become an
      out-patient procedure. Furthermore, laparoscopic surgery eliminates a large surgical scar and
      provides patients an improved cosmetic result .

      Laparoscopic technology has evolved rapidly over the last 20 years. The quality of
      instruments, and especially of optics, has greatly improved since the first laparoscopic
      cholecystectomies were performed. A significant trend in the development of new technologies
      has been the move toward smaller instruments and cameras. Where 10mm cameras were standard in
      the early years of laparoscopy, 5mm cameras now offer excellent optical quality and permit
      the use of fewer 10mm trocars. In this movement toward increasingly less invasive techniques,
      minilaparoscopic surgery has emerged. Minilaparoscopic surgery (also called needlescopic
      surgery) involves the use of smaller trocars and instruments, typically 3mm in size. It is
      hypothesized that smaller trocars cause less tissue damage and therefore result in improved
      post-operative pain and recovery, while offering the additional benefit of improved cosmesis.

      Previous studies have found minilaparoscopic surgery to be safe, with complication rates no
      greater than those of conventional laparoscopic technique. In some studies, minilaparoscopic
      cholecystectomy has been associated with slightly increased operative time. Previous studies
      have also noted higher conversion rates (a change in the planned operative technique to
      another technique), however this conversion is typically from minilaparoscopy to conventional
      laparoscopy; the rate of conversion from minilaparoscopy to an open procedure is no higher
      than with conventional laparoscopy. However a recent meta-analysis performed by Thakur et al.
      (1) found that while some studies have shown these trends toward longer operative times and
      increased conversion rates, the overall evidence for this is weak.

      While a number of previous studies have attempted evaluate the benefits that patients derive
      from minilaparoscopic surgery, including post-operative pain and recovery time, many of these
      studies have been flawed by methodological concerns. Thakur et al showed in their
      meta-analysis that minilaparoscopic cholecystectomy was associated with improved cosmesis at
      one month as well as reduced post-operative pain and faster recovery time. These benefits
      however were estimated to be minimal based on the available evidence. Unclear reporting of
      trials and flawed study design, specifically the lack of "intention to treat" analysis, make
      the interpretation of available data difficult and the meta-analysis concluded that "the
      evidence for using minicholecystecomy is unclear."

      More high quality evidence is needed for the surgical community to determine the utility and
      benefits of minilaparoscopic cholecystectomy. It is our hope that through a rigorous
      methodological design we can add to the available literature and determine if
      minilaparoscopic cholecystectomy is a valuable technique that will benefit patients.

      Hypothesis Minilaparoscopic surgery will reduce postoperative pain and recovery time, as well
      as improve cosmetic results in patients undergoing cholecystectomy.

      Objectives

      A randomized trial comparing minilaparoscopic cholecystectomy to standard laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy will be performed to:

        1. Determine if minilaparoscopic surgery is associated with decreased postoperative pain

        2. Determine if minilaparoscopic surgery results is associated with quicker recovery and
           return to usual activities

        3. Determine if minilaparoscopic surgery is associated with in an improved cosmetic result
    
  