
    
      This study will be developed in the service of medical residency of surgery and microsurgery
      of the hand of Alvorada hospital (São Paulo - SP).

      The Study Design is Randomized clinical trial according to the CONSORT STATEMENT
      (http://www.consort-statement.org) standards.

      The number of participants will initially be 84 patients.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Adult patients 40 years of age or older with four or more of the following clinical signs and
      symptoms suggested by Graham et al. (CTS-6):

        1. Paresthesia in the territory of the median nerve.

        2. Nocturnal paresthesia of the hand

        3. Atrophy of the tenar musculature

        4. Positive Tinel Signal

        5. Positive Phalen Test

        6. Loss of discrimination of 2 points

      All patients will be diagnosed with electromyography (EMG). All participants will sign an
      Research Ethics Committee of this institution, after reading and explaining the study
      proposal.

      Criteria for non-inclusion:

      Previous treatment with corticosteroids and felling in the last 6 months Previous surgical
      treatment Associated traumatic or non-traumatic pathologies Hypersensitivity to
      corticosteroids. CTS secondary to another pathology. Refusal to Research Ethics Committe.
      Fixed paresthesia

      Randomization and Allocation:

      The allocation of patients to the infiltration or nocturnal orthosis groups will be performed
      using opaque and numbered envelopes on their outer face with consecutive numbers. The draw of
      the method, for each envelope, will be done randomly and sequentially, using randomization
      software (available at: http://www.random.org), after the randomization, the envelopes will
      be sealed. The sealed envelope, containing the patient's allocation group, will be opened
      only at the doctor's office after verification of the criteria for inclusion and signing of
      the Research Ethics Committee signature. The randomization procedure was performed by a
      person not directly involved in the study.

      Sampe Size:

      Considering the difference of 30% in the improvement of nocturnal paresthesia, 95% confidence
      interval and statistical power of 80%, we calculated a sample of 84 patients. At 6 months

      Interventions

      The patients included in this study will be attended at the Santa Cruz IV Ambulatory of hand
      surgery outpatient clinic. Patients with a diagnosis of CTS will be referred for evaluation
      in this outpatient clinic.

      After confirmation of the diagnosis of CTS with the presence of four or more of the six
      criteria proposed by Graham and confirmation by the EMG and application of the inclusion and
      non inclusion criteria in the study, eligible patients will be informed about the nature and
      purpose of the study, by reading the Research Ethics Committee of this institution; after
      signing will be registered. Only after signing the Research Ethics Committee and the
      patient's registration will the opaque and sealed envelope containing the patient's
      allocation be opened. Patients in the nocturnal orthoses group will receive prescriptions for
      the purchase of the orthosis and guidance on use at the same moment of randomization.
      Patients in the infiltration group will be referred to the Hospital Alvorada de Moema to
      perform the infiltration at the same moment of randomization.

      Infiltration technique:

      Patient seated, with elbow resting on the table, supine wrist, relaxed in dorsiflexion, after
      asepsis and antisepsis care a needle will be inserted located on the ulnar border of the
      radial flexor tendon of the carpus, with an angle of 30º directed to the carpal tunnel , with
      an association of betamethasone dipropionate, betamethasone disodium phosphate {diprospan®},
      plus lidocaine (xylocaina®).

      Night immobilization:

      During the night time, the patient will wear a forearm-palmar splint, where the wrist will
      remain in the 15th degree of extension, until its removal in the morning. The nocturnal
      orthosis should be used by study period .

      Outcomes

      Primary Outcomes:

        1. Remission of nocturnal paresthesia after intervention - Evaluation to verify remission
           of nocturnal paresthesia, referred by the patient at the time of initial care.

        2. Boston Questionnaire (Levine):

      A questionnaire developed for the purpose of evaluating the severity of symptoms and the
      degree of manual ability of patients with CTS. This is a self-reported questionnaire that
      assesses the severity of symptoms and the functional status of patients.

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        1. Visual Analogue Scale - EVA Pain Evaluation - The analogical visual scale of pain is
           formed by two bars, joined by a line with ten centimeters, that mark the beginning and
           the end. The start bar is "0" and indicates no pain. The end bar is the "10" and
           indicates the maximum pain. The patient was asked to register his pain with a stroke on
           that line joining the two bars. The gauging of the pain was performed by measuring the
           distance between the initial bar and the trait performed by the patient.

        2. Graham Criteria - CTS-6 Assessment of improvement of graham's cervix, which are signs
           and symptoms used for the diagnosis of CTS
    
  