
    
      General Aim:

      This RCT aims to assess the effectiveness of a muscle relaxation intervention with guided
      imagery (EG1) compared to hypnosis with guided imagery intervention (EG2) and a neutral
      guided imagery placebo (ACG) and a group that does not receive any psychological intervention
      (PCG), in DFU healing, physiological of wound healing prognosis and Quality of life, in
      patients with diabetic foot and a chronic ulcer.

      This study will also examine, qualitatively, the perspectives of patients with DFU regarding
      the interventions (EG1 and EG2) in order to check its effectiveness; as well as the
      perspectives of informal caregivers on this adjuvant therapy.

      Specific aim:

        1. To compare the impact of both experimental groups (EG1 and EG2) on psychological stress
           markers, in DFU healing, physiological indicators (inflammatory, metabolic, oxidative
           stress, angiogenic, and miRNA biomarkers) healing prognosis and QoL compared to the
           (PCG); between pre and post intervention in the EG1 and EG2, controlling for clinical
           and sociodemographic variables, adherence to DFU care and patients' literacy.

           Qualitative study nested in RCT specific aims:

        2. To assess psychological markers (anxiety, depression and stress), physiological
           indicators of healing prognosis (markers inflammatory diseases, biochemical parameters,
           angiogenic markers, micro RNAs, and T lymphocyte populations), adherence to UPD care,
           degree of UPD healing, QOL and family support / care informal, over time in patients
           with chronic DFU undergoing EG1 versus patients undergoing EG2 versus patients
           undergoing PCG and versus patients undergoing ACG.

        3. To assess the evolution of psychological stress markers, physiological indicators of
           healing prognosis, adherence to UPD care, QOL and family support / informal care in
           patients with chronic DFU undergoing EG1, comparing a case with a positive evolution
           (healing of the DFU) with a case with a negative evolution ( DFU healing).

        4. To assess the evolution of psychological stress markers, physiological indicators of
           healing prognosis, adherence to UPD care, QOL and family support / informal care in
           patients with chronic DFU undergoing EG2, comparing a case with a positive evolution
           (healing of the DFU) with a case with a negative evolution ( DFU healing).

      Sample size calculation:

      The sample size calculation considering the average effect size of 0.5, a statistical power
      of 80% and a significance level of 5%, and the number of variables in structural equation
      models, revealed that 12 participants were needed in each of the groups (12X4), totalizing 48
      participants.

      Procedure:

      The doctor or nurse, in the medical appointment, identifies patients that meet the medical
      inclusion criteria. Patients are invited to participate in the study by the Researcher at the
      end of the medical appointment and are informed about the aims of the study and the voluntary
      nature of participation through informed and informative consent. If patients agree to
      participate, they will sign the consent form. Nurses will then complete RESVECH 2.0 at the
      end of the appointment and doctors will complete the clinical questionnaire. Afterwards, the
      Researcher will accompany the patient to a room provided by the Hospital in order to
      administer the battery of questionnaires in the interview format.

      After answering the questionnaires, the researcher will score the PSS and HADS instruments to
      identify the presence of significant clinical levels of stress, anxiety and depression, and
      if the patient is eligible, at the end of that week, the participant will be randomized into
      one of four possible groups.

      In the next diabetic foot appointment, the respective participant will be informed about the
      group to which he or she has been allocated and whether will benefit, if appropriate, from
      four sessions of relaxation (EG1), from four sessions of hypnosis (EG2) or neutral guided
      imagery (ACG) or a group that does not receive any psychological intervention (PCG). If the
      participant is available, the first session will take place on the same day. The following
      sessions will be scheduled according to the medical diabetic foot consultations. In each
      session, two assessments of blood pressure and heart rate will be performed, before starting
      the session and at the end of the session. At the end of the fourth session, the T1
      assessment will be performed, with a new administration of the questionnaires. Six months
      after T0, the T2 (follow-up) evaluation will take place, with the last administration of the
      questionnaires. At T0, T1 and T2 a blood and DFU swab sample will be collected for the
      evaluation of the physiology variables. Plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)s
      will be separated from the blood samples and frozen at -80ºC for analysis by the biochemical
      team member. Blood lymphocyte populations will be analyzed by flow cytometry and the
      quantification of blood cell populations will be performed by an automated hematological cell
      counter on fresh blood samples. The medical and nurse team member as well as the lab
      techniques will not be aware of which group participants belong to.

      The interviews with patients, who completed the four sessions of (EG1) and (EG2), and with
      informal caregivers, will be conducted two weeks after T1, by a different researcher than the
      one involved in the intervention, to reduce the bias of social desirability.

      Data analysis:

      All standard statistical analyses will be done using the IBM SPSS statistics 24 and IBM SPSS
      Amos 24. The comparison between (PCG) and (EG1) and (EG2) and (ACG) over time, will be
      analyzed through Generalized Mixed Models.

      A semi-structured interview guide consisting of open-ended questions will be administered to
      patients with DFU that benefited from interventions (EG1, EG2) and the informal caregivers
      indicated by the patient that help with DFU care. This script will remain unchanged
      throughout the interviews. The audio recording of the interviews will be done using a tablet,
      transcribed verbatim and anonymized in order to safeguard participants and data
      confidentiality. The transcripts of the interviews will be analyzed in the same order as
      conducted, using the thematic content analysis technique.
    
  