
    
      Introduction Background and objectives. In early 2020 novel Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
      begun to spread from Asia to Europe and beyond forcing WHO to declare global pandemic.
      Infected patients shed the virus for a median of 20 days. Up to 10% of COVID-19 infected
      patients develop a severe form of disease requiring intensive care admission and some of them
      die. SARS-Cov2 is encapsulated positive strand RNA virus that uses ACE-2 of type 2
      pneumocytes as binding sites. It has been hypothesised (Gattinoni 2020 ICM editorial) that
      initial hypoxemia caused by loss of primary injury to pulmonary vasculature leads to
      hyperventilation and patients self-inflicted lung injury predominantly in lung areas of
      increase stress and strain. In turn, later during the course of the disease, ARDS develops
      with a typical restrictive pattern of a stiff, wet and recruitable lung. At presents there is
      no evidence-based causative treatment of SARS-CoV-2 and there is a burning need of
      randomised-controlled trials to find effective therapeutic strategies intervention.

      Explanation of rationale: Chloroquine has been used for malaria treatment and
      chemoprophylaxis, and hydroxychloroquine is used for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis,
      systemic lupus erythematosus and porphyrias. Both drugs have in-vitro activity against
      SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, and other coronaviruses, with hydroxychloroquine having relatively
      higher potency against SARS-CoV-2 known to be susceptible in vitro to exposure to
      Hydrochloroquine. At the moment clinical trials are ongoing to test clinical efficacy in pre-
      and post-exposure prophylaxis in SARS-CoV-2. In one highly cited French non-randomised
      observational study by Gautret et. al., a significant reduction of virus carriage has been
      observed in patients co-incidentally treated by Azithromycin in addition to Hydrochloroquine
      as a part of initial empirical therapy of community-acquired pneumonia. Azithromycin is a
      macrolide antibiotic, which binds to the 50S subunit of the bacterial ribosome, thus
      inhibiting translation of mRNA. The positive-sense RNA viruses and indeed all genes defined
      as positive-sense can be directly accessed by host ribosomes to immediately form proteins and
      the effects of Azithromycin on this process are not known. No data are available at present
      on the clinical efficacy of Hydrochloroquine alone or in combination with Azithromycin and it
      is likely that any treatment affecting virus replication would only be effective if
      administered early, before overt ARDS develops.

      In the light of this, the investigators designed a trial in which a hypothesis is tested,
      that early administation of hydrochlorochine alone or in combination with azithromycin can
      prevent respiratory deterioration in patients admitted to intensive care due to rapidly
      progressive COVID-19 infection.

      Methods Trial design: Prospective, multi-centre, randomised, pragmatic, double blind trial
      Participants: Eligibility criteria for participants: Adult (>18 years) within 24 hours of
      admission to intensive care unit with proven or suspected COVID-19 infection. For the purpose
      of this study, intensive care unit is defined as a facility that allow continuous monitoring
      of vital functions and oxygen administration . It is expected that most patients will have
      rtPCR test known within 24 hours of admission to hospital. Nonetheless, if this is not the
      case (eg. due to overloaded lab facility, lack of supplies) it is possible to randomise a
      patient based on a strong clinical suspicion of SARS-Cov-2 infection. In case COVID-19 is not
      confirmed in retrospect, experimental therapy is withdrawn and the study subject is withdrawn
      from "per protocol" analysis of the primary and secondary outcomes, but remains in
      "intention-to-treat" cohort for the analysis of safety. Exclusion criteria: symptoms of
      febrile disease for ≥1 week, pregnancy, treatment limitations in place or moribund patients,
      allergy or intolerance of any study treatment, incl. long QT syndromes, myasthenia gravis,
      allergies or known deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, participation in another
      outcome-based interventional trial within last 30 days, patients taking Hydrochloroquine for
      other indication than COVID-19.

      Settings and locations: Central study site is FNKV University Hospital Prague, updated list
      of participating centres is listed in the appendix.

      Interventions: Standard of care. All patients will receive best supportive care that will be
      monitored, but not protocolised. It is recognised that in the standard of care may
      substantially differ among study centres and that is why randomisation is stratified. The
      standard of care also may change in time during the course of the study, for example, if a
      new evidence emerges and changes the state-of-the art treatment recommendations. Any such
      event will trigger emergency steering committee meeting, and decision will be taken about
      further action. REB and regulatory authorities will be notified immediately about the
      decision taken.

      Study medication: All study medication is provided as a kind gift of Zentiva, ltd. Unblinded
      study pharmacist will prepare into 40 mls of sterile water study medication, according to
      patient's allocation into the treatment arm:

        -  Hydrochloroquine sulphate 200mg

        -  Azithromycin dihydrate 500mg

        -  Lactose 500mg (Placebo)

      See enclosed Specifications of Product characteristics. The medication will be administered
      in covered Jeannete syringe into nasogastric tube (for patients unable to swallowed) or drunk
      from a black mug by patients who are able to. In both cases at least 50 ml of water will be
      used for flush. Treatment group allocation is as follows:

      STUDY GROUP HC-A Azithromycin Hydrochloroquine HC Lactose Hydrochloroquine C Lactose Lactose

      Each study patient will be given:

        -  Day 1: Patients receive two doses 400 mg of Hydrochloroquine or placebo in 12 hours
           interval and 500 mg of Azithromycin or placebo once in 24 hours (with the first dose of
           hydrochloroquine or placebo)

        -  Days 2-5: Patients receive two doses 200 mg of Hydrochloroquine or placebo in 12 hours
           interval 250 mg of Azithromycin or placebo once in 24 hours (with the first dose of
           hydrochloroquine or placebo)

      Adjusting IP administration to patients' swallowing capability and GI function:

      During the study, 3 groups of patients will be enrolled. Those conscious and able to swallow
      will be given study medication in black mug to swallow. Patients unable to swallow with a
      nasogastric tube in place will be given the IP via the NG tube reconstituted in sterile water
      and flushed as per local NG medication guideline. Administration of the IP is temporarily
      omitted in patients who are unable to swallow but without NG access or do not tolerate any
      enteral intake (such as patients in profound shock). As soon as the condition preventing IP
      administration is eliminated, resumption of study medication follows the guidance for day 1.

      Outcomes:

      Primary outcome: Composite percentage of patients alive and not on end-of-life pathway who
      are free of mechanical ventilation at day 14.

      Secondary outcomes:

      Composite percentage of patients alive and not on end-of-life pathway who are free of
      mechanical ventilation at day 14 in the subgroup of patients without the need of mechanical
      ventilation at baseline.

      ICU-LOS D28 and D 90 mortality

      Tertiary (exploratory) outcomes:

      Viral load at D7 (No of viral RNA copies/ml of blood), proportion of patients alive and rtPCR
      negative from nasal swab at D14, Difference of FiO2 ratio and respiratory system compliance
      between day 0 and 7.

      Changes to trial outcomes after the trial commenced, with reasons: None at presents Sample
      size calculation: Based on data from Wuhan and Washington, where 67% of patients were dead in
      2 weeks and half of the survivors needed protracted mechanical ventilation, the assumed
      incidence of the primary outcome in the control group (ie. being alive and off the ventilator
      in 2 weeks) to be 25%. The study gives us 80% chance to detect the increase of the primary
      outcome to 50% in one or both interventional groups at p<0.017 with 74 patients in each arm.
      In order to compensate for drop-out and low of follow up the plan is to enrol 240 subjects
      into the study. An interim analysis is planned after the primary outcome is known for the
      120th subject.

      Randomisation: Will be performed in blocks of 3 and stratified for study centre and age
      (above or at/below 70 years). Electronic Case Record Form (eCRF) will perform randomisation
      using random sequence script in software R and generates medication code. Rationale:
      Patient's age is single most powerful predictor of outcome and stratifying randomisation and
      stratification decreases probability of treatment groups being of different age at baseline
      by chance. In analogy, study centers may vary in the use of non-protocolised treatments,
      which could bias the results.

      Implementation:

      Prior to initiation of each centre, the central research coordinator will train the local
      dedicated study personnel in the use of e-CRF and other study procedures. The medication will
      be delivered in sealed numbered boxes and stored in ICUs. Adhering to Good Clinical Practice
      rules and guidelines is of upmost importance despite all the challenges during current
      pandemic situation. Nonetheless, the eCRF has been designed to balance the safe conduct of
      the clinical trial and feasibility of timely data entry during staff shortages and overload.
      In order to do so, all data that is not essential for safety can be input in retrospect.

      Collection data on cointerventions. Data on interventions that the investigators know/think
      influence survival will be monitored and described. This include concomitant antiviral
      antimicrobial diagnosis. Data will also be collected on how the respiratory specimen for
      rtPCR diagnostic was collected (smear, endotracheal aspirate, bronchoalveolar lavage).

      Statistical methods: Proportion of patients alive and off mechanical ventilation (primary
      outcome) between intervention and control groups will be calculated using chi square test.
      P-value is adjusted for multiple comparisons to p=0.017. Survival and ICU/length of stay will
      be compared using Kaplan-Maier's curves and exploratory analyses my multi-level regression in
      R. The plan is to analyse the primary outcome separately in patients who require mechanical
      ventilation at baseline from those who don't and in patients above or below 70 years of age
      as a priori subgroup analyses.

      As mentioned above, primary and secondary outcomes will only be calculated in patients with
      confirmed COVID-19 infection who received at least one dose of IP. Adverse events will be
      calculated in all randomised patients (intention-to-treat analysis).

      Ethical Considerations Benefits and risks. This trial investigates two drugs that are being
      used off label to treat patients with severe COVID-19 with a balance of potential benefits
      and harms. Potential benefit include good biological rationale and observational data to
      believe that one or both drugs can prevent progression of a disease which led to death in 67%
      of patients in similar condition to those in this study. Possible harms include QT
      prolongation and resulting life-threatening arrhythmias or retinopathy, which may result in
      blindness. The investigators believe that clinical equipoise regarding risk/benefit to
      individual patient justifies well the conduct of this RCT.

      Informed consent procedure. Patients with decision-making capacity will be asked to provide
      written prospective informed consent (See Appendix I) to this protocol. It is expected that a
      significant proportion of screened patients will lack the capacity to provide informed
      consent due to altered consciousness, respiratory distress or sedation to facilitate
      mechanical ventilation. In this situation, the deferred consent policy will be applied as per
      local law: independent physician will confirm in writing that the patient lacks capacity and
      fulfils criteria. Then, patient himself/herself are approached to provide consent as soon as
      they regain capacity. They are given options to continue in the study, to withdraw with
      permission to use the data collected up to the point or to withdraw from the study and
      request deleting all data collected. Patient next of kin plays no formal role as surrogate
      decision maker as per Czech legislature. Nonetheless, the family will be informed when
      practical about their relative's enrolment into the trial and the family will be offered an
      information leaflet explaining the nature of the study. All serious adverse event that are
      suspected from being related to study interventions will be reposted to Research Ethics Board
      and regulatory authorities as per local legislation.

      Stopping rules. All SUSARs will be reported to both REB and to the steering committee, who
      may decide to stop the trial for safety concerns. Apart from safety, other reasons for
      stopping the trial are:

        1. Emergence of new data ( e.g. publication of the results of a big RCT) that may lead
           continuation of the trial unethical. This may be due to safety concerns of placebo group
           (in case strong clinical benefit is proven by other trial) or any of the interventional
           groups (e.g. if harm is reported by other trials). This rule also applies for emergence
           of a new treatment.

        2. After interim analysis: The steering committee will review primary outcomes and the
           summary of adverse events in all 3 groups (labelled as A, B, C) whilst still blinded to
           treatment allocation. The treatment can be stopped if the following criteria are
           fulfilled:

             1. There is a significant difference in the primary outcome at p<0.017 in between the
                groups.

             2. Futility: The futility criterion is not binding for the steering committee. Based
                on available data the study statistician calculates the probability of being able
                to prove the null hypothesis with achieving the target number of subjects and the
                probability of type II error made by stopping the trial prematurely.

             3. Safety: In case the number of adverse events in one or more treatment groups is
                find uneven or unacceptably high.

      Replication of key aspects of trial methods and conduct. The trial is designed to be fully
      reproducible in larger international multi-centre trial.

      Role of the sponsors This is investigator-initiated trial endorsed by Czech Society of
      Anaesthesia and Intensive Care. The most significant resource for the study is unpaid
      voluntary work of all the personnel conducting the study, who decided to do so in times of
      worldwide pandemic crisis. Part of the resources were gathered from voluntary donors in a
      crowdfunding campaign conducted by medical student association. Pharmaceutical company
      Zentiva, ltd. was approached by investigators and kindly agreed to provide study medication
      at no cost; however, it has had nor will have any role in study design; collection,
      management, analysis, and interpretation of data; writing of the report; or the decision to
      submit the report for publication.

      Dissemination of Results: The investigators will submit the main results of the trial in an
      open-access peer-reviewed journal within 3 months after 240th subject completed the 90-day
      follow up visit, which is expected to happen in Q4 of 2021. The investigators will make fully
      de-identified record-level raw data available in a public database.

      Trial status: NOT YET RECRUITING (as of 1st April 2020)

      Declarations:

      The trial design is in accordance with Declaration of Helsinky and the protocol, care report
      form and informed consent formularies were reviewed and approved by FNKV University Hospital
      Research Ethics Board ("Ethical Committee") on 1st April 2020 (decision number KH
      14-00-2020).
    
  