
    
      This is an observational nutritional trial with two arms: 1) Intervention arm of Probiotic
      Yoghurt containing Lactobacillus rhamnosus yoba 2012 and 2) Control arm of milk. About 500
      children in each arm will be enrolled. Children will be enrolled in the yoghurt or the milk
      arm, based on the preference of the school and the parents in response to a sensitization
      campaign of an NGO in the region. This selection will therefore be non-randomized and
      non-blinded. Within one school, all children will be enrolled in the same arm. The children
      will be monitored for 3 weeks in the baseline. Subsequently, the children will consume either
      100ml of yoghurt or 100ml of milk, once per day for five days per week for nine weeks, while
      being continuously monitored. The milk and the yoghurt will be locally sourced in the
      district where the schools are located. Monitoring and data collection tools include:

        1. Baseline, midline and end line questionnaire administered to parents to identify
           confounding factors (e.g. use of medication and diet from home) of treatment and control
           group.

        2. Weight, height, mid-upper-arm circumference MUAC and head circumference measurements
           every 4 weeks for 3 months in both the treatment and control groups (total 4 times). One
           point measurement will be taken 6 months after the study.

        3. Daily monitoring of the incidence of RTIs, diarrhoea, skin rashes or other diseases in
           treatment and control groups by teachers with confirmation of a nurse in a mobile app.

      Children from pre-primary institutions in which both the management and the parents have
      recently decided to purchase either milk or yoghurt for the pupils on regular basis will be
      recruited. The study subjects (children) are recruited at these institutions. Only children
      from parents who have agreed to contribute to the consumption of milk / yoghurt and who have
      furthermore consented for their children to be measured and monitored for the purpose of the
      current study will be recruited. The parent is free to provide his/her child with milk /
      yoghurt, even if the parent does not consent for the child to take part in the study.

      The study will start three weeks before either milk or yoghurt consumption commences, in
      order to establish a solid baseline. With the help of tablets and a specially designed app,
      nurses will keep track of their pupils' health by tracking incidence of diarrhoea,
      respiratory tract infections, skin rashes and other diseases. Teachers will keep track of the
      daily attendance of pupils.

      Measurements of weight, height, MUAC and head circumference will be measured by a nurse every
      four weeks, starting three weeks prior to the start of the consumption of either milk or
      yoghurt. The measurements will be conducted with the help of Standard Operations Procedures
      as provided by Life Study and analysed with the help of World Health Organization (WHO)
      guidelines.

      During these 3 months in which the children will be monitored, a questionnaire will be
      administered to the parents of the children at the start, middle and end of the study. The
      primary objective and content of the questionnaire is related to diet of the children outside
      school, in order to determine whether there are significant differences between the diets of
      the children in the treatment group and in the control group. The questionnaires will
      furthermore include questions about absenteeism and causes thereof, incidence of diarrhoea,
      Respiratory Tract Infections or any other diseases, and the use of any type of drug or
      treatment, in order to verify and supplement the information provided by the class-teacher.
    
  