
    
      Complex, progressive, multigenic, somatic mutations of the genome are now widely accepted as
      the primary driving force in the evolution of cancer initiation, growth, metastasis and
      pharmacoresistance. Different types of tumors are associated with mutations in distinct sets
      of genes, and there is a pressing need for a sequencing-based method of analyzing panels of
      candidate genes that differ for each tumor type.

      Traditional approaches to sequence analysis employing capillary electrophoresis-based Sanger
      sequencing are widely used to guide therapy for patients with lung and colorectal cancer and
      for melanoma, sarcomas, leukemias and lymphomas. This technology is limited in throughput,
      scalability, speed, and resolution. The emerging technology such as next-generation
      sequencing (NGS) - holds a number of advantages over traditional methods, including the
      ability to fully sequence large numbers of genes in a single test and simultaneously detect
      deletions, insertions, copy number alterations, translocations, and exome-wide base
      substitutions in all known cancer-related genes.

      Sequencing the whole genome is financially prohibitive for many potentially valuable
      applications. One alternative to whole genome methods is target enrichment, such as exome
      sequencing, which captures and sequences only protein coding regions. The exome represents
      1-2% of the human genome; however contains the vast majority of disease causing alterations.
      In addition to exome sequencing, full-length transcriptome (mRNA) sequencing offers a fast
      and inexpensive alternative. It is an easier method to identify coding sequences and capture
      variants in genes that are expressed, as well as to generate additional information, such as
      gene expression level and splicing patterns.

      The goal of this study is to investigate genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic alterations in
      human solid cancers and hematologic malignancies.

      Patients >18 y.o. diagnosed with cancer (including any solid tumor or hematologic malignancy)
      or patients who are undergoing a procedure for the diagnosis of a presumed cancer are
      eligible.

      The research analysis will be performed by the department of pathology or the division of
      hematology oncology. The body/blood tissue analyzed will be from extra tissue/blood that is
      not needed for diagnosis or evaluation of the patient's cancer. All samples will be
      de-identified. Samples will be stored for an indefinite period of time or until all samples
      are utilized.
    
  