
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable disease that is characterized by the accumulation of
      clonal plasma cells in the bone marrow. The median overall survival for patients with MM is
      approximately 4-5 years. Despite front line treatment approaches, the disease eventually
      relapses. The recent US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approvals of bortezomib (2003) and
      combination lenalidomide plus dexamethasone (2006) therapies for the treatment of previously
      treated MM has provided effective therapeutic options that give patients with relapsed or
      refractory MM the prospect for a prolongation of overall and progression-free survival times.
      However, MM remains an incurable disease. A clear unmet medical need still exists for
      additional novel therapeutic options for the treatment of previously treated MM.

      Pomalidomide belongs to the IMiDs class of compounds which thalidomide is the parent compound
      and lenalidomide the most recently approved agent. It is derived from thalidomide and shares
      a number of the beneficial pharmacologic properties with thalidomide. The efficacy of
      thalidomide has been limited by adverse effects. This toxicity profile seems dose and
      duration-related, spurring the development of IMiDs, which have the potential of improved
      potency and reduced toxicity. By modifying the thalidomide structure through the addition of
      an amino group at the 4 position of the phthaloyl ring to generate pomalidomide, a compound
      that is up to 50000 times more potent at inhibiting TNF-alpha than thalidomide was formed.

      Recently, preliminary efficacy and safety data from an ongoing phase 2 study, led by Martha
      Lacy, et al, at Mayo Clinic, were presented at the XII International Myeloma Workshop in
      Washington DC (01 March 2009). The study highlighted a 63 % objective response and a 5%
      complete response in patients taking pomalidomide (2 mg daily on days 1-28 of a 28-day cycle)
      plus dexamethasone (40 mg daily on days 1, 8, 15, 22 of each cycle) including patients with
      lenalidomide resistant refractory multiple myeloma. The results also showed that the
      treatment was well tolerated. Based on the encouraging data of this study, a phase 1/2b
      multi-center, randomized, open-label, dose escalation study (dose level from 2 mg to 5 mg
      daily on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle)is conducted to determine the MTD of pomalidomide. This
      ongoing study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of oral pomalidomide alone, and in
      combination with dexamethasone, in patients with relapsed and refractory MM. The first
      results obtained in this study demonstrated that the maximum tolerated dose of pomalidomide
      was 4 mg once per day and highlighted that pomalidomide has significant efficacy in MM and
      can be safely administered to myeloma patients. Moreover, there are an increasing number of
      patients who are refractory or did not respond significantly or experienced significant
      toxicity to either bortezomib or lenalidomide.

      Based on these studies, we hypothesized that these patients might benefit from the
      combination of pomalidomide and dexamethasone. We have therefore designed a multicenter phase
      2 randomized open labelled study to determine response to pomalidomide and dexamethasone in
      relapse and refractory MM patients who are progressive and did not achieve at least a partial
      response to bortezomib and lenalidomide. This study will determine the efficacy and toxicity
      profile of 2 modalities of pomalidomide in patients with advanced myeloma, previously heavily
      treated characterized with adverse prognostic and that are in desperate need of novel
      therapeutics. This study will be conducted in accordance with "good clinical practice" (GCP)
      and all applicable regulatory requirements, including, where applicable, the 2008 version of
      the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  