
    
      The existence and use of Patient Registries, represents one of the foundations of the
      progressing medical science, both for studying the natural history of diseases as well as to
      critically evaluate the therapeutic methods, the collection and analysis of the data from a
      large number of hospital units, is essential. Furthermore, the assessment of the
      effectiveness and adequacy of health services should be based on long-term monitoring of
      large groups of patients, and the assessment of the efficient functioning of the individual
      units, is only possible only with the availability of information for the patients of these
      units.

      Moreover, the record of health services distribution data is a prerequisite for the design of
      their future development. The above led to growth of many national and international patient
      logs, diseases and specific treatments, the operation of which has contributed to the
      advancement of medical science.

      Scleroderma or Systemic Sclerosis (SC) is a chronic autoimmune disease of the connective
      tissue with an incidence of 1: 10000- 1: 30000. In Greece it is estimated that there are
      approximately 2,500 patients. The disease usually affects women aged 40-60 years, and the
      incidence is four women to one man. The pathogenesis of the disease is unknown, while the
      main causes are considered genetic and environmental factors.

      Two of the most critical complications of the disease, are the Pulmonary Arterial
      Hypertension, which occurs in patients with SC approximately 8-12% of patients, being the
      main cause of death, and digital ulcers that occur in 30-60 % of patients and are painful
      sores on the fingers. Digital ulcers, i.e. painful sores on the fingers, as a consequence of
      the limited blood supply of vessels are seen in approximately 30-60 % of patients with
      scleroderma. The digital ulcers adversely affect the quality of life of patients, even the
      simple daily activities and can lead to serious complications, such as amputation. The
      symptoms of scleroderma can vary between patients and may not be typical of this disease, at
      least in the early stages, making it difficult to diagnose. Two of the early symptoms are
      disturbance of blood supply to the extremities by a color change of the skin of the fingers,
      alternately pallor-cyanation-redness (Raynaud phenomenon) and rigid edematous fingers.
    
  