
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the recommended dose level for the phase Ib and phase II trial of liposomal
      irinotecan (nal-IRI) and fluorouracil (5-FU) with rucaparib (MFR) in patients with metastatic
      disease from pancreatic cancer (up to 2 lines of prior therapy), colorectal cancer (up to 3
      lines of prior therapy), gastroesophageal cancer (up to 1 line of prior therapy) and biliary
      tract cancer (with 1 line of prior therapy allowed). (Phase I) II. To assess, in a
      preliminary fashion, antitumor efficacy, in terms of disease control rate and further
      tolerability, of the recommended dose level of combination of nal-IRI and 5-FU with rucaparib
      in patients with metastatic disease from pancreatic cancer both unselected and selected for
      BRCA 1/2 and PALB2 mutations (=< 1 line of prior therapy in the metastatic setting). (Phase
      Ib) III. To estimate the proportion of evaluable patients who reach complete response
      (CR)/partial response (PR) =< 32 weeks after registration among patients with metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with genomic markers (signature) of homologous recombination
      deficiency (HRD), specifically BRCA1, BRCA2, and PALB2 mutation, treated with the combination
      of nal-IRI and 5FU/leucovorin calcium (LV) with rucaparib (MFR). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients
      with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with genomic markers (signature) of homologous
      recombination deficiency (HRD), specifically BRCA1, BRCA2, and PALB2 mutation, treated with
      the combination of nal-IRI and 5-FU/LV with rucaparib (MFR). (Phase II) II. To assess the
      toxicity of the combination of nal-IRI and 5-FU/LV with rucaparib in patients with metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the pancreas with genomic markers (signature) of homologous recombination
      deficiency (HRD), specifically BRCA1/2 and PALB2 mutations. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the role of genomic markers (signature) of HRD, mutation other than BRCA1,
      BRCA2, and PALB2 as predictive biomarkers of response to MFR.

      II. To evaluate BRCA1, BRCA2, and PALB2 mutations as predictive biomarker of response to MFR.

      OUTLINE: This is phase I, dose-escalation study of liposomal irinotecan and rucaparib and
      followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive liposomal irinotecan intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes, leucovorin calcium
      IV, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 1 and 15. Patients also receive rucaparib
      orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 4-13 and 18-27. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  