
    
      A prospective study done in Tanta university in the period between January 2017 and June
      2018.It included 16 patients with sensory exotropia ≥50PD. Full history was taken. Visual
      acuity, cycloplegic refraction and fundus exam of both eyes was performed prior to surgery.
      Strabismus angles were measured at near and distance by alternate prism cover test. Any
      limitation of adduction or abduction was scaled from -4 to 0. Patients were followed for 6
      months.

      SURGICAL PROCEDURE:

      The MR muscle was dissected through a limbal incision. Two single arm 6-0 Vicryl sutures were
      placed at desired distance from the insertion as the routine resection of rectus muscle and
      another pair of 6-0 Vicryl was placed at the insertion. The muscle was then incised from its
      insertion, and the posteriorly (distally) placed 6-0 Vicryl sutures were passed through the
      original insertion. The resected segment is then put in saline. A vicryl 6-0 suture was tied
      at the LR muscle insertion. The muscle was incised from its insertion. Next, the stump of the
      resected segment was then sutured to the sclera at the desired position measured by the
      strabismus caliber according to the surgical dosage sufficient to correct the premeasured
      distant angle (taking into consideration the length of the added segment, which will be added
      to the amount of recession), and the distal end of this stump was sutured with the proximal
      end of LR with the 6-0 Vicryl already placed on the LR. Now the elongated muscle was sutured
      at desired site from the original insertion of LR as done in routine rectus muscle recession.

      The patients were followed at 1day after surgery, 2 weeks, 3 month, and 6 months.

      In each visit the distant angle of deviation was measured by prism cover test, any limitation
      of adduction and abduction was scaled, and patient satisfaction with results at last follow
      up was obtained, all results were recorded and tabulated.
    
  