
    
      Primary Objective: The primary objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy of
      lofexidine hydrochloride, an alpha-2-adrenergic agonist, in reducing withdrawal symptoms in
      subjects undergoing opioid detoxification as assessed by 1)Day 3 SOWS-Gossop score during
      treatment phase, and 2)Time to dropout during treatment phase.

      Secondary Objectives: Secondary objectives include determining Lofexidine's: 1) Efficacy in
      the reduction in withdrawal symptoms in subjects undergoing opioid detoxification (assessed
      by longitudinal changes in SOWS-Gossop, OOWS-Handelsman, VAS-E and MGCI (subject and rater);
      2)Efficacy in the reduction in the need of any concomitant medication to alleviate opiate
      withdrawal symptoms: 3) Efficacy in increasing the number of completers during the treatment
      phase; and 4) Safety in the study population.

      Study Design: This is a randomized, multi-center, double blind, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group study. There are 3 major phases of the study. During Phase I (Screening)
      screening assessments will be performed; during Phase II (Days 1-5), subjects will be
      admitted to an inpatient unit and randomized to receive either lofexidine (0.8 mg QID) or
      placebo QID after the baseline assessments are performed prior to randomization on Day 1; and
      during Phase III (Days 6-8), all subjects will receive placebo QID on Days 6-7, and then be
      discharged on Day 8 following the post-treatment assessments. An adaptive randomization
      procedure will be used to randomly allocate subjects in one of the two treatment groups -
      lofexidine or placebo.

      Study Population: 264 subjects with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders
      Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) criteria for current dependence on any opioid with a half-life
      similar to heroin or morphine determined by structured clinical interview (SCID) will be
      randomized in one of the treatment groups (132 subjects per group). Subjects at least 18
      years-of-age with positive urine toxicology screen for opiates and negative for methadone,
      LAM/LAAM, or buprenorphine during screening, with the ability to understand and provide
      written informed consent that meet all the inclusion criteria and do not meet any of the
      exclusion criteria may be randomized into the study.

      Treatments: On Day 1, subjects are randomized to either lofexidine or placebo and receive
      lofexidine (0.8 mg [4 x 0.2 mg lofexidine tablets] QID) or placebo (4 matching placebo
      tablets QID). Lofexidine or placebo will be administered orally within 15 minutes before or
      after 0800, 1300, 1800 and 2300 hours on Days 1-5. On Days 6 and 7, all subjects will receive
      placebo using the same dosing schedule as above.

      Efficacy Assessments: The primary efficacy outcome measures will be the Short Opiate
      Withdrawal Scale (SOWS-Gossop) scores (range = 0-30) on Day 3 of the treatment phase defined
      as Days 1-5, and the number of days representing the duration of stay in the treatment
      program after randomization. SOWS-Gossop will be administered once during Baseline on Day 1
      prior to randomization and after 3.5 hours after the first dose on Days 1 - 7. Secondary
      outcome measures evaluating the treatment effects on opioid withdrawal symptoms include, the
      proportion of subjects requiring any concomitant medication to alleviate opiate withdrawal
      symptoms and the proportion of subjects who are completers. In addition, the composite
      longitudinal scores of the SOWS-Gossop, Objective Opiate Withdrawal Scale (OOWS-Handelsman),
      Modified Global Clinical Impression Scale (Subject and Rater), and Visual Analog Scale -
      Efficacy (VAS-E) will also be used to assess the treatment efficacy to reduce the withdrawal
      symptoms. OOWS-Handelsman, MGCI (Subject and Rater), and VAS-E will be administered once
      during Baseline on Day 1 prior to randomization and 3.5 hours after the first dose on Days
      1-7.

      Safety Assessments: After signing the informed consent and completing the consent quiz, the
      subject will complete Screening assessments to determine eligibility for study enrollment. A
      complete physical examination will be performed on the first day of screening. A repeat
      physical exam will be performed at 3-4 hours after randomization on Day 1, and prior to
      discharge on Day 8 or at early termination. A 12-lead ECG will be conducted on the first day
      of screening and immediately prior to admission. Four hours after receiving the first dose of
      study medication on Days 1-7, a 12-lead ECG will also be conducted. A 12-lead ECG will be
      done prior to discharge on Day 8 or at early termination. If, in the opinion of the
      investigator, clinically significant changes are noted on the ECG, these measurements should
      be performed more frequently. Additionally, the next scheduled dose of study medication may
      be withheld at the discretion of the investigator, or the subject may be discontinued from
      the study. Subjects will be awakened and weighed each morning prior to breakfast. Vital signs
      (systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, respiration rate, and body temperature)
      are to be measured 3 hours after each dose of study medication at 0800, 1300, and 1800 on
      Days 1-7, and prior to discharge on Day 8. For the orthostatic blood pressure readings,
      subjects will remain sitting for 3 minutes prior to a blood pressure reading, and then stand
      for 1 minute prior to a second blood pressure reading. Clinical lab tests will be done during
      Screening, on Day 7 or early termination, and as needed at the physician?s discretion. The
      urine sample collected on the first day of Screening will be divided into two aliquots. One
      sample will go to the local lab for confirmatory drug testing. The other sample will be used
      for immediate "dip-stick" analysis of pregnancy (for the female patients only). A second
      "dip-stick" pregnancy test will be done during Baseline, prior to randomization. Adverse
      events and concomitant medication use will be assessed every day during the study (Days 1-8).

      Subjects who demonstrate symptoms of withdrawal will be treated with a standard of care using
      the concomitant medications listed in Section 13.11. At subject?s request, and at any time,
      subject can be discontinued from the study without prejudice, and will be medically
      stabilized; subject will then be referred, at subject's expense, for further treatment.

      Analysis: The primary outcome measures and each of the secondary outcome measures will be
      analyzed using appropriate statistical methods for the intent-to-treat, the evaluable and for
      the completer groups. The Intent-to-Treat (ITT) group is defined as the subjects who are
      randomized to treatment. The evaluable group is defined as subjects in the ITT group who
      receive at least one dose of study medication and complete the post-medication SOWS on Day 1.
      The completer group will consist of all patients in the ITT group who meet the following
      criteria: receive at least one dose of study drug on Day 5, and complete the SOWS-Gossop
      assessment on Day 5.

      It is hypothesized that lofexidine treatment, compared to placebo, will be associated with a
      significant reduction in opiate withdrawal symptoms. All statistical tests will be two-sided
      at 5% Type-I error rate. Confidence intervals will be two-sided with a 95% confidence
      coefficient.

      Summaries of the characteristics of the subject population in both treatment groups at
      baseline will be prepared for the modified intent-to-treat group and the completer group. A
      summary will be prepared to show dropouts/retention over time in each group and for
      subpopulations. All adverse events will be reported quarterly indicating the counts of unique
      adverse events by body system and preferred term (MedDRA coded) as experienced by study
      subjects in both the groups. Laboratory data, physical examinations, and vital signs will be
      reported in tabular form.
    
  