
    
      The transition from high school to college is a developmentally sensitive period that is high
      risk for escalations in alcohol use. Although risky drinking is a common problem among
      freshmen, engagement in treatment services is very low. Low rates of engagement with
      treatment resources may occur because interventions target drinking directly at a time when
      students may be uninterested in changing their drinking. Moreover, with a targeted focus on
      alcohol use, current interventions also do not address the concerns of incoming freshmen,
      such as stress and sleep. Approaches that address the problems students are most concerned
      about, that also indirectly reduce drinking, may be particularly effective.

      Behavioral activation (BA) is an intervention that indirectly addresses psychopathy by
      guiding individuals to identify goals in their lives, and encouraging individuals to engage
      in reinforcing activities that align with their goals (Lejuez et al, 2001). While initially
      used to treat depression, BA has been efficaciously applied to substance use because BA acts
      on the same reinforcement process implicated in problem drinking. BA addresses drinking
      without specific reference to alcohol use by focusing on engagement in reinforcing activities
      that align with students' goals. A pilot study provided initial indication that a brief BA
      intervention administered in a semester-long freshman orientation course resulted in a
      significant decrease in drinking-related problems, compared to standard orientation (Reynolds
      et al. 2011). Notably, the approach never raised the issue of drinking unless raised by a
      student themselves.

      The purpose of the study is to conduct a fully powered cluster randomized trial testing BA
      administered in a semester-long (16 week) freshman orientation course, compared to a standard
      orientation course in 540 freshmen spread over 36 course sections (18 sections each of the BA
      and standard orientation format). A 5-month post-treatment assessment will measure durability
      of effects. Mediation analyses will test mechanisms of action and moderation analyses will
      examine factors related to efficacy. A random sample of 20% of participants will complete a
      17 month follow up, which will occur at the end of their sophomore year of college, to
      examine long term effects. With this proposed R01, the investigators will test a promising
      intervention with BA that addresses factors limiting participation in other programs by not
      targeting alcohol directly and by integrating an intervention into college curriculum, with
      the additional benefit of testing mediators to guide future work. This application represents
      a first step toward developing an intervention course that could be widely disseminated to
      address the persistent college drinking problem and its many consequences.
    
  