
    
      Since the earliest reports of AIDS in the United States, men who have sex with men (MSM) have
      been, and continue to be, the most heavily impacted risk group in the US HIV epidemic. In
      2009, MSM accounted for 61% of new HIV diagnoses, an increase from 53% of HIV incidence in
      2006. The "test and treat" strategy for HIV infection entails universal testing with
      immediate treatment for those who test seropositive, with the aim of achieving viral
      suppression among positives. The efficacy of treatment as prevention demonstrated in HPTN 052
      has reinvigorated the discussion over using a "test and treat" strategy to reduce the
      incidence of HIV infection in the US. However, engagement-in-care research raises a note of
      caution regarding potential pitfalls in the effectiveness of this strategy. The recently
      published MMWR "Vital Signs" Report, showed only 28% of all HIV-infected persons in the US
      has a suppressed viral load. The estimates published by Gardner show that of the estimated
      1.1 million persons infected with HIV in the United States, 21% of HIV-infected persons are
      currently undiagnosed. Of those who are diagnosed, losses occur at initial linkage to care
      and later in care such that only 50% remain in care, such that only 19% of HIV-infected
      persons in the US currently having viral load below the limits of assay detection. There is
      now substantial evidence of the role of couples - or main partnerships - in fueling the HIV
      epidemic among MSM in the US. A recent CDC analysis found that 68% of new infections among
      MSM in the US were ascribed to main sex partners, and the proportion of new infections from
      main sex partners was even higher among younger MSM. Led by Sullivan and Stephenson, recent
      work has illustrated the feasibility of enrolling couples into HIV prevention efforts and
      demand for couples-focused services among MSM. A response to the growing demand for
      couples-focused services has been the adaptation of Couples Voluntary Counseling and Testing
      (CVCT) for MSM in the US. A recent NIMH-funded RCT of CVCT versus traditional VCT among MSM
      (Sullivan PI) showed 22% of MSM couples to be sero-discordant. This collective evidence
      provides the foundation for the proposed activities. We know that a significant proportion of
      new HIV infections occur within couples, and we know that current levels of linkage to care,
      retention in care and adherence to ARVs are below par among US MSM. In April 2012, WHO
      released new guidelines for Couples HIV testing and counseling, including ARV for treatment
      and prevention among sero-discordant couples [7]. The guidelines report a significant gap in
      evidence around the uptake and adherence to ARV among couples, and the role of CVCT in
      shaping uptake and adherence to ARVs: the proposed research has the potential to add
      significantly to our understanding of these issues. The proposed activities investigate the
      utility of CVCT combined with dyadic adherence counseling for improving linkage to care,
      retention in care and adherence to ARVs. Through the screening of 350 MSM couples and the
      enrollment of couples in a RCT, the study aims to examine the impact of CVCTPlus (CVCT plus
      dyadic adherence counseling) versus the current standard of care (individual testing only) on
      linkage to HIV care, retention in HIV care, adherence to ARV and achievement of viral
      suppression among sero-discordant MSM couples. The specific aims are:

      Primary Aims:

      1. i. Aim 1: Examine if testing together for HIV and receiving dyadic adherence counseling
      (Partner-STEPS) increases linkage to care as defined as: within three months after HIV
      diagnosis, having (1) at least one clinical care appointment, (2) at least one CD4 count test
      performed, and (3) at least one viral load test performed

      ii. Aim 2: Examine if testing together for HIV and receiving dyadic adherence counseling
      (Partner-STEPS) increases retention in care, as defined as: within the past 12 months, having
      (1) at least two routine HIV care visits at least three months apart, (2) two or more CD4
      tests, and (3) two or more viral load tests

      iii. Aim 3: Examine if testing together for HIV and receiving dyadic adherence counseling
      (Partner-STEPS) increases adherence to anti-retroviral therapy and reductions in viral loads
      / achievement of viral suppression

      iv. Aim 4: Examine if testing together for HIV decreases sexual risk-taking both within dyads
      and with outside sexual partners

      v. Aim 5: Examine if testing together increases couples' coping and communication abilities

      Hypothesis: Couples who receive a package of CVCT and a dyadic-focused adherence intervention
      will achieve greater linkage to care, retention in care, adherence to ARVs and viral
      suppression than couples who receive the standard of care (individualized VCT and adherence
      counseling).

      With increasing evidence of the role of ARVs in reducing HIV transmission, MSM couples
      represent a significant target group for new interventions. The proposed activities will
      provide new information demonstrating the efficacy of using a couples-based approach for
      increasing ARV adherence and care seeking among couples.
    
  