
    
      Background:

      Occlusion of the retinal vessels leading to retinal ischaemia and hypoxia is an important
      element in the pathophysiology of the major vision threatening diseases in the Western World.
      The hypoxic areas release vasodilating factors that induce vasodilatation in adjacent retinal
      areas in order to increase blood flow and retinal oxygenation. An understanding of the
      mechanisms underlying this vasodilatation may help identifying new therapeutic principles for
      modulating retinal blood flow during changes in retinal blood flow secondary to hypoxia and
      other diseases.

      The present study:

      Two working hypotheses will be tested: 1) That systemic administration of an A2A adrenoceptor
      agonist affects retinal blood flow independently of its systemic effects. 2) That the
      vasodilating effect of A2A adrenoceptor stimulation and the vasodilating effects of systemic
      hypoxia and increased retinal metabolism induced by flicker stimulation are additive.

      Methods:

      The diameter of retinal vessels are measured using the Dynamic Vessel Analyser (DVA). This
      apparatus performs video recordings of the ocular fundus, and the single images in the video
      sequences are grabbed for computerised analysis. Special software enables calculation of the
      diameter of the vessel on the basis of the distance between the vessel borders. The fact that
      images are grabbed real time (25 times per second) allows the detection of immediate diameter
      changes when the retinal metabolism is increased by exposure to flickering light (metabolic
      autoregulation).

      The A2A adrenoceptor agonist regadenoson is administered during continuous ECG monitoring as
      a single intravenous injection of 400 micrograms (5 ml) in an antecubital vein. No dose
      adjustments are necessary for body weight, age, renal og hepatic impairment. Due to a
      potential ischaemic effect of regadenoson, only persons with no history of arterial
      hypertension or cardiac disease and with normal blood pressure and ECG will be included.

      The experiments will be performed during breathing of ambient air and after 10 minutes of
      breathing air containing 12.5% oxygen (corresponding to the saturation at an altitude of 4100
      m), which induces a decline in the arterial oxygen saturation resulting in dilatation of
      retinal vessels.

      Experimental design:

      The project will be conducted as an open controlled interventional study performed on two
      days separated by at least one day. Initial a routine ophthalmological evaluation with a slit
      lamp examination, measurement of the intraocular pressure and ophthalmoscopy, supplemented
      with a measurement of central retinal thickness using optical coherence tomography scanning
      will be preformed as will measuring of ECG and blood pressure to make sure only healthy test
      persons are included.

      The test persons will be randomly allocated to two groups, one group in which protocol 1 is
      followed by protocol 2, and the other group with the two protocols performed in the reverse
      order.

      Protocol 1:

      A) Using the DVA, the diameter of a larger retinal vascular arcade arteriole will be recorded
      for 90 seconds at baseline followed by a similar recording during stimulation with flickering
      light and a recording during rest, altogether lasting 4.5 minutes B) Intravenous injection of
      0,4 mg regadenoson and repetition of the procedures in step A

      Protocol 2:

      The procedures are similar to those of protocol 1 but are performed during breathing of a
      hypoxic gas mixture.
    
  