
    
      This study involves comparison of taste and smell measures between obese and non-obese
      individuals. Taste and smell perceptions will be assessed in terms of their influence in food
      intake and food choices. We hypothesize that obesity negatively affects taste and smell
      perception thus affecting eating behavior.

      Obesity is a major public health concern in America. An unhealthy diet is a recognized risk
      factor for the development of obesity. Public health efforts to modify eating behaviors have
      had limited success. Not only does an unhealthy diet contribute to obesity, it can lead to
      changes in gut microbiota that likely result in inflammation and changes in transcriptomic
      activity. Taste and smell perceptions, which can influence food choices and food consumption,
      may differ between obese and non-obese individuals. Currently, little is known about the
      underlying mechanisms causing variations in taste and smell systems in individuals with
      obesity, which limits the interventions currently available to address this critical issue.
      Findings from this study can be used to design more effective interventions for the
      prevention and treatment of obesity, to identify targets and strategies for countermeasures
      to prevent or improve obesity and its comorbidities, and to suggest ways to enhance dietary
      interventions. Moreover, findings will foster new lines of investigation for reducing risk of
      diet-related conditions and for developing novel behavioral and pharmacological avenues of
      treatment and prevention. The proposed research is aligned with the overall mission of the
      National Institutes of Health to promote health and disease prevention. The findings from
      this study will ultimately lead to the development of personalized interventions for
      individuals with obesity and concurrent taste and smell alterations. Lastly, approaches
      included in this proposal are innovative and highly applicable to other complex health
      phenomena in which biological variations in inflammation and taste and smell perception
      impact an individual s health.

      Primary Endpoint: The primary dependent measures for this study are taste and olfaction
      measures.

      Secondary Endpoints: Secondary measures include inflammatory markers, exosomes, microbiota,
      gene expression, DNA methylation, biological measures and personal factors.

      We will recruit a cohort of 124 obese individuals matched by age and sex with 124 healthy
      non-obese controls. Participants will be recruited from the Washington Metropolitan area and
      vicinity.

      This study will take place at the NIH Clinical Center.

      The study is expected to be completed in 60 months from opening of enrollment to study
      completion of data analysis.

      This study involves one screening visit and 2 study visits. The screening visit will last
      approximately 4-5 hours. Visits 1 and 2 will take approximately 4-6 hours each to complete.
    
  