
    
      Background:

      Given the clinical and economic importance of heart failure (HF) widely applicable strategies
      to improve patient outcomes are needed. In Canada,1.4 million hospital days were associated
      with HF in the fiscal year 2000 and almost one-third of these were readmissions . The
      majority of acute precipitants of HF relate to poor self-care including excessive sodium and
      fluid intake, and nonadherence to medications. Data derived from the PaKSAC survey confirm
      that patients with HF have very poor knowledge of their condition and self-care
      recommendations.

      Disease Management Programs for HF have been shown to improve clinical outcomes by providing
      intensive education and medical management. Due to the resource intensity of such programs,
      however, only a limited proportion of the population at risk is served. Clearly more
      practical educational interventions are needed.

      Hypothesis:

      An intervention consisting of a video-based educational program for patients with HF,
      focusing on 3 key steps (salt restriction, daily weights and medication adherence) will
      improve knowledge of self-care activities, and clinical and economic outcomes at 6 months of
      follow-up.

      Design:

      A multicentre randomized control trial comparing a simple, practical educational program for
      patients with heart failure to usual care. All patients will be assessed using the validated
      PaKSAC survey (Patient Knowledge of Self-Care Activities in Congestive Heart Failure) at
      baseline and at 6 months. Those randomized to the intervention will view a 22 minute
      educational video developed by our group that focuses on 3 key steps to self management. A
      booklet and series of 3 newsletters will also be provided to the intervention group. The
      primary outcome is the improvement in clinical outcomes at the end of the 6 month follow-up
      period.
    
  