
    
      After enrollment, the subjects will complete each of the following CRF assessments:

      Sub-maximal exercise test Six Minute Step Test (6MST): A face mask with the VO2 Master
      expired gas analysis device will be secured in position with head strap. Subjects will rest
      seated for 5 minutes prior to the start of the test. The subject will be given a standardized
      set of instructions on how to complete the test by raising each knee to 90 degrees of hip
      flexion. The total number of steps completed during the timed 6-minute period will be
      recorded.

      Sub-maximal exercise test Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT): A face mask with the VO2 Master
      expired gas analysis device will be secured in position with head strap. Subjects will rest
      seated for 5 minutes prior to the start of the test. A 30-m unobstructed hallway with turning
      points marked with small cones will be used. The subject will be given a standardized set of
      instructions on how to complete the test. The total distance walked during the timed 6-minute
      period will be recorded.

      Maximal exercise cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET): The CPET is performed using an
      electromagnetically-braked cycle ergometer, 12-lead continuous ECG, continuous pulse
      oximetry, continuous expired gas analysis (oxygen and carbon dioxide) with ventilation
      [termed 'metabolic cart'] and intermittent non-invasive blood pressure measurement every 2
      minutes. Once the subject is seated comfortably on the bike and adjusted for optimum cycling
      position, the face mask is fitted. The subjects are instructed on how to perform the
      incremental ramp test, starting with a baseline rest phase (no leg turnover) for 2 mins
      followed by reference phase of 2 mins of leg turnover with no resistance (0 watts). The
      incremental rise in work-rate from baseline is pre-determined by using the equation derived
      by Wasserman and colleagues in which the same work-rate is increased throughout the test to
      the limit of tolerance. A work-rate is selected by study staff to aim for a test duration of
      between 8 and 12 minutes. The subjects are instructed to maintain a cycling cadence of 55 -
      65 revolutions per minute (rpm) during the exercise phase. One the limit of tolerance
      (maximal watts) is reached the resistance on the bike is removed () watts) and the subjects
      are encouraged to continue cycling for a further 2 mins during the recovery phase.

      The order in which 6MST and 6MWT are performed will be randomized. Between test the subjects
      will be allowed to rest in a chair until the heart rate is within 5 beats per min of resting
      values and blood pressure in within 10 mmHg of resting values. The CPET will be conducted
      once both 6MWT and 6MST have been completed. If the subject expresses fatigue after either
      6MWT and 6MST, then the subject may elect to re-attend on a separate day to complete the
      evaluation. At completion of exercise evaluations the subjects will be discharged from study
      participation. No further follow up will be performed.

      Up to 40 subjects aged 18 or older will be enrolled.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Age 18 and older

        -  Able to speak English

        -  Ambulatory [assistive devices ok]

        -  Able to provide informed consent

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Any exclusion criteria listed in table 8 American Thoracic Society /American College of
           Chest Physicians Statement on CPET

        -  Inmate of correctional facility (i.e. prisoner)

        -  Diagnosed history of dementia

        -  Inability to ambulate independently

        -  Considered inappropriate to participate by Principal Investigator
    
  