
    
      Objective: To assess the extent of surface contamination PPE doctors (personal protective
      equipment) with SARS-CoV-2, immediately after evaluating ill patients.

      COVID-19 is a recently emerging disease, in which much scientific information is being
      generated, but in which there are few certainties. This is due to work of poor methodological
      quality, but also due to the fact that it is a recent infection, which has only been
      developing for a few months. Given that most cases of infection in health personnel in the
      workplace come from contamination with personal protective equipment, it is necessary to
      determine there is any degree of contamination of PPE by the virus, as the critical areas
      where it can be located in the PPE as well. That is why this investigation, when trying to
      determine the location and degree of contamination of PPE by COVID-19, will allow the
      implementation of exhaustive care that leads to greater care for health personnel.

      Target population: patients with a diagnosis of COVID-19 in patients admitted to a service in
      the General Ward and Intensive Care Unit or Coronary Unit of a University Hospital of
      C.A.B.A- (Argentina) Accessible population of adults patients with a diagnosis of COVID-19
      admitted to the CN / Intensive Care Unit / Coronary Unit, while the research is in progress.

      Population Definition Criteria: PPE of medical personnel in contact with hospitalized
      patients with SARS-CoV-2 positive swab, hospitalized in CM / UTI / UC wards.

      Inclusion Criteria: Samples of personal protective equipment of health personnel who have
      been in contact with patients with positive viral RNA results in RT-real time PCR (rtPCR +)
      test for SARS-CoV-2 will be used.

      Exclusion criteria:

      PPE of health personnel who have been in contact with patients without confirmation of
      COVID-19 diagnosis.

      Elimination Criteria: those patients who change the result of the positive viral load to
      negative viral load.

      Time-space coordinates:

      The research will be carried out from May 15, 2020 and will be carried out in the CM / UTI /
      UC rooms of the Hospital de Clínicas José de San Martín, in those patients with confirmed
      pathology of COVID-19 until reaching the necessary number of 16 patients.

      2.2. Ethical objections to the project. This project is carried out under the ethical
      standards that govern human research in accordance with the National Law on Protection of
      Personal Data No. 25,326 (Habeas Data Law) and the Declaration of Helsinki in its latest
      version (Fortaleza 2013). The Bioethics and Teaching and Research Committee of the José de
      San Martín Clinic Hospital have given their approval to carry out the study.
    
  