
    
      Permanent cardiac pacing plays an important role in cardiac disease management. Since early
      studies on right ventricular pacing, apex has been the preferred implant site for transvenous
      endocardial ventricular leads for several reasons: ease of placement, lead stability as well
      as the design characteristics of the electrode and the fixation system.

      It is now also accepted, however, that right ventricle pacing causes a long term
      deterioration of left ventricular function through complex effects, both at the structural
      level of the heart wall and at the hemodynamic level in left ventricular load conditions. It
      is possible that this deterioration is due to a dyssynchrony of contraction induced by pacing
      at the right ventricular apex. Some authors suggest to pace the right ventricle at
      alternative sites, i.e. the medium septum (RVS) region, to guarantee a more physiological
      activation pattern, especially in patients expected to receive high pacing percentages.

      However, unequivocal evidences that stimulation of the right ventricular septum is more
      physiological than the apical pacing are still missing.

      Nonetheless, it should be noted that, although a number of studies refer to RV septum as the
      alternative site for pacing , poor attention has been paid to the unambiguous definition of
      RV septum region itself. A clear definition and a proper evaluation of the alternative site
      is therefore important.

      Furthermore, from a procedural point of view, it has been demonstrated that acute and chronic
      electrical performances of the leads positioned at alternative sites, in particular in the
      region of mid septum, are equivalent to those of the leads positioned at the apical site.

      The purpose of this study is to perform a comprehensive assessment of the electrical and
      mechanical measures obtained by pacing standard RV site (Right ventricular apex, RVA) and
      alternative RV site (right ventricular septum, RVS). Specifically, the two pacing sites will
      be compared in terms of electrical dyssynchrony, as assessed by ECG criteria, and in terms of
      mechanical dyssynchrony, as assessed by echocardiographic criteria.

      The primary end point of the study is defined through the evaluation of dyssynchrony measured
      both in spontaneous rhythm (Vs) and paced rhythm (Vp). The delay between the time to peak
      systolic velocity of the septum and the LV free wall will be used to define the degree of
      dyssynchrony; this measurement will be obtained by TDI echocardiographic technique.

      Patients will receive any commercially available dual-chamber implantable pacemakers,
      according to current standard indications. At the end of the implantation and at follow-up
      visits (12 and 24 months) device programming will follow the clinical practice of the center.
    
  