
    
      Research on the impact of decision-support tools for providers and patients has not included
      frontline care managers within community mental health settings. In particular, the care
      management field lacks effective models for integrating results-based and patient-centered
      care into routine practice with diverse adults with complex mental health and social service
      needs. For over five years, Family Service Agency of San Francisco (FSA) developed and
      piloted a mental health decision-support tool entitled the Assessment Diagnostic Evaluation
      and Planning Tool (ADEPT) for use by patients and front-line providers. The ADEPT was
      developed by a team of researchers, frontline providers, and FSA patients to collect data and
      track patient progress over time. Yet, its strong focus on diagnostic screening and excessive
      length limited its relevance to patients in guiding service decisions. Over the past two
      years, a team of FSA patients and care managers revised the tool, eliminating its diagnostic
      component and retaining two measures of quality of life and community living skills that were
      reviewed and/or adapted by patients to reflect meaningful outcomes in the delivery of
      services. Decision aids and a communications toolkit were also developed to support the use
      of shared-decision making (SDM) processes in the provision of services. Together, these
      instruments and tools make up the Moving Patient Outcomes toward Wellness and Recovery
      (mPOWR) system. mPOWR ensures that the patient-provider relationship remains focused on
      patient identified outcomes and use of SDM throughout care. The primary goal of the study is
      to investigate the implementation and effectiveness of the mPOWR in diverse urban and rural
      community mental health settings.

      FSA has partnered with senior faculty from the University of New Mexico to serve as
      independent researchers for this study. The study involves four community mental health
      agencies: two in San Francisco (urban) and two in N.M. (rural). One (randomly chosen) site in
      each setting serves as the mPOWR implementation site and the other serves as the control
      site. The study population initially enrolled included 240 (60/site X 4 sites) diverse adults
      with chronic mental health conditions. The specific aims for this study are: (1) To improve
      patient and provider participation in shared-decision making and engagement in mental health
      treatment, to improve [patient] personal Quality of Life, and to improve [patient] access to
      community/social services; (2) To increase patient understanding of their treatment and of
      treatment options; to increase their personal treatment progress; (3) To increase patient
      functionality and sense of perceived support for their therapeutic outcomes.

      Primary outcomes of interest include: Short Form Health Survey-12 (SF-12; physical and mental
      health aspects of health and well-being); Outcome Rating Scale (ORS; general well-being,
      personal well-being, close relationships, and work/school/friend relationships); Shared
      Decision Making Questionnaire (congruence of patient's and provider's participation in
      therapeutic decision making and patient's understanding of treatment and treatment options);
      Working Alliance Inventory (perception of therapeutic alliance); and Satisfaction
      Questionnaire (communication patterns between physicians and their patients). Qualitative
      methods in the form of focus group interviews will also be used to round out the information
      obtained about patient and provider expectations and experiences. Data will be collected in a
      time series design.
    
  