
    
      Chilean adolescents face problems in their mental health and risk behaviors, which compromise
      their development. Among these behaviors, substance use has become a significant public
      health problem, given its magnitude and the treatment gap encountered when a dependency
      disorder has already been installed. In Chile, both prevention and treatment were among the
      Sanitary Aims of the 2010-2020 decade. For many years, different governmental and
      non-governmental institutions have implemented preventive initiatives in the school
      population. Still, to date, there are no studies in Chile that show the effectiveness of a
      universal preventive program implemented in educational settings, using a randomized
      controlled clinical trial design.

      This study consists of evaluating the effectiveness of the Social Competence Promotion
      Program among Young Adolescents (SCPP-YA), which aims to postpone the onset of substance use
      and reduce their consumption.

      This is a randomized controlled clinical trial with two arms, including students of 6th grade
      from high socioeconomic vulnerability schools in Santiago. Ten schools will be randomly
      allocated to the intervention group and the control group in a 1:1 ratio. Assessments of
      students will be carried out at baseline, post-intervention, and 12 months after the end of
      the intervention. The primary outcome is the incidence of tobacco consumption in the last
      month. The SCPP-YA consists of 10 student sessions providing self-regulation strategies,
      promotion of prosocial skills, and a method of problem-solving. Additionally, it includes a
      6-session module specially designed for substance use prevention. These 16 sessions will be
      implemented during the academic year (2020) and complemented with three booster sessions the
      following year (2021).

      The investigators expect that students in the intervention group will delay the onset of any
      substance use, especially tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana when compared with students in the
      control group.
    
  