
    
      The subjects will be invited to the study center from the local population who are willing to
      participate in the trial. Each subject will be informed both orally and in writing about the
      study prior to inclusion in the study and only the subjects who give written informed consent
      will be included. The selection of the subjects is based on the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria defined in the protocol. The selected subjects will be given a screening number and
      subjected to screening procedure to find out eligible candidates for enrollment. The
      screening procedure includes obtaining subject's anthropometric data, baseline
      symptomatology, medical history, physical examination, laboratory investigations like blood
      glucose (fasting, 30min & 2hr after meal), HbA1c, ^Plasma insulin (fasting, 30min & 2hr after
      meal), ^2hr C peptide, Serum Amylase, Lipase, Urea, Creatinine, Gamma-glutamyl transferase
      (GGT), Urine albumin/creatinine ratio and urine pregnancy (if applicable).

      The selected subjects after the screening procedure will be given a subject number and
      randomized between two arms. In Arm 1 they will be advised to take Vildagliptin 100mg daily
      for 96 weeks. In Arm 2 they are assigned Metformin (1000mg - 2500 mg/ day according to
      physician's preference for 96 weeks and all the subjects will be asked to come for follow up
      on week 12, week 24, week 48, week 72 and week 96. Subjects will be given sufficient quantity
      of study drugs. They will be instructed to take one tablet of Vildagliptin 50mg per day, 30
      minutes after breakfast in the morning and second tablet at night, 30 minutes after dinner or
      Metformin tablets as per instructions given by the physician. Subjects will be instructed to
      maintain the record of dosing details in the patient diary.

      Blood samples will be taken for the investigations such as blood glucose (fasting, 30min &
      2hr after meal), HbA1c, Plasma insulin (fasting, 30min & 2hr after meal), C peptide (2hr
      after meal), fasting serum Amylase, Lipase, Urea, Creatinine, GGT, Urine albumin/creatinine
      ratio and Urine pregnancy test(if required) as specified in visit chart below. There will be
      three telephonic visits on week 36, week 60 and week 84. During those visits subject will be
      inquired about the health status over the phone and the drugs for the next three months will
      be dispensed by courier or delivered at home by the coordinator.

      If the glycaemic control is constantly not satisfactory (HbA1c ≥ 8.5%) from visit 3, a rescue
      drug (Glimepiride) will be added to both arms and all the clinical and biochemical test will
      be done as per visit chart. With Glimepiride if the A1C is >9% insulin will be added and the
      subject will be withdrawn from the study.
    
  