
    
      Von Willebrand's disease (VWD) is the most common inherited bleeding disorder. It arises from
      a deficiency in the quality or quantity of von Willebrand factor (VWF), a multimeric protein
      that is required for platelet adhesion. Typical patients present with mucocutaneous bleeding
      symptoms because of reduced circulating von Willebrand factor (VWF) . A predictive bleeding
      score could reveal individuals who may benefit from repetitive testing and those for whom
      repetitive testing is unlikely to be of benefit . In 2005, Rodeghiero, et al. developed a
      standardized questionnaire for the evaluation of haemorrhagic symptoms, referred to hereafter
      as the Vicenza score. Their retrospective analysis found that >3 haemorrhagic symptoms or
      bleeding scores of 3 in men and 5 in women was very specific (98.6%) for VWD, although less
      sensitive (69.1%)]. These investigators later reported in a larger population that higher
      bleeding scores were associated with increasing likelihood of VWD and bleeding after surgery
      or tooth extraction. Neither of these studies prospectively surveyed paediatric populations.
      As a result of their shorter life experience, children have fewer exposures to bleeding
      challenges such as dental extractions, surgeries, menarche and childbirth. In 2009, Bowman,
      et al. administered a modified Vicenza bleeding score to a naive primary care paediatric
      population and determined a bleeding score ≥2 was abnormal. Using this definition, their
      bleeding score had a high negative predictive value (0.99) and could accurately distinguish
      between children with and without VWD. In this study we will use the ISTH/SSC BLEEDING
      assessment tool as a standardized questionnaire and a proposal for a new bleeding score for
      inherited bleeding disorders. For each specific bleeding symptom, the ISTH/SSC joint working
      group proposed minimal criteria in order to classify a symptom as significant and thus
      receive a score of 1 or more. Symptoms included in this questionnaire are epistaxis ,
      cutaneous bleeding , minor cutaneous wound , oral cavity bleeding , hematemesis , melena and
      hematochezia , hematuria , tooth extraction , surgical bleeding , menorrhagia , postpartum
      bleeding , muscle hematomas or hemoarthrosis and CNS bleeding .
    
  