
    
      The Study Drug:

      Erlotinib hydrochloride is designed to block the activity of a protein found on the surface
      of many tumor cells that may control tumor growth and survival. This may stop tumors from
      growing.

      Screening Tests:

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study.

        -  Blood (about 5 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you have had a biopsy at M. D. Anderson, your leftover tissue will be used to confirm
           the breast cancer is triple receptor-negative.

        -  If you have had a biopsy at another location, a part of that biopsy will be collected
           and tested to make sure that the breast cancer is triple receptor-negative.

        -  You will have imaging scans, such as computed tomography (CT) or bone scans, to check
           the status of the disease.

        -  If no tissue is available to check the status of the disease, you will have a breast
           biopsy. To collect a tumor biopsy, the affected area is numbed with anesthetic, and a
           small amount of tissue is withdrawn through a large needle.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take erlotinib
      hydrochloride by mouth once a day, every day, between breakfast and lunch. You should take
      erlotinib hydrochloride 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating. It should be taken at the same
      time each day.

      Study Visits:

      Every 8 weeks, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 5 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have the same imaging scans that were performed at screening to check the
           status of the disease.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on this study for as long as you are benefiting. You will be taken off this
      study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You will have an end-of-study visit once you are off this study. The following tests and
      procedures will be performed at this visit.

      Blood (about 5 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will have the same imaging
      scans repeated to check the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Erlotinib hydrochloride is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of advanced lung cancer and advanced pancreatic cancer. Its use
      in breast cancer is investigational. Up to 50 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  