
    
      People living with HIV (PLWH) have a critical role to play in HIV prevention, not only in the
      context of Prevention for Positives and Treatment as Prevention, but as powerful change
      agents for HIV protective behaviors among others. Our research suggests that as PLWH receive
      HIV treatment and restore their health and functioning, many are motivated to protect their
      loved ones and engage in prevention advocacy (i.e., to encourage friends and family to seek
      HIV testing and treatment, and to reduce risk behavior); however, the quality of this
      advocacy is hampered by challenges related to message content, style and timing of delivery,
      and selection of advocacy recipients. With effective advocacy training, mobilizing PLWH to be
      change agents within their social networks has the potential to be a "game changer" for HIV
      prevention, particularly in high prevalence settings such as Uganda, where virtually every
      family is touched by someone living with HIV. Drawing upon theoretical frameworks for
      network-based interventions, such as theories of social diffusion, cognitive consistency, and
      social influence, the proposed study will develop and pilot test "Game Changers"-- an
      intervention that aims to empower and mobilize PLWH to be agents for HIV prevention and
      behavioral change in their social networks. In Phase 1, separate focus groups of PLWH and
      members of their social networks (family and friends) were conducted to explore barriers to
      and facilitators of mobilizing clients to advocate for HIV prevention, perceptions on how
      advocacy could be most effective in motivating behavior change, and how to best structure the
      intervention and its content. In Phase 2 findings from Phase 1 and network-based intervention
      models were used to develop the structure and content of an intervention designed to help
      clients cope with stigma, manage their disease, live positively, and develop motivation and
      skills for HIV disclosure and prevention advocacy. In Phase 3 a pilot group intervention will
      be conducted in a controlled trial of 96 clients, with 48 randomly assigned to receive the
      intervention and 48 to the wait-list control. Assessments will be administered to all
      participants at baseline, 5 months later, and again 8 months after baseline, after which the
      control group will receive the intervention (but not the interviews). PLWH interviews and
      social network assessments will examine intervention effects on protective behaviors of the
      participant (condom use, HIV treatment adherence), and diffusion of prevention messages
      across the network, as assessed by the content and extent of communication with network
      members about protective behaviors (condom use, partner concurrency/number of partners, HIV
      testing, engagement in HIV care, circumcision), HIV disclosure, and HIV stigma. At the end of
      the intervention period a focus group with program participants will be conducted to get
      feedback on the intervention. To help understand how participation in the program might
      affect health, date of HIV diagnosis, last two CD4 counts and HIV viral loads, and prescribed
      HIV medications will be obtained from PLWH participant medical charts. Participants (about
      15/arm) will be asked to recruit up to 3 alters each, who know the participant's serostatus,
      to be interviewed to assess their HIV protective behaviors (e.g., condom use) and receipt of
      prevention advocacy from the intervention participant.
    
  